[40] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
community-based impetus, with which I
am delighted to associate this administra-
tion. In order to demonstrate our support
for this kind of bootstrap Bicentennial
initiative, we shall ask the Congress to
make available several million dollars in
Federal funds to supplement the local
funds set aside to carry out the social de-
velopment project proposals which will
be gathered by the local Bicentennial
Commission and Assembly in neighbor-
hoods all over Washington beginning this
spring. None of these latter projects will
approach the scale of Fort Lincoln, but
most will be no less soundly rooted in ordi-
nary people's knowledge of their own
needs. The process of listening and re-
sponse, as well as the project implementa-
tion itself, will make for a healthier and
more progressive city.
We are also increasing our efforts to
assist in redevelopment of the inner-city
areas devastated by the riots of April 1968.
Two recent groundbreakings give evi-
dence that the work is moving ahead, but
also remind us of how much is left to do.
The job, of course, is not the Federal Gov-
ernment's alone, but we must and shall
contribute our full share and see the obli-
gation through at an accelerated pace.
MORE COMMUNITY PARKS
One frequently voiced need is for more
parkland-not just in the ceremonial cen-
ter of the city, but out in the residential
sections as well. Planning is now under-
way for a joint Federal-District park
development program focusing on under-
used, publicly owned land near the Ana-
costia River, close to some of the District's
most crowded neighborhoods. New rec-
reational facilities will be constructed, to
permit intensive use of the sorely needed
new parks by Anacostia residents. Also
within the Anacostia Basin, improvements
will be carried out at the National Arbore-
tum. Another major green-space project
planned for completion by 1976 is the
Fort Circle Parks, 17 outposts of the
Army's old defensive system around the
periphery of the District of Columbia,
some dating back as far as the War of
1812. Strips of parkland are to link all the
forts into a continuous belt containing
bike trails, hiking paths, community rec-
reation facilities, and campsites. Further,
the District and the Interior Department
will cooperate in rehabilitating and up-
grading smaller parks in many areas of
the city. I ask the Congress to approve the
funds requested in my 1973 budget to
move all of these projects forward on
schedule.
A NEW DOWNTOWN CENTER
I also support, as vital to the kind of
development momentum Washington
must have to hold its head up among
American cities in the Bicentennial Era,
the District government's intention to con-
struct a major convention center-sports
arena complex near Mount Vernon
Square.
This project would help to counter the
centrifugal forces which are pushing both
the leisure activities of local people and
the major gatherings of out-of-town
visitors away from the centers of many
major cities. It would mean new business
and investments and jobs for blocks
around. And it would inject new life
into nearby neighborhoods—provided, of
course, that the legitimate concerns of
merchants, working people, and residents
in those neighborhoods receive fair con-
sideration in the planning and location
150
