[318] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
develop that may seem impossible to
resolve.
But the world has had some experience
recently with long, hard negotiations, and
I refer in another field to a long, hard
negotiation-the strategic arms limitation
agreements signed by the Soviet Union
and the United States early this summer.
Now, that was bilateral negotiation. It
involved just two nations, not 124. But its
complexity, when those negotiations began
3 years or so ago, seemed almost infinite;
the obstacles had been hardening for over
25 years; the issue of national security for
each nation was as sensitive a matter as
can exist in negotiations between two
powers.
We came to an agreement in Moscow,
nevertheless, because the issue that united
us-seeking an end to the wasteful and
dangerous arms race-was greater than
the issues that divided us.
We reached agreement because we
realized that it was impossible for either
side to negotiate an advantage over the
other that would prevail. The only agree-
ment worth making was one in which each
side had a stake in keeping.
Now, these two principles can guide us
in building the monetary system of the
future.
We recognize that the issues that divide
us are many and they are very serious and
infinitely complex and difficult. But the
impetus that will make this negotiation
successful is the force that unites us all, all
the 124 nations represented here today:
that is a common need to establish a sound
and abiding foundation for commerce,
leading to a better way of life for all the
citizens of all the nations here and all the
citizens of the world.
That common need, let us call it the
world interest, demands a new freedom
of world trade, a new fairness in interna-
tional economic conduct.
It is a mark of our maturity that we
now see that an unfair advantage gained
in an agreement today only sabotages that
agreement tomorrow.
I well remember when I was a first-year
law student, 32 years ago, what the profes-
sor of contracts said as he opened the
course. He said, "A contract is only as
good as the will of the parties to keep it."
The only system that can work is one
that each nation has an active interest in
making work. The need is self-evident.
The will to reform the monetary system
is here in this room, and, in a proverb that
has its counterpart in almost every lan-
guage here, where there is a will there is
a way.
We are gathered to create a responsible
monetary system, responsive to the need
for stability and openness, and responsive
to the need of each country to reflect its
unique character.
In this way we bring to bear one of the
great lessons of federalism: that often the
best way to enforce an agreed-upon dis-
cipline is to let each member take action
to adhere to it in the way that is best
suited to its local character, its stage of
development, its economic structure.
For its part, I can assure you, the United
States will continue to rise to its world
responsibilities, joining with other nations
to create and participate in a modern
world economic order.
We are secure enough in our independ-
ence to freely assert our interdependence.
These are the principles that I pro-
foundly believe should and will guide the
910
