[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
priority interest in the resources off their
own coasts.
The U.S. proposal on fisheries offered a
pragmatic solution based on sound conser-
vation practices. Appropriate worldwide
or regional fisheries organizations would
be established to regulate the harvest of
the living resources of the high seas.
Coastal states would be recognized as hav-
ing a priority interest based on their actual
fishing capacity. Traditional fishing rights
would be a matter of negotiation between
the coastal and distant-water fishing states
most concerned. All states would be eligi-
ble to fish for the remainder of the allow-
able catch. Special provisions would be
made for highly migratory stocks and
anadromous species, for enforcement pro-
cedures, and for compulsory dispute
settlement.
In summary, the U.S. is deeply engaged
in an international effort to write a new
law of the sea. We have put forth compre-
hensive proposals designed to harmonize
the multiple uses of the oceans. There is
inherent incompatibility between
proper utilization of ocean resources and
traditional freedoms of the sea. But ter-
ritorial concepts such as absolute sover-
eignty cannot be applied either to seabed
resources beyond the limits of national
jurisdiction or to international navigation
rights. Modified maritime doctrines and
rules are needed to accommodate the di-
verse interests involved. The time has
arrived for monumental decisions on the
law of the sea, and the U.S. has acted
forthrightly to meet the challenge.
CONTROL OF DRUG ABUSE
Narcotics addiction continues to spread
at an alarming rate, in the United States
and elsewhere. In my message to the Con-
gress on June 17, 1971 I said that the
problem had assumed the proportions of
a national emergency, and I committed
this Administration to the leadership of an
intense international attack on the supply,
demand, and illicit traffic in narcotics and
other dangerous drugs.
In August, I established a Cabinet
Committee on International Narcotics
Control under the chairmanship of the
Secretary of State. This committee is
charged with the formulation and coordi-
nation of all policies of the Federal Gov-
ernment relating to the goal of curtailing
the flow of narcotics and other dangerous
drugs into the United States.
Turkey has been the single most im-
portant source of the opium which is con-
verted to heroin marketed in the U.S.
Therefore, it was a signal achievement
when, on June 30, 1971 the Prime Minis-
ter of Turkey announced that Turkey will
ban all production of opium after the 1972
crop is harvested. We must now be par-
ticularly vigilant against others stepping
in to replace the illicit heroin supplies
which formerly originated in the Turkish
poppy fields.
Southeast Asia is another major source
of illicit drugs, and during the past year
important steps were taken to tighten con-
trols in that area. In September, the United
States agreed to support Thailand's efforts
to suppress the supply and trafficking in
illicit narcotics and dangerous drugs. In
November, the Government of Laos put
into effect a tough new narcotics law ban-
ning the manufacture, trading, and trans-
portation of opium and its derivatives,
including heroin. Subsequently Laos
placed strict controls on the importation
and distribution of acetic anhydride, a key
ingredient in the production of heroin. In
addition, President Thieu has sent an anti-
336
