[324] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
wherever it occurs. I have charged it to
move vigorously and immediately toward
this end.
The use of terror is indefensible. It
eliminates in one stroke those safeguards
of civilization which mankind has pains-
takingly erected over the centuries.
are
But terror threatens more than the lives
of the innocent. It threatens the very
principles upon which nations
founded. In this sense, every nation in the
United Nations, whatever its ideological
assumptions, whoever its adversaries,
wherever its sympathies, is united with
every other nation by the common danger
to the sovereignty of each. If the world
cannot unite in opposition to terror,
if we cannot establish some simple
ground rules to hold back the perimeters
of lawlessness, if, in short, we cannot act to
defend the basic principles of national
sovereignty in our own individual inter-
ests, then upon what foundations can we
hope to establish international comity?
There are those who would tell us that
terror is the last resort of the weak and the
oppressed, a product of despair in an
325
age of indifference, and that it seeks only
political justice. This is nonsense. The
way to seek justice is through negotiation.
We have sought in our own relations to
turn from confrontation to negotiation.
We believe that this is the only way for
grievances to be resolved in a way that
will contribute to peace and stability.
In recent months we have seen nations
moving to achieve accommodation and
the resolution of differences, and we have
seen terrorists acting to destroy those ef-
forts. The time has come for civilized
people to act in concert to remove the
threat of terrorism from the world.
The world is reaching out for peace.
The way may be hard and treacherous,
but men of reason and decency are deter-
mined today, as perhaps never before, to
make the effort. Let us not be disrupted
or turned away by those who would loose
anarchy upon the world; let us seek
no accommodations with savagery, but
rather act to eliminate it.
NOTE: The statement was released at New
York City.
Statement About the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid
Transit System. September 27, 1972
THOUGH the Bay Area Rapid Transit
system has been in operation only a mat-
ter of days, it already appears that the
San Francisco Bay area may become as
widely renowned in the future for the
space-age efficiency of BART as it has
been in the past for the romance of the
cable car. I congratulate all the Bay Area
communities that have taken part in
this trailblazing achievement in modern
metropolitan transportation. The people
of this area are setting an example for
the Nation.
The foresight, initiative, and construc-
tive partnership demonstrated by the
cities and counties which have joined in
planning and building BART over the
past two decades prove that workable new
answers can be found for urban problems.
Government support from the State and
922
