Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 2 [74]
inner city neighborhoods which are criti-
cally short on health care. By mid-sum-
mer, more than 100 communities around
the Nation will be benefiting from these
teams.
These are important steps, without
doubt, but we still must lay the bedrock
foundations for a new national health
care system for all our people.
The need for action is critical for far
too many of our citizens.
The time for action is now.
I therefore again urge the Congress to
act on the many parts of my health care
program which are still pending so that
we can end—at the earliest possible time—
the individual anguishes, the needless ne-
glects and the family financial fears
caused by the gaps, inequities and mal-
distributions of the present system.
The United States now spends more
than $75 billion annually on health
care-and for most people, relatively good
service results.
Yet, despite this huge annual national
outlay, millions of citizens do not have
adequate access to health care. Our record
in this field does not live up to our national
potential.
That sobering fact should summon us to
prompt but effective action to reform and
reorganize health care practices, while
simultaneously resisting the relentless in-
flation of health care costs.
MORE THAN MONEY IS NEEDED
When the subject of health care im-
provements is mentioned, as is the case
with so many other problems, too many
people and too many institutions think
first and solely of money-bills, payments,
premiums, coverages, grants, subsidies and
appropriations.
But far more than money is involved in
our current health care crisis.
More money is important-but any at-
tempted health care solution based pri-
marily on money is simply not going to do
the job.
In health care as in so many other areas,
the most expensive remedy is not neces-
sarily the most effective one.
One basic shortcoming of a solution to
health care problems which depends en-
tirely on spending more money, can be
seen in the Medicare and Medicaid pro-
grams. Medicare and Medicaid did deliver
needed dollars to the health care problems
of the elderly and the poor. But at the
same time, little was done to alter the exist-
ing supply and distribution of doctors,
nurses, hospitals and other health re-
sources. Our health care supply, in short,
remained largely the same while massive
new demands were loaded onto it.
The predictable result was an acute
price inflation, one basic cause of our
health economic quandary of the past 11
years.
In this period, national health expendi-
tures rose by 188 percent, from $26 bil-
lion in fiscal 1960 to $75 billion in fiscal
1971. But a large part of this enormous
increase in the Nation's health expendi-
ture went, not for more and better health
care, but merely to meet price inflation.
If we do not lessen this trend, all other
reform efforts may be in vain.
That is why my National Health
Strategy was designed with built-in incen-
tives to encourage sensible economies--in
the use of health facilities, in direct cost-
control procedures, and through more
efficient ways to bring health care to peo-
ple at the community level. That is also
why we have given careful attention to
medical prices in Phase II of the Eco-
385
