Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
increased their substantial representation
in the Legislature, a fact that attests to the
fairness of these contests.
More international attention was de-
voted to the South Vietnamese presiden-
tial election in October 1971. We hoped
that this election would be vigorously con-
tested. We have stressed the concept of
free choice in South Vietnam. We be-
lieved that a contested election would
leave the resulting South Vietnamese
Government in a stronger position than
an unopposed victory. We had an obliga-
tion to make our views known, publicly
and privately. We emphasized our view
that there should be more than one candi-
date, and we worked diligently to en-
courage opponents of President Thieu to
remain in the race.
But at this stage in South Vietnam's
political development, a contested election
depends upon the personal motives and
calculations of individuals. South Viet-
nam lacks well established political parties
capable of guaranteeing alternative candi-
dates. The interplay of personalities and
circumstances in South Vietnam last year
simply failed to produce a contest. Some
observers believed that President Thieu's
use of governmental powers was primarily
responsible. Others believed that oppo-
nents deliberately chose to embarrass
President Thieu rather than contest an
election they expected to lose in any case.
We were disappointed that the election
was uncontested; but we rejected the view
that we should intervene directly or cut
off aid to South Vietnam. In the final
phases of American involvement, we were
determined to avoid the practices which
helped produce our involvement in the
first place.
We thus preferred the disappointment
of an uncontested election to the probably
fatal mistake of attempted manipulation
of the South Vietnamese political scene.
In the final analysis, it is to the credit of
the South Vietnamese-opponents as well
as supporters of the regime-that they
emerged from a trying and uncertain sum-
mer with their political stability and con-
stitutional structure intact. Despite its
remaining problems, South Vietnam's
political development contrasts favorably,
indeed, with North Vietnam, where there
are no true elections at all.
Economic Development
A sound Vietnamese economy is crucial
for political stability and a viable govern-
ment. Last year I recounted the successful
efforts of the South Vietnamese to brake
the rampant inflation that had plagued
that nation for years. This effort was con-
tinued in 1971. Further actions were taken
to lay the groundwork for long range
economic development.
The achievements in 1971 were espe-
cially striking, in view of the need to
support a large military establishment and
the dislocations resulting from large U.S.
troop withdrawals.
-Domestic tax receipts increased 25
percent.
-Prices increased less than 15 percent.
-Production of rice, lumber, fish and
textiles rose.
-New plants were built to produce
textiles, plywood, electric power,
plastic products and flour.
On November 15, in his first address to
the legislature after his inauguration,
President Thieu made economic develop-
ment and eventual economic self-suffi-
ciency major national goals. He
announced comprehensive economic re-
285
