Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 16 [256]
256 Statement on Signing a Disaster Recovery Bill.
August 16, 1972
FOUR weeks ago I proposed to the Con-
gress three extraordinary measures to re-
lieve the record damage inflicted by
Tropical Storm Agnes and the flooding of
Rapid City, S. Dak.
The immensity of these disasters is
measurable not in destruction of property
alone, but also in terms of loss of jobs,
disruption of families, personal privation,
and anxieties about the future.
The scale and scope of these disasters
demanded special action by a compas-
sionate Government, and it was this kind
of action I called for.
One of my three proposed measures,
H.R. 15950, concerned with the recon-
struction of highways, became law on
August 3, 1972. Today, I am gratified to
sign into law the second of my proposals,
H.R. 15692.
This measure contains highly significant
changes in the terms of Government dis-
aster loans. Interest rates are reduced to
one percent, and up to $5,000 of loan prin-
cipal does not have to be repaid. This bill
will help victims who were homeowners
to rebuild their homes. It also makes spe-
cial assistance available to the disabled
and retired. It will make loans available
to stricken farmers and will encourage
damaged businesses to rebuild and to
remain in their communities by providing
working capital loans as well as loans for
restoration of existing plants.
In addition, this legislation provides
emergency assistance for nonprofit private
educational institutions comparable to
assistance already provided for public
educational institutions.
This legislation is evidence that when
the country is faced with a serious dis-
aster, the Government can respond
quickly and effectively. The stamina,
courage, and spirit of the disaster victims
evidenced throughout the stricken areas
have earned them nothing less than the
unprecedented response.
I am pleased that the Congress has
acted to provide this essential and immedi-
ately needed relief for the victims of the
Agnes disaster, but I am also concerned
about the future. The Congress has re-
flected a similar concern by including a
provision in the bill calling for this Ad-
ministration's review of and recom-
mendations for a comprehensive revision
of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 by next
January.
It is my intention to comply with this
request, but I believe that, in addition to
disaster relief, equal emphasis must be
placed on strengthening our efforts in
preventive measures. Consequently, I
have instructed the appropriate agencies
to provide me with recommendations to
strengthen the Federal flood insurance
program.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15692 is Public Law
92-385 (86 Stat. 554).
On the same day, the President signed Ex-
ecutive Order 11678 providing for the repair
and restoration of nonprofit private educational
institutions damaged by Tropical Storm Agnes.
775
