[354] Oct. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
take new initiatives to meet the new
needs of the country. And so, today, where
there are 200 million Americans, there
are 50 States, there are great cities and
counties and other governments that the
Founding Fathers could not possibly have
visualized as coming into being, and we
have acted. The American Revolution, in
other words, is never finished; it must
always be renewed, and we are helping
to renew it today.
If, as we sign this bill, we proceed on
the assumption that it is finished, we will
not have met the challenge which is ours.
Because, if the 30 or so billion dollars
which will be distributed over the
years
to the States and the cities and the coun-
ties will simply mean that more money
will go for the same old programs and the
same governments and that the people
will not benefit, then we will have failed
in our task.
What America wants today, at the
State level and at the city level and at
the county level, and, I believe, at the
Federal level, is not bigger government,
but better government-and that is what
this is about.
And so I would hope that each mayor,
each Governor, each county official,
would go back to his community or his
State or hers, with this dedication in
mind: that these funds will be used for
the needs of people; that they will mean
better schools and better hospitals and
better police forces; that they will mean,
I would certainly hope, that we will stop
the alarming escalation in local and State
property taxes, income taxes, and sales
taxes.
You will recall those famous words of
Winston Churchill before the United
States entered World War II, when
Britain was holding the fort almost alone
against the Nazi aggressors. He said: Give
us the tools and we will do the job.
Today, through this revenue sharing
bill, we are giving to the distinguished
people here—the mayors, the Governors,
the county officials, and your colleagues
all across this country-we are giving you
the tools, now you do the job.
Ladies and gentlemen, I will sign this
historic bill with one of the Presidential
signing pens. It is the custom when we
sign bills in the White House to give
souvenir pens to all of the sponsors of
the bill.
In this case, because the Congress is
out of session, the sponsors of course are
not here, and the suggestion has been
made that we might provide souvenir
pens for all of the Governors and the
mayors, the county officials, and the
other distinguished guests, including the
members of the press that are here.
When that suggestion was made, I
found that it would be about 800 pens.
[Laughter] I thought that was a little
much, but in the spirit of revenue sharing,
we have 800 pens for everybody who is
here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:06 p.m. in
Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pa. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Frank L. Rizzo was mayor of Philadelphia.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 14370) is Public
Law 92-512 (86 Stat. 919).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on general revenue sharing and a
fact sheet on Independence Hall.
994
