[332] Sept. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
there will be no war. But what this is is
the beginning of a process that is enor-
mously important that will limit now, and,
we hope, later reduce the burden of arms,
and thereby reduce the danger of war. We
think, therefore, it deserves this kind of
attendance by the leaders of the Con-
gress, the Administration, the Armed
Forces, and it deserves also being signed
in this room.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in
the Treaty Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
As enacted, the joint resolution (H.J. Res.
1227) is Public Law 92-448 (86 Stat. 746).
The text of the interim agreement is printed
in United States Treaties and Other Inter-
national Agreements (23 UST 3462).
On the same day, the White House released a
fact sheet on previous actions concerning the
interim agreement and on the history of the
Treaty Room.
333 Proclamation 4160, National Heritage Day.
September 30, 1972
By the President of the United States of
America a Proclamation
The special quality of the United States
is the interaction of many peoples from
many lands, each asserting the freedom to
be different, each respecting and honoring
his own ethnic heritage, while contribut-
ing to a nation in which all are Americans
together.
The shining guarantee of our national
future is precisely the repeated rebirth,
the reinvigoration, the gift of renewal, im-
plicit in this constant meeting of the
world's peoples here in our own land.
The unusual virtue of the United States
is that all men and women are accepted
for what they are, with friendship and
respect founded upon knowledge and un-
derstanding of all races, creeds, and
national origins.
The "melting pot" is one of unity, but
never of uniformity.
The national pride of the United States
is, in this sense, pride of our people in the
heritage we draw from all nations.
In order that we may pause for a mo-
ment to express our appreciation of
America's heritage, the Congress, by
House Joint Resolution 1304, has re-
quested the President to issue a proclama-
tion designating Sunday, October 1, 1972,
as National Heritage Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, RICHARD NIXON,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim Sunday, Octo-
ber 1, 1972, as National Heritage Day. I
call upon all Americans to reflect upon
the composite vitality, enthusiasm and
tenacity of the many separate peoples who
have built our beloved country, and to
celebrate, with appropriate ceremonies,
the fact that our one nation is many
nations, and our many nations are one
nation, dedicated to freeedom, under God.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The full text of this proclamation is in-
cluded as an example of the proclamations the
President issues. All the proclamations issued by
the President in 1972 are listed in Appendix C.
946
