Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [89]
be of great significance in fostering tech-
nological innovations and enhancing our
position in world trade is that of chang-
ing to the metric system of measurement.
The Secretary of Commerce has sub-
mitted to the Congress legislation which
would allow us to begin to develop a care-
fully coordinated national plan to bring
about this change. The proposed legisla-
tion would bring together a broadly rep-
resentative board of private citizens who
would work with all sectors of our society
in planning for such a transition. Should
such a change be decided on, it would be
implemented on a cooperative, voluntary
basis.
STRONGER FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL
PARTNERSHIPS
A consistent theme which runs through-
out my program for making government
more responsive to public needs is the idea
that each level of government should do
what it can do best. This same theme
characterizes my approach to the chal-
lenges of research and development. The
Federal Government, for example, can
usually do a good job of massing research
and development resources. But State and
local governments usually have a much
better "feel" for the specific public chal-
lenges to which those resources can be
applied. If we are to use science and tech-
nology effectively in meeting these chal-
lenges, then State and local governments
should have a central role in the applica-
tion process. That process is a difficult one
at best; it will be even more complex and
frustrating if the States and localities are
not adequately involved.
To help build a greater sense of part-
nership among the three levels of the Fed-
eral system, I am directing my Science
Adviser, in cooperation with the Office of
Intergovernmental Relations, to serve as
a focal point for discussions among vari-
ous Federal agencies and the representa-
tives of State and local governments.
These discussions should lay the basis for
developing a better means for collabora-
tion and consultation on scientific and
technological questions in the future.
They should focus on the following spe-
cific subjects:
1) Systematic ways for communicat-
ing to the appropriate Federal agencies
the priority needs of State and local gov-
ernments, along with information con-
cerning locally-generated solutions to
such problems. In this way, such informa-
tion can be incorporated into the Federal
research and development planning
process.
2) Ways of assuring State and local
governments adequate access to the tech-
nical resources of major Federal research
and development centers, such as those
which are concerned with transportation,
the environment, and the development of
new sources of energy.
3) Methods whereby the Federal Gov-
ernment can encourage the aggregation
of State and local markets for certain
products so that industries can give gov-
ernment purchasers the benefits of in-
novation and economies of scale.
The discussions which take place
between Federal, State and local repre-
sentatives can also help to guide the
experimental programs I have proposed
for the National Science Foundation and
the National Bureau of Standards. These
programs, in turn, can explore the pos-
sibilities for creating better ties between
State and local governments on the one
hand and local industries and universities
on the other, thus stimulating the use of
423
