Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 29 [276]
agencies of the Government, with the ex-
ception of the GAO which is independent.
We have cooperated completely. We have
indicated that we want all the facts
brought out and that as far as any people
who are guilty are concerned, they should
be prosecuted.
This kind of activity, as I have often
indicated, has no place whatever in our
political process. We want the air cleared.
We want it cleared as soon as possible.
VIETNAM SETTLEMENT PROSPECTS
[3] Q. Mr. President, in your last
news conference, on July 27, you said the
chances for a settlement have never been
better. Mr. Rogers in late August forecast
early settlement, and you were quoted by
Stewart Alsop as having told him the war
won't be hanging over us the second
term.2 I want to know whether this is just
politics or is there substance to it—any
movement in negotiations or any other
track toward peace?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Potter [Philip
Potter, Baltimore Sun], as I also told Mr.
Alsop, as you noted, in that interview, I
did not indicate to him that any break-
through had occurred in the negotiations
that have been taking place between Dr.
Kissinger and Mr. Le Duc Tho at this
point. Now, let me divide the answer into
its component parts, if I may.
First, with regard to negotiations, I will
not comment on past negotiations. I will
not comment upon any negotiations that
may take place in the future. By agree-
ment of both sides, we are not going to
Mr. Alsop interviewed the President aboard
the Spirit of '76 en route to Miami, August 22,
1972. The interview appeared in the Septem-
ber 4 issue of Newsweek.
comment, either the other side or we on
our part, on the substance of negotiations
or whether or when or what will happen
in the future. All that we will do is to
announce, after negotiations do take
place, if they do and I do not suggest
that more will occur-we will announce
the fact that they have taken place.
Second, with regard to what the pros-
pects are, I think what we are all referring
to is that this long and difficult war-long
and difficult and costly for both sides-
has reached a point where it should be
brought to an end. We have made every
reasonable negotiating proposal that we
can. We are being very reasonable in the
proposals that we have made in our vari-
ous discussions with the other side. Also,
with regard to the battlefront, it is signifi-
cant to note that the South Vietnamese,
by heroic efforts, have stopped the inva-
sion from the North on the ground, and
they have done that without our assistance
on the ground.
It is also significant to note that the
enemy at this point, while it is able to
launch a spurt here and there, does not
have the capability or has not demon-
strated the capability to overrun South
Vietnam.
Now, under these circumstances, we
believe that this is the time for a nego-
tiated settlement. If the enemy does not
feel that way, then we are prepared to go
on as we have indicated, to continue the
training of the South Vietnamese-we
have completed virtually the ground train-
ing because they are undertaking the
ground fighting entirely by themselves--
but to continue the training in the air and
on the sea so that they, by themselves, can
defend their country against the Com-
munist invaders from the North.
829
