Richard Nixon, 1972
May 10 [148]
has only one purpose, not to expand the
war, not to escalate the war, but to end
this war and to win the kind of peace that
will last.
With God's help, with your support, we
will accomplish that great goal.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on radio and television. He
spoke from a prepared text.
Before delivering his address to the Nation,
the President met with the bipartisan leader-
ship of the Congress to discuss its contents.
On May 9, 1972, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Henry
A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, on the situation in
Southeast Asia. The transcript is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 842).
148 Statement About Proposed Legislation Authorizing
Continued Government Support of Radio Free
Europe and Radio Liberty.
UNDER Public Law 92-264, which I
signed on March 30, 1972, grants in sup-
port of Radio Free Europe and Radio
Liberty were authorized through the end
of fiscal year 1972.
The decision to continue Government
support for these radios was approved by
large majorities in Congress and reflects
the judgment that has been expressed
overwhelmingly by newspapers through-
out this country and by leading citizens in
all walks of life that Radio Free Europe
and Radio Liberty continue to perform a
unique and valuable service. As I stated in
a recent letter to the chairman of the
Radio Free Europe Fund:
"... we have followed closely the work
of RFE and are satisfied that it con-
tinues to serve a fundamental national
interest."
I also said that:
"... the free flow of information and
ideas among nations is indispensable to
more normal relations between East and
West and to better prospects for an en-
during peace."
May 10, 1972
I have therefore asked the Secretary of
State to submit today a bill which would
continue Government support to the
radios through fiscal year 1973. As with
the fiscal year 1972 authorization, this bill
would make the grants to the radios
through the Secretary of State under
such terms and conditions he deems
appropriate.
A number of different views have been
expressed in Congress as to how the radios
might best be funded for the future. No
consensus on this important matter has
emerged. The House version of the fiscal
year 1972 authorization and Senate Reso-
lution 272 make clear that majorities in
both Houses believe this should be given
further study before a definitive solution
is adopted.
To this end, I plan to appoint a
Presidential study commission¹ with in-
1A White House announcement of the
establishment and membership of the Commis-
sion on International Radio Broadcasting was
released on August 10, 1972, and is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 8, p. 1221).
587
