Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
sile launchers by nearly one-fourth and
submarine launchers by nearly one-half.
At that time, I concluded that four
principles were fundamental to Our
position.
-First, the strategic balance would be
endangered if we limited defensive
forces alone and left the offensive
threat unconstrained. An essential
objective of the negotiations would
be defeated by unchecked deploy-
ments of offensive systems. For ex-
ample, with only defensive forces
limited by an agreement, the con-
tinued expansion of Soviet offensive
forces, especially the large SS-9
ICBMs if armed with multiple war-
heads, could eventually give the
USSR a capability for seriously
threatening our land-based strategic
forces.
-Second, it would be dangerous if,
while constraining offensive forces,
strategic defenses were allowed to in-
crease without limit. In sufficient
numbers and sophistication, ABM
systems deployed to defend cities can
reduce capabilities to retaliate. Thus,
unlimited ABM expansion ultimately
would force an offensive buildup.
---Third, if we could not devise satis-
factory formulas for limiting all
major weapon systems, we should
concentrate on those of primary im-
portance in the strategic balance
which if unchecked would become
most threatening to overall strategic
equilibrium.
-Finally, if we could not find tech-
nical solutions for limiting systems
that already differed in numbers and
capabilities, an interim step might be
a freeze at current levels on deploy-
ments of the most destabilizing offen-
sive weapons.
These conclusions were the basis for
my personal intervention with the Soviet
leaders. Recognizing that only by estab-
lishing a political commitment at the
highest level could we make significant
progress on the range of technical issues
that still confronted the negotiators, I
attempted to create a new negotiating
framework in which both sides could pro-
ceed. This overture, followed by several
months of intensive negotiations, ulti-
mately produced the breakthrough an-
nounced on May 20, 1971:
"The Governments of the United States
and the Soviet Union, after reviewing the
course of their talks on the limitation of
strategic armaments, have agreed to con-
centrate this year on working out an agree-
ment for the limitation of the deployment
of antiballistic missiles systems (ABMs).
They have also agreed that, together with
concluding an agreement to limit ABMs,
they will agree on certain measures with
respect to the limitation of offensive
strategic weapons.
"The two sides are taking this course in
the conviction that it will create more
favorable conditions for further negotia-
tions to limit all strategic arms. These
negotiations will be actively pursued."
In essence, this new understanding in-
volved elements that bridged the concerns
of both sides.
-An ABM agreement would have ini-
tial priority in further discussions.
Since most progress had been made
in this area, we would concentrate
during the remainder of 1971 on
negotiating an agreement on limiting
defensive systems.
-The essential linkage between agree-
319
