[329] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
will do, except I will tell you one thing
that we must not do. I know that the rea-
son we were able to open the dialogue
with the People's Republic of China, the
reason that we were able to begin nego-
tiations with the Soviet Union, was that
they respected the United States of Amer-
ica as a strong nation, standing for its
principles.
I can tell you that the day that the
President of the United States represents
the second strongest nation in the world,
they won't be interested in talking to us.
And we will never let that happen. We
must remember that even though we did
not want this responsibility, that we are
the only nation in the free world that has
the potential, the power to save the cause
of peace and freedom in the world, and
it is for that reason that we must retain
our strength so that we may be able to
continue to build on these initiatives, ini-
tiatives in limiting arms, and then perhaps
later in the future reducing them, but al-
ways on the basis of mutuality, never on
the basis of unilateral disarmament as far
as the United States is concerned.
Turning to the domestic front, when
we speak of making this one of the best 4
years in this Nation's history, we think first
of something that is called that pocket-
book issue. Putting it more bluntly-jobs.
I was proud to be able to say, in address-
ing 124 nations at the International
Monetary Fund meeting in Washington
on Monday of this week, that the United
States of America, at this time, had the
lowest rate of inflation, the highest rate
of growth, the highest real income of any
industrial nation in the world.
That is what our economic policy has
done. And that, just like our leadership
in the field of foreign policy, is a good
record. But we are not satisfied with it,
because there is more to do. What do we
want to do in those Four More Years?
What we want to do is to continue to
have this economy grow, to continue to
provide the incentives that will mean more
jobs for the American people, until we
achieve a goal that we have not had in this
country since President Eisenhower was
President in the years 1955 and '56, and
that means full employment without war
and without significant inflation.
We can do that, and that goal we can
achieve. But in order to achieve that goal,
we must remember that we cannot take
those steps that would inevitably destroy
the incentives that produce the jobs, that
produce the income that makes it possible
for us to do good things in the world and
good things for the American people. That
is why, even while this present Congress
is still in session, I am going to find it
necessary to veto some huge spending bills
for what are really good causes, but where
the choice is: Do we spend money for a
good cause if it means that increasing the
spending by that amount will raise the
taxes of the American people?
I say to this audience here tonight, as
I have said previously on many other oc-
casions, that whether it is a bill passed by
the Congress which exceeds the budget
and would lead to a tax increase or
whether it is making a promise in a politi-
cal campaign, which many think is good
politics, which would lead inevitably to a
tax increase because of exceeding the
budget, that I intend to make no promises
and I intend certainly to approve no bills
that would lead to a tax increase for the
American people.
This is not said because this happens
to be a dinner of people of, shall we say,
considerably better than average means.
It is said because the great majority of
936
