Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 26 [375]
And having noticed many of the new
buildings as we came along the road, and
having noticed that there are 10 times as
many outside this hall as there are inside,
I think we need a bigger armory right
here.
To those outside-I understand they
may be able to hear on the public address
system-we are sorry that you couldn't
get in. We are sorry we didn't have the
chance to stop and greet many of you,
although we did make a couple of stops
on the way in, and we can only say that
your devotion and your dedication to be
there with your welcomes, your smiles,
your flags, your signs, really touched our
hearts.
Let me say, too, that the signs here are
very interesting. I see one down here. It
says "Sandy Says Roses Are Red, Violets
Are Blue. If You Kiss Me, I'll Vote For
You." [Laughter] She must mean Louie
Nunn. [Laughter] Are you 18? [Laughter]
Could I begin first with some personal
remarks. One, we owe a great deal to this
State, the support we have had through
the years, the friendships that we have in
this State. We owe also the fact that over
the last 4 years we have had a very gra-
cious and lovely lady from Kentucky as
the Social Secretary at the White House,
Lucy Winchester. We are very proud of
Lucy, and we are very glad that she
could be there.
While this is, of course, a very happy
occasion for us, this magnificent rally and
all this enthusiasm with just a few days
before the election, it is also for us a
rather sad day in a way, as I am sure it is
for you, because we realize that John
Sherman Cooper is not going to be a
candidate this year, and we realize, as we
think of that, his service to the Nation
and to his State over the years, how splen-
did it has been and how much we will
miss him.
I simply want to say that I have known
him, of course, through all the years. I
have campaigned this State up through
these mountains with him on many occa-
sions, almost 20 years ago. Sometimes he
has won; sometimes he has lost. Some-
times I have won; sometimes I have lost,
although, let me say, I have never lost
Kentucky and I am not going to start now.
John Cooper, not only as a Senator
but as a distinguished Ambassador to
India, has served his Nation in a magnifi-
cent way. I know that he will serve it in
the future, I trust, in some capacity, be-
cause men of this quality, of this dedica-
tion, of this character are rare, and we
are fortunate to have had him in govern-
ment and to have him in the future.
Let me say, too, that as I think of him,
I think of the tradition of Kentucky and
Senators. You stop to think, of course, of
Henry Clay. We all read about him and
you read about him. Four times a can-
didate for President. He never made it.
But he was one of the great, great Sena-
tors, and to follow in his footsteps there
have been other great Senators of both
parties down through the
the years. We
think, for example, of Alben Barkley, a
Senator from Kentucky. We think, too, in
more recent years, of John Sherman
Cooper and Thruston Morton.
We think of that tradition. I could
mention others. Just let me say this: With
that kind of tradition in times past, what
we need now is to continue that tradition.
I don't know of a better team that could
represent Kentucky or any State in the
United States Senate than Marlow Cook
and Louie Nunn. We need them both.
I, of course, have known Louie Nunn
when he managed my campaign not only
1035
