Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 2 [74]
to help such families. Medicaid would re-
main for the aged poor, the blind, the dis-
abled and some children.
HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS
Beyond filling gaps in insurance cover-
age, we must also turn our attention to
how the money thus provided will be
spent on what kind of services and in
what kind of institutions. This is why the
Health Maintenance Organization con-
cept is such a central feature of my Na-
tional Health Strategy.
The HMO is a method for financing
and providing health care that has won
growing respect. It brings together into a
single organization the physician, the hos-
pital, the laboratory and the clinic, so that
patients can get the right care at the right
moment.
HMO's utilize a method of payment
that encourages the prevention of illness
and promotes the efficient use of doctors
and hospitals. Unlike traditional fee-for-
service billing, the HMO contracts to pro-
vide its comprehensive care for a fixed
annual sum that is determined in advance.
Under this financial arrangement, the
doctors' and hospitals' incomes are de-
termined not by how much the patient is
sick, but by how much he is well. HMO's
thus have the strongest possible incentive
for keeping well members from becoming
ill and for curing sick members as quickly
as possible.
I do not believe that HMO's should
or will entirely replace fee-for-service
financing. But I do believe that they ought
to be everywhere available so that families
will have a choice between these methods.
The HMO is no mere drawing-board
concept-more than 7 million Americans
are now HMO subscribers and that num-
ber is growing.
Several pieces of major legislation now
before the Congress would give powerful
stimulus to the development of HMO's:
1. The Health Maintenance Organi-
zation Assistance Act would provide tech-
nical and financial aid to help new
HMO's get started, and would spell out
standards of operation;
2. The National Health Insurance
Partnership Act described above requires
that individuals be given a choice between
fee-for-service or HMO payment plans;
3. H.R. I contains one provision allow-
ing HMO-type reimbursement for Medi-
care patients and another that would in-
crease the Federal share of payments
made to HMO's under State Medicaid
programs.
I urge
that the Congress give early con-
sideration to these three measures, in
order to hasten the development of this
efficient method for low-cost, one-stop
health service. Meantime, the Adminis-
tration has moved forward in this area.
on its own under existing legislative
authorities.
Last year, while HMO legislation was
being prepared, I directed the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
to focus existing funds and staff on an
early HMO development effort. This ef-
fort has already achieved payoffs:
To date, 110 planning and develop-
ment grants and contracts have been let
to potential HMO sponsors and some
200,000 Medicaid patients are now en-
rolled in HMO-type plans. Also, in a few
months, 10 Family Health Centers will be
operating with federally-supported funds
to provide prepaid health care to persons
living in underserved areas. Each of these
389
