[290] Sept. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
that good labor-management relations
has a high priority in my Adminis-
tration. It is as much a part of their
overall managerial responsibility as is
the accomplishment of their basic mission,
whether it be in the defense of our coun-
try or in the effective delivery of services
to the public.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum, dated September 6,
1972, was made available to the press Septem-
ber 7.
291 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on United States Participation in the United
Nations. September 8, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
It is a pleasure to transmit to the Con-
gress the 26th annual report on United
States participation in the work of the
United Nations. This report covers the
calendar year 1971.
During the period under review there
were many developments within the UN
framework of importance to the United
States and to other member states. Some
of these events were favorable; others
were not. Among the former:
-The General Assembly decided to
seat the representatives of the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, and this was
followed by corresponding action in
the Security Council.
-The United Nations established a
Fund for Drug Abuse Control that
will finance a concerted worldwide
action program to assist member
states in reducing both the demand
for and the supply of dangerous
drugs.
-At a plenipotentiary conference in
Vienna sponsored by the United Na-
tions, a Convention on Psychotropic
Substances was adopted, designed to
curb the misuse of such substances as
the hallucinogens, amphetamines,
barbiturates, and tranquilizers.
-The 26th General Assembly endorsed
two treaties, both sponsored by the
United States, and expressed its hope
for the widest possible adherence to
them. The first was the Convention
on International Liability for Dam-
age Caused by Space Objects; the
second was the Convention on the
Prohibition of Development, Produc-
tion and Stockpiling of Bacterio-
logical (Biological) and Toxin
Weapons and on Their Destruction.
-In December the United Nations
elected a new Secretary General,
Ambassador Kurt Waldheim of
Austria.
-At an international conference in
Montreal sponsored by the Interna-
tional Civil Aviation Organization, a
Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Civil Aviation was adopted.
-The UN Economic and Social Coun-
cil was strengthened by the Assem-
bly's decision to adopt and submit to
member states for ratification an
amendment to the Charter that will
double the Council's membership to
54, thereby making it a more repre-
sentative body. In addition the
Council created two new standing
860
