Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 25 [318]
know: Anybody who lives in America,
who is young in America at this time, is
the most fortunate young man or woman
in the world. This is the place.
So let's help make this a better coun-
try, a country of better jobs, of more op-
portunity, of better retirement for all of
us when we do retire, more generosity for
those who cannot help themselves, but
above all, let's remember, Americans can
be proud of the fact that their country, as
we near our 200th birthday, is the strong-
est nation of the world. We can be proud
of the fact that our strength according to
all of the leaders of the world that I have
met, when
you talk to them, really face to
face, know that that strength will never be
used for the purpose of destroying their
freedom or their peace.
Let us remember that the strength of
America, its military strength, its economic
strength, its moral strength which you rep-
resent here today, that that is not only
good for us, but it is good for the world.
Let's be proud to be Americans and let
me say, I am mighty proud to have
"Young Labor for America" here today.
Just let me say, when anybody asks you
what it is all about, when they ask you
what politics is about, whether you are in
it as a vocation or whether you are in it
as an avocation, working for the candidate
of your choice, here it is: It is their future,
let's make it the best.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
318 Remarks at the Annual Meeting of Boards of Governors
of the International Monetary Fund and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
September 25, 1972
Mr. Secretary, distinguished guests, Gov-
ernors, ladies and gentlemen:
I have had the privilege of visiting most
of the 124 countries represented here in
this distinguished audience, and on this
occasion I would like to extend my wel-
come to you, my best wishes to the heads
of government that I have also had the
privilege to meet, and particularly the best
wishes of the American people to all of the
people of the many countries represented
at this gathering.
It is customary in addressing such a
significant international gathering to say
that we are participating in a great
moment of history. Great moments in his-
tory are easy to perceive. The headlines
blaze and the world is riveted at television
screens as world leaders meet. But great
movements in history are much harder to
perceive, and particularly while we are
living through them. The action is slower,
it is less dramatic, it is infinitely more
complex as changing circumstances and
the new needs of people alter the behavior
of nations.
I am convinced, on the basis of the evi-
dence of the past year, that we are not
only participating today in a great mo-
ment in history, but that we are witness-
ing and helping to create a profound
movement in history.
That movement is away from the resolu-
tion of potential conflict by war, and
907
