[178] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
to make appropriate contributions to the
positive trends on the European continent
toward a genuine detente and the devel-
opment of relations of peaceful coopera-
tion among states in Europe on the basis
of the principles of territorial integrity
and inviolability of frontiers, non-inter-
ference in internal affairs, sovereign
equality, independence and renunciation
of the use or threat of force.
The US and the USSR are in accord
that multilateral consultations looking
toward a Conference on Security and Co-
operation in Europe could begin after the
signature of the Final Quadripartite
Protocol of the Agreement of September 3,
1971. The two governments agree that the
conference should be carefully prepared in
order that it may concretely consider
specific problems of security and coopera-
tion and thus contribute to the progressive
reduction of the underlying causes of ten-
sion in Europe. This conference should
be convened at a time to be agreed by the
countries concerned, but without undue
delay.
Both Sides believe that the goal of en-
suring stability and security in Europe
would be served by a reciprocal reduction
of armed forces and armaments, first of all
in Central Europe. Any agreement on this
question should not diminish the security
of any of the Sides. Appropriate agree-
ment should be reached as soon as prac-
ticable between the states concerned on
the procedures for negotiations on this
subject in a special forum.
THE MIDDLE EAST
The two Sides set out their positions on
this question. They reaffirm their support
for a peaceful settlement in the Middle
East in accordance with Security Council
Resolution 242.
Noting the significance of constructive
cooperation of the parties concerned with
the Special Representative of the UN
Secretary General, Ambassador Jarring,
the US and the USSR confirm their desire
to contribute to his mission's success and
also declare their readiness to play their
part in bringing about a peaceful settle-
ment in the Middle East. In the view of
the US and the USSR, the achievement
of such a settlement would open prospects
for the normalization of the Middle East
situation and would permit, in particular,
consideration of further steps to bring
about a military relaxation in that area.
INDOCHINA
Each side set forth its respective stand-
point with regard to the continuing war in
Vietnam and the situation in the area of
Indochina as a whole.
The US side emphasized the need to
bring an end to the military conflict as
soon as possible and reaffirmed its com-
mitment to the principle that the political
future of South Vietnam should be left
for the South Vietnamese people to decide
for themselves, free from outside inter-
ference.
The US side explained its view that the
quickest and most effective way to attain
the above-mentioned objectives is through
negotiations leading to the return of all
Americans held captive in the region, the
implementation of an internationally su-
pervised Indochina-wide ceasefire and the
subsequent withdrawal of all American
forces stationed in South Vietnam within
four months, leaving the political ques-
tions to be resolved by the Indochinese
peoples themselves.
The United States reiterated its willing-
640
