[187] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
The following participated in the
talks:
on the American side:
Secretary of State William P. Rogers
Ambassador of the United States
Walter J. Stoessel, Jr.
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs Dr. Henry Kissinger
Assistant Secretary of State for Euro-
pean Affairs Martin J. Hillenbrand
on the Polish side:
Vice Premier and Chairman of the
Planning Commission Mieczyslaw
Jagielski
Foreign Minister Stefan Olszowski
Secretary of the Central Committee of
the PUWP Franciszek Szlachcic
Secretary of the Central Committee of
the PUWP Jan Szydlak
Ambassador of Poland Witold Tramp-
czynski
Minister of Science, Higher Education
and Technology Jan Kaczmarek
Minister of Foreign Trade Tadeusz
Olechowski
Deputy Chairman of the Planning
Commission Henryk Kisiel
Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs
Romuald Spasowski
Government Spokesman Undersecre-
tary of State Wlodzimierz Janiurek
Talks were also held between Secretary
of State William P. Rogers and Minister
of Foreign Affairs Stefan Olszowski
During the talks, the two sides had a
useful exchange of views on international
questions of particular interest to them
and discussed the most important subjects
in the field of bilateral relations.
The talks were frank, businesslike and
constructive. They were conducted in an
atmosphere marked by a desire to better
understand each other's position, and to
expand and deepen mutual relations.
President and Mrs. Nixon expressed
their warm appreciation for the hospital-
ity they enjoyed in Poland. The President
of the United States invited the First Sec-
retary of the Central Committee of the
Polish United Workers' Party, Mr.
Eduard Gierek, the President of the Coun-
cil of State, Mr. Henryk Jablonski, and
the Prime Minister, Mr. Piotr Jaroszewicz,
to visit the United States at a time con-
venient to both sides. The invitation was
accepted with pleasure.
II.
1. Both sides agreed that the develop-
ment of peaceful cooperation among
states must be based on the principles of
territorial integrity and inviolability of
frontiers, non-interference in internal
affairs, sovereign equality, independence
and renunciation of the use or threat of
use of force.
2. Both sides presented their views on
the situation in Europe. They affirmed
that the broadening of relations between
all states interested in European security
is of outstanding importance for world
peace. Both sides welcomed the expansion
of cooperation in Europe in all fields and
expressed their belief that true security is
indivisible and can be attained only if
Europe is considered as a whole. The rela-
tions between the United States and
Poland, based on sovereign equality and
mutual respect, contribute to peace and
stability in Europe and to the favorable
development of the overall international
situation.
3. Both sides welcomed the treaty be-
tween Poland and the Federal Republic
of Germany signed on December 7, 1970,
including its border provisions. They
noted the significance of the provisions of
658
