Richard Nixon, 1972
I
July 1 [216]
serve the local stations, is becoming in-
stead the center of power and the focal
point of control for the entire public
broadcasting system.
The Public Broadcasting Act of 1967
made localism a primary means of achiev-
ing the goals of the educational broadcast-
ing system. Localism places the principal
public interest responsibility on the in-
dividual educational radio and television
stations, licensed to serve the needs and
interests of their own communities. By
not placing adequate emphasis on local-
ism, H.R. 13918 threatens to erode
substantially public broadcasting's im-
pressive potential for promoting innova-
tive and diverse cultural and educational
programming.
The public and legislative debate
regarding passage of H.R. 13918 has con-
vinced me that the problems posed by
Government financing of a public broad-
cast system are much greater than origi-
nally thought. They cannot be resolved
until the structure of public broadcasting
has been more firmly established, and we
have a more extensive record of experi-
ence on which to evaluate its role in our
national life.
This Administration has demonstrated
its dedication to the principle of public
broadcasting by increasing appropria-
tions to the Corporation sevenfold in the
past three years, from $5 million in FY
69 to $35 million in FY 72. On top of
this, I have requested an additional 30
percent increase for next year to $45 mil-
lion. The funding proposed in H.R. 13918,
which almost doubles next year's appro-
priation, and more than doubles the fol-
lowing year's appropriation over FY 1972,
is unwarranted in light of the serious ques-
tions yet unanswered by our brief experi-
ence with public broadcasting.
I urge the continuation of carefully
measured annual funding for the Corpo-
ration, under the existing statutory frame-
work, subject to regular budgetary over-
sight and review. Specifically, I ask the
Congress to follow my budget recommen-
dation by enacting a one-year extension
of the Corporation's authorization and
providing it $45 million. Since interim
funds for the Corporation are included in
a continuing resolution currently before
the Congress, there should be no interrup-
tion of the Corporation's activities.
The White House,
June 30, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The House of Representatives referred
the veto message to committee, and no further
action was taken.
216 Statement Announcing Award of Contracts for the
Construction of 16 Merchant Ships. July 1, 1972
I AM PLEASED to announce today the
award of nearly $660 million in contracts
for the construction of 16 new, advanced-
design merchant ships in five U.S. ship-
yards. This action makes an important
contribution to my continuing program to
revitalize the American merchant marine.
In addition to adding 16 new ships to
our merchant fleet, these five contracts
will bring more than 18,000 man-years of
work to the five shipyards-at Baltimore,
Md., San Diego and San Pedro, Calif.,
Brooklyn, N.Y., and Bath, Maine-plus
an additional 18,000 man-years of work in
719
