[267] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
jingoistic pride, although we should be
proud of our country; it is not a matter
of national ego, although we should not
be ashamed of our country. But, you see,
I have sat across the bargaining table with
representatives of other great powers. I
know what they stand for. I know that the
only way that we can get a reduction of
arms, the only way that we can get agree-
ments that will limit the danger of war,
is to be sure that the President of the
United States, whoever he is, is never
negotiating from weakness. That is what
we have to have.
Now the question is, "What is enough?”
because I realize that others have spoken
to this convention and others will speak
to Legion conventions in the future and
say, "We have enough; we can cut." You
should consider that, but I ask you now
to consider, very calmly, very quietly,
what I have to say about what is enough.
I have studied this a great deal. I have
had the opportunity not only to negotiate,
where I found out what the other side had
and I knew what we had, but I also have
had an opportunity, as we have wound
down the war in Vietnam, to do some-
thing that we all want to do to cut on
defense where it is not needed.
We have economized. We will continue
to economize on military spending when-
ever it is safe to do so. But I have never
gambled, and I never will gamble, with
the safety of the American people under
the false banner of economy.
Lasting peace is built on strength.
Economy always, but weakness never.
Now, look at the record. Let's see what
we have done.
We have been able to reduce defense
spending to a safe minimum without be-
traying our security or dishonoring our
treaty commitments.
We have successfully reduced our over-
all military manpower by nearly one-
third. This is all over the past 32 years.
We have closed overseas bases which
were no longer needed for our national
security, and we have done that without
undermining the confidence of our allies.
We have successfully persuaded our
allies to take up a greater share of the free
world defense burden than they have in
the past, under the Nixon Doctrine.
Separate the facts from the campaign
rhetoric and you will find that the 1973
defense budget, which has been subject to
so much criticism, accounts for only 6.4
percent of our GNP, and that imposes the
smallest economic burden on our country
of any defense budget in more than 20
years. Now, that is real progress.
Now we come to the key point.
We have cut our defense budget in
terms of its burden on our American econ-
omy. Can we go further? In my belief, it
would be a mistake to go further, and I
am supported in that belief by a bi-
partisan majority in the House and the
Senate. And to their great credit, let me
say, speaking as one who is a member of
the minority party as reflected in those
two bodies, Democrats and Republicans
who put their country above their party
voted down big defense cuts because they
knew it would cut into the muscle of
American defense, and that we must never
do.
Now that, of course, is a conclusion. Let
me give you the facts to back it up. Let
me give you the reasons why I think that
Democrats join with Republicans in vot-
ing overwhelmingly in both the House and
the Senate against these big cuts in defense
that were supported by other people who
believed that we could cut and still be
strong enough, still be, as some have said,
798
