[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
tems that differed not only in number but
in characteristics and capabilities. More-
over, both nations were at different stages
in key weapons programs.
-The Soviet intercontinental ballistic
missile arsenal had continued to grow
while the U.S. had ceased deploy-
ment of ICBMs. In addition, Amer-
ican ICBMs consisted almost en-
tirely of medium size missiles, while
the USSR had deployed a variety of
sizes. One Soviet system, the SS-9
ICBM, carried a much larger war-
head and had no American counter-
part. Although U.S. missiles were
smaller, they were more sophisticated
and had a capability for multiple in-
dependently targeted warheads. The
larger Soviet missiles, however, had
the capacity to carry a greater num-
ber of these warheads if developed
along lines similar to our program.
-The United States had not built bal-
listic missile submarines since 1967;
the Soviet program, although begun
later, was expanding at an acceler-
ated rate in 1969.
-In 1964 the USSR began deploying
an anti-ballistic missile system to pro-
tect its capital; our Safeguard ABM
program, begun only in 1969, was de-
signed to protect our land-based re-
taliatory forces, to defend against at-
tacks by a small number of missiles,
and to protect against an accidental
attack.
Thus, even an agreement in principle
to limit certain strategic systems would
have left open major questions of defining
precise limits without creating an advan-
tage for one side.
Despite these problems, the approach-
ing strategic parity provided an opportu-
nity to achieve an overall agreement that
would yield no unilateral advantage and
could contribute to a more stable stra-
tegic environment. For the first time it
was possible to conceive of agreements
reflecting a genuine balance.
Meticulous preparations enabled us to
begin negotiations in November 1969 with
an understanding of the full range of is-
sues, and to move efficiently from prelimi-
nary explorations of strategic principles
to concrete proposals.
By late 1970, several phases of negoti-
ations had isolated the key differences.
-We disagreed on the kinds of weapons
systems that would be limited in an
agreement. The U.S. preferred to
cover all major strategic systems-
land and sea-based ballistic missiles,
heavy bombers, and anti-ballistic
missiles; the USSR defined "strate-
gic" to include certain U.S. air and
naval deployments abroad, while ex-
cluding various systems of their own,
including medium range missiles.
-We had not been able to agree on an
equitable basis for limiting individual
offensive systems that differed in
numbers or capabilities.
-The scope of an initial agreement
was undetermined. The USSR pro-
posed that it limit defensive forces
alone; the U.S. felt it must encom-
pass both offensive and defensive
forces.
These differences meant that negotiat-
ing a comprehensive agreement would be
very complicated and necessarily time-
consuming.
As negotiations entered their second
year, the continuing buildup of Soviet
strategic systems was of particular con-
cern. During the first year of negotiations
the Soviets had increased their total
arsenal of intercontinental ballistic mis-
318
