[415] Nov. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
society. We want to have in mind, too,
the fact that in this election it was very
unusual in another respect. It was not
region against region. It was not one age
group against another age group. It was
not party against party. I think we can.
be proud of the fact that as we look at
our majority, which is a very large
majority, it comes from all of America.
Let us remember that in these next 4
years we are not going to work for one
group against another. We are dedicated
to work for all Americans to make this a
greater country.
To those millions of Democrats and
independents who supported us as well
as, of course, to the Republicans who
supported us in overwhelming numbers,
they have, you have, our deep apprecia-
tion. To all those who worked so hard-
our appreciation. I will never be able to
thank all of you personally, not even get
all the letters out that I would like. But
I know what you did and I know how
much you contributed.
I would simply like to leave one final
thought with you, perhaps in a personal
sense. No one knows before the votes are
counted how it is going to come out. No
one really would have predicted after our
convention that we were going to win this
kind of a victory. Now, at the present
time I noticed some of the commentators
are referring to the fact that it may be the
greatest victory in American political
history. Let me tell you, I have two reac-
tions to that. Of course, it is great on elec-
tion night to think that we have won a
victory, but this will be a great victory
depending upon what we do with it. In
other words, we win elections not simply
for the purpose of beating the other party
or the other person, but to get the oppor-
tunity to do good things for our country.
The next 4 years will be the time that we
will try to make ourselves worthy of this
victory.
I will simply say in that connection, it
was a great victory but the greater the
victory, the greater the responsibility, the
greater the opportunity. We are going to
try to meet it, dedicating ourselves to those
great goals that I have discussed at such
great length throughout this campaign
and will in the next 4 years-building that
world of peace, of real peace with honor
throughout the world, and building at
home, not only peace at home but the new
prosperity and the progress for all Amer-
icans that is so close to our hearts.
Finally, on that personal note, about 30
days ago, when I was sitting in the Lin-
coln Sitting Room late at night trying to
get some materials ready for a National
Security Council meeting the next morn-
ing, Tricia dropped into the room around
10:30 or 11:00. She was going out to
dedicate a dam or something at a non-
political affair. She was trying to get some
suggestions about remarks. I find that
whenever I make suggestions of remarks
to Tricia or Julie or Eddie Cox they al-
ways can do better without any sugges-
tions, but I made a couple. Then, before
she left the room, she turned and said,
"You know, Daddy, did you ever stop to
think that this is your last campaign?" I
said, "Yes, I have."
As I think of what she said that night,
I simply want to say from the bottom of
my heart, thanks for making our last
campaign the very best one of all.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 a.m. in the
Regency Room of the Shoreham Hotel. He
spoke without referring to notes. His remarks
were broadcast live on radio and television.
1142
