Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [314]
most of them graduated, and I understand
Patsy Ramirez is actually going to school
in Manhattanville in New York-and I
am happy that they could be here, because
while your principal has paid a tribute to
them, I would like to say a word about
them, and in talking about them to say a
word about you, about what you mean
to the President of the United States, but
also about what you mean to this coun-
try-how much we count on you, how
much what you do, in whatever occupa-
tion you go into, will mean to the future
of America.
The principal pointed out that this was
a rather unusual group. It is unusual. Let
me say that there are not hundreds, but
thousands of groups, high school groups,
grammar school groups, who come to
Washington in the spring of every year.
And, of course, the President has many re-
sponsibilities, whoever he is--he can't see
them all. He can only see very few.
I was glad that on that beautiful spring
day in April I could come out and meet
this group, glad because they were so
proud of what they had done, and right-
fully so, glad because what they did told
me that this was a strong, young genera-
tion, that we could have hope in the fu-
ture of America because we can believe in
the young people of America. That is what
they told me when they came there.
Afterwards, when I was talking to one
of the members of the White House Staff
and told him how these young people had
made their way to Washington by doing a
lot of things-they had washed cars, they
had done babysitting, they had done all
sorts of chores. As a matter of fact, they
got into some businesses. They, I remem-
ber, made some tamales and sold them at
50 cents apiece from door to door. Believe
me, that is a real bargain, I can assure
you.
But after doing all that, and then get-
ting to Washington, they weren't able to
take a plane. They came in a bus. And
they probably didn't stay in the best hotel
in town, although in an adequate one.
My friend on the staff said, "You know,
wasn't it really a shame to think of many
of those young people, and some of them
not from very wealthy families, some from
poor families, that they had to come that
way? Wouldn't it have been possible to
find some wealthy man in Texas or some
foundation that would have put up the
money so they wouldn't have had to work,
so they could have come, for example, in
a plane? Wouldn't it have been much
better?"
And I said, "Not at all." Not at all,
for a reason. Not because we don't want
to help anybody who can't help himself,
but because the great American tradition
is-and that is what the students of this
school proved-the American tradition
is that we help ourselves when we can,
and we only ask somebody else to help
us when we can't help ourselves. That is
what made this country great.
Now the visit of this school-or at least
the representatives of this school-to
Washington told me something else about
America, something I have known all my
life from the time I grew up in southern
California, where we have a great many
students and young people, Americans of
Mexican background and other back-
grounds as well, something about the
strength of this country.
I knew from what I had heard about
this group-they always give me a little
sheet, the background of the group-that
probably a majority of those who attend
this school are proud of the fact that they
are Americans of Mexican background.
889
