Richard Nixon, 1972
May 16 [155]
receiving you and greeting each of you
personally at the entrance to the State
Dining Room. In that room, you will see
there is only one portrait, the portrait of
Abraham Lincoln.
It is significant, as members of your
delegation, the leaders of your delegation
presented a medal commemorating the
Year of Juárez, and this is the Year of
Juárez in Mexico, that Juárez and Lin-
coln were contemporaries, that they cor-
responded with each other. Juárez was
not only a great man, a great Mexican,
but a great leader of the world. Lincoln,
we believe, not only was a great Ameri-
can, but a great leader of the world.
And may the spirit of Juárez and the
spirit of Lincoln guide the relations be-
tween our two great countries in all the
years ahead. And from now on, estan
ustedes en su casa.
[At this point, Enrique Olivares Santana, Presi-
dent of the Mexican Senate, addressed the
delegates in Spanish. A translation of his re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 869). Presi-
dent Nixon then resumed speaking.]
Thank you very much, Senator. Now
Mrs. Nixon and I will look forward to
receiving all of you who can work it into
your schedule, down the hall, before going
into the State Dining Room for refresh-
ments.
I, incidentally, should take note of one
fact: When the Ambassador arrived he
thought he was late, but he was right on
time, but Ambassadors always want to be
15 minutes early. He said, "The trouble
was, I was not on the list and they didn't
let me come in the gate."
I want everybody in this room to know
that the Ambassador from Mexico is al-
ways on our list, and from now on he
always comes in this gate.
We have some mementos for the Sena-
tors and for the Members of the Congress,
as well as their wives, just little things for
you to take back. The aide will give them
to you as you leave the dining room.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:12 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. He spoke with-
out referring to notes.
155 Statement on Signing the National Sickle Cell Anemia
Control Act. May 16, 1972
IT IS with special pleasure that I am
today signing into law the National Sickle
Cell Anemia Control Act.
Sickle cell anemia is an inherited blood
disorder, caused by a genetically deter-
mined change in the chemical constituents
of hemoglobin, thus affecting the oxygen-
carrying capacity of the blood. No cure
has yet been found.
This disease is especially pernicious be-
cause it strikes only blacks and no one else.
An estimated 25,000 to 50,000 black in-
dividuals are currently afflicted with the
disease. Some 1,000 infants are born
yearly with sickle cell anemia, and an
estimated 2 million black Americans are
carriers of the sickle cell trait. Many sickle
cell anemia victims are crippled long
before death, and some die from it
prematurely.
In February 1971, I pledged that this
Administration would reverse the record
87-234-74-42
597
