Richard Nixon, 1972
May 16 [153]
his forceful, dynamic, and skilled leader-
ship, there would have been no agree-
ment with regard to the realignment of
currencies in the Smithsonian Institute
on that occasion.
These are activities of the Secretary
that are well known. There are others
that are not as well known in which he
has been a tower of strength for the
President. I refer to his service in the Na-
tional Security Council. I refer to the fact
that whenever I have had a very difficult
decision, and I have had one or two in
recent weeks that have been perhaps
quite difficult, I have found that when
the going is the hardest, when the going
is the toughest, that Secretary Connally is
at his best.
Needless to say, his loss, from a personal
standpoint, in terms of his counsel and
advice, apart from his official responsibil-
ities as Secretary of the Treasury, will be
a very great one for me and for this
country and for this Administration.
Naturally, we very much regret losing
Mrs. Connally, who has been such a
bright star in our Cabinet family in the
time she has been in Washington.
However, there are some compensa-
tions. The Secretary has agreed that after
I return from Moscow he will undertake
some temporary assignments. One of those
will be announced after I return from
Moscow. His service in any capacity
is something which
which we most deeply
appreciate.
I will only say finally that the Nation
is very fortunate to have had his dedi-
cated service over these past 18 months,
and I look forward to a continued close
association and for his service in any
capacities that we may, on a temporary
basis, work out in the future with him.
Now, for his successor. The Secretary
and I had a long discussion about this
several weeks ago. There was only one
candidate that we thought really meas-
ured up to what was needed at this time
as Secretary of the Treasury. He is su-
perbly qualified, having been in the Cabi-
net, having been the Director of the Office
of Budget and Management, an econo-
mist, of course, but also one who has
shown great skill in management, one
who has a keen understanding of the
problems of taxation, one who has
shown a rare ability to understand the
intricacies of international finance and
international economic policy.
George Shultz will return to the Cabi-
net-I say "return" to it in the sense that
he now, after having his salary reduced
when he was Secretary of Labor and
went up to the Office of Management
and Budget, now gets back the Cadillac
and the salary.
DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET
Cap Weinberger, of course, is the
natural successor as the Director of the
Office of Budget and Management. I had
hoped that it meant an increase in sal-
ary-it doesn't, not very much. He al-
ready has a car, so there really is not
much reason for him to take the new posi-
tion. The office he receives as Director of
the Office of Budget and Management,
I find, is not nearly as nice and not nearly
as commodious as the office that he pres-
ently has where he is Director of the
Budget. But he is making the sacrifice and
is willing to take the position of Director
of the OMB.
595
