Richard Nixon, 1972
May 19 [159]
not succeed and we will not, of course-
in reaching agreement in all the areas that
will be discussed, we will at least continue
the process of negotiation, so that follow-
ing the summit, there may be not only
dialogue but possibly future agreements
depending upon what happens at the
summit.
Now, with regard to your problems. I
know that when you were in Peking it was
rather difficult to cover. The reason was,
of course, that we did not have diplomatic
relations with the People's Republic of
China. We did not have, as we have in
this instance, an on-going process nego-
tiation in various levels on which to build.
And consequently, I know that from the
standpoint of substance day by day until
we finally got to the communique, that
it was very difficult for members of the
press to get the hard news, which I know
you have to get and that you must get in
order to justify your going so far.
[Laughter]
In this instance I can inform you that
there will be daily briefings. I can also
say that in terms of substance, without
indicating what will happen in the three
areas that I mentioned, or other areas,
there will be two very substantive speeches
made on my part.
The first night at the dinner in the
Kremlin, Chairman Brezhnev, or Secre-
tary Brezhnev I should say, the General
Secretary will make a substantive speech,
and I will respond with a substantive
speech. That will be released in advance
so that you will be able to write your
stories and then enjoy your dinner.
The other will be on Sunday. On Sun-
day, I will be speaking on the Soviet tele-
vision and radio network to the Soviet
people. This, of course, brings back
memories of 1959. I shall never forget the
long period that I worked with Ambassa-
dor Tommy [Llewellyn] Thompson, whom
you all will remember, on that speech. He
said a very interesting thing as I was work-
ing on it. He said, "You must think of the
fact that what you said is to two audi-
ences-the Soviet audience, the American
audience. There are things you could say
to the American audience that would not
be helpful to the Soviet audience because
they have not yet heard a top American
official speak to them in this way."
And as we worked on that speech, cut
this and added this, and so forth, he gave
me one admonition. He said, "This is the
first time that a top American official will
ever have addressed the Soviet people on
radio and television." He said, "Write the
speech and make the speech in a way that
it will not be the last time.”
I think we accomplished that, and in
this instance the speech that I will make
on Sunday will be directed to the Soviet
people, not with any naive attitude that
we are going to convince them that all of
our policies are right and that everything
that they have heard about us is wrong,
but simply to give them some observations
about what we have found in the Soviet
Union and to give them as well as we can
a true and accurate picture of the United
States, the American people, of the desire
that we have, a desire which is shared by
the Russian people, a desire for
the world and for better relations.
peace in
It will be, in other words, a speech
directed to the Russian people rather than
to the American people. I think, however,
most of the American people would ap-
prove because this will be the first time
the President of the United States has ever
spoken to the Russian people by radio and
605
