[200] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
200 Remarks of Welcome to President Luis Echeverría
June 15, 1972
Alvarez of Mexico.
Mr. President, Señora Echeverría, all of
our distinguished guests:
Mr. President, we welcome you very
warmly on your first official visit to Wash-
ington. We welcome you as the head of
state of a great nation, our great and
friendly neighbor to the South. And we
welcome you also as a world leader of the
first rank.
During the course of our discussions we
will have the opportunity to talk about
bilateral issues between our two countries.
I will be extremely interested in getting
your views on hemispheric problems, par-
ticularly in view of your very eloquent
comments in which you enunciated the
Echeverría Doctrine in Santiago a short
time ago.
And since you are the first head of
gov-
ernment or head of state to visit Washing-
ton since my visit to Moscow, I shall look
forward to the opportunity to talk with
you about international problems of
mutual interest. We shall discuss these
problems with great frankness and great
candor. But what is even more important,
we will discuss them as friends.
Mr. President, the people of the United
States of America have a very warm place
in their hearts for the people of Mexico.
I personally, and my wife, have a warm
place in our hearts for your country and
we feel that as we meet you today, we
meet not only as official friends but also
as personal friends. We believe that
Mexican-American friendship is an indis-
pensable cornerstone to our foreign policy
and we believe that our talks will contrib-
ute to that friendship and to the cause of
peace and progress for all people in the
world.
NOTE: President Nixon spoke at 10:14 a.m.
on the South Lawn at the White House where
President Echeverría was given a formal wel-
come with full military honors. President
Nixon spoke without referring to notes.
See also Items 201 and 203.
President Echeverría spoke in Spanish. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
President Nixon, Mrs. Nixon:
A few yards away from us we can turn and
see young mothers holding children in their
arms and as we see them we must think of
young mothers all over the world holding chil-
dren in their arms, the children that are the
new generation, the new hope for the world.
These mothers look towards the future with
either uncertainty or with hope. They want to
see how the present leaders of this changing
world are going to act and thus affect the future
of these new generations.
The great powers will be working and mak-
ing decisions that will affect the future of these
mothers and these children, and they will want
to know what the future is.
This is what we must think of, all the leaders
of the world today, that we have the fate of the
world in our hands and that we are changing
the world, that we will affect the course of
history, and let us hope our contributions will
be towards a world of peace, of security, and
prosperity.
Mr. President, we should never forget-and
as we look around we are reminded by these
young mothers and their children-how we are
responsible for the conditions facing this new
generation and we will be the ones responsible
for deciding whether this will be a world for
them of anguish or a world for peace.
Mr. President, the people of Mexico bring to
you and to the people of the United States, this
great and friendly neighbor, our best and most
cordial greetings from all of us, and I am cer-
tain that out of our conversations will come
agreements that will be positive and will con-
tribute toward the further progress of peace and
prosperity in this changing world.
We hope that we will be able to do this so
680
