Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 24 [103]
cated, confirmation as Attorney General
of the United States.¹ That is the purpose
of the hearings. I had confidence when I
appointed him that he was qualified for
this position. I still have that confidence. I
believe that he should be confirmed and I
believe that he will be confirmed.
Now, as far as the hearings are con-
cerned, there is nothing that has happened
in the hearings to date that has in one
way shaken my confidence in Mr. Klein-
dienst as an able, honest man, fully quali-
fied to be Attorney General of the United
States.
However, I am not going to comment
on any aspects of the hearing, any aspects
of the case, while the Senate is still con-
ducting them and while the Senate is still
trying to determine the authenticity of
some of the evidence that is before it.
That is a matter for the Senate commit-
tee under the chairmanship of Mr. East-
land to continue to consider. But I would
point out that Mr. Kleindienst asked for
these hearings. We want the whole record
brought out because as far as he is con-
cerned, he wants to go in as Attorney
General with no cloud over him. He will
not have any, in my opinion, once the
hearings are concluded, and what we are
talking about will be proof, rather than
simply charges which as yet have been
unsubstantiated.
ROLE OF WHITE HOUSE AIDES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, on another aspect
¹On February 15, 1972, White House Press
Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler announced the
President's intention to nominate Richard G.
Kleindienst as Attorney General of the United
States. On the same day, the White House also
released a biography of Mr. Kleindienst, which
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, p. 440).
which I think is not directly related to the
ITT case, I wondered if you could give us
your view on the proper role of White
House Staff members in contacts with
executive departments and regulatory
agencies concerning matters that are be-
fore those departments or agencies.
My specific reference, of course, is to
the involvement of Mr. Flanigan 2 in
some of these matters, but I wondered if
you could give us, on a more general basis,
what you consider the
consider the proper role and the
limits of that role for a Presidential aide
in dealing with regulatory and law en-
forcement matters.
THE PRESIDENT. A Presidential aide
must listen to all of those who come to the
White House, as they do in great numbers
on all sides of all cases with regard to
complaints that they have or causes that
they wish to work for, just as they go to
the Members of the House and the Senate
and others in that connection.
What is improper is for a Presidential
aide to use influence for personal gain,
and to use influence in any way that would
not be in the public interest. As far as
Mr. Flanigan is concerned, Mr. Ziegler
has responded to that charge at consider-
able length with my total authority and
his views represent mine. I have nothing
further to say.
WAR ON INFLATION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, how do you ex-
pect the war on inflation to succeed with-
out the cooperation of George Meany and
his friends? 3
THE PRESIDENT. The war on inflation
will succeed with their cooperation, if pos-
8
2 Peter M. Flanigan, Assistant to the
President.
3
* See Items 101 and 102.
489
