[429] Dec. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Rather it has barely begun. As Sir Isaac
Newton attributed his accomplishments to
the fact that he stood "upon the shoulders
of Giants," so Newton himself is one of
the giants upon whose shoulders we now
stand as we reach for the stars. The great
mathematician once wrote: "I do not
know what I may appear to the world;
but to myself I seem to have been only
like a boy playing on the seashore, and
diverting myself in now and then finding
a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than
ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth
lay all undiscovered before me." I believe
we have finally moved into that great
ocean, and we are trying now to under-
stand what surrounds us.
The making of space history will con-
tinue, and this Nation means to play a
major role in its making. Next spring, the
Skylab will be put into orbit. It will be
aimed not at advancing the exploration of
deep space, but at gaining in space new
knowledge for the improvement of life
here on Earth. It will help develop new
methods of learning about the Earth's
environment and the Earth's resources,
and new methods of evaluating programs
aimed at preserving and enhancing the
resources of all the world. It will seek new
knowledge about our own star, the Sun,
and about its tremendous influence on our
environment. Scientists aboard the Sky-
lab will perform medical experiments
aimed at a better knowledge of man's own
physiology. Also, they will perform ex-
periments aimed at developing new in-
dustrial processes utilizing the unique
capabilities found in space. Skylab will be
our first manned space station. It will be
in use for the better part of a year, per-
mitting the economy of extended usage,
and laying the groundwork for further
space stations.
Economy in space will be further served
by the Space Shuttle, which is presently
under development. It will enable us to
ferry space research hardware into orbit
without requiring the full expenditure of
a launch vehicle as is necessary today. It
will permit us to place that hardware in
space accurately, and to service or retrieve
it when necessary instead of simply writ-
ing it off in the event it malfunctions or
fails. In addition, the Shuttle will provide
such routine access to space that for the
first time personnel other than trained
astronauts will be able to participate and
contribute in space as will nations once
excluded for economic reasons.
The near future will see joint space
efforts by this Nation and the Soviet
Union in an affirmation of our common
belief that the hopes and the needs that
unite our people and all people are of
greater consequence than the differences
in philosophy that divide us.
Finally, we will continue to draw knowl-
edge from the universe through the use
of unmanned satellites and probes.
We cannot help but pause today and
remember and pay homage to those many
men and women-including those who
made the ultimate sacrifice-whose hopes,
whose energies, skill, and courage en-
abled the first man to reach the Moon
and who now have seen with us perhaps
the last men in this century leave the
Moon. But the more we look back the
more we are reminded that our thrust
has been forward and that our place is
among the heavens where our dreams
precede us, and where, in time, we shall
surely follow.
Though our ancestors would have
called the deeds of Apollo miraculous, we
do not see our age as an age of miracles.
Rather, we deal in facts, we deal in scien-
1158
