Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
series of measures-including a suspension
of dollar convertibility-which dramati-
cally focused international attention and
energies on achievement of these goals.
It is important to understand the cir-
cumstances that led to these decisions.
Developing Strain. At the Bretton
Woods Conference in 1944, to help.
achieve our objective of rebuilding the
free world through the expansion of
trade and rapid economic reconstruc-
tion, we took the lead in the crea-
tion of a new international monetary
system. We hoped that this system
would avoid the restrictions and com-
petitive devaluations which characterized
the 1930's, and would enhance the ability
of countries to rebuild their own econ-
omies. This system permitted parity ad-
justments, which were expected to be used
when countries were in fundamental bal-
ance of payments disequilibrium. Ex-
change rate stability was to be enhanced
by enabling countries to draw on a pool of
currencies established in the IMF to sup-
plement their own gold and foreign ex-
change reserves, and thus tide them over
temporary or cyclical balance of pay-
ments difficulties. These alternatives were
provided to enable countries to avoid hav-
ing to depart from sound domestic eco-
nomic policies or impose controls to cor-
rect balance of payments problems.
The Bretton Woods system, our assist-
ance, and the strong efforts made by other
nations to rebuild their economies helped
to bring about a period of vigorous and
sustained economic expansion. Our recon-
struction assistance and persistent balance
of payments deficits provided substantial
liquidity to countries whose reserves had
been depleted. Their holdings of both dol-
lars and gold increased substantially. In
the immediate postwar era this enabled
many nations to support the large flow of
imports required for their reconstruction.
In the 1960's, however, the interna-
tional monetary system showed increasing
strain. The persistent U.S. deficits, once
unambiguously helpful to other countries
as a source of liquid reserves, led to an
increasing imbalance between U.S. liquid
assets and liabilities. Eventually, doubts
began to arise concerning the ability of the
U.S. to maintain convertibility of the dol-
lar into gold or other reserve assets. A
supplementary source of reserves
clearly needed, and agreement
reached within the International Mone-
tary Fund in 1969 to create an alternative
source of international liquidity in the
form of Special Drawing Rights (SDR's).
This reform did not, however, deal with
other sources of stress. In the face of large
and continuing balance of payments
problems, countries were compelled to
alter the value of their exchange rates,
usually after long delay and in an atmos-
phere of crisis. Such adjustments were
made with increased frequency in the late
1960's. They were necessarily large in
magnitude, psychologically destabilizing,
and politically disruptive in the adjusting
country.
Furthermore, pressure to adjust did not
apply equally to all countries. Those coun-
tries with a significant balance of pay-
ments surplus and undervalued currencies
felt little pressure to revalue (increase the
value of) their currencies. Indeed, they
felt an incentive not to do so. Under-
valued exchange rates enabled them to
achieve the large trade surpluses which
some considered desirable in order to en-
hance the rates of their domestic eco-
nomic growth and employment and to
239
