[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
difficult and crucial issues, on which
there are some divergencies of view. We
will not impose our view, but doctrines
cannot be improvised in times of crisis and
left to chance. An allied consensus is
needed, and achievable.
U.S. Forces in Europe. It is proper for
the Congress to examine whether U.S.
troop deployments in Europe have a ra-
tional basis that justifies their cost. No
number has merit in the abstract; our
force level is essential for the support of
the agreed defense strategy that maintains
our cohesion and the stable military bal-
ance in contemporary conditions. To
undermine either for budgetary reasons
would be false economy and foolish policy.
Therefore, given the existing strategic
balance and a similar effort by our allies,
it is the policy of this Government to main-
tain and improve our forces in Europe and
not reduce them except through reciprocal
reductions negotiated with the Warsaw
Pact. With such mutual reduction now
on the agenda of East-West diplomacy,
this is precisely the moment not to make
unilateral cuts in our strength.
Moreover, major unilateral reductions
by the United States would upset the bal-
ance of conventional forces in Central
Europe and leave NATO with no options
in a crisis other than capitulation or im-
mediate resort to nuclear weapons. This
would undermine the strategy that the
Alliance has accepted as the most rational
for the contemporary military balance.
American forces should not be reduced to
the role of a hostage, triggering automatic
use of nuclear weapons, at the very time
when the strategic equation makes such a
strategy less and less plausible.
If the U.S. did not carry its crucial share
of the common burden, there would be no
prospect of our allies' making up the dif-
ference. Not only would they lose confi-
dence in our pledges; they would lose
confidence in the very possibility of West-
ern European defense. Our allies would
feel themselves increasingly alone. Atlan-
tic cohesion would weaken. In the shadow
of Soviet power, Western Europe would be
drawn, against its will, away from its
Alliance ties.
Thus, in the absence of a negotiated
mutual reduction, the Soviet Union has
little incentive to reciprocate a U.S. with-
drawal. Soviet troops are not deployed in
Europe just to match ours. They secure
Soviet hegemony over Eastern Europe;
most importantly, perhaps, they embody
the Soviet Union's permanent presence as
a power in the European sphere. The So-
viet Union would be unlikely to forgo the
political advantage it would gain if West-
ern military power in Europe weakened
unilaterally.
Steps to relax tensions in Europe, in
my view, must be steps which increase
security, not insecurity.
As Chancellor Brandt has pointed out
emphatically on several occasions, West-
ern cohesion underpinned by the visible
and substantial commitment of Ameri-
can power in Europe is the essential condi-
tion that makes efforts at detente possible
today. With East-West diplomacy more
complex and relationships more fluid than
ever before in 20 years, unilateral Ameri-
can withdrawals from Europe would un-
dermine stability. Today's conditions, not
those of 20 years ago, make America's
strength in Europe absolutely essential. I
therefore intend to maintain it.
Sharing the Defense Burden. The Alli-
ance's 1970 strategic review brought the
rationale of our defense efforts into clear
focus and brought home to every ally its
own strong interest in the success of the
226
