[93] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
erating funds, suppliers, markets, expert
technical and management assistance and
related business essentials.
Three years ago, there were no prec-
edents, no rule books, no methods, no
blueprints on how to focus the resources
of these groups on a common objective.
OMBE's greatest achievement during
these past three years has been to forge
an alliance of Government, private sector
and minority business interests. The Of-
fice has succeeded in launching a care-
fully contoured, integrated set of pro-
grams that will work to engage minority
entrepreneurs fully in our Nation's eco-
nomic life.
Gains. Since the establishment of
OMBE, American minorities have gained
greater access to both Government and
private sector contracts and concessions,
business loans and loan guarantees, tech-
nical and management assistance, and
other business aid. This access has been
developed without reducing programs
available to non-minority small business-
men. Federal assistance, channeled
through these vehicles, has been enlarged
from less than $200 million in 1969 to
some $700 million currently, and the $1
billion threshold for fiscal 1973-five
times the 1969 level-is within reach.
New markets have been opened as minor-
ity suppliers and businessmen have ex-
panded their operations and sales in un-
precedented volume.
Funding OMBE and SBA. Our efforts
on behalf of minority business secured
substantial congressional approval, and
OMBE was appropriated a supplemental
budget increase of $40 million for the last
six months of fiscal 1972, as I requested.
I am hopeful that both the House and
Senate will give favorable consideration
to our present request for a fiscal 1973
OMBE budget of $63.6 million to provide
urgently needed technical and manage-
ment assistance to minority business. To-
gether, these budgets will total more than
$100 million. This figure offers a dra-
matic index of the commitment of this
Administration to the purposes of an Of-
fice which was originally funded for fiscal
year 1972 with less than four million
dollars.
OMBE is a coordinating agency of the
Federal Government, and as such does
not itself engage directly in business fi-
nancing. Direct loans, loan guarantees,
surety bonding, lines of credit, and con-
tract set-asides are supplied by the Small
Business Administration (SBA) to small
businessmen, including minority business-
men.
THE IMMEDIATE NEED: MESBIC
LEGISLATION
Enactment of the Administration's pro-
posed Minority Enterprise Small Business
Investment Act of 1972 would give major
impetus to the minority enterprise pro-
gram, and would create a more productive
mechanism to achieve its objectives.
Background. When the Congress
passed the Small Business Investment Act
of 1958, it recognized that small business
generally lacks seed money and working
capital. To give incentives for small busi-
ness investment, the act empowered SBA
to license "Small Business Investment
Companies" (SBICs). Such companies
are private investment institutions capi-
talized at a minimum of $150,000 from
private sources. SBICs are eligible to bor-
row from SBA at an incentive ratio of $2
from SBA for every $1 of its private capi-
tal. Thus, a $150,000 SBIC can borrow
$300,000 from SBA for investment in its
446
