Richard Nixon, 1972
[192]
June 10
192 Letter to Senate Leaders About the Foreign Assistance
Authorization Bill. June 10, 1972
IN MY special report to the joint session
of the Congress on June 1, the evening of
my return from the summit discussions in
Moscow, I said that the door to the
agreements that we reached there had
been opened because the United States
had maintained the strength it needed to
protect its interests. A vital and indis-
pensable element of that strength has
been our continuing security assistance
program.
The Foreign Assistance Authorization
bill for fiscal year 1973, a significant por-
tion of which is devoted to security assist-
ance, is of direct and fundamental
importance to the continued maintenance
of our strength and the protection of our
interests. As you know, the Senate will
soon begin consideration of this bill,
S. 3390.
At Guam in 1969, I made clear that
the United States would look increasingly
to its friends and allies to play a greater
role in providing for their own defense.
Since that time we have moved forward
steadily toward that objective with full
recognition that our own security depends
importantly upon the independence, the
progress and the stability of our friends.
But if we are to reach that goal, we must
help others to develop the ability to de-
fend themselves. My Foreign Assistance
program requests for fiscal year 1973 are
based on these imperatives.
The severe cuts in my fiscal year 1972
requests, and the restrictive amendments
which were imposed, significantly limited
our ability to move toward the basic ob-
jectives of the program-the maintenance
of the strength necessary to secure a last-
ing peace.
When I forwarded my fiscal year 1973
requests on March 10 [14], 1972, I re-
ported that the foreign assistance appro-
priations for fiscal year 1972 were below
the minimum level required to attain our
foreign policy and national security goals.
Such reductions and restrictions, if im-
posed by the Congress again in 1973, will
call into serious question the firmness of
our commitments abroad. Such Congres-
sional action could have a destabilizing
effect at a time when confidence in our
support and perseverance will be critically
needed.
In recent months we have taken bold
and decisive steps in our continuing
search for peace. I believe that through
these efforts we have done much to en-
hance America's security and that of the
entire world, primarily by diminishing the
likelihood of direct confrontation with the
Soviet Union and the People's Republic
of China. Though we are making every
effort to expand on these initial and
significant steps, the process of building
the structure of lasting peace will be long
and arduous.
I share with you the desire to withdraw
our remaining forces from Indochina in a
timely and honorable manner. But Con-
gressional amendments which can be mis-
construed by our adversaries to be hostile
to my peace proposals of May 8 do not
serve this objective. As I have reported to
you and to the people of the United States,
we are continuing to pursue every possible
avenue toward peace in Southeast Asia. I
have made clear to the North Vietnamese
that we are fully prepared to participate
in meaningful negotiations to achieve a
settlement and I am hopeful that they will
669
