[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
of President Thieu, my Assistant for Na-
tional Security Affairs, Dr. Kissinger,
traveled to Paris for secret meetings with
the North Vietnamese on twelve occa-
sions between August 1969 and September
1971. He met seven times with both Le
Duc Tho, of Hanoi's political leadership,
and Minister Xuan Thuy, head of the
North Vietnamese delegation in Paris. He
had five additional meetings with Minis-
ter Xuan Thuy.
The tone and spirit of our approach to
these meetings were carefully designed to
establish a framework for agreement. We
made no take-it-or-leave-it proposals. We
stressed our interest in a settlement they
would genuinely want to keep. And, as
our talks proceeded, we shaped our offers
in response to their expressed preference
for a comprehensive settlement. The fol-
lowing chronology is illustrative.
-On May 31, 1971 we offered a total
U.S. withdrawal in return for a
prisoner exchange and an Indochina
ceasefire, leaving the other outstand-
ing issues for subsequent resolution
among the Indochinese parties
themselves.
-In their response, the North Viet-
namese insisted that political ques-
tions had to be incorporated in any
settlement.
-On June 26, therefore, they tabled
their own nine point plan, which in-
cluded the demand for the removal
of the Government of the Republic
of Vietnam as part of any settlement.
In order to speed negotiations, we
agreed to depart from the approach
of our May 31 proposal and to deal
with the political as well as the mili-
tary issues. In effect, we accepted
their nine points as a basis for nego-
tiation; and from that time, every
American proposal has followed both
the sequence and subject matter of
the North Vietnamese plan.
-Five days later, on July 1, at the Paris
Peace talks, the other side publicly
presented another set of proposals—
the National Liberation Front's
Seven Points. On a number of issues
the substance was the same, although
the formulations were different.
However, there were some points in
each plan which were not in the
other. The NLF plan focused on is-
sues pertaining to South Vietnam,
while Hanoi's secret proposal dealt
with all of Indochina.
-We were thus faced with a secret pro-
posal in a private channel, and a dif-
ferent public proposal in the open
negotiations. On July 12 we asked
the North Vietnamese which plan
they wanted us to address. They re-
plied they wished us to respond to
their secret proposal. We did so, and
also incorporated in our reply some
aspects of the public seven points
which were not covered in the secret
nine points.
-On July 12, and again on July 26, we
went through each of the nine points,
item by item, seeking to bridge the
gap between our positions. We sought
to shape an agreement in principle
which both sides could sign, and then
introduce into the public talks as the
the basis for a detailed negotiation of
a final agreement.
In pursuing this goal, on August 16, we
tabled a new eight point proposal:
-We offered to withdraw all U.S. and
allied forces within 9 months of the
date of an agreement. We suggested
276
