[356] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
more lonely in a Presidential campaign
than to be running for any other office.
Believe me, support our candidates for
the House, for the State legislature, up
and down the line, because they really
deserve it in a Presidential year.
I was thinking, too, of all of the 50
States we had visited, of all the places
that I have had the opportunity of speak-
ing in, and I must say that coming here
today to this magnificent residence to be
received so generously and so warmly by
Nelson and Happy Rockefeller, is cer-
tainly one of the highlights of all of our
political traveling. I think they deserve a
hand.
I am going to be speaking a little later
over in Nassau-is this Nassau? I am go-
ing to speak at Nassau and Suffolk, in
Nassau. So we are now in Westchester. I,
too, was impressed by that splendid mo-
torcade today, by the reception that we
had. I must say, we had an awfully good
advance man, though, because riding in
the car ahead was Nelson and Happy
Rockefeller, so they cleared the way for
us all the way.
As you ride in a motorcade, you can get
rather a feeling of how an election is
go-
ing. Naturally, you see some of the opposi-
tion out, that is always the case. And you
also see some of your own supporters out,
usually quite a few more than they have,
and that is the usual case. But the real
thing that determines it is the enthusiasm
of your supporters, our supporters.
What impressed me, incidentally, was
the fact that there were not a lot of signs
that were all made and distributed in ad-
vance. There were, on the other hand, it
seemed to me and I think, Nelson, you
will agree there was really a warm,
friendly, holiday crowd, very proud to be
Americans, receiving the President of the
United States. They may not all vote for
us, but let me say that as I drove through
those towns in Westchester County, I
thought what a really good country this
is and what really good people we have
in it and how privileged we are to be able
to represent them in any form of govern-
ment.
The campaigning that I can do this
year is somewhat limited, due to the rather
extraordinary requirements of the office
of the Presidency at this time. I had,
therefore, scheduled, as you know al-
ready, a regional meeting in Atlanta
where all of the Southern States were
gathered together, just as you are gathered
here. And here in New York State, the
leaders of the Eastern and Middle Atlan-
tic States are gathered here.
This is a very important and vital
group. Let me put it in terms that all of
you will understand, comparing it with
the past elections on which I have been
a candidate at the top of the ticket.
In 1960, when we lost a very close elec-
tion, in 1968 when we won an election not
quite as close but still close, it was signifi-
cant to note that in neither of those years
did we carry the State of New York or
the State of Pennsylvania or the State of
Connecticut or the State of Rhode Island
or the State of Maryland. Now, when you
think of that, it makes you realize that
what really is at stake in this room are the
States that can make all the difference in
this election.
I know that I don't need to tell a group
of people who are what we call proudly
"political professionals”—and that means
whether you are doing it full time or part
time you consider it so important that
you will give up anything in order to par-
ticipate in the campaign, and that is cor-
rect-I don't need to tell you that you
1012
