Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [58]
opened the Ho Chi Minh Trail and paved
the way for the invasion of the South by
the North Vietnamese troops.
I was a critic of the policies and the
actions which, I think most observers
would agree, contributed to the assassina-
tion of Diem 3 and the succession of coups
which then brought on further armed con-
flict. I was a strong critic of the conduct
of the war before I was a candidate and
after I was a candidate. But once I be-
came a candidate and once President
Johnson announced he would no longer
be a candidate, and the peace talks began,
I said then that as far as I was concerned,
as a man seeking the Presidency, I would
say nothing that would, in any way,
jeopardize those peace talks.
So there is in my view-and I do not
ask others to hold it, I ask them to con-
sider it-there is, in my view, a very great
difference between criticizing policies that
got us into war and criticizing the conduct
of war and criticisms by a Presidential
candidate of a policy to end the war and
to bring peace.
What we have here is a situation, as
Secretary Rogers has pointed out, a situa-
tion where within one week after a very
forthcoming peace proposal has been
made, various Presidential candidates
sought to propose another settlement
which went beyond that.
My own candid judgment is that that
kind of action has the effect, as I implied
in remarks yesterday, it has the effect
my
of having the government in Hanoi con-
sider at least that they might be well
advised to wait until after the election
rather than negotiate.
So my
view is that as far as I was con-
"Ngo Dinh Diem, President of the Republic
of Vietnam, 1955-63.
cerned that is why I did not criticize when
I was a candidate for President, after
President Johnson started the negotiation.
I thought it was good judgment then.
As far as others are concerned, they
have to consult their own consciences.
They apparently have determined that
they wish to take another course of action.
I disagree with the course of action. I
would strongly urge at this point that all
candidates for President, Republican and
Democrat, review their public statements
and really consider whether they believe
they are going to help the cause of peace
or hurt it, whether they are going to en-
courage the enemy to negotiate or en-
courage him to continue the war.
I have stated my position very cate-
gorically. It is different from others. I
respect the other opinions. You will have
to let the people judge as to which is right.
PRESIDENT THIEU AND THE PEACE
PROPOSALS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, is there real
flexibility in this country on the question
of when President Thieu should resign
and inflexibility in Saigon? Is there a real
difference and are you going to do any-
thing about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I noticed the
flap that has occurred from President
Thieu's statement today, and based on his
interpretation of what Secretary Rogers
had said. I think the misunderstanding
can be cleared up by what I now say.
Every proposal we have made in Paris
has been a joint proposal by the Govern-
ment of South Vietnam and the Govern-
ment of the United States. Every proposal
that we have made has been after con-
sultation with and after receiving sug-
gestions from the Government of South
35I
