[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
States continue to use its air and naval
power against targets in North Vietnam,
as well as in South Vietnam, to prevent a
Communist takeover and a Communist
victory over the people of South Vietnam.
First, because there are 69,000 Ameri-
cans still in Vietnam-that will be re-
duced to 49,000 by the first of July—and
I, as Commander in Chief, have a respon-
sibility to see to it that their lives are ade-
quately protected, and I, of course, will
meet that responsibility.
Second, because as we consider the
situation in Vietnam, we must remember
that if the North Vietnamese were to take
over in South Vietnam, as a result of our
stopping our support in the air and on the
sea-we have no ground support what-
ever, there are no American ground forces
in action in South Vietnam and none
will be--but when we consider that situa-
tion, if there were such a takeover, we
must consider the consequences.
There is, first, the consequence to the
people of South Vietnam. We look back
to what happened historically. In 1954,
when the North Vietnamese took over in
North Vietnam, the Catholic Bishop of
Danang estimated that at least 500,000
people in North Vietnam who had op-
posed the Communist takeover in the
North were either murdered or starved
to death in slave labor camps.
I saw something of that when Mrs.
Nixon and I were in there in 1956, when
we visited refugee camps where over a
million North Vietnamese fled from the
Communist tyranny to come to the South.
If, at this particular point, the Commu-
nists were to take over in South Vietnam,
you can imagine what would happen to
the hundreds of thousands of South Viet-
namese who sided with their own Govern-
ment and with the United States against
the Communists. It would be a bloodbath
that would stain the hands of the United
States for time immemorial.
That is bad enough. I know there are
some who say we have done enough, what
happens to the South Vietnamese at this
particular time is something that should
not be our concern. We have sacrificed
enough for them. So let's put it in terms
of the United States alone, and then we
really see why the only decision that any
man in the position of President of the
United States can make is to authorize
the necessary air and naval strikes that
will prevent a Communist takeover.
In the event that one country like
North Vietnam, massively assisted with
the most modern technical weapons by
two Communist super powers-in the
event that that country is able to invade
another country and conquer it, you can
see how that pattern would be repeated in
other countries throughout the world-in
the Mideast, in Europe, and in others as
well.
If, on the other hand, that kind of ag-
gression is stopped in Vietnam, and fails
there, then it will be discouraged in other
parts of the world. Putting it quite directly
then, what is on the line in Vietnam is not
just peace for Vietnam, but peace in the
Mideast, peace in Europe, and peace not
just for the 5 or 6 or 7 years immediately
ahead of us, but possibly for a long time
in the future.
As I put it last Wednesday night, I
want, and all America wants, to end the
war in Vietnam. I want, and all Ameri-
cans want, to bring our men home from
Vietnam. But I want, and I believe all
Americans want, to bring our men home
and to end this war in a way that the
younger brothers and the sons of the men
who have fought and died in Vietnam
560
