[11] Jan. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
cycle should be resumed as soon as
practicable.
RICHARD NIXON
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
SUBJECT: Federal Wage and Salary
Increases
In August and September, 1971, actions
were initiated to defer for six months ex-
pected pay increases for both white-collar
and blue-collar Federal employees. These
actions provided similar pay treatment for
both groups of employees.
Under the provisions of the Economic
Stabilization Act Amendments of 1971,
pay for white-collar Federal employees
under the statutory systems will be ad-
justed at the beginning of the first pay
period in January 1972.
In order to provide, insofar as practi-
cable, similar treatment of future pay
I2
adjustments for white- and blue-collar
employees, my memorandum of Septem-
ber 1, 1971, directing the deferment of
Federal blue-collar wage adjustments, is
hereby rescinded. The Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission is being directed
to take necessary actions to expedite wage
surveys which have been delayed so that
new wage schedules can be issued as soon
as possible.
Heads of executive agencies are au-
thorized to adjust by administrative action
the rates of pay which are subject to the
provisions of section 5307 of Title 5 of the
United States Code, consistent with the
adjustments effected by Executive Order
No. 11637 of December 22, 1971. Such
adjustments shall also be consistent with
the policies and pay increase guidelines
issued by the Pay Board established under
Executive Order No. 11627 of October 15,
1971.
RICHARD NIXON
Remarks Announcing Withdrawal of Additional United
States Troops From Vietnam. January 13, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
am announcing today the withdrawal
of an additional 70,000 [troops] from Viet-
nam over the next 3 months.
This means that our troop ceiling by
May I will be down to 69,000. This with-
drawal has the approval of the Secretary
of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, and the Government of
South Vietnam.
There will be another announcement
that will be made before May 1 with re-
gard to a further withdrawal.
The Secretary of Defense will brief you
on the details of the announcement.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Secretary of
Defense Melvin R. Laird on the withdrawal of
United States troops. The transcript is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 8, p. 50).
30
