Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
bilities, and hopefully a new interest
in regional stability. To the degree
the USSR exercises its influence in
the interest of restraint, the USSR
and the U.S. could act on parallel
courses.
-The Soviet Union has created a
mature industrialized economy. The
continued growth of that economy.
made it possible to sustain a major
arms program and increasingly serve
civilian needs. On the other hand,
the satisfaction of the growing expec-
tations of the Soviet people for con-
sumer benefits provides an incentive
for a more normal relationship with
the industrial powers of the non-
Communist world.
We have sought to encourage those
tendencies in Soviet policy which sug-
gested a readiness to seek change through
an evolutionary process. Thus, at the out-
set of this Administration, I stated pub-
licly that our goal was to move from
confrontation to negotiation, and that in
pursuing that policy, our relations with
the Soviet Union would be governed by
four principles.
-We would judge Soviet policy by its
actions on the key issues which divide
us. In negotiations we would adopt a
conciliatory posture, but our positions
would be affected only by concrete
measures, not by assumptions regard-
ing Soviet intentions.
-Our objective was significant prog-
ress on divisive issues, rather than
superficial changes in the climate of
the U.S.-Soviet relationship. On
March 4, 1969, I suggested Berlin,
limitations on strategic arms, the
Middle East, and Vietnam as areas
where progress should be made.
-We would set no preconditions. We
would judge each issue on its merits.
Nevertheless, we recognized that ac-
commodation is a process, and that
the settlement of a major issue could
not fail to improve the prospect for
the settlement of others, just as fail-
ure would cloud the prospects of
broad progress.
-A broad and mutual self-restraint was
essential. If either side sought to gain
significant advantage over the other,
it would inevitably lead to counter-
actions aimed at redressing the bal-
ance. That in turn would jeopardize
any progress that had already been
achieved, and make infinitely more
difficult the task of reaching agree-
ments on the specific issues which
divide us.
In 1969, a beginning was made. Nego-
tiations were initiated on Berlin and on
the limitation of strategic arms. Discus-
sions took place on the Middle East
situation.
Progress, however, came slowly, when it
came at all. The conflicting tendencies in
Soviet policy were evident. The Soviets
sought detente in Europe without a relaxa-
tion of hostility toward the United States.
They encouraged a favorable turn in
Soviet-German relations, while taking an
adamant stand in the Four-Power negotia-
tions on Berlin. Under those conditions a
broad discussion of European security
could not take place; repeated Soviet calls
for such a discussion appeared to be more
a maneuver to divide the West than a
reflection of a desire to resolve conflicting
interests.
In 1970, tensions began to heighten
once more. There was a sharp crisis in the
Middle East. The fragile ceasefire
achieved in August, to which we attached
great value and for which we had labored
207
