Richard Nixon, 1972
June 22 [207]
ties in the past are rather turned off by it
now. I think they will try their best to, of
course, affect the outcome of the conven-
tions, both inside the hall and outside,
but I think when it comes to violence,
the kind of thing that we saw in Chicago,
I think that fortunately, while we are not
through with it as we saw in the tragic
incident involving Governor Wallace, I
think that we are not going to have that
great a problem. But the Federal troops
will be there if they are requested, but
only if necessary.
SCHOOL FINANCING AND TAX REFORM
you
[12.] Q. Mr. President, would tell
us what progress you are making toward
keeping your promise about finding a
way to relieve property taxes and provide
fair and adequate financing for public
schools and save the private schools?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
the general problem of tax reform, I
would like to commend Chairman Mills
for the position that he has taken. I had
breakfast with him and Congressman
Byrnes and with Secretary Connally be-
fore I went off to the Soviet Union.
We discussed the problem of tax re-
form. He is very interested in tax reform.
I am interested in tax reform and, of
course, I have noticed several candidates
that have expressed themselves on this
point.
The problem is that tax reform, or tax
legislation, in an election year, as Mr.
Mills, as one of the most experienced
men in this field, and Mr. Byrnes both
agree, is simply not a wise course of ac-
tion. It is hard enough to get a responsi-
ble tax law in a nonelection year. In an
election year it will be totally impossible.
Consequently, I think Chairman Mills'
announcement that he will begin hear-
ings on tax reform legislation early in the
next session of the Congress shows high
statesmanship. Now we will be ready for
those hearings.
Secretary Connally instituted, at my
request, an intensive study within the
Treasury Department of how we could
reform the tax system to make it more
equitable and to make it more simple
and also to deal with problems like prop-
erty tax which fall upon 65 million people
and therefore are, in my view, unfair.
These studies have gone forward. Con-
siderable progress has been made. Secre-
tary Shultz is continuing these studies,
and I will make a decision on it prior to
submitting the budget and will present
recommendations to the next Congress
dealing with these issues.
I will not at this time prejudge the
various proposals that have been pre-
sented before me. Certainly included in
that decision will be relief for nonpublic
schools. I am committed to that, and the
approach of tax credits in this area will
be included in that proposal.
Just so that somebody won't say I was
trying to duck a hard one here, I know
the question of value-added [tax] will come
up. There has been a lot of speculation
about that. Value-added-I have in-
structed or directed the Secretary of the
Treasury, along with my Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers-can be considered as a
possible approach but only if we can find
a nonretrogressive formula.
Tax reform should not be used as a
cover for a tax increase. Value-added has
to be evaluated then under those circum-
stances.
One final point I will make is that as
we move in this area we have to realize
that we have had considerable tax reform
699
