Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 8 [292]
committees, one concerned with re-
view and appraisal of the progress
toward the goals of the Second UN
Development Decade, and the other
concerned with problems of science
and technology.
-The United Nations created the posi-
tion of Disaster Relief Coordinator
within the UN Secretariat to assist
countries stricken by disasters.
In addition to these favorable develop-
ments there were others that were disap-
pointing.
-The Republic of China, a member in
good standing for many years, was
deprived of representation by the
same resolution that gave representa-
tion to the People's Republic of
China. This action was extremely re-
grettable and was strongly opposed by
the United States.
-Despite determined efforts by the
United States and others, the war
between India and Pakistan demon-
strated again the severe limitations
on the organization's ability to carry
out its primary function, the main-
tenance of international peace and
security.
-No progress was made toward resolv-
ing the differences among UN mem-
bers on the organization and conduct
of peace-keeping missions.
-The General Assembly's effort to
rationalize its organization and pro-
cedures fell far short of our hopes.
-The United Nations made no great
progress toward resolving its difficult
financial problems.
During 1971 the United States Govern-
ment announced its intention to negotiate
a reduction in the rate of its UN assess-
ment to a level no higher than 25 percent.
This decision is in line with a recommen-
dation by the Commission for the Ob-
servance of the 25th Anniversary of the
United Nations, chaired by Ambassador
Henry Cabot Lodge, and is consonant
with our belief that an organization of al-
most universal membership should not be
overly dependent upon a single member
for its financial support.
This proposed reduction in our rate of
assessment does not affect our voluntary
contributions to various UN programs.
Indeed, the Lodge Commission recom-
mended increases of at least correspond-
ing size in voluntary contributions whose
size depends on each nation's judgment
of its own interests and capabilities.
These and many other topics are cov-
ered in the report. I commend to the Con-
gress this record of our participation in
the United Nations during 1971.
The White House,
September 8, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report en-
titled "U.S. Participation in the UN, Report
by the President to the Congress for the Year
1971" (Government Printing Office, 238 pp.).
292 Statement for the Jewish High Holy Days.
September 8, 1972
THE SPIRIT of self-examination and
moral rededication in which fellow citi-
zens of the Jewish Faith across the coun-
try observe the High Holy Days is one
from which all of us can draw courage
and inspiration. It is the spirit on which
861
