Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
anything about the environment, and so
forth and so on, that it is a rather hopeless
future.
I would simply raise this one question
in that respect. If you sit in Washington,
if
you
limit yourself to the group that we
in Washington generally talk to, and this
is no reflection on them, because we all
tend to be sort of victims of intellectual
incest there, what happens is that you get
the impression that everything is wrong
with America; that the majority of the
people of this country have lost faith in
themselves, faith in their country; they
no longer have the will to work, the will
to defend the country, the will to build a
great nation.
That is a point of view. That point of
view tends to be fed-and I say this, inci-
dentally, not in anger, and perhaps more
in sorrow-it tends to be fed by the tend-
ency of some in the media-not all, but
some in the media-constantly to em-
phasize a negative. I am speaking now
more of the national media, rather than
those who are out across the great heart-
land of America. But the tendency to
emphasize those negatives and to create
in the minds of the American people the
impression that this country, just before
its 200th birthday, has reached the point
where it has lost its sense of destiny; the
American people no longer have the will
to greatness which they once had.
I can only say that as I travel through
America I find a different story. Let me
point it out to you in a different way. I
was talking to an ambassador recently
from a country in Europe who had
recently been accredited to this country.
This was several months ago. This ambas-
sador told me that he had lived in Wash-
ington for a while, and then he had taken
a trip out through the country. He said,
"Mr. President, as I traveled through the
country"-he had been to Illinois; he had
been to California; he had also been to
Texas, as a matter of fact, to Florida, to
Georgia, and back to Washington-and
he said, "As I go out into the country I
see a different America than I see in
Washington, D.C." I believe that the
heart of America is still strong. I believe
that the character of America is still
strong. But I think now is the time when
we must stand up against the trend to-
ward permissiveness, the trend toward
weakness, the trend toward something for
nothing, and if we do that, this country
is going to regain its self-confidence.
I believe that is going to happen.
WAR CRITICS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
ask you this question: Mr. Moncrief 1
spoke my sentiments, and I think most of
the people in Texas or at least 99 percent
of them are in favor of what you are doing
in Vietnam, but why is it in the East you
get the newspapers, the students, and
Members of the Congress and the Senate
are complaining about what you are do-
ing, but they never mention what the
Communists and North Vietnamese are
doing by invading South Vietnam, and
they are killing thousands of people. They
seem to think that is right, and what we
are doing is wrong. But why don't they
ever mention that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that would be
a very excellent editorial for somebody to
write.
Let me, in all fairness, say this: I do not
question the patriotism of any critics of
ยน W. A. Moncrief, Sr., was an oilman and
businessman from Fort Worth, Tex.
563
