Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 28 [28]
27 Statement on the Death of Mahalia Jackson.
January 27, 1972
AMERICA and the world, black people
and all people, today mourn the passing
of Mahalia Jackson. She was a noble
woman, an artist without peer, a magnetic
ambassador of goodwill for the United
States in other lands, an exemplary servant
of her God. All her years she poured out
her soul in song and her heart in service
to her people. Millions of ears will miss the
sound of that great rich voice "making a
joyful noise unto the Lord," as she liked
to call her work-yet her life story itself
sings the Gospel message of freedom, and
will not cease to do so.
NOTE: Mahalia Jackson, 60, died after a pro-
longed illness at the Little Company of Mary
Hospital in Evergreen Park outside of Chicago,
Ill.
Sammy Davis, Jr., represented the President
at the funeral in Chicago on February 1, 1972
28 Statement on Establishing the Office for Drug
Abuse Law Enforcement. January 28, 1972
99
DRUG abuse-as I said 7 months ago-
is America's "public enemy number one."
It is an all-pervasive and yet an elusive
enemy. I am convinced that the only
effective way to fight this menace is by
attacking it on many fronts-through a
balanced, comprehensive strategy.
For the past 3 years, this Administra-
tion has been working to carry out such a
strategy. We have moved to eliminate
dangerous drugs at their source, to cut
their international flow, to stop them from
entering our country, and to intercept
them after they do. We have been educa-
ting our people to understand the drug
problem more completely. We have ex-
panded significantly our efforts to prevent
drug addiction and to treat and rehabili-
tate those who have become drug-
dependent.
A NEW INITIATIVE
Today our balanced, comprehensive
attack on drug abuse moves forward in yet
another critical area as we institute a
major new program to drive drug traf-
fickers and drug pushers off the streets of
America.
I have signed today an Executive order
[11641] establishing a new Office for Drug
Abuse Law Enforcement in the Depart-
ment of Justice. This Office will marshal
a wide range of government resources—
including new authorities granted in the
Organized Crime Control Act of 1970-
in a concentrated assault on the street-
level heroin pusher. Working through nine
regional offices, our new program will use
special grand juries to gather extensive
new information concerning drug traf-
fickers and will pool this intelligence for
use by Federal, State, and local law en-
forcement agencies. It will draw on the
Department of Justice and the Depart-
ment of the Treasury to assist State and
local agencies in detecting, arresting, and
prosecuting heroin traffickers.
I am pleased to announce that the new
Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement
will be headed by Myles J. Ambrose, who
has been serving as our Commissioner of
115
