Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 5 [338]
|
Now that is fiscally wrong, morally
wrong, and certainly tax wrong. We must
begin by lifting that burden from those
people who have worked all their lives, are
now retired on what is basically an inade-
quate amount, and are paying a third of
their taxes [incomes] for property taxes to
send, basically, children to school.
I have discussed this matter not only
with Mr. Merriam, but Mr. Shultz and I
have had, as you have noted, a number of
meetings on this in the past few weeks. We
hope to have a plan which we can present
at an early date. I cannot indicate to you
what that date will be, but I will say this:
One, we are going to propose to the next
Congress a plan that will relieve-that
will start down the road of reducing the
burden of property taxes.
The first priority will be to reduce the
burden of property taxes on the elderly;
and second, whatever step we take, one
condition is, it must not require any in-
crease in other taxes. We think we have
found a formula to do that.
THE WATERGATE CASE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, don't you think
that your Administration and the public
would be served considerably and that the
men under indictment would be treated
better, if you people would come through
and make a clean breast about what you
were trying to get done at the Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. One thing that has
always puzzled me about it is why anybody
would have tried to get anything out of
the Watergate. But be that as it may, that
decision having been made at lower levels,
with which I had no knowledge, and, as
I pointed out—————
Q. But, surely you know now, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Just a minute. I cer-
tainly feel that under the circumstances
that we have got to look at what has
happened and to put the matter into
perspective.
Now when we talk about a clean breast,
let's look at what has happened. The FBI
assigned 133 agents to this investigation.
It followed out 1,800 leads. It conducted
1,500 interviews.
Incidentally, I conducted the investiga-
tion of the Hiss case. I know that is a very
unpopular subject to raise in some quar-
ters, but I conducted it. It was successful.
The FBI did a magnificent job, but that
investigation, involving the security of this
country, was basically a Sunday school
exercise compared to the amount of effort
that was put into this.
I agreed with the amount of effort that
was put into it. I wanted every lead car-
ried out to the end because I wanted to be
sure that no member of the White House
Staff and no man or woman in a position
of major responsibility in the Committee
for the Re-Election had anything to do
with this kind of reprehensible activity.
Now, the grand jury has handed down
indictments. It has indicted incidentally
two who were with the Committee for
the Re-Election and one who refused to
cooperate and another who was appre-
hended. Under these circumstances, the
grand jury now having acted, it is now
time to have the judicial process go for-
ward and for the evidence to be pre-
sented.
I would say finally with regard to com-
menting on any of those who have been
indicted, with regard to saying anything
about the judicial process, I am going to
follow the good advice, which I appreci-
ate, of the members of the press corps,
957
