Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 28 [29]
table Character I Ever Met," the Digest
made two great mistakes. The Digest
never had Lila Wallace in it or DeWitt
Wallace, and they both should have been
in it.
Now Hobart Lewis ยน is the only one who
could rectify that mistake, but Wally
wouldn't let him do it if he tried.
So, tonight in the White House, in this
room, in this company, before those who
are friends of the Wallaces, friends of the
Digest, contributors to it, readers of it, I,
speaking for all of the United States and
for readers of the Digest around the world,
would like to rectify that error, one of the
few the Digest has made. And if Mrs.
Nixon would escort our two honored
guests here, I will rectify it properly
tonight.
The highest honor that can be given to
a civilian in this country is the Medal of
Freedom and it is one of those few discre-
tionary powers that the United States
President has in terms of honors, to deter-
mine who receives the Medal of Freedom.
I have not often exercised that power and
I think I, in this instance, have made a
selection that millions of Americans and
millions around the world will applaud.
Tonight, I first want to present a Medal
of Freedom to DeWitt Wallace. The cita-
tion reads as follows:
"To DeWitt Wallace: The co-founder
with Lila Acheson Wallace of The Read-
er's Digest and partner in its direction for
half a century, he has made a towering
contribution to that freedom of the mind
from which spring all our other liberties.
This magazine has become a monthly uni-
versity in print, teaching 100 million
readers worldwide the wonder of common
1 President and editor-in-chief of the Reader's
Digest.
life and the scope of man's potential. In
DeWitt Wallace, America has a son to be
deeply proud of-one whose lifework
shows American enterprise at its creative
best, and the American ethic in its fullest
flower."
I used the word partner deliberately in
that citation, because of all the great busi-
ness enterprises and publishing enterprises
in this country, none has been a partner-
ship from the beginning and throughout
its existence more than the Reader's
Digest. It began that way, it remains that
way, and this wonderful partnership in
their home, that some of us have had the
privilege of visiting, and in this publica-
tion, is an example for all Americans and
people around the world.
So the second citation reads:
"To Lila Acheson Wallace: Co-founder
with DeWitt Wallace of The Reader's
Digest half a century ago and partner with
him in its direction ever since, Lila Wal-
lace has helped make all America better
read. Her vision and drive have given
wings to the workhorse printed word,
fashioning a Pegasus of a magazine that
carries American insights to 100 million
readers worldwide. Her gracious touch at
Pleasantville has shown the way to in-
fusing industrial settings with culture and
the joy of work."
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:48 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
On the same day, the White House released a
fact sheet on the Presidential Medal of
Freedom.
Following the President's remarks, Mr. Wal-
lace responded as follows:
I am absolutely flabbergasted. I am sure Lila
is, too. We rather suspected some shenanigans
might be going on, but I thought at most it
might be a carving set or something of that
sort.
119
