Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [315]
We come now to the question of our
economic strength. Without that we
couldn't, of course, have the military
strength that we need. And as far as our
economic strength is concerned, we have
to realize where it comes from. What has
made America the economic wonder of
the world is not what government did for
people, but what people did for them-
selves, and that is the way we have to
build this country in the future.
And that is why, even though it might
be politically, shall we say, somewhat ap-
pealing in some quarters to call for a re-
distribution of income, to see that those
who do not work are rewarded more than
those who do, I say that it is vital for us
to remember that in this country, what
brought us where we are is the fact that
we have always recognized that an in-
dividual who works will receive what he
is entitled to, that his government will not
take more than is necessary. But above
everything else, we must always remem-
ber that once any government goes to the
point that its taxes become so high that
an individual is working more for the gov-
ernment than he is working for himself,
then we have gone too far. We must not
go that far in the United States.
I spoke about character. I am going
to use an example, perhaps an example
right here from this State of Texas to
prove it.
As some of you know, I stopped in
Laredo earlier today, and then we paid a
visit to a little high school, the Rio Grande
High School, in the valley between here
and Laredo. Many of those from the na-
tional press who were following us prob-
ably wondered, why Rio Grande High
School?
It is a very small high school, only a
thousand students. It is in a district which
is so hopelessly Democratic that they don't
even have a Republican running for Con-
gress this year. [Laughter] It is a district,
incidentally, in which 80 percent of those
who live in it are of Mexican background,
and generally speaking Republican can-
didates, except for John Connally, have
not done very well in that particular dis-
trict. [Laughter]
So the question is, why? Why stop at
Rio Grande? Let me tell you why. Be-
cause Rio Grande, that little high school
and its students, had a message for me
and a message for America in April of
1971.
There are literally thousands of classes
from high schools who come to Washing-
ton in the spring. It is a wonderful thing
to do. And they see the cherry blossoms
and they go to the Capitol and they have
tours of the White House and they call
on their Congressmen and the Senators
and the rest.
Of course, the President of the United
States can see very, very few of them, be-
cause his schedule will not permit. One
day I got a call from Senator Tower. He
told me about a group from Rio Grande
High School. He said they were going to
be down there and he understood they
might even have an opportunity to visit
the Rose Garden.
I said, "Well, John, how can I make
an exception and see this group and not
some others?" Then he told me about
it. This is the story.
This is a poor district. As a matter of
fact, some describe it in terms of income
as the poorest district in Texas. It may not
be. It is irrelevant. It at least is not a rich
district. But as far as the students from
that district are concerned, they were the
greatest. Let me tell you what happened:
They wanted to come to Washington.
897
