[375] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
in Kentucky but throughout these States
in the year 1968 in this Mideastern region.
I have known him as Governor of this
State when he has worked so hard with
us in Washington, and he has always
found that door of the Oval Office open
then, and he will in the future, just as any
from Kentucky will.
Also, in mentioning him may I say, too,
that I would not want to overlook the
splendid representation in the House of
Representatives-Tim Lee Carter, your
Congressman, who is here.
Having spoken of that tradition, it
seems to me tonight that before this splen-
did audience here in the heartland of
Kentucky, in the heartland of America,
you would appreciate my talking about
the future of America. I could talk about
our record. I am proud of it. We haven't
accomplished everything that we would
have wanted. I don't suppose any Presi-
dent ever can or will. All we do is to try
to do the best we can, but we have made
great progress in many fields.
I could talk about the past. I could
talk also simply of the differences that I
have with those of the opposition. But as
we enter the closing days of the cam-
paign, I think what the American people
really want to hear from anyone who
aspires to the office of the Presidency is
what his vision is of the future.
What about those next 4 years? What
do we plan? What will it mean to all of
us-to the older people, to the younger
people? And speaking of the younger peo-
ple, let me just say an interesting thing. I
noted that in Kentucky 18-year-olds have
had the vote since the year 1954. In 1956,
1960, 1968, as you know, I have been on
the ticket, on the ballot in Kentucky. I
have always come in, or at least carried it.
And I remember when the 18-year-old
vote was passed in the Congress of the
United States there were those that said
that was going to be a very great blow to
us in the year 1972.
Well, one thing this election demon-
strates, when the 18-year-olds had the
vote in Kentucky, we won it. When the
18-year-olds have the vote in the Nation,
we are going to win the Nation.
Now, let me turn, if I may, quickly,
to that future, their future, our future, the
future of this Nation, what the next 4
years can mean on the great issues that
cut across State lines and regional lines
and racial lines and religious lines, on
the great issues that are American, not
partisan.
Let us think for a few moments not
about our partisan affiliation, our back-
grounds, but simply that we are all very
proud to be Americans tonight, and as
we think of being Americans, what are
the hopes of America in these next 4
years?
Let me first address myself to the
subject that Louie Nunn so eloquently has
touched upon, the subject of peace. When
we speak of peace, I know the immediate
thought that comes through our minds,
and it is one that has been coming through
our minds for many years, through the
years that America has been engaged in
the longest war in its history. It is a war
that began long before I came into office
in 1969. It is one that we have wound
down. It is one which, as you know from
reading your newspapers this afternoon
and listening to the television and radio,
in which there has been a significant
breakthrough in the peace negotiations.
Let me say to you tonight that on
May 8, when I made the difficult decision
1036
