Richard Nixon, 1972
[370]
Oct. 24
369 Statement on the Death of Jackie Robinson.
October 24, 1972
I AM deeply saddened by the death of
Jackie Robinson. His courage, his sense
of brotherhood, and his brilliance on the
playing field brought a new human di-
mension not only to the game of baseball
but to every area of American life where
black and white people work side by side.
This Nation to which he gave so much.
in his lifetime will miss Jackie Robinson,
but his example will continue to inspire
us for years to come.
Mrs. Nixon joins me in sending our
deepest sympathies and condolences to
the Robinson family.
NOTE: Mr. Robinson, 53, died of a heart at-
tack at Stamford Hospital, Stamford, Conn.
He was an infielder with the Brooklyn
Dodgers professional baseball team 1947-56,
and the first black baseball player in the major
leagues.
Robert H. Finch, Counsellor to the Presi-
dent, represented the President at the funeral
services in New York City on October 27,
1972.
370 Remarks on Signing Veterans Benefits Legislation.
October 24, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
Won't all of you be seated, at least those
who have places to sit?
We are gathered here today for the
purpose of signing two veterans benefit
bills. These bills deal with Vietnam vet-
erans primarily-one, of course, exclu-
sively with Vietnam veterans because it
provides for an increase in the amounts
for educational benefits for Vietnam
veterans.
I was looking over some of the statistics
and found that in 1969 there were only
900,000 Vietnam veterans who had taken
advantage of the educational opportuni-
ties of the GI bill as it applied to Vietnam
veterans. Now there are 2 million. We
hope there will be more, because this is
an opportunity that those who were vet-
erans of World War II and Korea found
was enormously important to the young
men and the young women in our armed
services.
The increase in benefits is one that
is due. It is one that will allow any veteran
who desires to take training or educa-
tion-it allows him to take that training
and education, not with affluence, parti-
cularly, because with the way costs are,
I know that you are still going to have
to watch your budgets pretty closely, but
it will allow you to get that education
and that training so essential to get the
jobs that you will later want.
The other bill deals with VA hospitals,
and will provide for better care for our
veterans and their dependents who may
use those hospital facilities in the future.
In signing these two bills, I want to
say just a word, too, to the representatives
of the veterans organizations who are here
and to the Vietnam veterans who sur-
round me on either side. Incidentally, two
of the Vietnam veterans are women, the
rest, of course, are men-which is an indi-
cation of how both women and men have
1023
