Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 23 [266]
tonight, in these times when there is so
much of a tendency to run down those
who have served America in the past and
who serve it today, let us give those who
serve in our Armed Forces and those who
have served in Vietnam the honor and
the respect that they deserve and that
they have earned.
Finally, in this connection, let one thing
be clearly understood in this election cam-
paign: The American people will not
tolerate any attempt by our enemies to
interfere in the cherished right of the
American voter to make his own decision
with regard to what is best for America
without outside intervention.
Now it is understandable that Vietnam
has been a major concern in foreign pol-
icy. But we have not allowed the war in
Vietnam to paralyze our capacity to
initiate historic new policies to construct
a lasting and just peace in the world.
When the history of this period is writ-
ten, I believe it will be recorded that our
most significant contributions to peace re-
sulted from our trips to Peking and to
Moscow.
The dialogue that we have begun with
the People's Republic of China has re-
duced the danger of war and has increased
the chance for peaceful cooperation be-
tween two great peoples.
Within the space of 4 years in our rela-
tions with the Soviet Union, we have
moved from confrontation to negotiation,
and then to cooperation in the interest of
peace.
We have taken the first step in limiting
the nuclear arms race.
We have laid the foundation for fur-
ther limitations on nuclear weapons and
eventually of reducing the armaments in
the nuclear area.
We can thereby not only reduce the
enormous cost of arms for both our coun-
tries, but we can increase the chances for
peace.
More than on any other single issue, I
ask
you, my fellow Americans, to give us
the chance to continue these great initia-
tives that can contribute so much to the
future of peace in the world.
It can truly be said that as a result of
our initiatives, the danger of war is less
today than it was; the chances for peace
are greater.
But a note of warning needs to be
sounded. We cannot be complacent. Our
opponents have proposed massive cuts in
our defense budget which would have the
inevitable effect of making the United
States the second strongest nation in the
world.
For the United States unilaterally to
reduce its strength with the naive hope
that other nations would do likewise would
increase the danger of war in the world.
It would completely remove any incen-
tive of other nations to agree to a mutual
limitation or reduction of arms.
The promising initiatives we have un-
dertaken to limit arms would be destroyed.
The security of the United States and
all the nations in the world who depend
upon our friendship and support would be
threatened.
Let's look at the record on defense ex-
penditures. We have cut spending in our
Administration. It now takes the lowest
percentage of our national product in 20
years. We should not spend more on
defense than we need. But we must never
spend less than we need.
What we must understand is, spending
what we need on defense will cost us
money. Spending less than we need could
cost us our lives or our freedom.
So tonight, my fellow Americans, I say,
793
