Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
mitment to this important initiative on
other occasions and today I affirm it once
again. Elimination of the premium pay-
ment alone would augment the annual
income of the elderly by approximately
$1.5 billion, the equivalent, on the aver-
age, of almost a 4 percent increase in social
security for persons 65 and over. I hope
the Congress will delay no longer in ap-
proving this important proposal.
Our concern with health costs for older
Americans provides additional reasons for
the prompt approval of H.R. 1. Under
that bill:
--Provision is made for extending Med-
icare to many of the disabled (about 60
percent of whom are age 55 and over)
who are drawing social security benefits
and who have had to give up work before
reaching regular retirement age;
-Medicare beneficiaries would have
the opportunity to enroll in Health
Maintenance Organizations-organiza-
tions which I strongly endorsed in my spe-
cial message on health policy because of
my conviction that they help to prevent
serious illness and also help to make the
delivery of health care more efficient;
-Provision is made for removing the
uncertainties relative to coverage under
Medicare when a person needs to use ex-
tended care facilities after hospitalization.
In my recent message to Congress on
health policy, I indicated a number of
other measures which will help reduce the
cost of health care. I spoke, for example,
of the special attention we have been giv-
ing under Phase II of our New Economic
Policy to the problem of sky-rocketing
health costs, through the special Health
Services Industry Committee of the Cost
of Living Council. I indicated that a
number of cost control features would be
introduced into the Medicare and Medic-
aid reimbursement processes-with the
overall effect of reducing health costs. I
have also called for new research efforts
in fields such as heart disease, cancer, and
accident prevention-initiatives which
also promise to reduce health problems-
and health bills-for older persons.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES: INFLATION
Inadequate retirement incomes are
strained even further when inflation
forces older persons to stretch them to
meet rising costs. Because older persons
are uniquely dependent on relatively fixed
incomes, they are uniquely victimized by
the ravages of inflation. While my pro-
posals for making social security benefits
inflation-proof will provide significant
help in defending the elderly against this
menace, it is also important that we take
on this enemy directly-that we curb in-
flationary pressures.
This goal has been a central one of this
Administration. When I came to office
this country was suffering from a massive
wave of price inflation-one which had
resulted in large measure from the meth-
ods chosen to finance the Vietnam War.
The problem of reversing this wave by
conventional methods was a more stub-
born problem, frankly, than I expected it
to be when I took office. By the summer
of 1971, it became clear that additional
tools were needed if inflation was to be
quickly and responsibly controlled. Ac-
cordingly, I announced last August a
New Economic Policy-one which has
received the strong support of the Con-
gress and the American people.
I have been especially gratified that
older Americans-whose stake in the bat-
tle against inflation is so high-have
rallied to support this new economic pro-
471
