[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
were not exceeded, or that withdrawn
forces were not being covertly brought
back into the zone of reductions, and to
provide confidence in the stability of the
entire process by enhancing warning of
any buildup of forces.
Obviously, a large number of questions
needed detailed evaluation before con-
crete proposals could be developed. In
close consultation with our allies, we
initiated a systematic study. Our aim was
to clarify common objectives within the
Alliance in preparation for eventual nego-
tiations with the other side.
In the first phase of our analysis we ex-
amined each individual element of force
reductions: the forces of each nation, the
various weapons systems, the variants in
geographical areas, the constraints on re-
duced forces, and the requirements for
verifying different increments of reduc-
tions of both national and foreign forces.
Subsequent phases have become more
detailed and specific. We have used the
analyses of the individual elements of re-
ductions to develop illustrative models of
agreements that reflect different con-
cepts. Thus, two broad approaches to re-
ductions have been examined:
-Proportionately equal ones applying
the same percentage of reductions to
both sides.
-Asymmetrical ones in which reduc-
tions would be made in differing
amounts in various categories.
Having established a conceptual ap-
proach, we proceeded to evaluate the
existing military balance in Central Eu-
rope. We then compared it with various
alternatives to determine the military im-
plications of a new balance of forces re-
sulting from reductions. These analyses
included:
-An examination of the changing ratio
of forces as general mobilization
proceeded.
-A determination of requirements to
insure verification of an agreement.
-Development of a general sequence
for negotiation. In this way the major
effects were highlighted and the
merits of each model could be com-
pared with greater precision.
Certain tentative findings have
emerged at this stage of preparations:
-Small reductions, on the order of ten
percent or less, cannot be confidently
verified to assure that reductions have
actually taken place, especially those
forces demobilized within national
territories.
-Larger reductions can be verified,
provided they are made under cer-
tain conditions and accompanied by
measures to ensure continuing com-
pliance.
-The USSR can mobilize and rein-
force its forces in Central Europe
much more rapidly than NATO.
Therefore, an agreement to reduce
forces simply on an equal percentage
basis is inherently unfavorable to
NATO, and the larger the percent-
age, the greater the inequity.
The results of our preliminary work
have been furnished to NATO. Along
with Alliance studies, it has facilitated
internal NATO discussion on the direc-
tion of further analysis. We and our allies
concluded last year that preparations had
advanced to a point where it would be
advantageous to discuss certain prelimi-
nary principles with the USSR. An ex-
ploratory mission, which would be led by
former Secretary General of NATO
Manlio G. Brosio, was proposed. The
USSR, however, has not yet accepted this
proposal.
322
