[330] Sept. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
inflationary treadmill of the 1960's, regis-
tering a gain of more than 4 percent in the
past year alone. This means $200 in new
purchasing power for the average wage
earner-the equivalent of two extra
weekly paychecks in a year.
Since 1969, we have succeeded in mov-
ing the U.S. economy from a wartime to
a peacetime basis with a minimum of dis-
ruption. The rate of unemployment, while
still too high, continues to move down-
ward.
In California, for example, unemploy-
ment has declined statewide from 7.1 per-
cent in August 1971, to 5.8 percent in
August 1972. Here in Los Angeles, the
progress against unemployment has been
even more marked-from 6.9 percent in
August 1971, to 5.5 percent in August
1972. This has meant an increase of
63,000 jobs in Los Angeles alone in one
year. And the job situation in Los Angeles
should continue to grow stronger, pro-
vided that the Nation continues on the
path of sound economic policies, with our
defense maintained at realistic and effec-
tive levels.
California has become one of the world's
great research centers. Future economic
growth in this country, with more and
better jobs, requires that the United
States strengthen its research and tech-
nological capacities. This is one reason
why this Administration's budgets in the
past 3 years have greatly increased the
allocation of Federal funds to research
and development. My budget for fiscal
year 1973, for example, recommended an
increase of more than $1 billion for re-
search and development in the Depart-
ment of Defense budget alone. The Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion and the Atomic Energy Commission
have intensified their efforts to utilize the
technological advancements developed
under their programs. Overall, there has
been a 65-percent increase since 1969 in.
R & D investment for all purposes other
than defense and space. These obligations
amount to $5.4 billion in 1973.
The new economic policy which I ini-
tiated in August 1971 has played a role in
the achievement of America's heartening
economic resurgence.
But the real driving force has been the
talents and the energies of America's
workers-the millions who seek nothing
more from their Government than a
favorable economic climate for their job
skills, unmatched now or at any other time
by any other society.
These are the people who know that
the economic greatness of America was
built by the incentives and rewards of
work, and who believe that it is a con-
tinued dedication to work and earnings
that will keep America great.
The goal of my Administration is not
more welfare, but more work-more
dignity, more self-respect, more opportu-
nity. We have fought for 3 years to reform
the welfare mess without help from those
who now seem to point to it with confused
criticism.
We say the Government should set
policies which tax the working man and
woman at a minimum, protect their pur-
chasing power at a maximum, and ensure
job access for everyone. Only then can
every American raise his family's living
standard to the highest point his skills and
dedication will permit.
NOTE: The statement was released at Los
Angeles, Calif.
940
