[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Agriculture and of Health, Education, and
Welfare to encourage the development of
training and certification programs at ap-
propriate academic institutions in order to
provide the large number of crop protec-
tion specialists that will be needed as in-
tegrated pest management becomes more
fully utilized.
-I have authorized the Department of
Agriculture to expand its crop field scout
demonstration program to cover nearly
four million acres under agricultural pro-
duction by the upcoming growing season.
Through this program many unneces-
sary pesticide applications can be elimi-
nated, since the scouts will be used to
determine when pesticide applications are
actually needed.
In my message on the environment last
February, I proposed a comprehensive
revision of our pesticide control laws-a
revision which still awaits final congres-
sional action. Also essential to a sound
national pesticide policy are measures to
ensure that agricultural workers are pro-
tected from adverse exposures to these
chemicals.
-I am directing the Departments of
Labor and Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to develop standards under the Occu-
pational Safety and Health Act to protect
such workers from pesticide poisoning.
NOISE CONTROL RESEARCH
Scientific findings increasingly confirm
what few urban dwellers or industrial
workers need to be told-that excessive
noise can constitute a significant threat to
human well-being. The Congress already
has before it a comprehensive noise con-
trol bill, which I proposed a year ago. A
quieter environment cannot simply be
legislated into being. We shall also need to
develop better methods to achieve our
goal.
-I have requested in my 1973 budget
a $23 million increase in research and
development funds for reducing noise
from airplanes. I have also requested new
funds for research and development for
reducing street traffic noise.
RESEARCH ON AIR POLLUTION EFFECTS
AND MEASUREMENT
Our pollution control efforts are based
largely on the establishment of enforce-
able standards of environmental quality.
Initial standards have often been based on
incomplete knowledge because the neces-
sary information has not been available.
Also, the lack of adequate instruments to
measure pollution and of models of how
pollutants are dispersed has made it dif-
ficult to know exactly how much pollution
must be controlled in a particular area.
We need added research and development
to make more precise judgments of what
standards should be set and how we can
most practically achieve our goals.
-I have requested in my 1973 budget
an additional $12 million to increase re-
search on the health effects of air pollu-
tion, on regional air pollution modeling,
and on improved pollution instrumenta-
tion and measurement.
IMPROVING LAND USE
In recent years we have come to view
our land as a limited and irreplaceable
resource. No longer do we imagine that
there will always be more of it over the
horizon-more woodlands and shorelands
and wetlands-if we neglect or overde-
velop the land in view. A new maturity is
giving rise to a land ethic which recog-
180
