Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
vided Israel with means to cope with
this situation. The Soviets since that
time have introduced into Egypt
SA-6 mobile surface-to-air missiles
and the FOXBAT and other ad-
vanced MIG aircraft. Most recently
they have reintroduced TU-16
bombers equipped with long-range
air-to-surface missiles. Much of this
equipment was operated and de-
fended exclusively by Soviets.
The Soviet Union has an interest in
avoiding major conflict in the Middle
East. We hope the Soviet Union under-
stands that it can serve this interest best
by restraint in arms supply, refraining
from the use of this dispute to enhance its
own military position, and encouraging
the negotiation of a peace.
ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE
The urgent necessity, of course, is to
find a way to an Arab-Israeli settlement.
-At a minimum, the ceasefire must be
maintained if the climate for negotia-
tions is to be preserved. Progress in
negotiations, in turn, would provide
valuable additional incentive for
choosing political instead of military
solutions.
-The military balance must not be
allowed to tempt one side to seek an
easy victory or panic the other side
into a move of desperation. An end
to the arms race, of course, would be
the best hope for a stable balance over
the longer term.
-Maintaining the military balance,
however, is not by itself a policy
which can bring peace. The search
for an overall Arab-Israeli settlement
will continue under Ambassador
Jarring's auspices. Our efforts to help
the parties achieve an interim agree-
ment will also continue, as long as
the parties wish. The interim ap-
proach, if it is to succeed, must find a
way to make progress on practical
and partial aspects of the situation
without raising all the contentious
issues that obstruct a comprehensive
solution.
-The U.S. and the USSR can con-
tribute to the process of settlement by
encouraging Arabs and Israelis to
begin serious negotiation The great
powers also have a responsibility to
enhance, not undermine, the basic
conditions of stability in the area.
Injecting the global strategic rivalry
into the region is incompatible with
Middle East peace and with detente
in U.S.-Soviet relations.
Peace would free the energies and re-
sources of the Middle East for the more
fruitful enterprises of economic and social
development. The United States looks
hopefully toward a new era of construc-
tive and mutually beneficial relations with
all the nations and people of the area.
The realization of these hopes-theirs and
ours-depends on the achievement of
peace.
SOUTH ASIA
"I shall never forget the conversation
I had with Prime Minister Nehru
when I was Vice President. On that trip
around the world of 73 days, in 20 coun-
tries, I asked every head of government
and state what he wanted most for his
country. Some said roads; others said
industrial development; others said better
agricultural development; others said edu-
cation. Prime Minister Nehru did not
295
