[402] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I know, too, that Oklahoma is a team
State. You produce great teams. You be-
lieve in teamwork. You don't like to have
one man cancel out another man's vote.
Let me say that during the years that I
have been President, I have had the op-
portunity to work with many Governors.
Of all the 50 Governors, in this State one
of my closest friends, but more impor-
tant, one of the ablest men that I have met
in terms of knowing the problems of his
State, of knowing the problems of this
Nation, is Dewey Bartlett, and I think
that Bartlett and Bellmon would just
make a great team in the United States
Senate.
You know, another thought occurs to
me. When they call that roll in the Senate,
they do it alphabetically, and when you
have those two "B's" high up on the roll
it might affect a few more votes right
down that way, so we want them both.
Over in the House of Representatives,
you, of course, have had fine representa-
tion from this State. I would not want to
come here, even though he is not a candi-
date this year, without paying the ap-
preciation of the Nation to Page Belcher
for the great service he has rendered as
a Congressman, and to tell you that I, of
course, support all of our splendid candi-
dates for Congress. I will not have the
time to mention them all individually, but
particularly here in Tulsa the man who
was your former mayor, the man who has
all of the qualifications to step into those
big shoes of Page Belcher, Jim Hewgley
for the United States Congress.
Now, with that, if you would permit
me, I would like to say a few words for
myself, not really in that sense, and not
just for a party. What I want to say to
you now is that next Tuesday we have an
election which is very different from most
elections in this country. Usually an elec-
tion is just a contest between two men,
each of whom aspires to a high office,
with somewhat different views, but some
of the same views. Usually a contest for
an election involves a contest between
two parties; one party nominates one man
and the other party nominates another
man.
Let me tell you, this year what counts
is not the man, and not the personality
and not the party; what we need is what
is best for America; Democrats, Republi-
cans all joining together for what is best
for America.
I think, for example, of those next 4
years, and naturally I think of the last
4 years and what I want and what you
want for those 4 years. I was so delighted
to see all these wonderful young people,
most of them will not remember what I
said here. They will only remember, per-
haps, that they were here. But what we
say here and what we do in these next 4
years will determine their futures and
your future. That is what this is all about.
In that connection, for example, as I
said on television last night, I want them
to have the opportunity and to have some-
thing we haven't had since President
Eisenhower was President, and that means
prosperity without war and without in-
flation. I want them to have opportu-
nity-opportunity to go as high as their
abilities will take them, and we have
moved in that direction in fields of educa-
tion and health and environment over
these past 4 years.
I want them also, all of our younger
generation and the older generation, to
really have a deep feeling of love and re-
spect for this country. Let me say, I have
I 102
