Richard Nixon, 1972
May 31 [183]
and especially and fortunately on behalf of the
future generation, all the best in the world
for yourself, Mrs. Nixon, and the very good
people of America, which I am sure the
tremendous majority are sound, reasonable,
good-hearted, humanitarian people. God be
with you.
Would you please raise your glass with me to
drink to the health of the President of the
United States and Mrs. Nixon.
183 Joint Communique Following Discussions With the
Shah of Iran. May 31, 1972
AT THE invitation of His Imperial
Majesty the Shahanshah Arya Mehr and
Her Imperial Majesty the Shahbanou
of Iran, the President of the United States
of America and Mrs. Richard Nixon paid
an official visit to Iran from May 30 to
May 31, 1972. The President and Mrs.
Nixon were received with exceptional
friendliness and warmth by Their Im-
perial Majesties and by the Government
and people of Iran.
During his visit the President held dis-
cussions with His Imperial Majesty the
Shahanshah in a warm and cordial at-
mosphere, reflecting the close and friendly
relations that exist between the two
countries.
The President and His Imperial Maj-
esty discussed recent developments on the
international scene. The President told
His Imperial Majesty of his visits to Mos-
cow and Peking and of his efforts to re-
duce East-West tensions and restore peace
and stability to Southeast Asia. They held
the view that the conflict in Indochina
should be settled through negotiations and
that the Geneva agreements could serve
as a basis for resolving problems among
the states in the area and for guaranteeing
their right of self-determination without
any outside interference.
The President and His Imperial Maj-
esty also discussed developments in the
Middle East. They were gratified that a
cease-fire continues to be observed but
expressed their concern over the serious
situation existing in the Middle East and
reaffirmed their support for a peaceful
settlement in accordance with Security
Council Resolution 242.
The President and His Imperial Maj-
esty agreed that the security and stability
of the Persian Gulf is of vital importance
to the littoral States. Both were of the
view that the littoral States bore the pri-
mary responsibility for the security of the
Persian Gulf.
His Imperial Majesty reaffirmed Iran's
determination to bear its share of this
responsibility.
The President and His Imperial Maj-
esty also agreed that the economic devel-
opment and welfare of the bordering
States of the Persian Gulf are of impor-
tance to the stability of the region. Iran
declared itself ready and willing to coop-
erate with its neighbors in fostering an
atmosphere in which stability and progress
can flourish.
The President and His Imperial Maj-
esty voiced the hope that Pakistan and
India would find ways to reach a just and
honorable settlement of the existing issues.
They noted with satisfaction the initiative
taken by both countries for meetings
which hold the promise through further
talks of progress toward a peaceful settle-
ment in South Asia built on lasting rela-
tionships of friendship and mutual respect.
The President expressed his admiration
651
