Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 23 [266]
make this pledge to Sammy. I want to
make it to everybody here, whether you
happen to be black or white, or young or
old, and all of those who are listening. I
believe in the American dream. Sammy
Davis believes in it. We believe in it be-
cause we have seen it come true in our
own lives.
But I can assure you, my friends, that
the American dream can't be fully real-
ized until every person in this country has
an equal chance to see it come true in
his life.
Today I pledge to you we have worked
toward that goal over the past 4 years,
we are going to work toward it over the
next 4 years. And I want you to know that
we are grateful for the celebrities who
have stuck their necks out-stuck their
necks out, taken the chance, as they have,
that they might lose some support, because
they realize it is important to get into a
campaign that affects their future and the
future of their country and the future of
their children.
Now, I would like to just close on one
note about you. This is your first election
campaign. It will not be your last. I know
that many of you will go into public serv-
ice. I hope all of you will continue to par-
ticipate in politics.
into
As you go along, some of you will go
into business. Some of you may go
show business. Some of you may go into
some other kind of activity where some-
body is going to come up to you one
election year and say, "Stay out of the
campaign because you might risk some
money, you might risk some customers or
clients or whatever the case might be."
And I just want to urge you, don't ever
do that, because what you do for America
is more important than anything you do
for yourself. That is what really counts.
I want all of you, the young voters of
America listening here and those who
might be listening on television now, sim-
ply to know this: I have been trying to
work for your future. We have had some
disappointments, but we have had some
successes, and I am going to talk about
both tomorrow as I make the acceptance
speech.
But should the opportunity come to
serve 4 more years, I am not going to be
resting on what we have done in the
past. I am going to be thinking of these
wonderful young faces I see out here,
your enthusiasm, your idealism, your hard
work. This is your first vote, and years
from now I just hope you can all look back
and say it was one of your best votes.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:23 p.m. in
the Miami Marine Stadium. He spoke without
referring to notes.
Pam Powell was national chairman of Young
Voters for the President, and Sammy Davis,
Jr., was master of ceremonies for the entertain-
ment portion of the rally.
266 Remarks on Accepting the Presidential Nomination
of the Republican National Convention.
August 23, 1972
Mr. Chairman, delegates to this conven-
tion, my fellow Americans:
Four years ago, standing in this very
place, I proudly accepted your nomination
for President of the United States.
With your help and with the votes of
787
