Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 2 [74]
or other
other comprehensive health care
facilities.
These latter three revisions are aimed
at minimizing inefficient institutional care
and encouraging more effective modes of
treatment.
RESEARCH AND PREVENTION PROGRAMS
My overall health program encom-
passes actions on three levels: 1) improv-
ing protection against health care costs;
2) improving the health care system it-
self; and 3) working creatively on re-
search and prevention efforts, to eradicate
health menaces and to hold down the
incidence of illnesses.
A truly effective national health strategy
requires that a significant share of Federal
research funds be concentrated on major
health threats, particularly when research
advances indicate the possibility of break-
through progress.
Potentially high payoff health research
and prevention programs include:
HEART DISEASE
If current rates of incidence continue,
some 12 million Americans will suffer
heart attacks in the next 10 years.
I shortly will assign a panel of distin-
guished professional experts to guide us in
determining why heart disease is so prev-
alent and what we should be doing to
combat it.ยน In the meantime, the fiscal
1 On March 24, 1972, the President an-
nounced that he had asked Dr. John S. Millis,
president and director of the National Fund
for Medical Education, to head the Advisory
Panel on Heart Disease. A White House an-
nouncement of the membership of the Panel
was released on April 4 and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 724).
year 1973 budget provides funds for
exploring:
-the development of new medical de-
vices to assist blood circulation and im-
proved instruments for the early detection
of heart disease; and
-tests to explore the relationship of
such high-risk factors as smoking, high
blood pressure and high blood fats to the
onset and progression of heart disease.
CANCER
The National Cancer Act I signed into
law December 23, 1971, creates the au-
thority for organizing an all-out attack on
this dread disease. The new cancer pro-
gram it creates will be directly responsive
to the President's direction.
This new program's work will be given
further momentum by my decision last
October to convert the former biological
warfare facility at Fort Detrick, Maryland
into a cancer research center.
To finance this all-out research effort, I
have requested that an additional $93 mil-
lion be allocated for cancer research in
fiscal
year 1973, bringing the total fund-
ing available that year to $430 million.
In the past two and one-half years, we
have more than doubled the funding for
cancer research, reflecting this Adminis-
tration's strong commitment to defeat this
dread killer as soon as humanly possible.
ALCOHOLISM
One tragic and costly illness which
touches every community in our land is
alcoholism. There are more than 9 million
alcoholics and alcohol abusers in our
Nation.
The human cost of this condition is in-
calculable-broken homes, broken lives
391
