[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
stem the tide of refugees and lay a
basis for a constitutional settlement.
-We told India that we attached the
greatest importance to close U.S.-
Indian relations, would do all we
could to help with the burden of the
refugees, but could only regard an
Indian resort to armed attack as a
tragic mistake. As early as August 11,
Secretary Rogers told the Indian
Ambassador that the Administration
could not continue economic assist-
ance to a nation that started a war.
As the tension along the border intensi-
fied in the fall, the United States proposed
that both Indian and Pakistani troops pull
back from the borders. Pakistan accepted
this proposal; India turned it down. UN
Secretary General Thant placed his good
offices at the disposal of both. Pakistan
responded favorably, and in addition sug-
gested the dispatch of UN observers to
both sides of the border. India refused the
Secretary General's offer, and declined to
accept UN observers. The United States
then proposed to Pakistan that it pull its
forces back from the borders unilaterally,
as a first step toward a mutual pullback.
Pakistan accepted this idea, provided
India would give some assurance that it
would eventually reciprocate. India would
not.
Time had run out on a peaceful solu-
tion. In late November, open war on a
broad front erupted between India and
Pakistan.
The United States had sought for many
years to establish conditions of stability
which would have made this war less
likely. We had observed an embargo on
heavy arms to both sides since their 1965
war over Kashmir. Our military deliveries
to both, amounting to only $70 million
over six years, were restricted to non-
lethal equipment and spare parts for
equipment previously supplied. We con-
centrated instead on assistance for eco-
nomic development. Our economic aid to
India in those six years totaled some $4.2
billion. We provided over $1.3 billion in
economic assistance to Pakistan over the
period-with an increasing concentration
on promoting development in East
Pakistan.
Over the six years of our embargo, how-
ever, the Soviet Union and its Eastern
European allies sharply expanded their
military supply to India and furnished
over $730 million of arms-including
tanks, combat aircraft, artillery, surface-
to-air missiles, submarines, missile boats,
and other heavy equipment. Our six-year
arms embargo had a much greater impact
on Pakistan than on India. India's total
military procurement after 1965-not a
period of increasing tension with China-
was more than four times that of Pakistan.
While China supplied Pakistan with $133
million in arms over the period, India ob-
tained from abroad almost twice the
quantity of arms as Pakistan. Moreover,
at the same time India built up its capac-
ity to produce its own heavy arms—a ca-
pacity which Pakistan did not have. As a
result, the military balance shifted deci-
sively toward India between 1966 and
1971.
THE OUTBREAK AND CONTAINMENT
OF WAR
When war erupted toward the end of
November, the world community was
close to unanimous that there was one
urgent necessity—to stop it.
On December 4, the United States re-
quested an urgent session of the UN
Security Council, which voted, 11 to 2,
300
