Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 29 [276]
275 Memorandum of Disapproval of a Bill To Restore
Seniority Rights to a Postal Service Employee.
August 29, 1972
I HAVE withheld my approval from S.
889, a bill "To restore the postal service
seniority of Elmer Erickson."
Under this bill, Mr. Erickson would re-
ceive special benefits denied other postal
employees who lost seniority rights under
similar circumstances or who made deci-
sions and choices based on then existing
rules. Such action by Congress would be
discriminatory and without justification.
The seniority rules in question here rep-
resent the result of bargaining between
the postal unions and postal management.
They are not a matter on which Congress
has legislated in the past. The seniority
involved has to do with preferred assign-
ments, eligibility for promotions, and sim-
ilar matters covered by agreements be-
tween the Postal Service and the postal
unions. Employees displaced on the senior-
ity list by Mr. Erickson certainly would
have good cause to complain if this bill
were to become law.
In my opinion, if seniority rights are to
be retroactively restored to postal employ-
ees, it is for postal management and the
postal unions to negotiate an equitable
solution which covers all employees simi-
larly situated.
The White House,
August 29, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
276 The President's News Conference of
August 29, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. We will go right ahead
with your questions, because I know you
want to cover perhaps some international
as well as domestic matters, including, I
understand, for the first time, political
matters.
QUESTIONS
HANDLING OF CAMPAIGN FUNDS
[1] Q. Mr. President, are you per-
sonally investigating the mishandling of
some of your campaign funds, and do you
agree with former Secretary Connally
that these charges are harmful to your re-
election?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I commented
upon this on other occasions, and I will
repeat my position now.
With regard to the matter of the han-
dling of campaign funds, we have a new
law here in which technical violations
have occurred and are occurring, ap-
parently, on both sides. As far as we are
concerned, we have in charge, in Secre-
tary Stans, a man who is an honest man
and one who is very meticulous-as I have
learned from having him as my treasurer
and finance chairman in two previous
campaigns in the handling of matters of
this sort.
Whatever technical violations have oc-
curred, certainly he will correct them and
will thoroughly comply with the law. He
827
