[72] Feb. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
and other people in the government.
The joint communique which we have
issued today summarizes the results of our
talks. That communique will make head-
lines around the world tomorrow. But
what we have said in that communique is
not nearly as important as what we will
do in the years ahead to build a bridge
across 16,000 miles and 22 years of hostil-
ity which have divided us in the past.
What we have said today is that we
shall build that bridge. And because the
Chinese people and the American people,
as the Prime Minister has said, are a great
people, we can build that long bridge.
To do so requires more than the letters,
the words of the communique. The letters
and the words are a beginning, but the
actions that follow must be in the spirit
which characterized our talks.
With Chairman Mao, with the Prime
Minister, and with others with whom we
have met, our talks have been charac-
terized by frankness, by honesty, by deter-
mination, and above all, by mutual
respect.
Our communique indicates, as it should,
some areas of difference. It also indicates
some areas of agreement. To mention only
one that is particularly appropriate here
in Shanghai, is the fact that this great city,
over the past, has on many occasions been
the victim of foreign aggression and for-
eign occupation. And we join the Chinese
people, we the American people, in our
dedication to this principle: That never
again shall foreign domination, foreign
occupation, be visited upon this city or
any part of China or any independent
country in this world.
Mr. Prime Minister, our two peoples
tonight hold the future of the world in
our hands. As we think of that future, we
are dedicated to the principle that we can
build a new world, a world of peace, a
world of justice, a world of independence
for all nations.
If we succeed in working together where
we can find common ground, if we can
find the common ground on which we can
both stand, where we can build the bridge
between us and build a new world, genera-
tions in the years ahead will look back and
thank us for this meeting that we have
held in this past week. Let the
great Chi-
nese people and the great American people
be worthy of the hopes and ideals of the
world, for peace and justice and progress
for all.
In that spirit, I ask all of you to join
in a toast to the health of Chairman Mao,
of Prime Minister Chou En-lai, and to all
of our Chinese friends here tonight, and
our American friends, and to that friend-
ship between our two peoples to which
Chairman Chang has referred SO
eloquently.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8:30 p. m. in the Shanghai Exhibition Hall. He
spoke from a prepared text in response to a
toast proposed by Chang Ch'un-ch'iao, Chair-
man of the Shanghai Municipal Revolutionary
Committee.
Chairman Chang spoke in Chinese. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon, ladies and gen-
tlemen, friends and comrades:
After having visited Peking and Hangchow,
President Nixon and Mrs. Nixon and our other
American guests have today come to Shanghai.
On behalf of the Shanghai Municipal Revolu-
tionary Committee, I extend our welcome to all
of you.
I would like to take this opportunity to ex-
tend to the great American people the good
wishes and cordial greetings of the people of
Shanghai.
During his current visit to our country, Presi-
dent Nixon had a meeting with Chairman Mao
Tse-tung and held many talks with Premier
380
