[356] Oct. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
say in how he lives his own life, how he
spends his paycheck, how he brings up
his children.
The new American majority believes in
taking better care of those who truly can-
not care for themselves, so that they can
lead lives of dignity and self-respect.
The new American majority believes in
taking whatever action is needed to hold
down the cost of living so that everyone's
standard of living can go up.
And the new American majority be-
lieves in a national defense second to none,
so that America can help bring about a
generation of peace.
These are not the beliefs of selfish
people. On the contrary, they are the be-
liefs of a generous and self-reliant people,
a people of intellect and character, whose
values deserve respect in every segment of
our population.
A few weeks ago, one of the Nation's
most perceptive journalists asked me
what I thought it would be like to be a
second-term President-free to govern
with no thought of another election.
Actually, he was asking one of the deep-
est questions of all: Would I do what I
thought was best for the people, or would
I do what the people thought was best
for themselves?
Fortunately, what the new majority
wants for America and what I want for
this Nation basically are the same.
But a profound question deserves a
thoughtful answer.
In the years to come, if I am returned
to office, I shall not hesitate to take the
action I think necessary to protect and de-
fend this Nation's best interests, whether
or not those actions meet with wide popu-
lar approval. I will not begin at this
stage of my life to shy away from making
hard decisions which I believe are right.
At the same time, you can be certain of
this: On matters affecting basic human
values on the way Americans live their
lives and bring up their children-I am
going to respect and reflect the opinion of
the people themselves. That is what
democracy is all about.
In the next 4 years, as in the past 4, I
will continue to direct the flow of power
away from Washington and back to the
people. In meeting our material needs, we
must never overlook every American's
spiritual need for personal freedom. When
freedom is taken away from the indi-
vidual, in the name of the people, the
people lose their freedom.
This is the land of opportunity, not the
land of quotas and restrictions.
This is the land that holds all men to
be created equal, not the land that de-
mands that all citizens become the same.
Above all, this is the land where an
alien paternalism has no place at all—
because we deeply believe in a system that
derives its power from the consent of the
governed.
All of my life I have had faith in the
ultimate wisdom of the people and in the
values of fairness and respect and com-
passion that spring from within the Amer-
ican spirit. As President, I shall never
break that faith.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
Camp David, Md. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio. Time for the broad-
cast was purchased by the Committee for the
Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
1000
