Richard Nixon, 1972
May 18 [157]
the new system. Under a directive issued
by the National Security Council, each
department originating classified infor-
mation has been asked to set up a com-
puterized data index system for classified
material and to compile name lists of all
persons with authority to classify docu-
ments. This application of computer tech-
nology across the board should lead to a
much more manageable classification sys-
tem and greatly enhance the flow of
information to the public.
Overseeing our new approach to Gov-
ernment documents will not be an easy
task, for a delicate balance must be struck
between the public's right to know and
the Government's obligation to protect the
national security.
In obtaining the services of Ambassador
Eisenhower for this assignment, the public
can be certain of wise and vigorous leader-
ship. An Army officer for many years, an
Ambassador to Belgium for more than 2
years, and with considerable experience in
historical writing and research, John
Eisenhower has perhaps a unique under-
standing of the competing interests in
this field.
More than that, he shares his father's
abiding belief that the strength of a de-
mocracy rests heavily upon an informed
and active citizenry. I have asked him to
give unswerving allegiance to this belief
in his new post, and I am confident he
will do so.
NOTE: A White House announcement contain-
ing biographical information on Mr. Eisen-
hower was released on the same day and is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, p. 871).
The White House also released the text of a
National Security Council directive governing
the classification, downgrading, declassifica-
tion, and safeguarding of national security in-
formation, and the transcript of a news briefing
by Mr. Young on the directive. The directive is
published in the Federal Register of May 19,
1972.
157 Special Message to the Congress Proposing the Allied
Services Act of 1972.
May 18, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In responding to steady public demand
over recent decades for more and more
human services, the Federal Government
created a host of assistance programs de-
signed to meet a wide variety of human
needs.
These many programs were established
one-by-one over a considerable number
of years. Each of the target problems was
examined in isolation, and a program to
alleviate each problem was devised sep-
arately-without regard to programs
which had been, or would be, developed
for allied problems.
The result is that a compassionate gov-
ernment unwittingly created a bureau-
cratic jungle that baffles and shortchanges
many citizens in need. The unintended
administrative snarl wastes taxpayers'
money. And it frustrates needed efforts to
treat "the whole person."
The Allied Services Act of 1972, which
I am proposing today, would give State
and local officials authority to consolidate
the planning and implementation of the
many separate social service programs into
streamlined, comprehensive plans-each
599
