[45] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing. Decisions on what needs to be done
to improve specific local manpower con-
ditions cannot and should not be made in
Washington. They should be delegated to
the area where the unemployed person
lives and wants to work.
The third way to move toward a new
era in manpower development is through
consolidation of the multiple, frequently
inconsistent, funding authorizations for
manpower activities. Even members of the
congressional Appropriations Committees
frequently chafe under the unmanageable
task of sorting out the confusing array of
alphabetical "programs" created by exist-
ing manpower enactments. While a good
deal of untangling has been done by ad-
ministrative action, the only durable solu-
tion is an overall reform.
The Manpower Revenue Sharing Act
would replace the two major pieces of
legislation which have spawned most of
the acronym programs-the Manpower
Development and Training Act and Title
I of the Economic Opportunity Act-with
a single statute which incorporates the
flexibility needed by State and local
government.
The Manpower Revenue Sharing Act
submitted to the Congress in March of
1971 incorporates all three of these vital
concepts. I believe that the application of
these principles in the Manpower Reve-
nue Sharing Act is sound, but the princi-
ples are more important than the details.
Reasonable men may disagree on the
specifics of any important legislation, but
there comes a time when its principles
must be earnestly debated and decisions
made. For the principles of Manpower
Special Revenue Sharing, that time has
come. The fine points of this legislation,
which were discussed in my message of
March 4, 1971, are open to refinement,
but I believe the principles of Special
Revenue Sharing are too important to be
eviscerated.
Our country needs new manpower
legislation. Let us now write a new char-
ter for the second decade of manpower
development that will produce solid per-
formance for the economy, for the un-
employed and underemployed, and for
government itself.
RESTORING THE AMERICAN SPIRIT
The Special Revenue Sharing approach
to providing Federal help would enable us
to deal more effectively with many of this
Nation's most pressing problems. But it
would do much more. It would help to
restore the American spirit.
In recent years many Americans have
come to doubt the capacity of govern-
ment-at all levels-to meet the needs of
an increasingly complex Nation. They
have watched as the power to effect
change in their communities has moved
gradually from the local level, with the
reality of friends and community, to the
national center, to Washington. There
was a time when the increasing centraliza-
tion of government fostered a greater sense
of national purpose. But more recently,
the weight of unfulfilled promises rein-
forced by the growing complexity of social
problems has caused many Americans to
doubt the capability of our system of
government.
By providing new resources to the levels
of government closest to the problems and
closest to the people involved-people who
may see their problems in a different light
than the Federal Government-both Gen-
eral and Special Revenue Sharing will do
much to revive the confidence and spirit
of our people. A free and diverse Nation
164
