Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 27 [377]
strongly objected to this provision on the
grounds that it was totally unnecessary
and could result in inefficient medical
treatment and wasteful administrative
practices. The tragic result would be a
lower quality of medical care to all
patients.
While I strongly support the VA health
care system and will continue to en-
courage its improvement in the future, I
cannot approve a bad bill.
Rehabilitation Act of 1972 (H.R.
8395)—
This measure would seriously jeopard-
ize the goals of the vocational rehabilita-
tion program and is another example of
Congressional fiscal irresponsibility. Its
provisions would divert this program
from its basic vocational objectives into
activities that have no vocational element
whatsoever or are essentially medical in
character. In addition, it would proliferate
a host of narrow categorical programs
which duplicate and overlap existing au-
thorities and programs. Such provisions
serve only to dilute the resources of the
vocational rehabilitation program and
impair its continued valuable achieve-
ments in restoring deserving American
citizens to meaningful employment.
H.R. 8395 also would create organi-
zational rigidities in the vocational reha-
bilitation program which would under-
mine the ability of the Secretary of HEW
to manage the program effectively. The
bill also would establish numerous com-
mittees and independent commissions
which are unnecessary, would waste the
taxpayers' dollars, and would complicate
and confuse the direction of this program.
Finally, the bill would authorize funding
far in excess of the budget request and
far beyond what can be made available
and used effectively.
The White House,
October 27, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the President's pocket vetoes. Participants in
the news briefing were John D. Ehrlichman,
Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs;
and William A. Morrill and Paul O'Neill, As-
sistant Directors, Office of Management and
Budget.
377 Radio Address on the American Farmer.
October 27, 1972
Good afternoon:
In every American home, there is spe-
cial respect and gratitude for the bread-
winner-the one who provides the rest
of the family with food to eat and clothes
to wear.
The breadwinners of our national fam-
ily are this country's nearly 3 million
farmers.
American agriculture leads our own
economy and the world in productivity.
Because of the remarkable productivity
of our farms and ranches, the people of
the United States have more and better
food to eat, at lower cost, than
than any other
people anywhere. A smaller percentage
of the family budget goes for food in
America than in any other country in the
world.
Because of that productivity, we are
able to export vast quantities of our farm
products to help feed the world.
Because of that productivity, we have
been able in the last 4 years to more than
87-234-74- -70
1045
