[302] Sept. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing through in terms of saving the lives of
thousands of young people who otherwise
would have become hopeless drug addicts.
And now we can look at some of the
results. We can view them not with com-
placency, but with some pride and also
with the determination to go forward to
get even better results in the future.
Dr. Jaffe, in his field, reports that we
have created more federally funded drug
treatment capacity in the past year than
in the 50 years before that. We now have
the capability to treat over 100,000 drug
addicts in these programs.
If the Congress approves the pending
drug funding request, we should have the
capacity, if needed, to treat a quarter of
a million heroin addicts in America by this
time next year.
Now that, of course, is a sobering num-
ber-the fact that we might need the
capacity to treat a quarter of a million
indicates the enormity of the problem and
the need to work on it, not only on the
treatment area but also particularly in the
source of the supply and in the enforce-
ment area.
Turning to the law enforcement area,
the number of arrests of drug traffickers in
this last fiscal year was double the number
in 1969. The seizures of heroin and other
illicit drugs are at an alltime high. But as
I have told those who have reported to
me just within the last month on this, this
isn't good enough. We have to double the
number, triple the number, and go from
there to a complete victory over those who
are engaged in this illicit trade.
Very sharp recent increases in the prices
of heroin throughout the eastern United
States indicate that the supply is drying
up and that the pressure is on the criminal
drug trade. And I can assure all of you,
and I can assure those who may be the
subject of those who might be prosecuted,
that we are going to keep the heat on
until the despicable profiteers in human
misery are driven out of their hiding places
and are put in prison where they belong.
Nor will this effort stop at our own
borders.
The men and women who operate the
global heroin trade are a menace not to
Americans alone, but to all mankind.
These people are literally the slave traders
of our time. They are traffickers in living
death. They must be hunted to the end
of the earth. They must be left no base in
any nation for their operations. They must
be permitted not a single hiding place or
refuge from justice anywhere in the world,
and that is why we have established an
aggressive international narcotics control
program in cooperation with the govern-
ments of more than 50 countries around
the world. That is why I have ordered the
Central Intelligence Agency, early in this
Administration, to mobilize its full re-
sources to fight the international drug
trade, a task, incidentally, in which it has
performed superbly.
Let me interject here a word for that
much maligned agency. As I have often
said, in the field of intelligence we always
find that the failures are those that are
publicized. Its successes, by definition,
must always be secret, and in this area
there are many successes and particularly
ones for which this agency can be very
proud.
The key priority here is to target on
the traffickers wherever they are, to im-
mobilize and destroy them through our
law enforcement and intelligence efforts.
And I commend all of you on the fine
initial progress which has been made in
these programs.
France, Paraguay, Laos, Thailand,
874
