Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [407]
the leaders in that progress. The economy
of this forward-looking State is booming.
Total personal income in North Carolina
was up 7.8 percent from 1970 to 1971,
which was nearly one percent better than
the national increase.
North Carolina has succeeded in re-
ducing statewide unemployment to 2.6
percent, well under the national average.
Unemployment in the Greensboro-
Winston-Salem-High Point area is down
to 2.2 percent.
In North Carolina right now, we are
close to our national goal-that anyone
who wants to work will be able to work.
Nationwide, we are also making en-
couraging and often overlooked progress
against higher prices. With our new eco-
nomic policies, we have cut the rate of
inflation almost in half. And just this
week, the Labor Department reported
that wholesale prices had remained stable
all month. The total index for wholesale
prices declined by 0.2 percent in October
in absolute terms and rose by only 0.1
percent on a seasonally adjusted basis.
We are making these gains for peace
and prosperity because the American
spirit is strong-because Americans are
not going to yield to the easy temptations
of surrender abroad or handout at home.
As one who has lived in North Carolina,
I know that that American spirit is strong
in this State.
With the support of the voters of North
Carolina, with the help of Jesse Helms
in the United States Senate, and with Jim
Holshouser in the Governor's office, we
can continue our progress and so make
the next 4 years the best 4 years in the
history of this Nation.
NOTE: The statement was released at Greens-
boro, N.C.
407 Remarks at Greensboro, North Carolina.
November 4, 1972
ON BEHALF of Mrs. Nixon and myself,
I want to express to all of you our really
grateful appreciation for what is without
question the greatest welcome we have
ever received in North Carolina, and we
have had some great ones.
We have appreciated the support we
have had in the past. We remember how
critical North Carolina was to our suc-
cess in 1968. Based upon what I see today,
we are going to repeat in North Carolina
in '72, and even more.
May I say, too, that I am particularly
interested to note what a beautiful day
this is. Two or three days ago I was talk-
ing to Billy Graham on the phone, and he
said, "If the weather is good, give me
the credit." So, in any event, this is a
magnificent day, and you have helped, of
course, to make it even a better day be-
cause of your presence here.
On this occasion, I want to pay my
respects, if I could, first to a man who is
retiring from the Congress of the United
States, a great servant of this State and
of this Nation and a very close, personal
friend of mine, Charlie Jonas. In paying
my respects to him, I also want to indi-
cate my complete support for all of those
running for the Congress of the United
States who have already been introduced.
It is a great team. We would like them
1115
