[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
proper language that the Congress
should pass such a law, and I will sign it,
ruling out Saturday night specials, which
I think is the major source of this kind
of crime you speak about.
THE SUPREME COURT
[18.] Q. Mr. President, do you con-
sider the Supreme Court now to be in
balance or do you think it needs another
dose of strict constructionism if that occa-
sion should arise?
THE PRESIDENT. I have expressed my-
self with regard to the Court on previous
occasions, but I feel at the present time,
that the Court is as balanced as I have
had an opportunity to make it. [Laughter]
I have been interested to note that
there have been several five-to-four deci-
sions, but let me also say-and the Chief
Justice was in to see me the other day and
we talked about a number of things-
let me also say that of the people I have
appointed to that Court, and each one of
them will bear this out, I have never
talked to them directly or indirectly about
a matter before the Court.
I had a pretty good idea before they
went on how I thought they might think,
but sometimes they have ruled differently,
because lawyers never agree.
FUTURE GOALS
[19.] Q. Mr. President, sir, since you
have taken care of many of the problems
with Peking and Moscow and had some
agreements and now you seem to have
made great progress with the war, I won-
der what areas of the world you would
like to work on next?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't want to
go to the Moon. [Laughter]
EVALUATION OF BOMBING
[20.] Q. Mr. President, the history of
American bombing of North Vietnam
indicates that it has served to hinder nego-
tiations rather than stimulate negotiations.
Why do you think it is going to work now
in view of that history?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure that my
evaluation of the history is the same as
yours. My own view is that we have tried
every device possible over the past 3 years
to get negotiations going. We have with-
drawn forces, we have made very forth-
coming offers, we have wound down com-
bat activities on our part, and the result
has been simply an ever increasing intran-
sigence on the part of the enemy.
Believe me, it was only as a last resort
that I made the very difficult decision of
May 8, knowing how much rode on that
decision, but having made that decision,
I think it was the right decision. And I
think the fact that our summit meetings
went ahead despite that decision, the fact
that we are going back to the negotiating
table despite that decision, indicates that
it may be that those who feel that a strong
hand at the negotiating table is one that
results in no negotiation may be wrong.
It has always been my theory that in
dealing with these very pragmatic men—
and we must respect them for their
strength and their pragmatism-who lead
the Communist nations, that they respect
strength, not belligerence but strength,
and at least that is the way I am always
going to approach it, and I think it is
going to be successful in the end.
THE VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in the middle
of May, Vice President Agnew told a num-
716
