Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 6 [113]
that we have talked about other things
than simply the problems of nonpublic
school education and its support. I value
him as one who is, in my view, a great
religious leader, but also one who has a
deep understanding of philosophy and of
government.
I often think, after talking to him about
philosophy and government, and what
makes the great nations of the world go
and what makes them fail, that when he
chose to go into the priesthood and, of
course, has become one of the princes of
the church, what might have happened
had he chosen a political career. He prob-
ably could have gone all the way.
Now, speaking of politics, of course, I
want to say a word about my good per-
sonal friend, Mayor Rizzo. My appear-
ance here, of course, is a nonpolitical
appearance, and his presence on the plat-
form clearly indicates that, because while
he is a personal friend, the Mayor is a
member of a party to which I do not
happen to belong. But I do know this:
That when the security of America is
involved, when great principles that
transcend any partisan differences are in-
volved, he is a very great American, and
that is what really counts. And also, I
should add that he is rather unique in his
party. He is one of the few prominent
members in his party who is not a candi-
date for President.
I also understand, since reference has
been made to the fact that school is to be
out tomorrow, I hope the parents will not
blame me they are old enough to vote.
And as far as the children are concerned,
I understand most of them are not yet 18,
so there is nothing political about letting
them out of school tomorrow.
Let me begin my remarks by telling
you that it is a very great privilege for me
to be here in Philadelphia, in this great
convention hall, and to speak before this
group, because you are a group of Ameri-
cans who truly hold the future of our
country in your hands—you are the edu-
cators of the United States.
We meet today in a testing time for
American education. We can look back
over the last generation and we see that
public funding for public education has
never been higher in America. And yet,
ironically, across the Nation we can also
see serious evidence of lack of confidence
in our educational systems.
Traditional means of financing public
education are destined for fundamental
change. Look at some of the indications
of the problems that public education
faces across the country. Local property
taxes, which have long been the mainstay
of the public school system, have become
an increasingly intolerable burden against
which millions of homeowners have be-
gun to rebel, and that has shown itself
in local school bond issues being rejected
in significant numbers all over the
country.
Inner city schools seem less and less
capable of providing education for the
poor and for the racial minorities who
more and more make up their enrollment.
I recognize, as we consider these prob-
lems, that among educators, among those
here as well as among our people of good
will across the Nation, there is an honest
difference of opinion with regard to the
problem that has been much discussed
in recent months: The use of busing to
achieve racial balance in our schools. As
one who is completely committed, as I
know everyone in this audience is, both to
school desegregation and to quality edu-
cation, I would like to state my views on
this issue directly and candidly, because
517
