[342] Oct. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
and new citizens have come by, just get-
ting their American citizenship for the
first time. Whether they happened to be
from Poland or Italy or Germany or the
Orient or wherever they were, more often
than not tears would be in their eyes when
they said, "I am so proud now to be an
American citizen.”
343
Let us be proud to be Americans to-
night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:11 p.m. in
the Ballroom of the Sheraton Park Hotel. He
spoke without referring to notes.
The dinner was sponsored by Amerito, a
federation of American/Italian organizations
of the metropolitan Washington area, in co-
operation with the Knights of Columbus.
Statement About House Action on Proposed
Federal Spending Ceiling.
I AM grateful for the responsible action
by the House of Representatives tonight
in passing the debt limit with my recom-
mended $250 billion spending ceiling.
The Nation's taxpayers are the real
winners in this action to provide insurance
against any need for a tax increase.
This by no means is a bare-cupboard
approach to Federal financing. A quarter
of a trillion dollars is enough to provide
October 10, 1972
generously for the Nation's needs-includ-
ing the need to draw the line against
higher prices and against higher taxes.
I urge the Senate now to take quick
and positive action on the House-passed
bill-without creating any loopholes-so
that excessive spending and inflation can
be held in check and higher taxes can be
avoided.
344 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the International Educational and Cultural
Exchange Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
October 11, 1972
I transmit herewith the Annual Report
on the International Educational and
Cultural Exchange Program conducted
during Fiscal Year 1971 by the Depart-
ment of State under the Mutual Educa-
tional and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961
(Public Law 87-256, the Fulbright-Hays
Act).
Mutual understanding between our
own people and the people of other coun-
tries is an essential ingredient of the
peace
we seek. The exchange program is di-
rected at increasing world understanding
at the most basic, people-to-people level.
It likewise aims to develop and strengthen
enduring unofficial relationships between
institutions, organizations, private busi-
nesses and professional societies here and
abroad.
One measure of this program's impact
is that, in 25 years, more than 142,000
people have taken part in exchanges, in-
cluding over 36,000 Americans. During
1971 more than 5,000 scholars and leaders
in various fields took part in exchange
visits.
In this manner, the exchange program
972
