[402] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, may I come to a fundamental
proposition that the people of Oklahoma
have always understood in great numbers
and that we in this Nation must under-
stand if we are going to be able to build
that era of peace that we want to build
in the years ahead. There are those who
believe that as we now negotiate with
the Soviet Union and the People's Repub-
lic of China, and as we bring the war in
Vietnam to an end, that the United
States should drastically cut its national
defense and then hope that the others do,
too. Let me say this: I want all of you
know, I have sat for long days, day on
day, in negotiations at the highest level
in Peking and Moscow. They have been
important negotiations. They have been
successful negotiations. But they could not
have been successful unless I was able to
negotiate recognizing that I represented a
nation that was strong and that was
respected.
to
Let us now resolve that we shall never
send the President of the United States
to the negotiating table as the head of
the second strongest nation-the United
States of America. And so the issue is
clear. The issue that you, the voters of
this country-Democrats, Republicans,
and independents-will all answer is this:
Shall it be peace with surrender or peace
with honor? I say peace with honor for
America. That is what we stand for.
Shall it be a weak America or shall
it be a strong America? I say a strong
America.
Shall it be an America that withdraws
from its responsibilities in the world, or
an America that leads the way to peace
in the world so that we can have peace
at home? I say let us meet our responsi-
bilities in the world. And also, as we look
to the future of this country, let us re-
member that not only do we want peace
for our younger generation and for our-
selves, prosperity without war and with-
out inflation, progress, but let us have in
these next 4 years, as we come to the
200th birthday of this country, a restora-
tion of something that Americans had in
their youth and which we need now.
Do you remember when America was
only 3 million people and 13 States, weak
militarily and also poor economically?
And yet that young America, 195 years
ago, was respected all over the world. It
was the hope of the world. Why? Because
America then stood for spiritual and
moral strength that could not be repre-
sented by military strength and that was
stronger than any economic wealth and
power.
Today America's military strength
is unquestioned. America's economic
strength is unquestioned. We are the rich-
est nation in the world. Let us also re-
member that this is the time to strengthen
that moral and religious heritage and
principle in America that has made us
the great nation that we are.
My friends in Oklahoma, as I said
at the beginning, it is always a very great
privilege to come here, to be received so
warmly. It is also very heartening to know
that out here in the middle of this country
there are a people-a people who are
strong, a people who have backbone, a
people who will stand up for America, a
people who believe in the religious and
moral values that made this country
great. Every time that I make a great
decision, I know that I can count on the
people of Oklahoma.
1104
