[67] Feb. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
ported. But the gymnastic events—I have
never seen a tumbler like the last one. I
have never seen that move made by a
tumbler before. I didn't think it was pos-
sible to make that move. Then, of course,
the ping pong players, unbelievable, par-
ticularly the young ones, those little girls,
those teenaged boys! I used to play a little
ping pong years ago I thought I played
it. Now I realize I was playing another
game, except for the score.
Then too, the ballet, of course, as we all
know, had its message and that was one
of its purposes but also, while it was a
powerful message and intended for that,
it was also very dramatic and excellent
theater, excellent dancing, excellent music,
and really superb acting. I was very
impressed.
I have seen ballets all over the world,
including the Soviet Union and the
United States. This is certainly the equal
of any ballet that I have seen, in terms of
production. I thought some of the produc-
tion effects were very dramatic, too-the
scene where they showed the guerrilla
forces going across the stage at the end at
great speed in the dark. I can't describe
it, but certainly people who had a chance
to see it on television will remember it.
And I thought another thing was the
vivid effect, when they had the rifle fire,
of having the gunpowder smoke float
back into the audience so that we could
smell it. You had a feel there of realism
that was quite vivid.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately
10 a.m. following the President's tour of the
Ba Da Ling portion of the Great Wall.
68 Exchange With Reporters at the Tombs of the Emperors
of the Ming Dynasty. February 24, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. I have not had an oppor-
tunity, of course, to see this before. The
only thing I think is comparable to it in
the world is the Valley of Kings in Egypt.
That is a very different time, of course,
and a different country.
But when one sees these tombs, while
this does not go back very far in China's
history-its history goes back thousands
of years rather than hundreds-it is
again, of course, a reminder that they are
very proud in terms of cultural develop-
ment and the rest, a rich history of the
Chinese people.
As I said earlier, it is worth coming
16,000 miles to see the Wall, and it is
worth coming that far to see this, too.
Q. Will you be recommending that
Americans apply for visas to have an op-
portunity to be tourists in China?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't comment on
that question at this point. When we com-
plete our meetings, we will see what kind
of recommendations will be made in that
respect. Certainly speaking in a general
sense, I think it would be very valuable
and worthwhile for Americans and, for
that matter, people in all countries, to be
able to visit China. It is a great and old
civilization, these people who have given
so much to the world in terms of culture
and development in many ways.
It is important as we think of ourselves
as members of the family of man, that we
know them and know them better, and I
would hope that in the future that my
children, and their children as well, would
have the opportunity to come here.
372
