Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
heavy security burdens borne by us
and our increasingly prosperous
allies.
-The Vietnam experience has left
some Americans skeptical concerning
defense issues.
-The current strategic balance with
the Soviet Union creates new condi-
tions which could provide additional
incentives for negotiations on limit-
ing armaments, but could also lead
to localized conflicts below the level
of strategic nuclear war.
To meet our security requirements un-
der the Nixon Doctrine and a national
strategy of realistic deterrence, we must
harmonize our essential strategic objec-
tives, our general defense posture, and
our foreign policy requirements with the
resources available to meet our security
and domestic needs. Our military program
must not absorb resources beyond those
essential to meet foreseeable dangers.
Nevertheless, I recognize that there is a
prudent minimum below which we can-
not
go without jeopardizing the nation's
fundamental security interests. If this
were allowed to happen, we would lose
control over our destiny both at home and
abroad.
In this Administration, we have been
able, for the first time in twenty years, to
spend more on domestic social programs
than on defense. The total defense
budget is today a smaller portion of the
Federal Budget and a smaller portion of
our Gross National Product than at any
time since the Korean War. Measured in
terms of constant dollars our defense
spending is already down to the pre-Viet-
nam War level. It will remain so next
year, even though overall defense spend-
ing will be increased in order to maintain
our security at an adequate level.
American strength is essential if we are
to move from an era of confrontation to-
ward an era of negotiation. As the world's
strongest power, this nation has important
responsibilities to its friends as well as
unique opportunities for improving global
stability. American weakness would make
no contribution to peace. On the contrary,
it would undermine prospects for peace.
We have taken a number of steps to
nurture an international climate in which
progress in arms control is possible. In the
past year we have moved forward in bi-
lateral discussions with the Soviet Union
on strategic arms limitations and in multi-
lateral efforts to provide a firm basis for
control of both nuclear and conventional
weapons. We have made important ad-
vances toward achieving strategic stabil-
ity, but there also have been disturb-
ing developments. While engaged in the
strategic arms negotiations we have wit-
nessed a continuing Soviet buildup in
nearly every major category of military
power.
An agreement to limit strategic weap-
ons would be an unprecedented achieve-
ment. Our goal is to stabilize the strategic
balance through mutual restraint and
agreements which provide no unilateral
advantage. We recognize that only a mu-
tually designed balance of strategic arma-
ments can establish a shared basis for
security. On the other hand, if the Soviet
Union attempts to extend its strategic
buildup beyond equality, the United
States will have no choice but to initiate
compensating actions.
The new strategic environment in-
creases the importance of maintaining a
full range of credible options to meet our
international commitments and the re-
quirements of our own defense. With
USSR general purpose forces expanding,
305
