Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 4 [77]
gotiations, and the Executive Director of
the Council on International Economic
Policy.
The duties of the Special Working
Group are these:
1. Advise generally with respect to pol-
icies affecting actions by the United States
concerning international trade in textiles
and textile products under Section 204
the Agricultural Act of 1956 and other
laws.
of
2. Establish procedures by which the
Committee for the Implementation of
Textile Agreements shall, under the policy
guidance of the Special Working Group,
take actions with respect to the rights and
obligations of the United States under
Articles 3 and 6 of the Long Term Ar-
rangement Regarding Trade in Cotton
Textiles.
3. Develop policy proposals with respect
to the negotiation of additional bilateral
and multilateral textile trade agreements.
The Committee for the Implementation
of Textile Agreements will submit to the
Special Working Group such reports and
recommendations concerning textile trade
policy and the implementation of textile
trade agreements as the Special Working
Group may request.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
On the same day, the President signed Execu-
tive Order 11651 establishing the Committee
for the Implementation of Textile Agreements.
76 Statement About the Death of William H. Lawrence.
March 3, 1972
BILL LAWRENCE was one of the most
independent and highly respected mem-
bers of the national political press corps,
always tough-minded in his search for the
facts.
His death was most untimely and tragic,
but it came on an assignment symbolic of
his long career-in the snows of New
Hampshire covering the start of yet an-
other national political campaign. He will
be greatly missed by all who have followed
his reports over the years.
NOTE: Mr. Lawrence, 56, died of a heart attack
in Bedford, N.H., on March 2, 1972.
He was a reporter for the New York Times
for 20 years before joining the American Broad-
casting Company in 1961 as White House cor-
respondent. He was national affairs editor for
ABC News from 1968 until his death.
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
77 Memorandum Urging Support of the Red Cross.
March 4, 1972
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
This March the Nation will once again
observe Red Cross Month-a traditional
time when the American National Red
Cross seeks the support of every Ameri-
can citizen for its humanitarian services.
The historic record of mercy and service
of the Red Cross needs no detailed ex-
planation. Its efforts this past year have
alleviated the suffering of disaster victims
at home and abroad, trained hundreds of
87-234-74- -29
397
