Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [270]
as we have ended the others, without, of
course, abandoning our POW's, without
turning over the country that we are allied
with to Communists, and also without
staining the honor of the United States.
It is a goal that we can achieve.
But beyond that, we have had the open-
ing to the People's Republic of China.
This doesn't mean that the Communist
government of that country and the free
government of the United States don't
have enormous differences. We do, and
we always will as long as they are Com-
munist and as long as we are free. But it
means that 800 million of potentially the
most able people in the world are no
longer shut off from the United States.
It means that we have laid the ground-
work for Americans and Chinese who live
in the People's Republic of China, as well
as Chinese in other parts of the world
who have contributed so much to this
world to work together rather than to be
driven apart. That is a great thing for the
world. It means that our young people,
looking ahead, as they look at this won-
derful world we live in, and it is a good
world with all of its problems, that they
will be able to go there and see the won-
ders that we saw, the Great Wall, and
see those people, despite the differences
in government. We did that. That is a
good thing.
We want to try to continue that kind of
thing for the United States and for the
world.
Looking out across the Atlantic, we saw
the Soviet Union, and here again we had
very great differences between the United
States and the Soviet Union as far as
philosophy is concerned. But now we have
started the limitation of arms. We are
starting cooperation in so many fields. We
are finding that the Russian people, as we
have always known, are a great people.
And we have started that communication
between the Russian people and the
American people that is needed, while
recognizing still that there is no time for
complacency, while recognizing that the
United States, as the guardian of freedom
in the world and as the guardian of peace
in the world, must always negotiate any
reduction of arms-and please don't ever
send a President to the negotiating table
as the head of the second strongest nation
in the world. Don't do that.
That brings me to a point that I would
like to particularly make in San Diego. I
covered this in part at the Legion. I em-
phasize it here.
The Soviet Union is a great land power.
They have an armed force, as far as the
numbers in their Army is concerned,
much larger than ours, because they need
it as a land power. We are a great sea
power. We have the largest Navy in the
world, and we need it as a great nation.
The United States cannot have a viable
foreign policy-Dave Packard, I think,
will agree with this as a former Under
Secretary of Defense-we cannot have a
viable foreign policy unless the United
States, without question, not only now but
in the future, continues to have the strong-
est Navy in the world, because we have
two great coasts. We have the Atlantic.
We have the Pacific. We have the Medi-
terranean. We need that Navy.
Now we do have, I can assure you, my
fellow Californians, my fellow Americans,
the strongest Navy in the world. We must
keep it that way, and that is why even
though we would like to cut our expenses
in any area so that we could put more into
other problems-education, health, the
rest-let me say the most important thing
to remember is that you can have the best
815
