[239] July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have had our differences. You will also
remember that on public occasions I have
praised him for three very tough decisions
he made.
I was reading Winston Churchill the
other night, his first meeting with Tru-
man at Potsdam when Truman took him
over in a corner and told him about the
bomb, the use of the bomb. This was a
terribly difficult decision. But he thought,
probably correctly-and President Eisen-
hower agreed with this-that it would
save a million American lives, as probably
it did, and that is why he used the bomb
in ending the war with Japan.
The second decision, which I had the
opportunity to support, was the Greek-
Turkish aid program. That was a tough
one. It split his party. It split it into the
Henry Wallace wing and his wing. Byrnes
and Wallace, remember, had their fight.
But it was a good decision, and I sup-
ported it in the Congress of the United
States.
Incidentally, I still support aid to
Greece and Turkey. It is just as necessary
today as it was then, for most of the same
reasons, now particularly added because
of the fact that without aid to Greece
and aid to Turkey you have no viable
policy to save Israel.
Finally, there, of course, were decisions
that Mr. Truman made on the Korean
war. I criticized the conduct of the war
as did many of us who were out. But his
decision to go into Korea was right, it
was necessary, it was tough.
Just before Dean Acheson died he was
in this office. We talked about how Tru-
man had made that decision. I have
talked too long on that; what I am simply
saying is this: Here was the little man
from Missouri. He was the Vice President.
People said, "Gee, why didn't Roosevelt
pick so many others of the towering figures
from his Cabinet or the Senate or the
rest, rather than the little man from
Missouri?"
But the little man from Missouri had
that indefinable quality, as did the big
man from New York, Theodore Roose-
velt, a character, that made him a man
capable of making tough decisions, and
that is the most important thing a Vice
President needs.
MISS THOMAS. Thank you.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-sixth news
conference was held at 3:02 p.m., in the Oval
Office at the White House on Thursday,
July 27, 1972. He spoke without referring to
notes.
240 Statement on the Death of Senator Allen J. Ellender
of Louisiana. July 27,
SENATOR Ellender was a good friend, a
fine Senator, and a splendid American. His
elevation to the chairmanship of the Ap-
propriations Committee and the presi-
dency pro tem of the Senate capped a long
and distinguished career. In the course of
his 35 years of service in the Senate, he left
a deep imprint on the legislative history of
this century—and he proved himself a
1972
representative not only of Louisiana but
of the Nation, determined to do what he
considered was right for America.
I often had the benefit of his counsel,
and I valued the opportunity to talk with
him before my recent visit to the Soviet
Union about his own travels in that
country.
Mrs. Nixon joins with me and with his
754
