[49] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
complaining about controls; or are you
going to adopt wage and price policies
that will remove the pressure of inflation
and the need for controls?
Now I am convinced I made the right
decisions. I am convinced you will make
the right decisions as well-right for your-
selves and right for our country.
I recognize that there are many people
around who are uncertain about whether
we can really cut the rate of inflation.
Well, there are two answers to these
doubts. First, the record: Consumer prices
rose 3.4 percent in 1971, too much; but
that is compared to 5.5 the year before.
That is the right direction-down. That
shows that it can be done.
And second, we are determined to keep
pushing down the rate of inflation. We
have made a commitment; we have
proved the lengths we are prepared to go
to keep our commitments. We will see this
fight against rising prices through to
stability.
Just as controls and our other policies,
we believe, are going to work to stop in-
flation, our policies to create more jobs are
going to work.
You all know that in the past 6 months,
civilian employment has increased by over
a million jobs. Yet that surge has not made
nearly enough of a dent in the unemploy-
ment figures. This we all agree. In the
most recent quarter, real output rose at a
rate double that of the preceding two
quarters. Now, that is a basis for real con-
fidence the confidence that should gen-
erate further expansion and more jobs.
Nobody says the road to full employment
is quick and easy; but I believe, based on
the record, that we are on that road.
Now we come to the key to it all. What
enables each worker to get more out of his
work, each investor to get more out of his
investment, and the Nation to get more
out of its economy? The answer is produc-
tivity.
You as businessmen, as labor leaders, all
have said this. For a long time in America
we were able to take productivity increases
for granted. We just assumed it was going
to happen, and it did. We rather imagined
a sort of technological cornucopia that
promised increasing abundance every year
without any extra effort on our part—and
this made us somewhat complacent. We
tended to imagine that more was our
due-regardless of what we did; whether
we did more, there was going to be more.
But now the new situation in the world
has changed all that.
Even if we were content just to fight
with one another for a bigger slice of the
same old pie, instead of making the pie
bigger, this would no longer be enough.
Our markets would disappear; and not
only would we no longer sell abroad, but
we could no longer afford to buy from
abroad; and America would stagnate.
But we are not going to stagnate. We
still have the American spirit. But having
the spirit is not enough; we have to use it.
If we are to maintain our leadership in
the world of the future, it will not be by
force of arms. It will be by the strength of
our spirit, backed by the vigor of our
economy-which is the greatest asset we
have in world affairs today. If we slip back
as an economic power, then we will slip
also as a moral force in the world, for it
will have been because we ceased to try,
because we ceased to compete, because we
gave up on ourselves and the world.
I do not believe that America has given
up,
that it will give up. Nor do I believe
that we in America, because of the compe-
tition we face, will try to build a wall
around ourselves.
170
