[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
black people different from white people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the main way
to answer that question is to talk to black
people, as I do, to black people on my
staff, to black people that I have gone to
school with. An individual who grows up
in America as a black has, whenever he
talks very frankly with you, the inevitable
memory of what has happened to his peo-
ple through the years. He looks back to
the days of slavery. He looks back to the
days of prejudice. He knows that some of
that prejudice is still there. He realizes
therefore that when he is in school, when
he is looking for a job, whatever the case
might be, that he is different, he is differ-
ent from the white person, and for that
reason he therefore has problems that the
white person does not have. And I think
unless we recognize that fact, we are not
going to do the right kind of job that we
should in handling black-white relations.
GOVERNOR GEORGE WALLACE
[19.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, do
you consider Governor George Wallace
and what he stands for a threat to holding
this society together?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I noted at the
moment that he has decided to enter the
Democratic primaries, and I really think
that that question should be directed to
the Democratic candidate when you have
him on the equal time that I am sure is
going to be requested after this program.
MR. RATHER. I would like very much
to ask the Democratic candidate that,
when it is decided who he shall be. But
the question was put directly to you.
THE PRESIDENT. It is not the problem
here of our party. As far as Mr. Wallace is
concerned, he is now seeking the Demo-
cratic nomination, and that is one that
is going to have to be worked out within
their own party.
AMNESTY FOR DRAFT EVADERS
[20.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, re-
cently you were asked a question about
amnesty. You were asked if you foresaw
any possibility of granting amnesty to
those young men who have fled the coun-
try to avoid the draft, and you had a one-
word answer, which was "No."
Since then some Congressmen, among
others, have proposed allowing those
young men who want to come back, who
are willing to do it, to come back without
punishment, if they will take alternative
service, 2 years, 4 years. Is there no
amount of alternative service under which
you could foresee granting amnesty?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The question
that I was answering in that conference
that you referred to, as you recall, fol-
lowed one where I had talked about the
withdrawal of our forces, and the question
was prefaced with that, as I recall.
MR. RATHER. Correct. It was.
THE PRESIDENT. In view of the with-
drawal of forces, how about amnesty?
And I said, "No." The answer is at this
time "No." As long as there are Ameri-
cans who chose to serve their country
rather than desert their country-and it is
a hard choice and they are there in Viet-
nam, there will be no amnesty for those
who deserted their country. As long as
there are any POW's held by the North
Vietnamese, there will be no amnesty for
those who have deserted their country.
Just let me say, Mr. Rather, on that
score, I don't say this because I am hard-
hearted. I say it because it is the only right
thing to do. Two and a half million young
Americans had to make the choice when
16
