Richard Nixon, 1972
July 1 [222]
museum guides who turn routine tours
into lifetime experiences with their flashes
of expertise and insight.
I invite the members of the Congress to
share my pleasure and pride in the truly
remarkable work of the National Council
on the Arts and the National Endowment
for the Arts. This work has been possible
because you have recognized the impor-
tance of the arts, and because you have
joined in voting across party lines to ap-
prove dramatic increases in our appro-
priations for the arts.
You have seen that individual, creative
effort is an essential element of the Amer-
ican character. You have understood that
the enrichment of the human spirit, and
the sudden lifting of the soul, are legiti-
mate objectives of government in the fin-
est sense.
Just as 18th century America was dedi-
cated in large part to the achievement of
political liberty, and 19th century America
to the attainment of economic oppor-
tunity, historians of the future may cite
20th century America for its dedication to
the definition of the quality and justice
of life. In all of these things our national
point of view about the arts is funda-
mental. And right now, we are becoming
increasingly a nation of participants in the
arts.
There now are 44 million amateur mu-
sicians in the United States, more than
one in five of our population. To take a
222
second example, there are more than
5,000 amateur theatrical companies. And
these are more than mere statistics: I am
saying that the arts are not for a privileged
few, but for everybody. And the arts are
not merely sights and sounds: I believe
the arts can teach us to hear when we lis-
ten, to understand when we see, to enjoy
when we perform.
Individual, corporate, foundation,
State and local support for the arts re-
mains central to the national interaction
that gives our culture its unique vitality.
But I do believe that, as I said in Septem-
ber 1969, "the Federal Government has a
vital role as catalyst, innovator and sup-
porter of public and private efforts for
cultural development." And I am sure
that in the National Council on the Arts
and the National Endowment for the Arts
we have a national asset of worth and
luster.
I take a very special satisfaction in this
annual report. I hope you will enjoy read-
ing it. And I urge you to make it possible
for this good and bountiful work to go on.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
June 30, 1972.
NOTE: The message was delivered to the Con-
gress June 30, 1972, and the text was released
by the White House July 1.
The 129-page report is entitled "National
Endowment for the Arts and National Council
on the Arts: Annual Report-Fiscal Year
1971."
Independence Day Statement.
July 1, 1972
INDEPENDENCE DAY marks more
than the birth date of America. It marks
the beginning of one of history's greatest
and most noble adventures. Today, it con-
tinues to unfold, 196 years after that small,
brave beginning in Philadelphia where a
87-234-74—50
725
