Richard Nixon, 1972
May 15 [152]
152 Remarks at a Reception Marking the Reopening
of the Blue Room Following Its Redecoration.
May 15, 1972
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen:
It is with great regret that on this very
happy occasion, one that we hoped would
be a completely happy one, that we have
had an incident this afternoon, only 2
hours ago, that all of you are aware of.
Governor Wallace's condition, inci-
dentally, has been described as stable. I
just talked to Mrs. Wallace on the tele-
phone. She said his spirit was very good.
An operation by the very best team of
physicians in the Washington area is now
taking place, and we are all very hopeful
that it will be a successful one and that he
will be returned to good health.
I know that all Americans, whatever
their political affiliations, will not only
have him in their thoughts, but in their
prayers on this particular occasion.
On this occasion, too, I do want to ex-
press, on behalf of Mrs. Nixon and my-
self, and all Americans, a million and a
half who visit this house every year, our
appreciation to those in this room who
make the White House what it is.
I think many of you probably wonder
what our foreign visitors think of the
White House when they come here, and
perhaps I can give you an idea by telling
you how we look at the White House, we
who have traveled now to over 70 coun-
tries abroad, as compared with other
houses like it abroad.
This is not the largest. I would say most
of the residences of chief executives in
other countries, including most of the
smaller countries, are considerably larger
than the White House. This is not the
grandest. I know many that, in terms of
decoration and in style, and so forth,
would be considered to be much more
grand than the White House.
But there is something that others say
when they come here that I think will
please those of you who have helped to
make the White House what it is, whether
they are emperors or kings or prime
ministers, whatever great country or small
country they represent, however large the
house in which they may live may be.
They say, "There is something about the
White House that is different. It is that
it is a home. It is very personal. It is not
like, really, a government house."
That is quite true. I am sure you must
get this feeling as you walk through these
magnificent rooms, and I am sure that as
you take the tour today, not only on this
floor, which you helped to make, but also
on the second floor, which we have
opened up so that all of you can see the
very special rooms that only a very few
people like this can see on occasion-the
Lincoln Room, the Queen's Room, the
Treaty Room, and the rest-I am sure
that as you walk through this room you
will see why our foreign visitors say the
White House is different not because of
its size, not because of its grandeur, but
because it has a feeling of a home, a per-
sonal feeling that can only come from, I
would say,
the touch of a First Lady.
I have not known many First Ladies.
I remember the first one I met was Mrs.
591
