[388] Oct. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
calling or appeals to emotion, but on the
basis of thoughtful analysis of the alterna-
tives. That is the purpose of my talk this
afternoon.
When a President thinks of his respon-
sibilities to the American people, he must
think first of all about the need to keep
this country strong, about the need to
maintain a national defense second to
none in the world.
A President also has an obligation to
spend no more of the Nation's limited
resources on defense than is absolutely
required, because he knows there are other
urgent human needs to be met.
Today, no nation on earth is more
powerful than the United States. Not only
are our nuclear deterrent forces fully
sufficient for their role in keeping the
peace, our conventional forces also are
modern, strong, prepared, and credible
to any adversary.
During the past 4 years, however, be-
cause of the progress we have made in
bringing the Vietnam war to an honor-
able conclusion and in reducing tensions
among the great powers, we have also
been able to reduce substantially the size
of our military establishment.
We have reduced our total military
manpower by nearly one-third from the
1968 level. We have closed large num-
bers of unneeded military bases and in-
stallations. Under the Nixon Doctrine,
we have successfully persuaded our allies
to take up a greater share of the free
world defense burden than they have in
the past.
Before we took office, less than a third
of
every dollar the Federal Government
spent was devoted to human resources,
while close to half of every budget dollar
was spent for defense. Today those pro-
portions are reversed, with the military
down to a third and human resources
getting nearly a half.
Most important, all of this has been
achieved without jeopardizing our se-
curity and without betraying our allies.
But now in this campaign our oppo-
nents have proposed massive new cuts in
military spending-cuts which would
drastically slash away not just the fat but
the very muscle of our defense.
These are the specific proposals they
have made: America's strategic bomber
force would be cut by 60 percent, our
tactical air wings by 30 percent, develop-
ment of the new B-1 bomber would be
canceled.
The number of Navy warships would
be cut almost in half. Our aircraft carrier
fleet would be cut from 16 to 6. They
would cut the Marine Corps by almost
one-third. The 7th Fleet in the Far East
and the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean
would be sharply reduced and weakened.
Missile modernization programs like the
Minuteman III and the Poseidon would
be halted.
The result would be to leave America
with the second strongest army, the sec-
ond strongest navy, the second strongest
air force in the world.
Now some might ask, what is wrong
with being second? Isn't it jingoistic and
nationalistic for the United States always
to have to be number one?
The answer to that question is that the
day the United States becomes the second
strongest nation in the world, peace and
freedom will be in deadly jeopardy every-
where in the world.
We do not seek power for its own sake.
What we seek is the assurance that our
survival and that of other free nations will
never be threatened by some other nation
whose intentions are less peaceful than
1066
