[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
sought a new alignment of currency, we
raised the price of gold, as a result we
improved the competitive position of
American products in world markets.
But when we come to the fundamental
point-and this is the one you are getting
at it is very simply this: Unless the
United States is prepared to build a wall
around itself, we have to compete with
other nations in the world. Now in order
to compete with other nations in the
world, we, who pay by far the highest
wages in the world, have to be more pro-
ductive than other people in the world,
and that means that we can't afford work
stoppages that are too long.
The strike that you refer to, the long-
shoremen's strike, was one that was cer-
tainly not defensible and had enormously
negative effects on the economy of this
country.
We also, in that connection, if we are
going to be competitive, have to have a
tax structure which will encourage new
investment in capital rather than discour-
age it, and we also have to have, if I may
boldly suggest it, a recognition of the need
to respect what I call the work ethic in this
country.
Now, briefly, on all three points. With
regard to strikes of the longshoremen,
railroads, transportation generally, the
Congress of the United States has had
before it for the past 2 years a bill that
would require, in effect, compulsory
arbitration of such disputes and bring
them to a halt, and the Congress has not
acted.
I think this, of course, is a major failure
on the part of the Congress, and it is time
that we had Congressmen and Senators-
and incidentally, this is not partisan-
Democrat and Republican, that have the
courage to go down to Washington and
vote for legislation in the public interest
that will stop these transportation tieups
as we had on the docks and other places,
and I think we should get them.
Second, with regard to the competitive
position of American products in the
world, there has been a lot of talk lately
about the need for tax reform, and a great
deal of criticism of so-called tax loopholes.
I am not going to go into that in any
detail, when I have the major expert on
tax reform right here in front of me. And
it is no accident he is on my right, inciden-
tally, in this respect. [Laughter]
But I simply want to say this: One of
the loopholes is supposed to be deprecia-
tion. Another loophole is supposed to be
depletion. Now all of you here in this
State know my own position on depletion
and depreciation, and you also know that
this Administration has been subjected to
considerable criticism on the ground that
we are for big business and we are for rich
oilmen and against people.
I will tell you what we are for. What we
are for is for more jobs for America and
for American industry to be able to com-
pete abroad. Do you know where the most
efficient steel plant in the world is? It is
not in the United States. It is in Japan. Do
you know where some of the most efficient
new kinds of chemical plants in the world
are? We have some very good ones in the
United States, but the best new ones may
be in Germany.
How did this happen? It didn't happen
because our American businessmen are
less imaginative, our scientists and engi-
neers less capable. I believe we have got
the best in the world. But in both Japan
and Germany, after they had gone
through the devastation of World War II,
they adopted a tax policy in terms of the
depreciation that encouraged investment
566
