Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 4 [2]
quits trying to be number one, he ceases,
or that nation ceases, to be a great nation.
We want America to try to be number
one, and that is one of the reasons we are
doing this in this area.
Now, the second point I would like to
make is that this comes as we are ending
a very long and difficult war, and as we
enter what we hope will be a period of
negotiation and peace for the United
States.
But even that shows the importance of
what we are doing today because the
peacetime competition is going to be even
more difficult than the kind of competi-
tion we had in war.
The nations that previously were en-
gaged in war activities now are competing
with us, and competing with us very, very
hard. We welcome that. We accept com-
petition, but it means we have got to do
better. And that, of course, is why we are
able to come here for these contracts
today.
We are doing better. Costs are being cut
down. I have been talking to my old
friend Jesse Calhoun [president, National
Marine Engineers Beneficial Association]
about that problem. I have been talking,
of course, to the people in management
about that problem.
Costs have come down almost 50 per-
cent, and that means that as the costs
come down, as we build more efficient
ships, there will be more jobs and America
will get back into the position of being the
leading maritime nation of the world. We
can do it.
We can't do it without your help and
we know and I know, as I look at this
great group of people here, that we are
going to be able to do it, because we
Americans are a people who don't like to
be number two. We Americans are a
people who like to be the best in anything
that we do and that is what we are going
to do in this instance.
Finally, I would just like to leave one
thought with you. As we go forward on
these ships, I think it is interesting for you
to know that the three that are built in
this yard are the first three of this kind
ever to be built in the United States of
America, so you are doing something that
has never been done before.
The reason they have never been built
in the United States of America before is
that the United States wasn't able to com-
pete, but now we can. The better job that
you do here, now, on these ships, the more
opportunities we are going to have to have
more jobs like this in the future.
VOICE FROM THE CROWD. We can do it.
THE PRESIDENT. You bet you can.
And So, I simply want to conclude with
a very old story, one that many of you,
I am sure, have heard.
During the Middle Ages, two stone-
masons were asked what they were doing
as they were working on their jobs. One
looked down, and he said, "I'm shaping
stones." And the other looked up, and he
said, "I'm building a cathedral."
And today, all of the thousands of men
and women here are going to be doing
jobs, and you can look down at that job—
it is important, of course, just for the sake
of what it is doing, what it produces in
the way of an income and the rest.
But I hope all of you, from time to time,
look up, and say, "I'm not just building a
ship; I'm building America. I am making
sure my country is going to be number
one insofar as its merchant marine is
concerned."
Thank you.
19
