Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 9 [294]
can to keep the interests of the small
college up front as well as, of course,
the interests of the large universities, both
of which deserve our support.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
1:15 p.m. at Wilkes College, Wilkes-Barre,
Pa. He spoke without referring to notes.
Francis J. Michelini was president of the
college. Frank C. Carlucci, Deputy Director,
Office of Management and Budget, coordinated
Federal disaster relief activities in Pennsylvania.
294 Remarks in Kingston, Pennsylvania, Following
Inspection of Damage Caused by Tropical
Storm Agnes. September 9, 1972
I APPRECIATE the opportunity to
meet so many of you on this visit to
Wilkes-Barre, and also to express appreci-
ation to those in government who are
working here and particularly to Frank
Carlucci, who symbolizes the Govern-
ment effort.
He came, of course, from Wilkes-Barre.
He is a strong man. He is a very intelligent
man and he cares about people. I think
what I like about his effort most of all is
that he has personalized the Government.
You know, you usually think of the
Government and all that money that it
has and all the agencies-there is HUD,
and then there is HEW, and all those
initials. But in Frank Carlucci you see
a man who cares. He talks to every indi-
vidual person. That is what we want your
Government to be, one that cares about
each of you individually.
Now, I also realize that as we look at
this effort here that a lot remains to be
done. This has been a devastating flood.
I saw what happened in Harrisburg when
I visited right after the floods. I have had
an opportunity to see what the situation
is here, months after the floods have oc-
curred. I know that as I drove through
the business district and through the resi-
dential district that so many places of
business, so many houses, still remain to
be rebuilt. And as a result many are liv-
ing in these Government facilities, the
trailers, the mobile homes that we have
just looked at.
you
Let me just give one thought to the
people here, perhaps from a bigger view-
point. Sometimes when something terrible
happens in your life, your home is washed
away or something like that, you tend to
just think about your own problems and
lose sight of the bigger picture. You
lose your spirit and you lose your hope.
The most important thing as far as Wilkes-
Barre, Kingston, all these areas are con-
cerned, is what you feel in your hearts
about your future and the future of your
town and the future of your State and
the future of your country.
I have seen a lot of devastation in my
travels around the world. For example,
we all have heard of San Francisco as
being one of the most beautiful cities in
the world. In fact, foreign diplomats, they
all want to go to San Francisco, the most
beautiful city. Yet, it was only 60 years
ago that San Francisco was almost totally
destroyed by an earthquake and a fire.
Then they rebuilt it and they rebuilt it
until it was more beautiful than ever.
Today everybody goes to San Francisco
to see that beautiful city.
It isn't just in America that you see
863
