[385] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
385 Informal Remarks in Warren, Ohio.
October 28, 1972
Mr. Mayor, and Congressman Stanton,
Mrs. Stanton, Senator Taft:
I want you to know that as we complete
our motorcade of the State of Ohio that
it is a very great privilege for us to be here
in Warren again.
I just told the mayor that I remember
being in Warren in 1952, 1956, 1960. In
all of those years we won. We are here in
'72, and we think Warren is our lucky
city in Ohio.
Also, I just gave the mayor a pen, one
of the White House pens, and the revenue
sharing bill that Bill Stanton, your Con-
gressman, worked so hard for in the
House, that we just signed, will soon be
here in Warren, and he is going to use it
to hire back some police and firemen they
had to lay off. So Warren is going to be a
greater city because of revenue sharing.
Most important of all, we want you to
know that as we go through this campaign
that we are glad we are here at a time
that we have made a very significant
breakthrough in bringing peace in Viet-
nam and building peace in the world.
And so, to all of you, we wish you the
best next week. And vote on election day.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in
Warren where he made a brief stop during
his motorcade through eastern Ohio.
Arthur Richards was the mayor of Warren.
386 Campaign Statement About Federal Spending.
October 28, 1972
THE NUMBER ONE domestic issue of
this election is the right of the working
men and women of America to keep most
of what they earn to spend as they choose,
rather than seeing half of their earnings
or more taxed away and given to some-
one else by bureaucrats in Washington.
A few politicians have called for huge
new spending programs which would add
as much as $150 billion to the Federal
budget and would require the biggest tax
increase in American history.
I have pledged to hold the line on taxes
in 1973 and throughout my second term
as President, assuming cooperation from
the Congress.
I am committed to resisting with all the
powers at my command any Federal
spending which would confront us with
the unacceptable choice between higher
taxes, which would take more of the
worker's paycheck, and renewed inflation,
which would erode the buying power of
that paycheck.
That is why I asked the Congress to
place a $250 billion ceiling on Federal
spending in the current fiscal year-which
it refused to do. That is why I vetoed a
number of budget-breaking money bills
yesterday.
If we can succeed in keeping taxes from
going any higher, and if we can continue
gaining ground in the fight against rising
prices a fight which has cut the rate of
inflation almost in half since 1969-then
we can have the kind of vibrant, prosper-
1062
