Richard Nixon, 1972
May 18 [158]
Education, and Welfare would be em-
powered by the Act to approve the trans-
fer of up to 25 percent of any existing
program's funds into any other purpose
or programs involved in an approved
local allied service plan-a logical flexi-
bility now hindered by Federal program
regulations.
The Secretary also could provide a
waiver of any existing program regulation
which barred or hampered an existing
program from participating in such
activity.
The Allied Services Act charts a new
course for the delivery of social services.
It is a complex reform proposal with many
major ramifications for many established
groups-government and private-on the
Federal, State, and local levels.
The consideration and eventual passage
of this legislation by the Congress would
only be a start. At the same time, human
service delivery reform would have to be
debated all across the country by affected
governments and groups, in order to de-
cide how they would make best use of the
proposed freedoms and incentives in their
particular areas.
This is one more effort by my Adminis-
tration to make government more sensible,
more responsive and more effective at the
local level-where most citizens actually
meet the practical impact of government.
In this important proposal, as in my rec-
ommendations for Revenue Sharing, we
would summon forth the creative energies
and the local expertise of State and local
officials, rather than keeping them
strapped in a straitjacket of inflexible
Federal regulations.
They would be freed-and thus would
be challenged to direct the development
of customized comprehensive social serv-
ices plans to treat the special needs, re-
sources and desires of their particular
areas.
Such efforts should result in govern-
ment built for people, geared for across-
the-board performance, and designed for
results rather than bureaucratic ritual.
If we bring this about, we shall not only
be providing better social services-we
also shall be taking a giant step toward
the restoration of the people's confidence
in the common sense performance of their
government.
The White House,
May 18, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The proposed Allied Services Act of
1972 was introduced as H.R. 15856, H.R.
15857, and S. 3643.
On May 18, 1972, the White House released
a fact sheet on the provisions of the proposed
legislation and the transcript of a news briefing
by Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Elliot L. Richardson on the President's message.
158 Statement About Increased Attention to the Arts
and Design in Enhancing Federal Buildings and
Publications. May 18, 1972
ONE YEAR ago I asked the heads of 63
Federal agencies to determine ways by
which their agencies could more vigor-
ously assist the arts and, in turn, how the
arts might be used to enhance their pro-
grams. The response to that request has
601
