[147] May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
bring peace. Their answer to every peace
offer we have made has been to escalate
the war.
In the 2 weeks alone since I offered to
resume negotiations, Hanoi has launched
three new military offensives in South
Vietnam. In those 2 weeks the risk that a
Communist government may be imposed
on the 17 million people of South Viet-
nam has increased, and the Communist
offensive has now reached the point that
it gravely threatens the lives of 60,000
American troops who are still in Vietnam.
There are only two issues left for us in
this war. First, in the face of a massive
invasion do we stand by, jeopardize the
lives of 60,000 Americans, and leave the
South Vietnamese to a long night of ter-
ror? This will not happen. We shall do
whatever is required to safeguard Ameri-
can lives and American honor.
Second, in the face of complete intran-
sigence at the conference table do we join
with our enemy to install a Communist
government in South Vietnam? This, too,
will not happen. We will not cross the
line from generosity to treachery.
We now have a clear, hard choice
among three courses of action: Immedi-
ate withdrawal of all American forces,
continued attempts at negotiation, or de-
cisive military action to end the war.
I know that many Americans favor the
first course of action, immediate with-
drawal. They believe the way to end the
war is for the United States to get out,
and to remove the threat to our remain-
ing forces by simply withdrawing them.
From a political standpoint, this would
be a very easy choice for me to accept.
After all, I did not send over one-half
million Americans to Vietnam. I have
brought 500,000 men home from Viet-
nam since I took office. But, abandoning
our commitment in Vietnam here and
now would mean turning 17 million South
Vietnamese over to Communist tyranny
and terror. It would mean leaving hun-
dreds of American prisoners in Com-
munist hands with no bargaining leverage
to get them released.
An American defeat in Vietnam would
encourage this kind of aggression all over
the world, aggression in which smaller
nations armed by their major allies, could
be tempted to attack neighboring nations
at will in the Mideast, in Europe, and
other areas. World peace would be in
grave jeopardy.
The second course of action is to keep
on trying to negotiate a settlement. Now
this is the course we have preferred from
the beginning and we shall continue to
pursue it. We want to negotiate, but we
have made every reasonable offer and
tried every possible path for ending this
war at the conference table.
The problem is, as you all know, it
takes two to negotiate and now, as
throughout the past 4 years, the North
Vietnamese arrogantly refuse to negotiate
anything but an imposition, an ultimatum
that the United States impose a Commu-
nist regime on 17 million people in South
Vietnam who do not want a Communist
government.
It is plain then that what appears to be
a choice among three courses of action for
the United States is really no choice at all.
The killing in this tragic war must stop.
By simply getting out, we would only
worsen the bloodshed. By relying solely on
negotiations, we would give an intran-
sigent enemy the time he needs to press his
aggression on the battlefield.
There is only one way to stop the killing.
584
