Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 27 [72]
journalism, in which people-to-people
contacts and exchanges would be mutually
beneficial. Each side undertakes to facili-
tate the further development of such
contacts and exchanges.
Both sides view bilateral trade as an-
other area from which mutual benefit can
be derived, and agreed that economic re-
lations based on equality and mutual ben-
efit are in the interest of the people of the
two countries. They agree to facilitate
the progressive development of trade be-
tween their two countries.
The two sides agreed that they will stay
in contact through various channels, in-
cluding the sending of a senior U.S. rep-
resentative to Peking from time to time for
concrete consultations to further the nor-
malization of relations between the two
countries and continue to exchange views
on issues of common interest.
The two sides expressed the hope that
the gains achieved during this visit would
open up new prospects for the relations
between the two countries. They believe
that the normalization of relations be-
tween the two countries is not only in the
interest of the Chinese and American
peoples but also contributes to the relaxa-
72 Toasts of the President and
at a Banquet in Shanghai.
Mr. Prime Minister, Chairman Chang,
and our Chinese and American friends:
This magnificent banquet marks the
end of our stay in the People's Republic
of China. We have been here a week. This
was the week that changed the world.
As we look back over this week, we
think of the boundless hospitality that has
been extended to all of us by our Chinese
friends.
tion of tension in Asia and the world.
President Nixon, Mrs. Nixon and the
American party expressed their apprecia-
tion for the gracious hospitality shown
them by the Government and people of
the People's Republic of China.
NOTE: The joint statement was released at
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
On the same day, the White House released
a statement by Press Secretary Ronald L. Zieg-
ler and the transcript of a news briefing on the
joint statement. Participants in the news brief-
ing were Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, and
Marshall Green, Assistant Secretary of State for
East Asian and Pacific Affairs. The statement
and the transcript are printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
8, pp. 480 and 476).
On February 14, 1972, the White House re-
leased a statement by Press Secretary Ziegler
on further relaxation of trade with the People's
Republic of China. The statement is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 8, p. 438).
On February 21, the White House released
a statement and the transcript of a news
briefing by Press Secretary Ziegler on the Presi-
dent's meeting with Chairman Mao Tse-tung.
The statement is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8,
p. 466).
Chairman Chang Ch'un-ch'iao
February 27, 1972
We have, today, seen the progress of
modern China. We have seen the match-
less wonders of ancient China. We have
seen also the beauty of the countryside,
the vibrancy of a great city, Shanghai. All
this we enjoyed enormously.
But most important was the fact that
we had the opportunity to have talks with
Chairman Mao, with Prime Minister
Chou En-lai, with the Foreign Minister
379
