Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 8 [342]
[Following the presentation of the award and
Mr. Fosco's response, the President resumed
speaking.]
Now, ladies and gentlemen, if I may
take just a little of your time to pay my
own special tribute to the organizations
that are represented here, and also to the
day that will be celebrated all day tomor-
row, Columbus Day. May I speak of what
that day means to America. May I speak
also of what the Italian heritage means to
America.
In speaking to you on this occasion, I,
of course, could mention a number of
areas in which people of Italian back-
ground have contributed to the greatness
of this country. For example, in the field
of government, the man on my right, Sec-
retary Volpe. There are others. We have
honored one of the top labor leaders
of America, he, of course, of Italian
background.
But whatever area you pick, whether in
the area of business or politics or labor,
you will find that those of Italian back-
ground have made their way to the top,
and they are justly honored. It seemed to
me quite appropriate that your program
last year was at the Kennedy Center and
that opera stars from all over the world
were brought there, because everyone
knows not only of the Italian contribu-
tion to America but to the world, in the
field of music.
John Volpe suggested that perhaps
some of you in this great audience might
not know that that band that you have
heard tonight is also one that we owe to
our Italian background. When Thomas
Jefferson was first trying to get an appro-
priate band for the White House, he
found that there were not enough good
musicians in the then new Capital of the
United States, and so he, who had traveled
much in the world, sent people to Italy.
They recruited Italians to come to join
the Marines, and the Marine Band came
from Italy. Now, if any of you think that
that story is apocryphal just for this occa-
sion, I can tell you something that I know
has been checked historically, as has that
story, and that is that over one-half of all
of the leaders of this distinguished band,
which is called the President's Band--it
is the one that always plays in the White
House-over one-half of them, over 180
years, have been men of Italian back-
ground. So it is the President's Band.
While I will not have the opportunity
to hear Connie Francis 2 tonight, she has
been honored and has honored the White
House by singing there.
But when we describe professions, the
profession of politics, labor leaders, busi-
ness, music, and the like, we could, of
course, describe various groups who have
contributed to the greatness of America.
Let me indicate to you some other factors
that I think more closely touch the sub-
ject in which we are all interested to-
night, what those of Italian background
have contributed to this country over the
years.
When we honor Peter Fosco, we see one
of those factors very clearly, and that is,
putting it quite bluntly, hard work.
Italian immigrants came to this country
by the hundreds of thousands, and then
by the millions. They came here not ask-
ing for something, asking only for the
opportunity to work. They have worked
and they have built.
I think it can truly be said that they,
along with many other groups who have
come from all over the world to America,
* Popular recording artist who presented a
program of songs later in the evening.
969
