[178] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
For these purposes the two Sides signed
an agreement for cooperation in the fields
of science and technology.3 A US-Soviet
Joint Commission on Scientific and Tech-
nical Cooperation will be created for
identifying and establishing cooperative
programs.
COOPERATION IN SPACE
Having in mind the role played by the
US and the USSR in the peaceful explora-
tion of outer space, both Sides emphasized
the importance of further bilateral co-
operation in this sphere. In order to
increase the safety of man's flights in outer
space and the future prospects of joint
scientific experiments, the two Sides
agreed to make suitable arrangements to
permit the docking of American and So-
viet spacecraft and stations. The first
joint docking experiment of the two coun-
tries' piloted spacecraft, with visits by
astronauts and cosmonauts to each other's
spacecraft, is contemplated for 1975. The
planning and implementation of this
flight will be carried out by the US Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
The text of the agreement on science and
technology is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 921).
On May 24, the White House released fact
sheets and the transcript of a news briefing on
the science and technology agreement, as well
as the agreement on cooperation in space. Par-
ticipants in the news briefing were Vladimir
Kirillin, Soviet Chairman, Committee for Sci-
ence and Technology, and Soviet Academician
Boris Petrov.
The text of the agreement on cooperation
in space is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 920).
tion and the USSR Academy of Sciences,
according to principles and procedures
developed through mutual consultations.
COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF HEALTH
The two Sides concluded an agree-
ment on health cooperation which marks
a fruitful beginning of sharing knowledge
about, and collaborative attacks on, the
common enemies, disease and disability.5
The initial research efforts of the program
will concentrate on health problems im-
portant to the whole world-cancer, heart
diseases, and the environmental health
sciences. This cooperation subsequently
will be broadened to include other health
problems of mutual interest. The two Sides
pledged their full support for the health
cooperation program and agreed to con-
tinue the active participation of the two
governments in the work of international
organizations in the health field.
ENVIRONMENTAL COOPERATION
The two Sides agreed to initiate a pro-
gram of cooperation in the protection and
The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 919). On May 23, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcripts of two
news briefings on the agreement. Participants
in the first news briefing were Elliot L. Rich-
ardson, Secretary, Dr. Merlin K. DuVal, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary for Health and Scientific
Affairs, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare; and Dr. Roger O. Egeberg, Special
Consultant to the President; and, in the sec-
ond, were Boris V. Petrovsky, Soviet Minister
of Health, and Dgermen Gvishiany, Soviet
Deputy Chief, Committee for Science and
Technology.
638
