Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [49]
the long months of debate, the final prod-
uct adds significant additional restrictions
and limitations to those already in law
which have hampered the efficient admin-
istration of foreign aid and the effective
conduct of foreign affairs.
The foreign assistance programs of the
United States constitute a fundamental
element of our strategy for peace. While
these programs have had a troubled his-
tory and have sometimes been unpopular,
their role in maintaining the security of
our Nation is indispensable. I call upon
this session of the 92d Congress to restore
a comprehensive security and develop-
ment assistance program through legisla-
tion equal to the challenges and the op-
portunities for peace which lie before us.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2819 is Public Law 92-
226 (86 Stat. 20).
49 Remarks to the White House Conference on the
"Industrial World Ahead: A Look at Business
in 1990." February 7, 1972
Secretary Stans, members of the Cabinet,
all of the distinguished guests here at this
Conference:
After that rather lengthy introduction,
I shall try to respond in kind. I was ex-
pecting that Maurice Stans, my longtime
friend from Washington, California, and
now Washington days, would perhaps find
something he could say. [Laughter]
Could I just say a word, however, about
him? As you probably have noted in the
press-and this report in the press is
accurate [laughter]-Secretary Stans is
completing his service as Secretary of
Commerce and then will be taking on a
new position. Since this is a nonpartisan
group, he is going to be the chancellor of
the exchequer of one of the two major
parties.
But I think all of you should know that
the idea of this Conference, the concept,
was his. He has been a splendid Secretary
of Commerce in this Administration. In
so many fields that are not well known,
like minority business enterprise and
others, he has done an outstanding job. He
is a man, pragmatist though he is, who has
vision, who sees the future. I remember
his coming to me many, many months
ago, talking about this Conference, devel-
oping its concepts.
I cannot think of any more effective
way that a man could leave the position
of Secretary of Commerce on a higher
note than a conference of this type, which
was his idea.
I appreciate the fact that all of you-
representatives of business, representatives
of labor and of government-have par-
ticipated in the Conference, and will be
doing so in the next 2 days.
My remarks today, I am sure, will be
somewhat anticlimactic after some of the
things you
heard this morning about the
future of the United States and what it
holds. Perhaps I can put that future, how-
ever, in the context of the world I under-
stand best, the context of politics in its
broadest sense, of world politics, and then,
of course, relate it to the problems of
American business and American labor.
In the current issue of Fortune, the story
is told of three men on a desert island who
spotted a tidal wave headed their way.
The first man decided to use the time re-
maining on wine, women, and song. The
167
