Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 30 [393]
Health, Education and Welfare has since
appointed a new Technical Advisory
Committee for Aging Research to develop
a plan for bringing together all the re-
sources available to the Federal Govern-
ment in the aging research field.
H.R. 14424, however, would set up an
entirely separate aging research institute
that would duplicate these activities. This
bill would create additional administra-
tive costs without enhancing the conduct
of biomedical research for the aging. In
fact, it could even fragment existing re-
search efforts. This bill also contains a
new grant program for mental health fa-
cilities for the aging which duplicates the
more general and flexible authorities
contained in the Community Mental
Health Centers Act.
In sum, I feel that both research and
mental health programs for the aging
should be carried out in the broader con-
text of research on life-span processes and
comprehensive mental health treatment
programs now underway.
H.R. 14424 would not enhance and
could inhibit Federal efforts to respond
to the needs of the elderly, and I cannot
give it my approval.
The White House,
October 30, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
392 Statement About the Commuter Train Wreck in
Chicago. October 30, 1972
I WANT to express my deepest sympathy
and concern over the tragic accident in
Chicago this morning which has cost so
many lives and inflicted so much suffer-
ing. The heart of the Nation goes out to
the victims of this tragedy and to the
people of Chicago.
NOTE: The statement was read by Press Sec-
retary Ronald L. Ziegler during his regular
news briefing at the White House on Octo-
ber 30, 1972.
An Illinois Central commuter train traveling
toward the downtown area crashed into the
rear of another train at Chicago's 27th Street
Station, killing at least 44 persons and injur-
ing over 300.
Mr. Ziegler announced that the President,
shortly after the accident, dispatched Secre-
tary of Transportation John A. Volpe to Chi-
cago to survey the damage firsthand. In addi-
tion, Mr. Ziegler said that because of the
tragedy, the President had canceled plans to
visit Chicago on Tuesday, October 31. The
visit was later rescheduled for Friday,
November 3.
393 Radio Address on Older Americans.
October 30, 1972
Good afternoon:
A President signs many bills, but one
that I signed today gave me special satis-
faction because of the enormous impact
it can have on the lives of millions of
individual Americans.
I refer to the legislation known as
H.R. I-and especially to its provisions
for helping older Americans.ยน Many of
these provisions grew out of recommenda-
ยน See Item 389.
1075
