Richard Nixon, 1972
June 1 [188]
high in the spring breeze above Moscow's
ancient Kremlin fortress.
To millions of Americans for the past
quarter century the Kremlin has stood for
implacable hostility toward all that we
cherish, and to millions of Russians the
American flag has long been held up as a
symbol of evil. No one would have be-
lieved, even a short time ago, that these
two apparently irreconcilable symbols
would be seen together as we saw them for
those few days.
But this does not mean that we bring
back from Moscow the promise of instant
peace, but we do bring the beginning of
a process that can lead to a lasting peace.
And that is why I have taken the extraor-
dinary action of requesting this special
joint session of the Congress because
we have before us an extraordinary
opportunity.
I have not come here this evening to
make new announcements in a dramatic
setting. This summit has already made its
news. It has barely begun, however, to
make its mark on our world, and I ask
to join me tonight-while events are fresh,
while the iron is hot-in starting to con-
sider how we can help to make that mark
what we want it to be.
you
The foundation has been laid for a new
relationship between the two most power-
ful nations in the world. Now it is up to
us-to all of us here in this Chamber, to
all of us across America-to join with
other nations in building a new house
upon that foundation, one that can be a
home for the hopes of mankind and a
shelter against the storms of conflict.
As a preliminary, therefore, to request-
ing your concurrence in some of the
agree-
ments we reached and your approval of
funds to carry out others, and also as a
keynote for the unity in which this Gov-
ernment and this Nation must go forward
from here, I am rendering this immediate
report to the Congress on the results of
the Moscow summit.
The pattern of U.S.-Soviet summit
diplomacy in the cold war era is well
known to all those in this Chamber. One
meeting after another produced a brief
euphoric mood-the spirit of Geneva, the
spirit of Camp David, the spirit of Vienna,
the spirit of Glassboro-but without pro-
ducing significant progress on the really
difficult issues.
And so early in this Administration I
stated that the prospect of concrete re-
sults, not atmospherics, would be our
criterion for meetings at the highest level.
I also announced our intention to pursue
negotiations with the Soviet Union across
a broad front of related issues, with the
purpose of creating a momentum of
achievement in which progress in one area
could contribute to progress in others.
This is the basis on which we prepared
for and conducted last week's talks. This
was a working summit. We sought to
establish not a superficial spirit of Mos-
cow, but a solid record of progress on
solving the difficult issues which for so
long have divided our two nations and
also have divided the world. Reviewing
the number and the scope of agreements
that emerged, I think we have accom-
plished that goal.
Recognizing the responsibility of the
advanced industrial nations to set an ex-
ample in combatting mankind's common
enemies, the United States and the Soviet
Union have agreed to cooperate in efforts
to reduce pollution and enhance environ-
mental quality. We have agreed to work
together in the field of medical science
and public health, particularly in the con-
quest of cancer and heart disease.
87-234-74-46
661
