Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 15 [123]
whose ways are the ways of freedom,
whose works are the works of peace."
The truth to which that inscription
testifies is of profound importance to peo-
ple everywhere in this world.
For the ability of our two nations,
Canada and the United States, to preserve
the frontiers of friendship, to walk in the
ways of freedom, and to pursue the works
of peace provides example and encourage-
ment to all who seek those same objectives,
wherever they may live.
There is nothing more exciting than a
time of new beginnings. A member of this
body caught that spirit when he spoke in
Parliament about the beginnings of
Canadian nationhood 100 years ago. Lis-
ten to him: "Blood pulsed in our veins,
new hopes fired our hearts, new horizons
lifted and widened, new visions came to
us in the night watches."
May that same sense of excitement in-
spire our two nations as we help lead the
world to new beginnings today.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:19 p.m. in the
House of Commons in Ottawa.
He spoke from a prepared text. An advance
text of his address was released on the same
day.
123 Remarks on Signing the Great Lakes Water Quality
Agreement Between the United States and Canada.
April 15, 1972
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Foreign Minis-
ter, Your Excellencies, ladies and
gentlemen:
In responding to the remarks of the
Prime Minister, I particularly wish to ex-
press at this occasion our grateful appre-
ciation for the warm reception that we
have received here. And after having been
here for the first time on a state visit, I can
only say that we hope that we can return,
either on that kind of visit or another kind
of visit. Of course, I do not have control
over which kind of visit it will be.
When the first European explorers
sailed the Great Lakes three centuries ago,
they were deeply moved by the Lakes'
striking beauty and boundless promise.
And from that time to this, generation
after generation of Canadians and Ameri-
cans have looked upon the Great Lakes as
great highways to the future for both of
our countries.
But in recent years, as we know, the
quality of the Great Lakes' water has been
declining, with ominous implications for
30 million Americans and 7 million
Canadians who live near their shores.
The signing today of the Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement represents a
significant step toward reversing that
decline. This agreement extends a great
tradition of cooperation between the
United States and Canada. Just as the
St. Lawrence Seaway transformed the
Great Lakes into highways of peaceful
commerce among nations, so the Great
Lakes Water Quality Agreement can make
them great symbols of international co-
operation as man makes his peace with
nature.
This agreement represents an impor-
tant beginning, one which has been made
possible by the cooperation of our two
national governments and of State and
Provincial governments as well. And now
we must all follow through on the begin-
541
