Appendix E
The President is also pleased that a man of
James Schlesinger's background and ability is
available to succeed Mr. Helms as Director of
Central Intelligence. Mr. Schlesinger has been
Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission
since August of 1971. Before that, he served
in the Office of Management and Budget and
in its predecessor organization, the Bureau of
the Budget. As an Assistant Director of these
units, he was responsible for national security
and international programs.
Mr. Schlesinger came to the Federal Govern-
ment in 1969 from the Rand Corporation,
where he was director of strategic studies. Be-
fore that, he was a professor at the University
of Virginia from 1955 to 1963. I should men-
tion that Mr. Schlesinger met with the Presi-
dent at Camp David on November 21.
The President has also asked me to tell you
this morning that he is accepting with very
special regret the resignation of David Abshire
as Assistant Secretary of State for Congres-
sional Relations. Mr. Abshire plans to return
to Georgetown University as chairman and
executive director of the Center for Strategic
and International Studies. The President com-
mends his excellent performance and outstand-
ing abilities, and is grateful for his service in
the State Department over the past years.
The President also wanted to announce to-
day that he has asked David Abshire to be his
first appointee to the newly created Commis-
sion on the Organization of the Government for
the Conduct of Foreign Policy, a commission
which you are all familiar with.
The Commission to which David Abshire will
be the first appointee was created by law on
July 13, 1972, to make a broad review of the
Government's foreign policy machinery. The
President was grateful that Assistant Secretary
Abshire has agreed to serve as a member. The
Commission will ultimately be composed of 12
members, two public and two Government ap-
pointees of the President, four appointees of
the President of the Senate, and four ap-
pointees of the Speaker of the House.
As I mentioned, the Commission was estab-
lished by Public Law 92-352 on July 13, 1972,
and is due to report its findings to the Presi-
dent and to the Congress by June 30, 1974.
Announcing Further Decisions on Personnel
for the Second Term
December 22, 1972
We have several announcements for you
today relating to the second term and the
planning for the second term. Continuing the
announcements we have made, or have been
making, in recent days about key diplomatic
posts and Ambassadorships in the second term,
the President has asked me to announce that
he intends to nominate John N. Irwin II, to be
United States Ambassador to France, succeed-
ing Arthur K. Watson, who returned to pri-
vate life in October.
John Irwin has served with distinction as
second in command of the United States De-
partment of State for more than 2 years, having
joined the Administration as Under Secretary
of State in September of 1970 and assuming
the title of Deputy Secretary when the name
of that position was changed by statute last
summer. John Irwin had previously served as
a sub-Cabinet officer in the Defense Depart-
ment as Assistant Secretary for International
Security Affairs from 1958 to 1961.
We will have a complete biography of John
Irwin available for you after the briefing, but
I would like to say that the President, in asking
John Irwin to undertake his new assignment
overseas, commended him on the outstanding
service he has rendered to the Administration
and to the country during his tenure at the
State Department. I think all of you know that
the President considers the post of Ambassador
to France one of the most important positions
abroad, and one of the most important posi-
tions in Europe.
President Nixon considers Ambassador-
designate Irwin to be extremely qualified to
carry out these responsibilities.
Also today, the President has asked me to
announce the fact that he is accepting with
deep appreciation for his contributions the
resignation of William W. Scranton as a mem-
ber of the Price Commission. Governor Scran-
ton has been a member of the Price Commission
since its beginning in October of 1971. When
Governor Scranton took on this new assign-
E-24
