[352] Oct. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
campaign. That will be very interesting.
The last 3 weeks are always the most im-
portant weeks of a campaign. The British
have a much better system, incidentally,
speaking as one who has campaigned, go-
ing back 25 years, virtually every 2 years.
Our campaigns seem to go on all the
time, and traditionally they last 8 weeks,
12 weeks, even 3 or 4 months. By the
time the campaigns reach this stage, the
candidates are tired and the people also
are a bit tired.
The British, as you know-and many
of you come from the parliamentary sys-
tems-have rules whereby they call an
election and the campaign is only 3 weeks.
But in reality let me tell you, in ob-
serving the American political scene, the
last 3 weeks are the most important, be-
cause that is when the people are listen-
ing, that is when the people are going to
make up their minds.
So as you travel around the country,
as you observe the candidates of the
various parties for the House, for the
Senate, for Governor, and, of course, for
the Presidency and the Vice Presidency,
you are here at the time when many im-
portant decisions, as far as voters are con-
cerned, will be made.
In looking at our political scene, I do
not suggest that each of you in your coun-
try should have the same system, because
the hallmark of freedom is diversity. We
have different backgrounds. We have dif-
353
ferent governments. A parliamentary sys-
tem is different from the kind of system
that we have in the United States. The
kind of system you have in France is dif-
ferent from that in the United States. And
yet, freedom flourishes in Britain, in
France, in the United States, and in coun-
tries that have our kinds of systems of
those free countries all over the world.
I will simply conclude by saying that we
welcome you here very warmly, because
we are always glad to have visitors from
abroad. Particularly, I am glad to have
visitors from countries where I have been
so warmly received, along with my wife,
going back over 25 years.
And second, we wish you well in your
work for the men and women, the work-
ing men and women of your countries.
And third, we hope that as you travel the
United States over these next 3 weeks you
will enjoy it, you will go back, that you
will enter politics, and that all of you will
win all of your elections in all the years
ahead.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:22 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
He spoke without referring to notes. The labor
leaders from 24 countries were in the United
States to study the national elections in an
exchange program sponsored by the Depart-
ment of State and the AFL-CIO.
George P. Shultz was Secretary of the Treas-
ury, and Lane Kirkland was secretary-treas-
urer of the AFL-CIO.
Veto of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972.
To the Senate of the United States:
The pollution of our rivers, lakes and
streams degrades the quality of American
life. Cleaning up the Nation's waterways
October
October 17, 1972
is a matter of urgent concern to me, as
evidenced by the nearly tenfold increase
in my budget for this purpose during the
past four years.
990
