Appendix B
June
27 The President today transmitted to the
Congress a proposed supplemental appro-
priation for fiscal year 1972 for $100 mil-
lion for disaster relief. The funds would be
used for relief to areas devastated by Trop-
ical Storm Agnes and other major recent
disasters.
27 The White House announced that Vice
President Agnew, at the President's request,
would leave on June 28 for a 2-day fact-
finding mission to check on conditions and
disaster relief efforts in three of the hard-
est hit areas in the Northeast: Ellicott City,
Md., Richmond, Va., and Elmira, N.Y.
27 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
reception in the Blue Room for 200 radio
and television news anchormen and radio
personalities and their wives who were at-
tending briefings by Administration officials.
30 The President met with the Cost of Living
Council and directed the Council to eval-
uate all steps which might be taken to
insure adequate food supplies at reason-
able prices. At his direction, Council mem-
bers will meet with chain store and dis-
tribution groups, food processors, farmer
and producer organizations, and interna-
tional food exporters, and Secretary of La-
bor James D. Hodgson will meet with food
industry labor organizations.
30 The President met at the White House
with Ambassador Emil Mosbacher to ex-
press his appreciation for the efforts of
the Ambassador and Mrs. Mosbacher dur-
ing the Ambassador's tenure as Chief of
Protocol. Ambassador Mosbacher's resig-
nation is effective June 30.
July
I The President met with leaders of six ma-
jor vocational-educational organizations,
the Vocational Industrial Clubs of America,
National Advisory Council on Vocational
Education, Office Education Association,
Future Homemakers of America, Future
Business Leaders of America, and Future
Farmers of America.
July
I The President has directed Secretary of
Labor James D. Hodgson, Secretary of
Commerce Peter G. Peterson, George A.
Lincoln, Director, Office of Emergency
Preparedness, and Anthony G. Chase, Dep-
uty Administrator, Small Business Admin-
istration, to make a factfinding trip to the
flood-stricken areas of New York and Penn-
sylvania to determine flood impact on jobs
and business. Departing on Monday,
July 3, they will visit Harrisburg and
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and the Corning-Elmira,
N.Y., areas.
6 Maj. Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Deputy
Assistant to the President for National Se-
curity Affairs, and Sir Robert Grainger Ker
Thompson, British expert on Indochina,
met with the President at the Western
White House to report on their recent visits
to South Vietnam.
6 The White House announced that the
President has sent a message of congratu-
lations to Japan's new Prime Minister,
Kakuei Tanaka.
6 The President met at the Western White
House with Clark MacGregor, who has
resigned from the White House Staff, and
William E. Timmons, who succeeds Mr.
MacGregor as Assistant to the President
for Congressional Relations.
7 The President met at the Western White
House with George P. Shultz, Secretary
of the Treasury and Chairman, Cost of
Living Council, Virginia H. Knauer, Spe-
cial Assistant to the President for Consumer
Affairs and a member of the Council, and
Herbert Stein, Chairman, Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers. Secretary Shultz reported
on his series of meetings with food indus-
try representatives, and Dr. Stein discussed
unemployment figures and the Wholesale
Price Index.
7 French National Defense Minister Michel
Debré and French Ambassador Jacques
Kosciusko-Morizet met with the President
at the Western White House.
B-II
