[207] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
times get irritated with us for our dumb.
and flabby questions so-called?
THE PRESIDENT. You are not dumb and
flabby. [Laughter] No, I noted that com-
ment and expected a question on it. I am
afraid if I begin to characterize the ques-
tions, you will begin to characterize my
answers, but you probably will anyway.
In any event, as far as questions are con-
cerned, I think what Mr. Ehrlichman was
referring to was the tendency in the big
East Room conferences for questions to
come in from all over the place and no
followup, as there can be in a conference
like this.
Sometimes the questions may appear
somewhat less relevant. I have found, for
example-although we do not rule out
the big conference where everybody gets
to come-I have found that these smaller
sessions do provide an opportunity for
members of the regular White House
press, who study these issues day by day
and who know what is relevant and what
is not relevant and who can follow up, I
think that the possibility of dumb and
flabby questions is much less and I don't,
frankly, complain about it.
The other point that I should make
is this: In looking over the transcripts of
various press conferences, I have not seen
many softballs, and I don't want any be-
cause it is only the hardball that you can
hit or strike out on.
WELFARE BILL
[5] Q. Mr. President, how badly do
you want a welfare bill to pass Congress
and how much are you willing to compro-
mise either on the principles or the price
tag of H.R. 1?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, I
have been having a number of meetings on
this matter over the past week and I will
expect to have more during the next week
and after the Congress returns from its
vacation in Miami.
But, whatever the case may be, looking
at the welfare program, I believe that the
position that we have taken, a position
that has been overwhelmingly approved
by the House, is the right position.
It provides for welfare for those who
need it. It provides also for those incen-
tives that will move people from welfare
rolls to jobs, and it does so at a cost we
can afford. And all of those matters, I
think, have to be taken into consideration
in any program that we recommend.
Now, the tactical situation is that Mr.
Ribicoff [Senator Abraham Ribicoff] and
several Republicans have indicated that
unless the Administration moves toward
their position, that we have no chance to
get a bill.
First, I question their analysis on that
point.
Second, I believe that, on the merits,
moving in that direction is the wrong step
because it would substantially increase the
cost of welfare and move in the direction
that I think the country does not want,
and that, I believe, would not be in
the interest of the welfare recipients
themselves.
On the other side of the coin, when it
was known that I had had, as I did have,
long conversations with those who were
advocating the movement toward the
Ribicoff positions, the members of the
Senate Finance Committee have re-
quested equal time. I intend to give them
equal time, of course, to hear their argu-
ments, after the bill is written in its final
form. As you know, it has not yet been
finalized.
My own present intention, however,
694
