[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
lieve me, it is a heartrending matter to
read the letters from the POW wives and
their next of kin in other ways, to read
those letters and to realize how their hopes
have been dashed year after year. But I
can tell you that we have pursued every
negotiating channel; that we have made a
number of offers in various channels and
that when the total record is published,
and it will be published in due time, at an
appropriate time, our lady from Florida
and the others will realize that we have
gone the extra mile as far as POW's are
concerned. I do not want to disclose any
further details because negotiations are
underway.
MR. RATHER. I am sorry to interrupt
you and I was going to ask whether there
would be something on your agenda in
Peking and Moscow, and you have
answered the question in your answer
saying so.
THE PRESIDENT. It will be on the
agenda, I emphasize, provided it is still a
live question, because we are, naturally,
hoping that in both of these cases we can
go forward.
Now, let me point out, we should not
give the impression that because we raised
the subject with the Chinese, we raised
it with the Soviet Union, that that is going
to mean action, because we have raised
it at other levels already.
I would point out one slightly hopeful
note: the fact that the Chinese, after
holding two Americans prisoner for many
years, released them, as you know, about
2 or 3 weeks ago. At least their attitude
toward prisoners seems to be much more
civilized than that of the North Viet-
namese. Whether they can influence the
North Vietnamese toward a similar atti-
tude, however, remains to be seen.
TIMING OF THE PRESIDENT'S ACTIONS
[8.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, you
have raised the subject of China, and I
am sure it comes as no surprise to you that
I would like to talk with you about that.
Everyone is interested. You have also men-
tioned that you hope to reach your goals
in the war this year, 1972; that everything
seems to have been pointed in the direc-
tion of climaxing in this election year:
besides your ultimate goals in the war, vic-
tory over inflation, driving down unem-
ployment, agreement for the strategic
arms limitations, trips to Peking and
Moscow.
Is all of this coincidental, the timing,
or is it, as some of even your friends say,
some of the timing must be politically
motivated?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a very
legitimate question, and I understand why
many would feel that it was politically
motivated. After all, when you look at the
bombing halt of 1968, I know many on
our side felt that that was politically
motivated, at least the timing of it. I, of
course, never made such a charge, and
would not, and I don't think you would,
because I think President Johnson was
interested in doing everything that he
could while he was President, and before
the election, to start some negotiations in
Paris.
But I realize that anyone who sits in this
office is one that is going to be charged
with having a political motivation for
everything that he does. But just let me
point this out: Let me say that if I could
have ended the war the day I came into
office, in a way that would not have en-
couraged that kind of aggression in other
parts of the world, that would not have
6
