Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 26 [323]
America the best fed, the best clothed, the
best housed people in the world. And we
certainly must reject the philosophy that
someone on welfare should receive more
than someone who works in the United
States of America.
There is a third area where we have
made some progress in the past 4 years—
not nearly as much as we would have
liked. Some of you perhaps find it hard
to remember what America was like in
1968. You remember what was happen-
ing on the campuses and in the cities. You
remember the escalating rate of crime, of
dangerous drugs and narcotics across this
country. You remember that we declared
that we would launch a massive offensive
across this Nation on the forces of crime,
narcotics, and the like.
We have not accomplished as much as
we would like, but under the leadership
of Attorney General John Mitchell and
his successor, Attorney General Klein-
dienst, and due to the fact that we have
appointed to the Supreme Court judges
who have recognized that their primary
responsibility is to protect the first civil
right of every American, the right to be
free from domestic violence, we have
finally turned the corner on the fight
against crime, but we need to go on. Let
us not turn back to the era of permissive-
ness that got us where we were in 1968.
Then there is another area in which all
of us, as Americans, have an enormous
interest. I was talking earlier with Gover-
nor Rockefeller, at a reception of the New
York Committee to Re-Elect the Presi-
dent, about the difference in the problems
a President faces in the field of foreign
policy and domestic policy. Let me con-
fide, in this rather select group and those
who are listening in the other 26 cities,
the problem that a President faces when
he was elected, as I was in 1968 along with
Vice President Agnew, but does not have
a majority mandate due to the fact that
there was that year, you recall, a third
party candidate.
In the field of foreign policy, a President
can act and he should act and he should
lead and, generally speaking, he can carry
the country with him, even though the
Congress may be carried in this instance
by a majority of the other party. I found
that when I first came to the Congress,
for example. The Republicans were a
majority in the 80th Congress, but when
it came to the Greek-Turkish aid program,
when it came to the Marshall Plan, Presi-
dent Truman was able to carry the Con-
gress with him, and I, as a Republican,
joined with Democrats in supporting those
programs because we put the country
first when the security of America was
involved.
But in the field of domestic policy, it is
a very, very different matter. Here a Presi-
dent can propose, and then the Congress
does what it pleases, and sometimes it does
not go along.
For example, we have proposed, as you
know, much needed reforms in this Gov-
ernment of ours, reforms in the field of
welfare, reforms in the field of health
programs, in the field of education, in the
field of Government reorganization. And
in area after area where the Congress
should have acted, the Congress has not
acted.
One of the reasons for that is that the
Congress quite rightfully could claim that
the President did not have a majority
mandate. But let me say this: In one area
we have succeeded and that one success,
as not only Governor Rockefeller will tell
you but all the other Governors who are
listening here tonight-Governor Cahill,
919
