[171] May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
matter of easing international tension, this is a
victory for all peaceloving peoples, because
security and peace is their common goal.
Whether peace becomes stronger as a result
of our talks, concerns, of course, not the Soviet
Union and the United States alone, however
great their influence in the world, but will
depend on all other peoples and states as well.
Of little worth would be the decisions about
which we have agreed or may agree, were they
contrary to the legitimate interests of other
states, the interests of their security and in-
dependence. It is not to decide for other peoples
and countries that we are meeting with the
President of the United States at the confer-
ence table.
During these talks the Soviet Union and the
United States are seeking approaches to a
settlement of international problems bearing
directly on the two states, in the interests of
the peace and security of the peoples. We are
making serious steps in this direction. But in
order to advance confidently towards the goal
of a lasting peace, everything possible should be
done to eliminate the existing hotbeds of war
in Vietnam and in the Middle East on the
basis of strict respect for the rights of the peo-
ples to independent development, to noninter-
172
ference in their internal affairs, to the
inviolability of their state territories.
We would like to express the hope that
stronger peace for the people of the Soviet
Union, for the people of the United States of
America, for all the peoples of the world, will
be the main outcome of the Soviet-American
talks.
How effectively the agreements and under-
standings reached are translated into life and
serve peace will be, of course, of great impor-
tance. Any agreement, any treaty only then
leaves a trace in history when its proclaimed
principles and intentions become the content
of the practical activities of states. So, may the
agreements we reached be just such agreements.
We would like to express our deep respect
for the great people of the United States of
America with whom the Soviet people want to
live in cooperation and peace. We ask President
R. Nixon, upon returning home, to convey that
this is our sincere and earnest desire.
May I ask all those present to join me in this
toast to the American people, to the President
of the United States of America, to Mrs. Nixon
and all those accompanying the President, to
peace and cooperation among the peoples.
Toast at a Luncheon in Leningrad.
May 27, 1972
Mr. Chairman of the Presidium, Mr.
Mayor, and all of the distinguished guests
on this very great occasion:
We first want to express our deep
appreciation for the hospitality that has
been extended to all of us on our visit to
Leningrad.
We realize that this visit is very
brief
and we only regret that we don't have
more time to spend here in this great city.
With memories of what we saw in 1959
and then of what we have seen in our few
hours here today, I would say that we all
feel somewhat like the first American Am-
bassador to this city when, after spending
3 hours in the Hermitage,ยน he said he
only wished he could spend 3 months even
there in that one place.
As we leave your city later this after-
noon, each of us will carry away a special
memory. All will remember this splendid
banquet, the delightful music, the new
friendships that we have made with our
Soviet friends. We will remember the
spectacular beauty of this city, a city that
refused to die and came back after de-
struction more beautiful than ever before.
ยน A museum of fine arts which was once part
of the winter palace of the tsars.
626
