[155] May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
of neglect on this dread disease. To ac-
complish that end, $10 million was used
to expand sickle cell programs in fiscal
1972, a tenfold budget increase over fiscal
1971. In my March 1972 health message,
I proposed that we raise the funding level
of sickle cell anemia activities for fiscal
1973 to $15 million. Also, at my direction,
the Veterans Administration is now ex-
panding its sickle cell program.
The National Sickle Cell Anemia Con-
trol Act, which I am today signing, fol-
lows the course that we have charted.
These actions make clear, I believe, the
urgency with which this country is work-
ing to alleviate and arrest the suffering
from this disease.
The chief provisions of the new act are
as follows:
1. Screening and Counseling Programs.
Funds are provided for establishing and
operating voluntary screening and coun-
seling programs on sickle cell anemia.
These activities will be part of the existing
public health care operations.
2. Information and Education Activ-
ities. The new legislation also provides
funds to develop and disseminate educa-
tional materials on sickle cell anemia both
for health care personnel and for the gen-
eral public.
3. Research. The act authorizes project
grants and contracts for research in the
diagnosis, treatment, and control of sickle
cell anemia.
The legislation closely parallels existing
Federal legislative authorities and activ-
ities.
Under the programs we have already
initiated, we can look forward to the
day when sickle cell anemia will be con-
quered as a debilitating menace to many
Americans.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 2676) is Public
Law 92-294 (86 Stat. 136).
156 Statement on the Appointment of John S. D. Eisenhower
as Chairman of the Interagency Classification Review
Committee. May 17, 1972
FOR ALMOST 16 months this Adminis-
tration has made a determined push to
overhaul the security classification system
within the Government, and now I am
pleased to announce a major step forward
in that effort.
Effective today, I have appointed John
S. D. Eisenhower as Chairman of the In-
teragency Classification Review Commit-
tee.
This Committee will oversee the imple-
mentation and operation of the new sys-
tem for classification and declassification
of Government documents which I estab-
lished in Executive Order 11652 of
March 8, 1972. Also serving on the Com-
mittee will be senior representatives of the
Departments of Defense, State, and Jus-
tice, the Central Intelligence Agency, and
the Atomic Energy Commission. David
R. Young of the National Security
Council staff will act as Executive
Director.
Concurrent with the appointment of
this panel, we have also acted today to
implement several important features of
598
