Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 2 [38]
patrimony is in jeopardy from pillage of
archaeological or ethnological materials.
The Convention also requires states
parties to prohibit the import of cultural
property stolen from museums, public
monuments or similar institutions and to
take appropriate steps, upon request, to
recover and return such cultural prop-
erty. In addition, they pledge to take what
measures they can, consistent with exist-
ing national legislation, to prevent muse-
ums and similar institutions within their
territory from acquiring cultural property
originating in another state party which
has been illegally exported after entry
into force of the Convention.
I am enclosing the report of the Secre-
tary of State, which more fully explains
the Convention and the reservation and
38 Remarks on Presenting the
Pearl Bailey. February 2,
I AM very happy to present this award to
Pearl Bailey. I have presented awards to
her before. Pearl Bailey has been here as
our guest at the White House. She has
also taken on a capacity, unpaid, as a
volunteer ambassador at large for the
United States in countries throughout the
world. For that we are very grateful.
I think in presenting this award, I
should say two things. It is significant to
note that two Presidents before I was here
had heart disease, and yet in this, which is
supposed to be the most burdensome and
wearing job in the world, they were able
to carry on the duties of this office. It does
prove
that heart disease is not a barrier.
But I also know from having seen Pearl
Bailey in "Dolly" and the rest and seen her
understandings we recommend. Certain
provisions of the Convention will require
implementing legislation, which the Exec-
utive Branch will be prepared to discuss
during the Senate's consideration of the
Convention.
I believe international cooperation is
required in order to preserve the priceless
heritage of humanity, and I urge the Sen-
ate to give prompt advice and consent to
United States accession to this Conven-
tion, subject to the reservation and under-
standings recommended in the report of
the Secretary of State.
The White House,
February 2, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive B (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
Heart-of-the-Year Award to
1972
magnificent ability to raise an audience
with her radiant personality, that if she
has
any restrictions because of heart dis-
ease, it doesn't show. You compensate in
other ways.
I also would like to say that when we
speak of the Heart-of-the-Year Award, I
guess, first, we think of the heart physi-
cally. A big heart physically, I understand,
is bad for you. But also we speak of the
heart in the sense of the poet and in that
respect, a big heart is something that we
all admire.
I believe we could say with regard to
Pearl Bailey, she, from the standpoint of
emotion, from the standpoint of poetry,
from the standpoint of love—all of these
things that the heart symbolizes—she has
143
