[13] Jan. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing International Center for the Settle-
ment of Investment Disputes within the
World Bank Group, as well as the estab-
lishment in the very near future of the In-
ternational Investment Insurance Agency,
now under discussion in the World Bank
Group. The Overseas Private Investment
Corporation will make every effort to in-
corporate independent dispute settlement
procedures in its new insurance and guar-
antee agreements.
I announce these decisions because I
believe there should be no uncertainty
regarding U.S. policy. The adoption by
the U.S. Government of this policy is con-
sistent with international law. The policy
will be implemented within the frame-
work of existing domestic law until the
Congress modifies present statutes, along
14
the lines already proposed by this Ad-
ministration. The United States fully re-
spects the sovereign rights of others, but it
will not ignore actions prejudicial to the
rule of law and legitimate U.S. interest.
Finally, as we look beyond our proper
national interests to the larger considera-
tions of the world interest, let us not forget
that only within a framework of interna-
tional law will the developed nations be
able to provide increasing support for the
aspirations of our less developed neighbors
around the world.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's policy statement by Peter G. Peter-
son, Executive Director, Council on Interna-
tional Economic Policy.
Address on the State of the Union Delivered Before
a Joint Session of the Congress. January 20, 1972
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, my colleagues
in the Congress, our distinguished guests,
my fellow Americans:
Twenty-five years ago I sat here as
a freshman Congressman-along with
Speaker Albert-and listened for the first
time to the President address the State of
the Union.
I shall never forget that moment. The
Senate, the diplomatic corps, the Supreme
Court, the Cabinet entered the Chamber,
and then the President of the United
States. As all of you are aware, I had some
differences with President Truman. He
had some with me. But I remember that
on that day-the day he addressed that
joint session of the newly elected Repub-
lican 80th Congress, he spoke not as a
partisan, but as President of all the peo-
ple-calling upon the Congress to put
aside partisan considerations in the na-
tional interest.
The Greek-Turkish aid program, the
Marshall Plan, the great foreign policy
initiatives which have been responsible for
avoiding a world war for over 25 years
were approved by the 80th Congress, by a
bipartisan majority of which I was proud
to be a part.
Nineteen hundred seventy-two is now
before us. It holds precious time in which
to accomplish good for the Nation. We
must not waste it. I know the political
pressures in this session of the Congress
will be great. There are more candidates
for the Presidency in this Chamber today
than there probably have been at any one
time in the whole history of the Republic.
And there is an honest difference of opin-
ion, not only between the parties, but
34
