[349] Oct. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
349 Statement Announcing Transfer of the 200th Federal
Property Under the Legacy of Parks Program.
October 13, 1972
I AM pleased to announce the transfer of
the 200th Federal property to the people
of this Nation through the Legacy of
Parks program. Under this program, 43
States and the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico have received underutilized Federal
lands for park use in the last 19 months.
As a result, 180 communities in this
country can now provide their citizens
with parks and recreation areas they could
not enjoy 4 years ago.
My appreciation goes to the officials of
States, cities, and other municipalities
who have worked with our Federal offi-
cials to develop these parks for local use.
The goal of this Administration is to
make available an increasing number of
parks and recreation areas to provide for
both the physical and spiritual enrichment
of all Americans. Through this program
we are also insuring that the most sensible
use is made of our natural resources.
The establishment of 200 new parks is
an accomplishment of which we can be
proud. But we will not stop here. The
Property Review Board will continue to
work closely with Federal agencies as we
carry forward our efforts to identify Fed-
eral property which can be converted to
recreational uses. This Administration is
determined that more Americans should
be able to share more fully in the natural
wealth of our Nation.
NOTE: A White House announcement of the
transfer of additional lands for park and recrea-
tional use under the Legacy of Parks program
was released the same day and is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 8, p. 1516).
350 Radio Address on Crime and Drug Abuse.
October 15, 1972
Good afternoon:
Four years ago, at the close of a turbu-
lent decade which had seen our Nation
engulfed by a rising tide of disorder and
permissiveness, I campaigned for Presi-
dent with a pledge to restore respect for
law, order, and justice in America. I am
pleased to be able to report to you today
that we have made significant progress in
that effort.
During the 8 years from the end of the
Eisenhower Administration until we took
office in 1969, serious crime in the United
States had skyrocketed by 122 percent,
and there were predictions that it would
double once again during the following
4 years.
Those predictions have not come true.
Instead, we have fought the frightening
trend of crime and anarchy to a standstill.
The campuses which erupted in riots so
often in the late 1960's have become seri-
ous centers of learning once again. The
cities which we saw in flames summer
after summer a few years ago are now
pursuing constructive change.
The FBI crime index showed an in-
crease of only one percent during the first
half of this year. That is the closest we
have come to registering an actual de-
982
