[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
sent it as being. There are deep divisions
of opinion among people of all races-with
recent surveys showing strong opposition
to busing among black parents as well as
among white parents-not because they
are against desegregation but because they
are for better education.
In the process of school desegregation,
we all have been learning; perceptions
have been changing. Those who once said
"no" to racial integration have accepted
the concept, and believe in equality before
the law. Those who once thought massive
busing was the answer have also been
changing their minds in the light of
experience.
As we cut through the clouds of emo-
tionalism that surround the busing ques-
tion, we can begin to identify the
legitimate issues.
Concern for the quality of education a
child gets is legitimate.
Concern that there be no retreat from
the principle of ending racial discrimina-
tion is legitimate.
Concern for the distance a child has to
travel to get to school is legitimate.
Concern over requiring that a child
attend a more distant school when one is
available near his home is legitimate.
Concern for the obligation of govern-
ment to assure, as nearly as possible, that
all the children of a given district have
equal educational opportunity is legiti-
mate.
Concern for the way educational re-
sources are allocated among the schools of
a district is legitimate.
Concern for the degree of control par-
ents and local school boards should have
over their schools is legitimate.
In the long, difficult effort to give life
to what is in the law, to desegregate the
Nation's schools and enforce the principle
of equal opportunity, many experiments
have been tried. Some have worked, and
some have not. We now have the benefit
of a fuller fund of experience than we had
18 years ago, or even 2 years ago. It has
also become apparent that community re-
sistance-black as well as white-to plans
that massively disrupt education and sepa-
rate parents from their children's schools,
makes those plans unacceptable to com-
munities on which they are imposed.
Against this background, the objectives
of the reforms I propose are:
-To give practical meaning to the
concept of equal educational oppor-
tunity.
-To apply the experience gained in the
process of desegregation, and also in
efforts to give special help to the edu-
cationally disadvantaged.
-To ensure the continuing vitality of
the principles laid down in Brown v.
Board of Education.
-To downgrade busing as a tool for
achieving equal educational oppor-
tunity.
-To sustain the rights and responsibil-
ities vested by the States in local
school boards.
THE EQUAL EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES ACT
In the historic effort since 1954 to end
the system of State-enforced segregation
in the public schools, all three branches of
Government have had important func-
tions and responsibilities. Their roles, how-
ever, have been unequal.
If some of the Federal courts have lately
tended toward extreme remedies in school
desegregation cases-and some have-
this has been in considerable part because
the work has largely gone forward in the
434
