Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 21 [17]
(4) the best method for providing
renter relief under a proposal
which replaces residential school
property taxes; and
(5) the best means of insuring, under
a system of school finance in which
the states have primary financing
responsibility, that local school dis-
tricts will be able to retain control
of basic education decisions, in-
cluding the provision of local pro-
grams of educational enrichment.
The problems are pressing, and I have
asked you to complete such a study as
soon as possible, and to keep me advised
in the interim as to the progress of your
study. You will have the complete co-
operation and assistance of the Vice Presi-
dent, Secretary Connally and Secretary
Richardson, as well as of the Domestic
Council.
I very much appreciate the willingness
of the Commission to undertake this effort.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Mr. Robert Merriam, Chairman, Advisory
Commission on Intergovernmental Relations,
726 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington, D.C.]
17 Special Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation To Arbitrate the West Coast
Dock Strike and Urging Passage of the Crippling
Strikes Prevention Act. January 21, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The Nation is faced today with yet an-
other transportation strike which is in-
tolerable in its effect upon millions of
Americans, and I am determined that we
shall end it at once.
The dock dispute on the West Coast has
been festering for over a year, but because
a few have been insensitive to the harm
they are inflicting upon the many
who are
not a party to it, no reasonable settlement
has been reached. Now this work stoppage,
renewed after an injunction under the
Taft-Hartley Act has expired, again
threatens the Nation's health and safety.
Those of us in public office must act
swiftly and responsibly to avert its damag-
ing consequences.
Because all other Government remedies
have been exhausted, I am proposing to
the Congress today special legislation to
set up immediately a three-member ar-
bitration board. This board, to be ap-
pointed by the Secretary of Labor, would
hear and settle all issues in this dispute.
No strike or lockout would be permitted
from the day this legislation is enacted
until the day that the arbitration board
makes its determinations. The board's
determinations would be made within 40
days and would be binding upon the
parties for a definite period of time-at
least 18 months.
Let there be no mistake about the
urgency of this legislation. This is a vital
matter to the people of this country, and
the Nation can afford no delay. I earnestly
implore the Congress to have this resolu-
tion on my desk by the end of next week.
This is an unusually pressing request
for the opening days of a new session of
the Congress, but let there also be no
mistake about the dimensions of destruc-
tion which this strike is wreaking upon its
victims:
-Before I invoked the Taft-Hartley in-
75
