Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
mit-the growth of Japanese synthetic
textile sales in the U.S. market. This issue,
which had important political and eco-
nomic aspects in both of our countries,
had become a serious irritant in our rela-
tions. After many months of hard negotia-
tions which admittedly had an adverse
effect on the general atmosphere between
us, the agreement of October 15 resolved
this vexing issue.
Last year therefore dramatized for both
Japan and the United States the two
truths which must be recognized if our
relationship is to continue to prosper. We
have a need to adjust our relationship—
and we have the ability to do it in a way
that serves the interests of both of our
countries. The future health of our friend-
ship is not served by ignoring our differ-
ences. Nor is it served by expectations that
either country will subordinate its inter-
ests in order to maintain an atmosphere of
perfect amity. The continuity of our rela-
tionship is too important to both of us to
permit such a concentration on its at-
mosphere rather than its substance.
We recognize that some of our actions
during the past year placed the Japanese
Government in a difficult position. We
recognize that our actions have acceler-
ated the Japanese trend toward more
autonomous policies. We regret the
former, but could not do otherwise. We
welcome the latter as both inevitable and
desirable inevitable because it reflects
the reality of Japanese strength in the
1970's-desirable because it is a neces-
sary step in the transformation of our
relationship to the more mature and recip-
rocal partnership required in the 1970's.
We intend that Japan shall remain our
most important Asian ally. We expect that
the future will bring an even greater
degree of interdependence between us.
We believe the vitality of our friendship
and our cooperation in international mat-
ters is essential to the stable Asia we both
require—and to the peaceful world we
both seek.
These are the convictions which led me
to travel to Alaska to welcome to Ameri-
can soil the Emperor and Empress of
Japan on the first visit abroad of a reign-
ing Japanese monarch. These are the con-
victions which underlie the extensive and
unique network of official contacts which
we have established between Japanese
Government officials and our own. For
example, in September we had a joint
meeting in Washington of seven Japanese
Cabinet officers and their American
counterparts, for a very wide-ranging and
authoritative examination of our relation-
ship.
It was to ensure the harmony of our
policies that Prime Minister Sato and I
met in San Clemente in January. We re-
viewed all aspects of the events of the
previous year, and examined the tasks
which lie before us. I stressed that the ad-
justments we seek in our relationship
demonstrate our recognition of Japan's
new status-not doubts about the value of
our alliance. On their part, Prime Min-
ister Sato and his colleagues left me con-
fident that they, too, consider a sound
political relationship between us as essen-
tial to Japanese interests and to our shared
goals in Asia and the world.
The process of adjustment will some-
times be arduous. But in 1971 we proved
that it can be done by making the neces-
sary adjustments in several of the most
important issues on our agenda. The un-
justified complacency of the recent past
has been replaced with a greater aware-
87-234-74- -19
237
