Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
PART I: 1971-THE WATERSHED
YEAR-AN OVERVIEW
This is the third Report of this kind
which I have made to the Congress. It
comes after a year of dramatic develop-
ments. The earlier Reports set forth fully
this Administration's analysis of the world
situation. They expressed the conviction
that new conditions required fundamental
changes in America's world role. They ex-
pounded our conception of what that role
should be.
In short, they foreshadowed a trans-
formation of American foreign relations
with both our friends and our adversaries.
For three years, our policies have been
designed to move steadily, and with in-
creasing momentum, toward that
transformation.
1971 was the watershed year. The foun-
dation laid and the cumulative effect of
the actions taken earlier enabled us to
achieve, during the past year, changes in
our foreign policy of historic scope and
significance:
-An opening to the People's Republic
of China;
-The beginning of a new relationship
with the Soviet Union;
-The laying of a foundation for a
healthier and more sustainable rela-
tionship with our European allies and
Japan;
-The creation of a new environment
for the world's monetary and trade
activities.
This Report is addressed to those and
other developments. It is, however, a com-
panion piece to the two earlier Reports,
for without an understanding of the philo-
sophical conception upon which specific
actions were based, the actions themselves
can neither be adequately understood nor
fairly judged. This account of a year of
intense action, therefore, properly begins
with a brief review of the intellectual
foundation on which those actions rest.
A CHANGED WORLD
In the first two Reports, I stressed the
fact that the postwar period of interna-
tional relations had ended, and that it
was the task of this Administration to
shape a new foreign policy to meet the
requirements of a new era. I set forth at
some length the changes in the world
which made a new policy not only de-
sirable, but necessary.
1. The recovery of economic strength
and political vitality by Western Europe
and Japan, with the inexorable result that
both their role and ours in the world must
be adjusted to reflect their regained vigor
and self-assurance.
2. The increasing self-reliance of the
states created by the dissolution of the
colonial empires, and the growth of both
their ability and determination to see to
their own security and well-being.
3. The breakdown in the unity of the
Communist Bloc, with all that implies for
the shift of energies and resources to pur-
poses other than a single-minded chal-
lenge to the United States and its friends,
and for a higher priority in at least some
Communist countries to the pursuit of
national interests rather than their subor-
dination to the requirements of world
revolution.
4. The end of an indisputable U.S.
superiority in strategic strength, and its
replacement by a strategic balance in
which the U.S. and Soviet nuclear forces
are comparable.
5. The growth among the American
people of the conviction that the time had
195
