[145] May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
145 Letter to the Secretary of Labor Directing Expansion
of the Jobs for Veterans Program. May 8, 1972
Dear Mr. Secretary:
As we near the end of the first full year
of the Six-Point Jobs for Veterans Pro-
gram, I am encouraged that our efforts
have done a great deal to reduce the
intolerably high unemployment rate for
Vietnam-era veterans. This is not a time
to slacken our efforts, however, for the rate
of military separations is still substantial
and we can not yet be satisfied with the
unemployment of those who have already
returned to the civilian labor force.
Therefore, I would like you to under-
take a new Six-Point Jobs for Veterans
Program for fiscal year 1973, building on
the solid foundation of this year's program
by raising our goals, further accelera-
ting our campaign and improving the
Government's ability to deliver the neces-
sary resources. This letter provides basic
guidance for such expansion.
I regard this effort as of the highest
priority in Federal manpower and train-
ing programs, and with your personal
leadership, I am confident that it is in
good hands. Our campaign is of such im-
portance that its goals must be achieved-
even if this means diverting staff and funds
from other activities. I also call upon all
Government agencies to draw fully on
available resources and authority.
You have my personal mandate to carry
out the following actions:
(1) Continue to draw upon the re-
sources of the National Alliance of Busi-
nessmen.
You should develop, with the Chairman
of the Board of the National Alliance of
Businessmen, a strategy to increase the
participation of American business in pro-
viding additional employment opportu-
nities for Vietnam-era veterans. NAB
should increase its goals beyond the
100,000 pledged last year, through its
promotion of the Job Opportunities Busi-
ness Sector (JOBS) Program.
(2) Provide the job training necessary
for servicemen who lack civilian skills in
occupations available in the labor market.
Separating servicemen who have edu-
cational and civil job deficiencies should
have the opportunity to receive civilian
job training and related services (for up to
60 days).
Training of servicemen for civilian jobs
should be concentrated in special skill cen-
ters at military installations where return-
ing veterans who have educational and
skill deficiencies will have an opportunity
to receive job training and related serv-
ices. The Department of Defense (DOD)
should concentrate resources at selected
military bases to provide high quality job
training, counseling and placement serv-
ices with the full support of Labor, HEW,
and VA.
Employment briefings and counseling
to servicemen overseas should provide job
market information essential for them to
enter the labor market and apply their
maximum skills. Servicemen who lack
skills should be provided assistance for the
determination of a plan suitable for job
training or education to prepare them for
employment. The program already under-
way should be continued and improved.
(3) Continue to augment the number
of job training and educational oppor-
tunities for returning veterans, with ap-
propriate emphasis on college, technical
and high school education.
Enrollments in classroom type man-
580
