Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 5 [338]
This could not have been accomplished
without the mining and the bombing, and
the mining and the bombing will continue,
of course, until we get some agreements
on the negotiating front.
GRAIN SALES TO SOVIET UNION
2
[5] Q. Mr. President, what is your
reply to critics who charge there is scandal
involved in your Russian wheat agree-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. My reply is to have
such allegations investigated-inciden-
tally, with the thorough agreement and
complete agreement of Secretary Butz.
Secretary Butz and the House Committee
on Agriculture both looked into these
charges that some of the big grain dealers,
the so-called Big Six, got advance in-
formation and made a lot of money, and
that particularly some of the wheat grow-
ers in the Southwestern part of the coun-
try who sell their wheat early, usually, in
order to get a premium, were left holding
the bag when, if they had the advance
information that there was going to be a
deal, they could have made some more
money.
Now, if there was any impropriety, if
there was any illegality, we want to know
it. The way to find out is to put the best
investigative agency in the world to work
in finding out. As soon as their investi-
"On July 8, 1972, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcripts of two
news briefings on the U.S.-Soviet grain pur-
chase agreement. The first news briefing was
held by Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, and
the second by Secretary of Commerce Peter G.
Peterson and Secretary of Agriculture Earl L.
Butz. The transcript of Dr. Kissinger's news
briefing is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1142).
gation is completed-and we want it just
as quickly as we can-it will be made
available to the Secretary, and he will take
whatever action is needed if there is
illegality or impropriety.
Let me turn, if I could, on the wheat
deal, however, to another side of it that
has also come to my attention. I have been
rather amused by some of the comments
to the effect that the wheat deal was
really a bad one for the United States,
that we got snookered by the Russians.
When I used that term with Mr. Gromyko
he asked for a translation, but in any
event-and I said, "Well, you acted like
capitalists"-but in any event-"because
you didn't tell us that your grain failure
was as great as it was."
Of course, his response was, "Well, what
would you have done?" He said, "We
knew we had to buy a lot of wheat, and
we didn't want to push the price up
as fast."
But in any event, let me take very
briefly a moment of your time to point out
what was in it for us and what was in it
for them. First, the wheat deal cost us
$120 million in, as you know, payments,
farm payments. But this is what we got
from it: The farmers got $1 billion in
more farm income. There were thousands
of jobs created, including jobs in the
American merchant marine as well as on
the farm and in the processing areas, as
a result of the wheat deal.
The taxpayers were saved $200 million
in farm payments that otherwise would
have had to be made if we had kept the
wheat in storage and not sold it.
Now, in addition, the wheat deal, this
one, the one we have made with the
Chinese, the one we have made with the
Japanese for grain, and so forth and so
on, have had a very significant effect in
955
