[203] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
the exchange of young technicians and
scientists (including the training of some
100 young Mexican technicians and sci-
entists through US Government agen-
cies); renewal of the agreement on
Cultural Relations.
President Nixon and President Echever-
ría discussed the serious nature of the
illicit international traffic in narcotic
drugs. They reviewed the joint enforce-
ment measures which their countries have
successfully undertaken over the past two
years. President Nixon informed President
Echeverría of recent measures taken to
combat the drug problem in the United
States. They agreed to acquire and em-
ploy additional equipment in the anti-
narcotics campaign and to make available
increased training of personnel for this
purpose.
With regard to the question of migra-
tory Mexican workers, the two Presidents
discussed the economic, social and politi-
cal factors that produce this problem and
agreed it was desirable for each govern-
ment to undertake immediately a study of
this question with a view to finding a
mutually satisfactory solution.
Recognizing the communality of many
environmental problems and the need to
seek cooperative solutions through the
exchange of research and experience, the
two Presidents have agreed that appro-
priate policy level officials from Mexico
and the US will meet on a regular basis
204
for discussion and consultation concern-
ing current and future environmental
problems of mutual concern and the
methods for dealing with them in a more
systematic way.
The conversations between Presidents
Nixon and Echeverría were at all times
cordial and marked by the spirit of good
neighborliness which exists between Mex-
ico and the US. At the same time prob-
lems were discussed frankly and openly as
between true friends in an atmosphere of
mutual respect and trust. President
Echeverría particularly wished to convey
on behalf of Mrs. Echeverría, his party
and himself, his deep appreciation for the
warm hospitality which was extended to
them by President and Mrs. Nixon.
President Nixon expressed his great
pleasure that President and Mrs. Eche-
verría will now have an opportunity to
visit other areas and cities of the United
States and assured them they will receive
a warm and friendly welcome from the
American people.
NOTE: The joint communique was released at
Key Biscayne, Fla.
See also Items 200 and 201.
On June 15, 1972, the White House released
an announcement of the exchange of diplomatic
notes by Secretary of State William P. Rogers
and Secretary of Foreign Relations for Mexico
Emilio O. Rabasa on bilateral agreements in
the scientific, technological, and cultural fields.
The announcement is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8,
p. 1054).
Statement About Signing the Public Buildings
Amendments of 1972. June 17, 1972
I HAVE signed S. 1736, the Public Build-
ings Amendments of 1972, the major fea-
tures of which were proposed by the
Administration.
S. 1736 established a public building
fund to finance construction, mainte-
nance, and operation of Federal buildings
from user charges collected from those
686
