Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 11 [11]
I make that commitment, and I am happy to
have the opportunity to make it.
that spirit that I will endeavor to discharge the
duties and responsibilities of the office.
ΙΟ Statement About Pay Adjustments for Federal
Blue-Collar Employees. January 11, 1972
I HAVE taken two actions today which
directly affect all blue-collar employees
of the Federal Government:
-First, I have authorized an immedi-
ate resumption of wage surveys for blue-
collar workers, which will lead to pay
increases for those workers where the sur-
veys indicate that adjustments are needed.
This action is consistent with the pay
hikes granted to white-collar workers this
month under provisions of the Economic
Stabilization Act Amendments of 1971.
-Secondly, I have signed an Executive
order [11639] directing the Civil Service
II
Commission to issue instructions to execu-
tive agencies on fixing the rates of basic
pay for blue-collar employees. These in-
structions will limit pay adjustments for
these workers to guidelines established by
the Pay Board in the same way that ad-
justments are now circumscribed for
Federal white-collar workers.
Together, these measures are designed
to insure that Federal workers-white-
and blue-collar-receive similar treat-
ment with regard to pay adjustments, and
that this is consistent with Pay Board
policies.
Memorandums About Pay Adjustments for Federal
Blue-Collar Employees. January 11, 1972
Memorandum for Honorable Robert E.
Hampton, Chairman, United States Civil
Service Commission:
SUBJECT: Federal wage increases
In August and September 1971, actions
were initiated to defer for six months
expected pay increases for both white-
collar and blue-collar Federal employees.
These actions provided similar pay treat-
ment for both groups of employees.
Under the provisions of the Economic
Stabilization Act Amendments of 1971,
pay for white-collar Federal employees
under the statutory systems will be ad-
justed at the beginning of the first pay
period in January 1972.
In order to provide, insofar as prac-
ticable, similar treatment of future pay
adjustments for white- and blue-collar
employees, my memorandum of Septem-
ber 1, 1971, directing the deferment of
Federal blue-collar wage adjustments, is
hereby rescinded.
To accomplish this action I have ad-
dressed the attached memorandum to
the heads of executive departments and
agencies. As indicated therein, this memo-
randum assigns to you, as Chairman of
the Civil Service Commission, responsi-
bility to take necessary actions to expedite
wage surveys which have been delayed so
that new wage schedules can be issued as
soon as possible. The normal wage survey
29
