[98] Mar. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
quoted today. However, neither our peace will
be complete nor our joy full, if by then Cyprus
will not have ceased to be a "problem" for the
Turkish Community and for Turkey itself. Let
us hope that common sense will prevail and a
just and peaceful solution safeguarding the con-
tractual rights and interests of all concerned
will be found.
Let me express this final thought: Next year
and the years and decades to come will find the
peoples of Turkey and America proceeding
together on the road to peace, in mutual re-
spect, trust, and everlasting amity.
Ladies and gentlemen, will you rise with me
in a toast to the President of the United States
of America.
99 Joint Statement Following
Minister Erim of Turkey.
PRESIDENT Nixon and Prime Minister
Erim during their meeting on March 21,
1972, discussed the full range of Turkish-
American bilateral relations as well as
major international issues. The President
stressed the importance that the United
States attached to its relations with Tur-
key and to Turkey's role as an im-
portant NATO ally. In discussing the
close and harmonious security relation-
ship between the two countries, the Presi-
dent expressed the strong continuing sup-
port of the United States for the security,
territorial integrity and independence of
Turkey. Both leaders agreed to the prin-
ciple of noninterference directly or indi-
rectly in Turkey's internal affairs. Both
leaders also agreed that continued close
cooperation between their two nations is
essential and that NATO is vital to their
security as well as to the security of the
other members of the Atlantic alliance.
The President and the Prime Minister
also discussed the modernization of Tur-
key's armed forces. The Prime Minister
explained the plans recently developed in
the High Military Council of Turkey for
the reorganization of the Turkish Armed
Forces, for the strengthening of Turkey's
defenses, and for the strengthening of the
security of the southeastern flank of
NATO. The President expressed the sup-
Discussions With Prime
March 22, 1972
port of the United States for Turkey's
efforts to modernize her armed forces, and
said the United States would continue to
assist the Turkish defense effort.
There was an exchange of views on the
worldwide problem of drug abuse. The
Prime Minister said the Turkish Govern-
ment was proud to contribute to a hu-
manitarian endeavor by its decision to
stop opium poppy cultivation. He indi-
cated that plans and programs had been
devised to prevent loss of income to
Turkish farmers, for which international
participation was essential. The President
expressed the appreciation of the Ameri-
can people for Turkey's courageous and
humanitarian decision to ban opium pro-
duction. He also indicated his special in-
terest in efforts to improve the livelihood
of Turkish farmers. The President said
the United States attaches importance to
bilateral and multilateral efforts to assist
Turkish development in this field.
In addition, one of the main subjects
dealt with by the President and the Prime
Minister was the economic development
of Turkey and the social advances made
in that country. The Prime Minister ex-
pressed appreciation for past development
aid and said Turkey would continue to
pursue modernization within a demo-
cratic system. Both leaders agreed that the
460
