Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 24 [19]
tary system and on elimination of barriers
to expanded international trade.
Each element of the new economic
policy has a vital role in sustaining the
momentum of our economy. The 1973
budget carries out a fiscal policy that is
responsive to the needs of the Nation and
responsible in holding down inflation.
BUDGET POLICY.-The full-employment
budget concept is central to the budget
policy of this Administration. Except
in emergency conditions, expenditures
should not exceed the level at which the
budget would be balanced under condi-
tions of full employment. The 1973 budget
conforms to this guideline. By doing so, it
provides necessary stimulus for expansion,
but is not inflationary.
We have planned the 1973 expenditures
to adhere to the full-employment budget
concept, even though this has required
making many difficult decisions. It now
appears that the 1972 full-employment
budget will be $8.1 billion in deficit. While
our economy can absorb such a deficit for
a time, the experience of the late 1960's
provides ample warning of the danger of
continued, and rising, full-employment
deficits. The lesson of 1966-68, when such
deficits led to an intolerable inflation, is
too clear and too close to permit any
relaxation of control of Government
spending.
Keeping the 1973 budget in full-
employment balance will not be easy. The
tax changes that have been made during
my Administration have reduced 1973
full-employment revenue by a net total of
$20 billion. This reduction has been good
for the economy, and has given each of us
more freedom to decide how he will spend
his money and live his life. However, the
lower receipts and the need to balance the
1973 full-employment budget require that
the Congress carefully consider the Na-
tion's priorities, as I have done in prepar-
ing this budget. The task is made harder
by the fact that the growth of programs-
especially, uncontrollable programs,
which now account for 71% of total out-
lays-could easily lead to another full-
employment deficit in 1973 if the Congress
adds to my recommendations for domestic
spending as it did last year.
The simple fact is that not all programs
can or should grow. I urge the Congress
to face squarely the difficult questions in-
volved in setting priorities within the
overall constraint of a full-employment
balance, and not to take the dangerous
course of trying to match domestic spend-
ing increases with cuts in vitally needed
defense funds.
SUMMARY OF THE 1973 BUDGET
For 1973, the Federal budget at full-
employment is approximately in balance.
Budget receipts in 1973 are estimated
to be $220.8 billion, which is $23 billion
higher than in 1972. If the economy were
operating at full employment throughout
the year, the revenues produced would be
$245 billion.
Estimated receipts for 1973 reflect a
reduction of $6.9 billion as a result of the
tax cuts proposed in the new economic
policy and incorporated in the Revenue
Act of 1971. About $5 billion of this re-
duction is in individuals' taxes. The re-
sulting increase in consumers' purchasing
power will be a major source of strength
in the economy.
Budget outlays in the coming year are
expected to be $246.3 billion, an increase
of $9.6 billion over the current year. This
83
