Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 18 [302]
Turkey are just a few examples of the
many countries where the work of Ameri-
can officials, from the ambassadors down,
throughout the embassies abroad, in
partnership with local officials, has pro-
duced important breakthroughs-huge
heroin seizures, key arrests, and, in the
case of Turkey, the courageous decision
to eradicate the opium poppy itself. And
that action, incidentally, is a great tribute
not only to that Government but to our
own Government and particularly to
those in the State Department and in the
Embassy in Turkey who worked on this
problem.
The people of the United States,
especially the young people, are pro-
foundly indebted to you, all of you in this
room, most of whom I will not have a
chance to meet personally, to thank per-
sonally for what you have worked on and
what you have done. And yet, we have to
do a lot more, as you all know, to win this
and we must do it with even more of
a sense of urgency than in the past.
war,
In working on narcotics control around
the world, I want you to convey this
personal message from me to the foreign
officials with whom you may be meeting.
Any government whose leaders participate
in or protect the activities of those who
contribute to our drug problem should
know that the President of the United
States is required by statute to suspend all
American economic and military as-
sistance to such a regime, and I shall not
hesitate to comply with that law where
there are any violations.
I consider keeping dangerous drugs out
of the United States just as important as
keeping armed enemy forces from landing
in the United States. Dangerous drugs
which come into the United States can
endanger the lives of young Americans
just as much as would an invading army
landing in the United States. Every gov-
ernment which wants to move against
narcotics should know that it can count
on this country for our wholehearted sup-
port and assistance in doing so.
Three years ago, the global heroin
plague was raging almost completely out
of control all over the world; time was
running out for an entire generation of
our children, the potential drug victims
of the next few years.
But then we launched our crusade to
save our children and now we can see
that crusade moving off the defensive on
to the offensive, and beginning to roll up
some victories in country after country
around the world and in the United States
as well.
And what is our goal now? We are liv-
ing in an age, as we all know, in the era
of diplomacy, when there are times that
a great nation must engage in what is
called a limited war. I have rejected that
principle in declaring total war against
dangerous drugs.
Our goal is the unconditional surrender
of the merchants of death who traffic in
heroin. Our goal is the total banishment
of drug abuse from American life. Our
children's lives are what we are fighting
for. Our children's future is the reason we
must succeed.
We are going to fight this evil with every
weapon at our command, and, with your
help and the support of millions of con-
cerned Americans, we are going to win.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:58 a.m. in the
West Auditorium at the Department of State.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
875
