Appendix B
May
23 The President has announced the transfer
of 2,273 acres of Federal land to State and
local governments for park and recrea-
tional use under the Legacy of Parks pro-
gram. Included are lands in California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Mississippi, Nevada, New
Jersey, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin.
June
2 The White House has announced the desig-
nation of offices in 12 departments and
agencies to receive requests for declassifi-
cation of material over 10 years old pursu-
ant to Executive Order 11652 and the
National Security Council directive of
May 17, 1972.
3 The White House announced that Dr.
Kissinger would visit Japan June 9-12 at
the invitation of the Japan-U.S. Economic
Council. During the visit, he would also
meet with Prime Minister Eisaku Sato,
Foreign Minister Takeo Fukuda, and Min-
ister of International Trade and Industry
Kakuei Tanaka.
5 After a meeting between the President and
Secretary of the Treasury John B. Con-
nally at Key Biscayne, Fla., the White
House announced that Secretary Connally
would undertake, on behalf of the Presi-
dent, a mission to a number of nations in
South America and Asia. Departing on
June 6, Secretary Connally, as the Special
Representative of the President, will meet
with chiefs of state and heads of govern-
ment in Venezuela, Colombia, Brazil,
Argentina, Bolivia, Peru, Australia, New
Zealand, Singapore, South Vietnam, Cam-
bodia, Malaysia, Bangladesh, India, Paki-
stan, Iran, and Afghanistan.
9 The President announced the transfer of
1,419 acres of Federal land to State and
local governments for park and recrea-
tional use under the Legacy of Parks pro-
gram. Included are lands in California, Ha-
waii, Iowa, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri,
New York, New Jersey, and Puerto Rico.
12 Ambassador Bui Diem of South Vietnam
paid a farewell call on the President.
June
13 The President was represented by the Vice
President at ceremonies in the East Garden
in honor of the 1972 Presidential Scholars.
15 James C. Fletcher, Administrator, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, and
the three members of the crew of Apollo 16
met with the President at the White House.
They discussed the joint U.S.-U.S.S.R.
space agreement, which was signed in Mos-
cow on May 24, and reviewed progress
toward a joint rendezvous and docking mis-
sion in 1975 and other future cooperation.
15 Prince Sultan ibn Abd al-Aziz Al-Saud,
Minister of Defense and Aviation of Saudi
Arabia, met with the President at the White
House. Prince Sultan is visiting the United
States as the guest of Secretary of Defense
Melvin R. Laird.
15 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
International Convention on Tonnage
Measurement of Ships, 1969, and the Con-
vention on International Liability for Dam-
age Caused by Space Objects.
21 The President met with the Quadriad-
Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally,
Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council of
Economic Advisers, Director George P.
Shultz of the Office of Management and
Budget, and Chairman Arthur F. Burns of
the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System-at the White House. Fol-
lowing the meeting, the President met with
Dr. Burns to discuss his trip, beginning
June 24, to Peru, Argentina, Brazil, and
Venezuela. Dr. Burns will meet with heads
of the central banks and other financial
leaders in the four countries.
21 The President has requested Secretary of
State William P. Rogers, in addition to
attending SEATO and ANZUS meetings
in Canberra, Australia, on June 27-28
where he will brief the participants on the
President's visits to the People's Republic
of China and the Soviet Union, to make a
visit to Indonesia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Greece,
Romania, Hungary, and Yugoslavia.
•
B-9
