Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 1 [33]
33 Special Message to the Congress on Rural Development.
February 1, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
From the very beginnings of our history,
the vitality of rural America has been at
the heart of our Nation's strength. It is
essential that we preserve and expand
that vitality in the years ahead. For Amer-
ica will not be able to look eagerly to the
future with a sense of promise and hope
unless those who live in its rural areas are
able to share in this vision. To help im-
prove the quality of life in the American
countryside, I am today presenting a series
of proposals designed to marshal more ef-
fectively the energies of the private sector
and of government at all levels in a coop-
erative program of rural development.
THE PROBLEMS OF RURAL AMERICA
All Americans have a high stake in
rural development. For the problems
which many rural areas are now experi-
encing are directly linked to those of our
cities and suburbs. Changing patterns of
life in rural America have changed the
pattern of life in all of America.
A central cause of these changing pat-
terns has been the increasing mechaniza-
tion of agriculture and of other natural
resource industries such as mining and
lumber-a process which has resulted in
a substantial reduction in jobs in these
occupations in recent years. While em-
ployment opportunities in other occupa-
tions have more than offset these declines,
the overall growth of economic opportu-
nity in rural America has lagged far be-
hind that of our urban areas. Today,
dramatic disparities exist between metro-
politan and rural areas in such indices as
per capita income, housing standards, ed-
ucational attainment and access to medi-
cal care.
At the same time, political institutions
designed to deal with simpler problems in
simpler times have frequently been unable
to cope with these new challenges. The
Federal Government often finds that it is
too remote and too unwieldy to respond
with precision to State and local needs.
State and local governments are fre-
quently too impoverished or too frag-
mented to undertake the necessary plan-
ning and development activities. Their
problems are accentuated by the fact that
widely dispersed rural population inevi-
tably means a higher expenditure per per-
son for most government programs.
One result of all these factors is that
semi-deserted country towns-once cen-
ters of life for the surrounding country-
side-stand today as stark reminders of
unused and abandoned rural resources. In
each of the three decades since 1940, half
of our counties (not always the same ones)
have lost population. Two out of every
five of our counties lost population in all
three decades. As I said in my State of the
Union Message two years ago, many of
our rural areas are being emptied of their
people and their promise.
In many cases, those who have left the
countryside have simply taken their prob-
lems with them. Indeed, many have seen
their problems intensify as they have
settled in over-crowded urban areas.
It is striking to realize, as I noted in this
year's Message on the State of the Union,
that even if we had a population of one
billion-nearly five times the current
level-our area is so great that we would
still not be as densely populated as many
127
