[225] July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is for this reason that I especially
welcome the action of the Congress in
passing H.R. 8140, the Ports and Water-
ways Safety Act of 1972, which I first pro-
posed almost 26 months ago as part of a
10-point action program to prevent ma-
rine pollution from oil spills, and which I
am today signing into law.
Under this act, the Coast Guard gains
much-needed new authority to protect
against oil spills-by controlling vessel
traffic in our inland waters and territorial
seas, by regulating the handling and stor-
age of dangerous cargoes on the water-
front, by establishing safety requirements
for waterfront equipment and facilities,
and by setting standards for design, con-
struction, maintenance, and operation of
tank vessels. The legislation provides a
firm basis for the safeguards we will need
to handle increased tanker traffic with
minimum environmental risk.
Passage of the Ports and Waterways
Safety Act is also significant in that this
is the first of my major environmental
proposals to receive final action in the
92d Congress. In a special message on the
environment last February, I asked the
Congress to make 1972 a year of action
on the numerous measures I have put be-
fore it in this field-a field where the costs
of legislative delay can be so terribly
high.
My hope is that the enactment of H.R.
8140 is the beginning of a sustained re-
sponse to this appeal, and that I shall soon
226
have the opportunity to sign others of the
more than 20 environmental bills now
pending in the Senate and House. Among
this backlog are bills which would:
-update our water quality laws,
---improve pesticide regulation,
--control the disposal of toxic sub-
stances,
-combat noise pollution,
-curb ocean dumping,
-establish a national land use policy,
-coordinate powerplant siting,
-regulate strip mining,
-strengthen wildlife protection, and
-expand recreational areas and wil-
derness preserves.
Time is not on our side on any of these
fronts. The trends and forces which con-
tribute to environmental degradation con-
tinue apace, even in a political season.
With determined action when the Con-
gress goes back to work later this month,
however, there is still time to write a fine
record of environmental achievement this
year.
Once again, I appeal most urgently to
the leaders, the committee chairmen, and
the individual members of both parties
in both Houses to meet their responsibility
to the American people and to America's
share of the earth by writing such a
record.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, H.R. 8140 is Public Law 92-340
(86 Stat. 424).
Remarks Proposing Additional Emergency Disaster Relief
Following Tropical Storm Agnes. July 12, 1972
NO ONE who has ever witnessed a nat-
ural disaster can forget the terrible devas-
tation it leaves behind-or can fail to be
moved by the heroism and the heartache
of those who live through it.
Millions of Americans today are strug-
730
