[226] July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
are individual homeowners and small
businessmen.
Again, because of the special nature of
this disaster, their needs also require spe-
cial attention. We must not permit the
nightmare of destruction which has
wrecked so many of their homes and
places of business to be followed by the
equally grim specter of bankruptcy or
ruin.
With this in mind, I shall also propose
to the Congress vital legislative action that
would authorize special disaster loans to
affected homeowners and businessmen at
only one percent interest-and with no
repayment required on the first $5,000 of
the loan. There is no quicker, more effec-
tive way of helping the people of these
stricken communities to get back on their
feet and resume their normal, productive
lives than to provide them with this source
of low-interest credit for rebuilding their
homes and businesses.
Finally, knowing as we do that no
amount of effort can be truly effective
without cooperation and understanding
at all levels of government, I have invited
500 mayors, county executives, and other
leaders from disaster-struck communities
to attend a special conference with Fed-
eral officials to be held in Washington
this Friday. Presiding over that confer-
227
ence will be the Vice President ยน and the
Deputy Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, Frank Carlucci. He is
a native of one of the hardest hit commu-
nities in Pennsylvania-Wilkes-Barre.
The purpose of the meeting will be to
speed up relief efforts, to explain our pro-
posed new measures, to improve com-
munications between Federal, local, and
civic leaders who share the responsibility
for directing this massive disaster relief
effort.
The challenge we face is not an easy
one. But I have faith that, working to-
gether, we can overcome the terrible
devastation that the floods have left be-
hind. And we can do more than that. We
can give the world a shining new example
of the kind of proud, vibrant communities
Americans can build, even in adversity,
when they put their heads and their hearts
into the effort.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 a.m. from
his office at the Western White House, San
Clemente, Calif. His remarks were broadcast
live on radio. He spoke from a prepared text.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the President's proposals for
additional emergency disaster relief.
1 On July 14, 1972, the White House released
a transcript of remarks by Vice President Spiro
T. Agnew at the conference.
Statement About National Crime Statistics for the
First Quarter of 1972. July 12, 1972
THE Attorney General reported today
that serious crime in the first quarter of
this year showed the lowest percentage
gain in 11 years-a rise of only one per-
cent over the same period last year-and
that in 80 of the largest cities the number
of serious crimes was actually reduced.
This represents truly significant progress
in this Administration's determination to
roll back the wave of crime which swept
our Nation in the 1960's. It is the best
news yet on the crime front.
The right of all citizens to feel safe on
the streets and secure in their homes is
732
