Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 26 [374]
thing else. We want something that we
haven't had since President Eisenhower
was President in 1955 and '56, and that
means prosperity, full employment with-
out war and without inflation. We are
working toward that goal; we are moving
toward it. We are not there yet, but we
are going to continue to fight inflation.
We are going to continue to work for
policies that will have growth for our
economy, because we want every boy and
girl, young man, young woman in this
country, to have an opportunity for a job
if he is willing to work and able to work.
We think we can achieve that goal. We
ask for the opportunity to continue the
policies that have come so far in achiev-
ing it already.
The third point I wish to make is this:
As we move into a period of peace in the
years ahead, I want it to be, and all of
you want it to be, a period of progress. I
think of West Virginia. You, of course,
live here. I have visited here quite often.
This is a beautiful State. It has so much
to see, and you, the people of West Vir-
ginia, are a good people. You are a strong
people. You are a patriotic people. You
are builders of America. You love this
country. I want the people of West Vir-
ginia to go forward with all of the Ameri-
can people toward an era of progress and
opportunity and prosperity without war,
such as we have never seen.
What I am simply saying to you at the
last of my remarks tonight is this: I do
not speak to you as a partisan. I speak to
you with no bitterness about this cam-
paign, but I speak with you, as we should
as we begin the closing days of the cam-
paign, about our hopes and about our
ideals. And I will say to you simply, what
I want for the next 4 years is that the
next 4 years will be the best 4 years in this
Nation's history. Give us the chance; let
us do the job.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:14 p.m. at
a rally at Tri-State Airport. He spoke without
referring to notes.
374 Statement About the Black Lung Benefits
Program. October 26, 1972
IT IS especially gratifying to me to be
able to report that 13,000 additional per-
sons have been certified for black lung
benefits since I signed a major expansion
of this humanitarian program 5 months
ago. This means that some 273,000 in-
dividuals are now receiving these generous
and justified benefits.
To make certain that this program is
utilized to the fullest, and to guarantee
that no undue delays are involved, I have
directed the Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare to cut all possible
redtape so that all eligible miners and
dependents start receiving their benefits
as soon as possible.
The health and safety of coal miners,
and the security of their dependents, have
been primary concerns of my Administra-
tion from its very first year, when the first
black lung program was launched.
On May 20 of this year, I signed into
law the Black Lung Benefits Act of 1972,ยน
which made benefits available to tens of
thousands of additional miners and their
dependents because it extended filing
1 See Item 160.
1033
