Richard Nixon, 1972
[56]
Feb. 9
questioning voices are being raised, ex-
amining both the premises and the results
of that country's policies. Private com-
panies, many of them American, are con-
sidering new ways to open opportunities
for African workers. There is an imbal-
ance between the needs of South Africa's
active economy and her adherence to ra-
cial policies which deprive her of the
growing pool of human talent which that
economy requires. There is some hope in
that anomaly.
In Southern Rhodesia, after six years of
economic sanctions designed to end the
rebellion against Britain, Rhodesian and
British negotiators reached agreement in
November on the terms of a proposed
settlement. These are now being put be-
fore the people of Rhodesia whose choice
it is whether to accept or reject them. We
hope this process will set Rhodesia on the
path toward racial equality.
In the Portuguese territories, develop-
ment in some areas is overshadowed by
guerrilla warfare and repression. By our
words and actions, we have made clear
our view that progress toward self-deter-
mination offers the best hope of a perma-
nent and profitable Portuguese-African
relationship.
In Namibia, South Africa continues to
resist the efforts of the United Nations on
behalf of self-determination. It rejects the
1971 holding of the International Court
of Justice that South Africa is obliged to
quit Namibia. We accept that holding and
continue to discourage U.S. investment in
Namibia. We seek to encourage peaceful
ways of realizing and protecting the rights
of the people of Namibia.
Some call for the United States to take
the prime responsibility for the racial
problems of southern Africa. Some want
the United States to force upon the mi-
nority governments of southern Africa im-
mediate and, if need be, violent change. I
have indicated why I reject that position.
Southern Africa contains within itself the
seeds of change. We can and will work
with others to encourage that process.
OUR EXPANDING RELATIONS WITH AFRICA
There is a growing depth and breadth
to our relations with the Continent. To-
day, the unprecedented frequency of per-
sonal contact between American and Afri-
can leaders reflects that fact. I visited
Africa four times before becoming Presi-
dent, and was able to study at first hand
and in considerable detail the problems as
well as the progress being achieved. Since
1969, I have met personally with the lead-
ers of 14 African states. Both Vice Presi-
dent Agnew and Secretary of State Rogers
have made extensive visits to Africa and
have had contacts with African leaders
that have been invaluable in setting the
course of our African policies. A very
special event occurred in January when,
for the first time, the wife of an American
President visited Africa officially. I was
deeply gratified at the warmth of her re-
ception in Liberia, Ghana, and Ivory
Coast.
These exchanges have enabled me to
confirm that a policy based on economic
support, political restraint, and mutual
respect serves us well. It accords with the
high priority African leaders place on de-
veloping their economies. It accords with
Africa's desire to be free of foreign politi-
cal influence and Africa's need to avoid
the diversion of resources inevitable if
conflict comes to the continent. Finally, it
accords with the growing realization of
271
