Richard Nixon, 1972
June 29 [214]
concerned about these men. I have been
somewhat concerned about them. I will
only say that I have had some experience,
and a great deal of experience as a mat-
ter of fact in this past year, in dealing
with Communist leaders. I find that mak-
ing a bargain with them is not easy, and
you get something from them only when
you have something they want to get
from you. The only way we are going to
get our POW's back is to be doing some-
thing to them, and that means hitting
military targets in North Vietnam, re-
taining a residual force in South Viet-
nam, and continuing the mining of the
harbors of North Vietnam.
Only by having that kind of activity go
forward will they have any incentive to
return our POW's rather than not to
account for them as was the case when
the French got out of Vietnam in 1954
and 15,000 French were never accounted
for after that.2
I shall never have that happen to the
brave men who are POW's.
GENERAL LAVELLE'S ACTIVITIES
[3] Q. Mr. President, before you or-
dered a resumption of the bombing of
North Vietnam, General Lavelle au-
thorized or initiated some unauthorized
strikes there. In your view, did this affect
any diplomatic negotiations going on at
that time, and are you concerned that
'The number referred to by the President
is an estimate of French Union forces unac-
counted for in Indochina after the cessation
of hostilities in 1954. The French Union forces
included French Metropolitan, French For-
eign Legion, French colonial, and Vietnamese
troops. All French Metropolitan prisoners of
war were accounted for.
you apparently didn't know about it for
several months?
THE PRESIDENT. It did not affect the
diplomatic negotiations. As a matter of
fact, a meeting took place, a private meet-
ing, between Dr. Kissinger and the nego-
tiators in Paris on May 2, during the
period that General Lavelle's activities
were being undertaken,³ and you can be
very sure that had the North Vietnamese
wanted any pretext to complain about,
they would have complained about that
particular matter.
As far as this is concerned, as Admiral
Moorer testified today, it wasn't author-
ized. It was directed against only those
military targets which were the areas that
were being used for firing on American
planes, but since it did exceed authoriza-
tion, it was proper for him to be relieved
and retired. And I think that it was the
proper action to take. And I believe that
will assure that that kind of activity may
not occur in the future.
EFFECT OF MINING AND BOMBING
[4] Q. Mr. President, on May 8, at
the time of the mining of the harbors in
North Vietnam, your assistant, Dr. Kis-
singer, predicted the mining would result
in the drying up of supplies and the major
offensive should be over around July 1.
Is that estimate still valid, and if so, do
you have a timetable for the withdrawal
of the support troops who have gone into
"The bombing raids carried out by forces
under the command of Gen. John D. Lavelle
were ended March 8, 1972.
The White House later stated that the Pres-
ident was referring to the private arrange-
ments leading up to the May 2 meeting rather
than events of that particular day.
707
