[158] May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
been gratifying, calling fresh attention to
the importance of the arts in the daily
operations of Government and leading to
the development of several recommenda-
tions by the National Endowment for the
Arts.
Today, based upon this first set of rec-
ommendations by the Endowment, I am
pleased to announce that we shall move
forward on three fronts:
-First, I am asking the Federal Coun-
cil on the Arts and Humanities to sponsor
an annual Design Assembly for Federal
administrators and artists.
-Second, I am asking the National
Endowment for the Arts to appoint a
special ad hoc task force committee to re-
view and expand the publication, “Guid-
ing Principles for Federal Architecture";
this document was first printed in 1962
and set forth broad aesthetic recommen-
dations of considerable value. I am also
asking the National Endowment to recom-
mend a program for including art works
in new Federal buildings.
--Third, I am taking a series of actions
159
to improve Federal graphics and publica-
tions. The National Endowment will now
be responsible for coordinating the efforts
of the executive agencies to upgrade their
graphics. I am also requesting Federal
agency heads to make a comprehensive
review of their own graphics and produc-
tion, and I am asking the Civil Service
Commission to review existing procedures
for employing artists, architects, and de-
signers for Federal service. The Commis-
sion is also to evaluate the need for expert
rating panels to review credentials and
portfolios of applicants for such jobs, as is
done in other professional areas.
The people of this country are increas-
ingly concerned and properly so with
the physical appearance of their com-
munities. There should be no doubt that
the Federal Government has an appro-
priate and critical role to play in encour-
aging better design, and I am hopeful
that the actions announced today will en-
able the Government to reflect new stand-
ards of excellence in all of its design
endeavors.
Remarks to Reporters About Forthcoming Trip to
Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran, and Poland.
May 19, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I understand that almost everybody
here is going to leave with us tomorrow for
the trip to Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran,
and Poland, and to the ones who are not
going we are sorry you can't go on this
trip and we will report to you when we
come back.
I thought it might be useful to give a
little background with regard to the trip
and perhaps some information that would
be helpful to you in covering it. This trip
is one which has been in the process of
planning going back perhaps over 3 years.
You may recall the first time that I had a
press conference in the East Room, I was
asked about summitry.
At that point I expressed a very dim
view of summitry unless it was well
planned in advance. I said that because
I have memories, as all of you have
602
