Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [315]
wavered. But John Connally was like a
rock. He is the kind of man that you
really wanted in such a crisis.
So after all that you know about him,
just let me say that this country has been
fortunate to have had him in its service
in many capacities. I have been fortunate
to have had him as an adviser in this Ad-
ministration, and, certainly, as we look to
the future, this is a man who is destined
for great service to his Nation in the years
ahead.
I come now to this organization. It is
called Democrats for Nixon. I think it
should have another name. Tonight I
would like to talk to you in terms of not
"Democrats for Nixon," which puts it in
highly personal terms, but I would like to
talk to you in terms of "Democrats for
America," which really puts it where it
belongs.
What I say now will deal therefore not
with partisanship and not with personal
matters-those really do not belong in a
great Presidential campaign. In this par-
ticular instance, the only matters that we
should consider are what is best for Amer-
ica, because when an individual, be he a
man or a woman, has been proud to be a
member of one of the two great political
parties for many, many years, when, as has
been the case with most of the people here,
of individuals who have always supported
the candidates of their party for local
office, for State office, for national office,
and for the Presidency, when individuals
then decide in a critical election year that
they are going to support a candidate of
the other party, it cannot be simply on per-
sonal terms, it cannot be simply on selfish
terms, it must be on terms of whether
America's interest requires it.
That is the basis on which I speak to
you, you my friends, the Democrats for
Nixon. I would like to call you "Democrats
for America" tonight.
As I see America in these next few years,
I see a time of enormous challenge and
of enormous opportunity. John Connally
has spoken of what has happened around
the world. One of the great difficulties an
individual has when he lives through great
events is that he really doesn't realize how
much is happening, how much the world is
changing. And only when the history
books are written, 10 years, 15 years, 20
years later, does he look back and realize,
"I was there. I helped to make it happen."
Tonight I say to all of you here gathered
in Texas that we have witnessed in these
past few months, and particularly over this
past year, and we are witnessing and are
going to witness over these next 3 to 4
years, very great changes in the world and
changes in America.
What is important for us is to help to
make those changes move in the right
direction, make them move in the direc-
tion of peace for America, make them
move in the direction of freedom for
America and peace and freedom for all
peoples in the world, wherever they can
have it. That is our responsibility.
You are all aware-several of you as
you came through the receiving line men-
tioned that you were aware-of the trips
that had occurred this past year to Peking
and to Moscow. I should point out that
they are only a beginning. I should point
out that we have begun a new relationship
with the People's Republic of China,
which controls one-fourth of all the people
in this world.
But having begun it, now the real
challenge begins. How does it develop?
How does it develop in a way that it will
be to the advantage of the United States
and to the advantage of the Chinese peo-
895
