Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 22 [18]
ping paralysis on the west coast which
reverberated throughout our economy.
The resources of the Federal Govern-
ment, including exhaustive mediation ef-
forts by the Director of the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service,
proved to be of no avail in resolving the
dispute. With grave concern, I watched
the crisis broaden and deepen, and I per-
sonally met with the parties in an attempt
to find some way to end this bitter impasse.
By October 1971, it became evident
that collective bargaining had failed in
this dispute and that action had to be
taken to protect the national health and
safety. Thus on October 4, I invoked the
national emergency provisions of the
Taft-Hartley Act which resulted in an 80-
day cooling-off period.
Unfortunately, the lengthy negotiations
during this period and thereafter did not
result in the hoped-for settlement.
The history of this dispute and the bar-
gaining posture of the parties provide no
hope that a further extension of time
would be useful, or that it would bring
the parties any closer to a resolution of
this matter. They compel me to submit
this special legislation to the Congress and
to appeal once more for legislative action
that will enable us to deal with future
emergency transportation disputes with-
out the necessity of this sort of ad hoc
legislation that can never undo the dam-
age already done.
I proposed new, comprehensive legisla-
tion in February 1970, and there was no
Congressional action that year. I resub-
mitted the measure in February 1971, and
hearings were held, but there was no
appreciable action. On December 15,
1971, I reminded the Congress that a re-
newed work stoppage was possible on the
west coast and that statutory remedies
were desperately needed. The Congress
recessed without any response.
As soon as the Congress enacts the
special legislation before it today, I urge
in the most emphatic terms that it turn
its attentions immediately to the Crippling
Strikes Prevention Act.
The White House,
January 21, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released
at Key Biscayne, Fla.
On the same day, the White House released
the text of a proposed joint resolution provid-
ing for arbitration of the west coast dock strike
and the transcript of a news briefing by Under
Secretary of Labor Laurence H. Silberman on
the President's message.
On January 17, 1972, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing by
Under Secretary Silberman on the dock strike.
18 White House Statement About a Treaty Admitting New
Members Into the European Economic Community.
January 22, 1972
THE PRESIDENT welcomes the signing
today in Brussels of the treaty enlarging
the European Community to include the
United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, and
Norway.
The United States has always supported
the strengthening and enlargement of the
European Community. Upon the occasion
of this historic act, the President wishes to
emphasize that this support is as strong as
ever. The development of European unity
will enable the peoples of Europe more
87-234-74-9
77
