Appendix E
mand at the Department of Agriculture since
the beginning of this Administration, will be
remaining at the Department of Agriculture
as Under Secretary.
Richard E. Lyng, Assistant Secretary for
Marketing and Consumer Services, has decided
to leave that position. President Nixon and
Secretary Butz feel that Mr. Lyng's abilities are
of great value to the Administration, and they
have asked him to accept another top position
at the Department of Agriculture and he is
considering that request.
Thomas K. Cowden, Assistant Secretary for
Rural Development and Conservation, will be
resigning his post in order to take another im-
portant job within the Department of Agricul-
ture. I should point out, as you will note in the
biographical material, that Tom Cowden is 64
years old. Next June he will be 65 years old
and requested another assignment, as he did
not want to continue in the Assistant Secretary
role through the next term. He plans to retire
at some point next year.
Edward Shulman, General Counsel of the
Department, is retiring from Government
service. Edward Shulman is 65 years old and
has been with the Department of Agriculture
for 39 years. So he is retiring as General
Counsel of the Department.
Q. Are we going to get biographies on all
of them?
Mr. ZIEGLER. Yes. James V. Smith, Adminis-
trator of the Farmers Home Administration,
has expressed his desire to return to private
life. The President accepts Mr. Smith's resig-
nation with regret.
Turning to the Department of Defense, the
President has asked me to announce this morn-
ing that he intends to nominate William P.
Clements, Jr., of Texas, to be Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense in the new Administration. Mr.
Clements will succeed Kenneth Rush, who will
be leaving this position to become Deputy Sec-
retary of State.
Mr. Clements has had a highly successful
business career and is one of the most outstand-
ing civic leaders of Dallas, Texas. At the present
time he is chairman of the board of SEDCO,
formerly known as Southeastern Drilling Co.,
Inc., of Dallas, Texas.
President Nixon believes that Mr. Clements'
strong management and executive talents, as
well as his wide knowledge of defense and na-
tional security affairs, will make him a very
valuable member of Secretary Richardson's
new team at the Department of Defense.
[The White House also announced that Carroll
G. Brunthaver would remain as Assistant Secre-
tary of Agriculture for International Affairs
and Commodity Programs.]
Announcing the President's Further Decisions
on Personnel for the Second Term
December 13, 1972
I do have several other announcements to
make this morning regarding the makeup of
the Administration in the second term.
Last Friday, as you recall, in announcing
that Attorney General Kleindienst will be stay-
ing on at the Department of Justice, we also
told you that his deputy, Ralph Erickson, will
be leaving to accept a nomination in the Fed-
eral judiciary. Today the President is pleased
to announce his intention to nominate Joseph
T. Sneed, of North Carolina, to be Deputy
Attorney General of the United States succeed-
ing Mr. Erickson.
Mr. Sneed is widely respected in the legal
profession as one of the most eminent profes-
sors of law in the United States today. At
present, he is dean of the Duke Law School in
Durham, North Carolina.
Before coming to Durham in 1971, he taught
law for more than 20 years at Stanford, Cornell,
and the University of Texas. He is active in a
number of professional organizations and is a
past president of the Association of American
Law Schools.
President Nixon, as you know, feels the en-
forcement of the law and administration of
justice are of the highest importance among the
responsibilities which he owes to the American
people, and he believes that Joseph Sneed can
be of great assistance to him and to the Attor-
ney General in carrying out these responsibil-
ities. He welcomes Mr. Sneed as a member of
the Administration.
The President today is also announcing that
he is accepting with special regret the resigna-
tion of Frank Shakespeare as Director of the
United States Information Agency. Mr.
Shakespeare has expressed his desire to return
to private life and will be announcing the de-
E-16
