[314] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
25th anniversary of my graduation from
college, I was Vice President of the United
States. That was 1959. I remember a
member of my class. He had not become
Vice President of the United States. He
was a teacher, a teacher in a little school
down in southern California in the Im-
perial Valley. But he was such a good
teacher and he was so loved by his stu-
dents and their parents--he was a teacher
in high school-that in that 25th year
after our graduation, they took up a collec-
tion in that town and sent him and his
wife to Washington, D.C., so that they
could see the Capital.
And as he came there--my friend,
Byron Netzley-and I talked to him and
his wife, I thought, who is to judge who
contributes the most to his country. When
I thought of all the lives he had changed,
how much he had meant to the students
that he had taught, I thought that was a
worthwhile life.
Just down on the border a few mo-
ments ago, I met a lot of border guards.
It is a tough job, boring many times, go-
ing through all that luggage and people
saying, "Oh, gee, please leave me alone."
You know it is pretty hard.
I met one man very proud. He stood
there. His name was [Willie] Peña. For 30
years he has been a border guard. For 30
years he has had a magnificent record. As
a result of what he has done, there are
probably hundreds of boys and girls in this
country who didn't become addicted to
heroin because of what he did. He isn't a
man that is going to be known as a hero
when his life is ended, but he is one who,
in his way, has rendered a service that is
invaluable to his country and to his fellow
man.
I think of others in my high school
class some of them became workers,
some became wealthy, some did not. The
important thing is that in this country,
remember, as your principal has just said,
have respect for the dignity of hard work,
have respect for any person, whatever
work he undertakes. Remember, he is
contributing to the greatness of America.
Some will be workers, some will be labor-
ers, some will be teachers, some will be
government employees, some will be like
some of the servicemen I saw at the base
at Laredo, serving their country in the
peacetime forces so that America can
live at peace with the world and so that
freedom will be able to survive in the
world-and each one of these occupations
is important and worthwhile.
One final thought I would leave with
you, something I said to another high
school group when I spoke in Michigan
a few weeks ago. A few of your parents
are here. Always respect them. Always
remember what they did. I mentioned the
tamales a moment ago. I didn't realize at
the time, but when I was in high school
and in college, I had an older brother who
was sick with tuberculosis, and con-
sequently it took a lot of money from
our little grocery store that we had.
Nevertheless, we did well, at least we
thought we did all right. But I knew that
in 5 years-I learned later, one of my
mother's sisters, one of my aunts, told
me-in 5 years she never had a new dress,
and we never knew it. She always looked
nice. And the reason was she had to be
sure my brother was taken care of and
that she was taking care of the other boys
in the family, and see that they got an
education.
I remember her getting up at 4:00 in
the morning, baking pies to sell in that
store.
I remember my father. He wasn't very
892
