[401] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
a 25-percent increase in the value of U.S.
farm exports in the current fiscal year.
This $2 billion increase in farm exports,
when added to last year's record of $8.1
billion, will push U.S. agricultural exports
over the $10 billion mark for the first time
in history.
Earlier in this Administration we an-
nounced that our farm export goal was
$10 billion. Those who thought this goal
was years in the future failed to under-
stand that by expanding our traditional
markets and opening new markets in the
Soviet Union and the People's Republic
of China, we can dramatically increase
the potential for peaceful trade among na-
tions. They also failed to reckon with the
capacity of States like Oklahoma and
other major producing areas to meet the
trade potential.
Oklahoma, with its vast agricultural
output, is making its contribution to a new
era of international trade-it is helping
to make such an era possible, and it is
going to profit from this new era.
But Oklahoma is more than fields of
waving wheat and cattle (which recently
have been selling for the highest prices in
years). Tulsa is a hub of the aerospace
industry in America. Construction of the
space shuttle alone will mean that more
than $20 million will be passing into the
Tulsa economy over the next 2 years.
There are those who speak of the com-
mercial benefits of war, but nobody profits
from war at all. The profits are in peace,
and Oklahoma will share the profits of
peace just as she has shared in the effort
to build a structure of peace in the world.
The petroleum resources, the manufac-
turing output, the military and civilian
support at the great military bases like
Tinker Air Force Base and Fort Sill, and
most of all the patriotism of Oklahomans,
have all played a vital role in the pursuit
of peace.
We are moving toward peace in Viet-
nam and around the world. But in order
to do this we must have a strong America
with a vigorous economy. When we came
into office nearly 4 years ago, we were
confronted with a dangerously overheated
economy. Inflation fueled by wartime
spending had shot above 6 percent. Today
it has been cut almost in half, and we are
doing a better job of controlling inflation
than any other industrialized country in
the free world.
But if we are to have prosperity in
peacetime, it will not be enough just to
cut inflation. We must stop wages from
being eroded by constantly increasing
taxes. The only way you can keep taxes in
line is by keeping Government spending
in line. Since the Congress has refused
to meet its responsibility in this matter,
I have been forced to exercise the veto on
frequent occasions to get rid of budget-
busting and inflationary spending bills.
But the long range answer is not the veto;
it is a Congress that won't try to spend
itself back into office every time an elec-
tion rolls around.
Dewey Bartlett ยน has a proven record of
sound fiscal management in Oklahoma,
and he is the kind of man who under-
stands the need for fiscal responsibility at
the national level. We both need him in
the U.S. Senate; Oklahoma needs him
and I need him.
At the same time, State and local
governments have to do their share in
holding the line against increased taxes.
In the last 10 years, property taxes in
Oklahoma have increased over 60 per-
ยน Dewey F. Bartlett, Governor of Oklahoma
1967-71, was the Republican candidate for
the United States Senate.
I 100
