Appendix B
August
II The President has designated Ambassador
John A. McKesson III and John J. Louis,
Jr., of Chicago, Ill., to serve as his personal
representatives with the rank of Special
Ambassador at ceremonies commemorating
the 12th anniversary of the independence
of the Gabon Republic at Libreville on Au-
gust 16-17.
14 Ambassador William D. Eberle, Special
Representative for Trade Negotiations, met
with the President at the White House to
report on his recent trip to Japan where
he met with Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka
and other Japanese officials regarding trade
matters.
14 Kenneth B. Keating, who has resigned as
United States Ambassador to India, called
on the President at the White House.
14 Economist Pierre Rinfret met with the
President at the White House.
14 Mrs. Everett McKinley Dirksen, widow of
the former Senate Minority Leader, called
on the President to present a copy of her
book about her husband.
14 Oral Roberts, chancellor of Oral Roberts
University in Tulsa, Okla., called on the
President at the White House.
14 Daniel P. Moynihan, former Counsellor
to the President, met with the President at
the White House.
19 Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, met with
the President at Camp David to report on
his trip to Paris, Saigon, and Tokyo.
21 The President went by helicopter from
Camp David, Md., to Gettysburg, Pa., to
visit Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower.
30 The President and Mrs. Nixon were guests
at a reception for State and civic leaders
at the home of Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce in
Honolulu.
31 Ellsworth Bunker, United States Ambas-
sador to Vietnam, met with the President
in Honolulu.
September
3 The President sent a cable to Bobby Fischer
congratulating him on winning the world's
chess championship at Reykjavik, Iceland.
4 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a re-
ception at their California home for re-
porters covering the Western White House.
7 James and John Roosevelt called on the
President at the White House. They were
accompanied by John B. Connally.
7 Representatives of the International Con-
ference of Police Associations and the Na-
tional Fraternal Order of Police met with
the President at the White House.
7 Mickey Lolich of the Detroit Tigers pro-
fessional baseball team called on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
7 Ambassadors Sadan Moussa Touré of the
Republic of Guinea, Leo Tuominen of Fin-
land, Telesphore Yaguibou of the Republic
of Upper Volta, John M. Garba of Nigeria,
and Arno Halusa of Austria presented their
credentials to the President in ceremonies
in the Blue Room at the White House.
8 Gen. Maraden Panggabean, Indonesian
Minister of State, met with the President
at the White House.
II The Council on International Economic
Policy met with the President at the White
House to discuss trade relations with
Europe.
11 Joseph DeSilva, of Los Angeles, Calif.,
secretary-treasurer of local 770 of the Retail
Clerks International Association, called on
the President at the White House.
11 Joseph R. Sanson, of Detroit, Mich., newly
elected national commander of AMVETS,
met with the President at the White House.
12 The Republican Congressional leadership
and the Cabinet met with the President at
the White House.
12 Representatives of the National League for
Nursing met with the President at the White
House.
87-234-74-80
B-15
