Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 6 [340]
Your reflections concerning your first-
hand observations in Bangladesh are most
gratifying. It has been my objective
throughout this difficult period in South
Asia to assure that, at a minimum, the
absence of the essentials of life would not
further heighten the tension that already
existed there. I recognized in 1971 and
I recognize now that making available the
economic necessities cannot by itself
assure peace or peaceful development.
These objectives can ultimately be
achieved only in a stable political environ-
ment and only when neighbors have
enough confidence in one another so that
normal relationships can be established
across their borders.
At the same time, the United States
could not and cannot ignore the needs
and the aspirations of the more than 700
million South Asians. Our effort to join
other nations in meeting the most urgent
needs of those who live in this area has
reflected not only our compassion for them
in their distress but also our recognition
that an orderly society depends on the
capacity of governments to "promote the
general welfare."
Again, my warmest thanks for your
help.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The letter, dated October 5, 1972, and
released October 6, was sent to each of the
four members of the Panel who had made the
visit to Bangladesh. They reported to the Presi-
dent in a joint letter dated September 8, which
was released with the President's letter and
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
The undersigned members of your Advisory
Panel on South Asian Relief Assistance have
recently completed an intensive visit to Ban-
gladesh. We hereby submit our views and
conclusions derived from many visits and con-
versations. We have met with Ministers, officials
and private citizens of Bangladesh, with United
Nations officials, with representatives of Ameri-
can voluntary agencies and with members of
the U.S. Mission. These conversations were
supplemented by field trips.
The emergency aid to Bangladesh since its
independence struck us forcefully as a truly
superb example of the traditional American
response to the need of people in deep distress.
The American people, in giving through the
Government, the United Nations and voluntary
agencies, one-third of a total world-wide relief
effort of approximately $800 million to rescue
a new country half way around the world-
more than any other country-have once again
been true to their inheritance.
This humanitarian effort has contributed
significantly toward helping this new, war-torn
country and its Government under Prime
Minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to make the
painful transition to independence. We believe
that the Prime Minister and his colleagues are
aware of that fact.
We should like to record our conviction that
the mobilized efforts and resources of the
world have forestalled a major famine. The
United Nations, through the Secretary Gen-
eral's appeals last year and this and through its
operations in the field, has played a major role
in this achievement. The performance of the
UN has justified the United States in deciding,
after we had seen the danger, that the UN could
play such a role and our determination to help
it do so effectively.
The newly emerging nation of Bangladesh
is facing an extremely complex range of human
problems. Certainly the potential for cata-
stropic suffering is unparalleled in modern his-
tory. But the end of the present crisis appears to
be approaching. Unless another natural disaster
should strike, Bangladesh should, by the spring
of 1973, be emerging from the relief stage and
launched upon a period of reconstruction and
development. The United Nations coordinating
organization, UNROD (United National Relief
Operation, Dacca), is expecting to turn over
its major responsibilities to the Government of
Bangladesh next spring and to leave to the
regular UN agencies tasks such as they have
traditionally undertaken in this and other de
veloping countries.
963
