Richard Nixon, 1972
9 [56]
Feb. 9
natural pride of new nations molding their
own future after generations of foreign
rule. It is precisely what we demanded of
others after we had obtained our own in-
dependence. The United States cannot,
and will not, therefore, attempt to define
Africa's goals, nor determine how they
should be met. We will not recommend
internal political arrangements to Afri-
cans-though we naturally prefer open
and tolerant systems. But we can and we
will support African commitments to the
values we share.
THE DIMENSIONS OF COOPERATION
The United States responded, in 1971,
to the special and priority concerns of
Africans. This Administration was able,
even in the face of declining worldwide aid
resources, to increase U.S. support for
African development. Our development
loans to African nations increased 30 per-
cent and Export-Import Bank activity
rose 140 percent. In addition, we provided
almost 40 percent of the total cost of
multilateral assistance programs in Africa.
Last year the Peace Corps maintained
2,500 volunteers in 25 African countries,
providing teacher training and vocational
skills. American assistance to Africa
totaled about $550 million last year, com-
pared to $450 million in 1970.
This record speaks for itself. We have
been increasingly active in precisely that
area in which Africa expects and wants
an American contribution.
Private American investment in Africa
is growing at an annual rate of 14 percent,
a fact of the greatest promise for Africa's
economic future. Private investment will
undoubtedly play a major role in provid-
ing the Continent with the capital and
technology it needs. We will continue to
make every effort to encourage private
investment in Africa. It will benefit not
only Africa, but the world, to encourage
efficient development of Africa's resources
of petroleum, mineral, and agricultural
products. American companies will also
continue to help create new manufactur-
ing enterprises and to facilitate expanded
trade and tourism by working to build
ports and railroads, air links and hotels.
U.S. private investment in Africa now
totals about $3.5 billion, and continues
to grow rapidly. Americans are partici-
pating in important new enterprises
started last year in Nigeria and Zaire. The
Export-Import Bank and the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation stand
ready to facilitate such ventures where
our participation is wanted and where it
can take place on a footing of mutual
benefit. Africans who want this participa-
tion must, of course, create a hospitable
climate for private investment. Kenya,
Ivory Coast, Liberia, Nigeria, and Zaire
are examples of the benefits which flow
from such a climate.
Our growing trade with Africa yielded
the United States a 1971 trade surplus
of about $400 million, while providing
Africans with expanded markets for the
exports so vital to their growth. 1971 saw
the opening of our sugar market to Malawi
and Uganda for the first time, and an in-
crease in our quotas for Madagascar,
Mauritius, and Swaziland. Despite our
own economic difficulties, we exempted
many African raw material exports from
the temporary import surcharge imposed
from August to December. We have an-
nounced our intention to submit to the
Congress legislation to implement a sys-
tem of generalized preferences for the
exports of developing areas, including
Africa. This year we will open in Nigeria
87-234-74-21
269
