Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 28 [73]
the giants of the forest. But the process is
not one of days or even years; it is a
process of centuries.
Just as we hope that those saplings,
those tiny saplings that we left in China,
will
grow one day into mighty redwoods,
so we hope, too, that the seeds planted on
this journey for peace will grow and
prosper into a more enduring structure for
peace and security in the Western Pacific.
But peace is too urgent to wait for cen-
turies. We must seize the moment to move
toward that goal now, and this is what we
have done on this journey.
As I am sure you realize, it was a great
experience for us to see the timeless
wonders of ancient China, the changes
that are being made in modern China.
And one fact stands out, among many
others, from my talks with the Chinese
leaders: It is their total belief, their total
dedication, to their system of government.
That is their right, just as it is the right of
any country to choose the kind of
govern-
ment it wants.
But as I return from this trip, just as
has been the case on my return from
other trips abroad which have taken me to
over 80 countries, I come back to America
with an even stronger faith in our system
of government.
As I flew across America today, all the
way from Alaska, over the Rockies, the
Plains, and then on to Washington, I
thought of the greatness of our country
and, most of all, I thought of the freedom,
the opportunity, the progress that 200 mil-
lion Americans are privileged to enjoy. I
realized again this is a beautiful country.
And tonight my prayer and my hope is
that as a result of this trip, our children
will have a better chance to grow up in a
peaceful world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. at
Andrews Air Force Base, Md. He spoke from
a prepared text. Vice President Spiro T.
Agnew had welcomed the President as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
For more than a week we have witnessed
through the miracle of satellite television, the
sights and sounds of a society that has been
closed to Americans for over two decades. We
have been made aware of many new things in
that society through this visit, Mr. President.
We have witnessed much of what you have done
with feelings of pride and pleasure and an im-
mense curiosity that has certainly not been
diminished by the amount of attention paid by
the media to this visit.
I must confess that we have been surprised
to some extent by your facility with chopsticks,
Mr. President, and by the equal facility of the
Chinese orchestra which rendered "America
the Beautiful."
But I will say that the week's undertakings
were intensively covered-I think that is the
understatement of this week, Mr. President-
and we enjoyed every minute of it as we
watched with pride and approval the way you
and the members of your party and our gracious
First Lady conducted yourselves.
Speaking of our First Lady, I don't think I
can let this occasion pass without reminding
you that I predicted what a tremendous asset
she would be in the future to American di-
plomacy and she didn't let me down a bit. As a
matter of fact, she did an absolutely outstand-
ing job under the most difficult, unpredictable
circumstances.
Mr. President, just before you left to go to
China, you stated that although the Chinese
and the American people were separated by a
vast ocean and by great differences of phil-
osophy, there was no reason why with effort
we could not undertake to diminish the tensions
between our countries. I believe you have
383
