Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
is dependent upon long term trends in
world demand for Latin America's raw
materials and semi-processed goods. To-
day, the trends in demand are far from
adequate to provide the earnings needed.
This has been a major burden on Latin
American development and one of our
partners' most urgent concerns.
The United States, for its part, has
taken steps to provide access for such
Latin American products as sugar, coffee
and meat to our own market. But the
problem is greater than this and has to be
attacked on a worldwide basis. Latin
America was not included in the arrange-
ments by which many industrialized na-
tions gave preferential treatment
selected countries or regions in the de-
veloping world. The answer to this-
which the U.S. championed-was to press
for a generalized system by which indus-
trial countries gave preferential treatment
to the products of all developing countries.
We made great progress. The European
Community, Japan, and other nations
have put generalized tariff preference
schemes into effect. As Secretary Rogers
announced in December, we expect to
submit our own generalized preference
legislation to the Congress.
For the past three years, in addition,
the United States has maintained the
average annual level of development as-
sistance of the first ten years of the Alli-
ance for Progress. I have urged the
Congress to move quickly and favorably
on our new appropriations, particularly
for bilateral aid and for the Inter-Ameri-
can Development Bank (IDB), the prin-
cipal regional entity for development
lending. Over the past three years, this
Administration has responded to Latin
American proposals and taken concrete
steps to assist their efforts for development.
For example:
-In
-In my October 1969 address, I an-
nounced a milestone reform: the
relaxation of restrictions which "tied"
U.S. loans to Latin America to the
purchase of U.S. exports.
-We have given financial and tech-
nical support to enhance the effec-
tiveness of multilateral institutions
like IA-ECOSOC, CIAP, and IDB
as vehicles for Latin American lead-
ership in planning development as-
sistance and setting development
priorities.
-I exempted the hemisphere from the
ten percent reduction of bilateral
foreign aid which was a part of our
August 15 emergency New Eco-
nomic Policy.
-We have supported efforts to develop
capital markets, tourism, and export
promotion, and to facilitate the trans-
fer of technology for development
needs.
-We have given assistance to the Cen-
tral American Bank for Economic
Integration and the Caribbean De-
velopment Bank.
-The U.S. signed agreements with
Panama and Colombia on the financ-
ing of the last unfinished link of the
Pan American Highway-the Darien
Gap. Construction can now begin
this
year.
THE QUALITY OF LIFE
IN THE HEMISPHERE
Our ties with Latin America at the
people-to-people level are a tradition unto
themselves. They cover the range of
human and institutional activities-edu-
265
