Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
greater local capability, we have in three
years reduced the American military
presence in Asia from almost 800 thousand
to less than 300 thousand without en-
dangering the stability of the area or
abandoning our commitments to our
friends.
AFRICA. We have followed a deliberate
policy of restraint in involvement in the
political problems of Africa, while in-
creasing our contribution to worthy
African-initiated development activities.
NEW DIMENSION OF DIPLOMACY. We
have taken the initiative in stimulating
international action on many of the issues
which constitute the new dimension of
diplomacy.
-We are making a major effort to
reach worldwide agreement in 1973
on a new Law of the Sea. Such an
agreement is needed to ensure that
the vast potential of the ocean and its
resources serves to benefit mankind
rather than becoming a new source of
conflict between nations.
-We have taken the lead in organizing
a concerted international effort to
control narcotics.
-We have helped in persuading the
world community to recognize the
dangers of, and take effective meas-
ures to control, excessive population
growth.
-We are participating in a major effort
to focus the world's attention and re-
sources constructively on the threat to
the global environment.
-We have consistently asserted and
worked to stimulate the general world
interest in space exploration and
global communications.
-We have provided leadership in the
efforts of the world community to
meet the challenge of air piracy.
OUR BASIC NATIONAL PURPOSE-AND
VIETNAM
Each of the initiatives described is sig-
nificant in itself. But their true significance
lies in the fact that they are all part of a
whole, each contributing to our basic pur-
pose of building a stable peace.
During much of the previous decade,
our national effort to reach that goal had
been disrupted by our concentration on
the war in Southeast Asia. We therefore
faced the exigent need to reshape the
American role in Vietnam so that it con-
tributed to, rather than inhibited, prog-
ress toward the national goal of secure
world peace.
We promised to end the conflict, but in
a way that did not mock our effort to
bring about a stable peace. On Janu-
ary 25, 1972 I described our thirty-month
effort to reach peace through secret nego-
tiations. I also presented our new pro-
posals which clearly make possible a
peaceful settlement which entrusts the
political future of South Vietnam to the
South Vietnamese. Alternatively, as we
offered to do over nine months ago, we are
ready to conclude a settlement of military
issues only. To date, however, our earnest
efforts to end the war for all participants
through negotiations have foundered on
Communist obstinacy. That has left us no
choice but to move toward ending the war
for America through Vietnamization of
the conflict.
We have come a long way. In Vietnam,
we have changed the very nature of the
U.S. involvement. Our ground combat
role has effectively ended. When I came
into office, the American troop ceiling in
Vietnam was 549,500, and we were suffer-
ing an average of more than 1,000 casual-
ties a month. As I write this Report, our
201
