Richard Nixon, 1972 May 20-June 1 [162A]
162A Chronology of Visit to Austria, the Soviet Union,
Iran, and Poland. May 20-June 1, 1972
Editor's Note: The following chronology of events was prepared from White House
announcements and outlines public activities of the President and Mrs. Nixon during
their visit to Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran, and Poland.
Saturday, May 20
The President and Mrs. Nixon boarded
the Spirit of '76 at Andrews Air Force Base
for the flight to Salzburg, Austria.
Arriving at Salzburg Airport at 10:30
p.m., they were greeted by Chancellor Bruno
Kreisky of the Federal Republic of Austria.
Sunday, May 21
The President and Chancellor Kreisky
met for discussion at Klessheim Palace.
Mrs. Nixon entertained Mrs. Kreisky at
tea at Klessheim Palace.
The President and Mrs. Nixon were then
guests of the Chancellor and Mrs. Kreisky
at luncheon at the Kobenzl-Gaisberg Hotel.
Monday, May 22
After departure ceremonies at Salzburg
Airport, the President and Mrs. Nixon flew
to Moscow, where they were greeted at
Vnukovo II Airport by President Podgorny,
Premier Kosygin, Foreign Minister Gro-
myko, and Ambassador Dobrynin.
In the afternoon, the President met for
more than 2 hours with General Secretary
Brezhnev.
In the evening, the President and Mrs.
Nixon were guests of honor at a dinner
hosted by the Presidium of the Supreme
Soviet of the U.S.S.R. and the Government
of the U.S.S.R. in Granovit Hall in the
Grand Kremlin Palace.
Tuesday, May 23
The President and members of the United
States party met with Soviet officials in
plenary session in Catherine Hall in the
Grand Kremlin Palace.
In ceremonies in St. Vladimir Hall, the
President and President Podgorny signed an
agreement on environmental protection.
Secretary Rogers and Soviet Health Minister
Petrovsky then signed an agreement on
medical science and public health.
The President and General Secretary
Brezhnev met for 2 hours of discussion be-
fore the ceremony and for 3 additional hours
later in the evening.
During the day, Mrs. Nixon visited a
secondary school, toured the Moscow Metro,
and had tea with Mrs. Brezhnev, Mrs.
Podgorny, and wives of other Soviet officials
in the Imperial Living Quarters in the
Grand Kremlin Palace.
Wednesday, May 24
In the morning, the President went to the
Aleksandrov Gardens to lay a wreath at the
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. He returned
to the Grand Kremlin Palace for further
discussions with Soviet leaders.
In afternoon ceremonies, the President
and Premier Kosygin signed the space co-
operation agreement and Secretary Rogers
and Committee Chairman Kirillin signed
the science and technology agreement.
The President then went to Chairman
Brezhnev's country residence for additional
discussions.
The First Lady visited the Moscow State
University and the GUM department store.
In the evening, she attended a performance
at the New Circus.
Thursday, May 25
The President met for 2 hours with Soviet
leaders, and a maritime agreement on the
prevention of incidents at sea was signed by
611
