Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 12 [345]
has created in the United States and
abroad reservoirs of mutual understand-
ing and empathy among a cross-section of
leaders in many professions. These vital
reservoirs are drawn upon more and more
frequently as the number of people who
influence foreign policy decisions increases
both in this country and abroad.
This report presents a brief summary
of the exchange program over its first 25
years. Limited at first to scholarly ex-
changes, the program now includes obser-
vation-study visits by outstanding foreign
leaders and professionals. This aspect of
the program has progressed to the point
that the chief of state or prime minister of
one out of every 10 countries of the world
has visited the United States before as-
suming office. The present-day program
also encompasses presentation abroad of
some of the country's top performing
artists, with special emphasis on reaching
important areas ordinarily missed by reg-
ular commercial performing arts tours,
such as the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe.
The program also includes exchanges
of outstanding young people with leader-
ship potential, as well as special projects
designed to enrich the experience of for-
eign students coming to the United States
under private sponsorship, many of whom
return home to rise to positions of
leadership.
In particular, this report pays tribute
to the hundreds of private agencies, busi-
ness corporations, and other organizations
as well as to the thousands of individuals
who, from the very beginning, have vol-
untarily contributed funds, time and ef-
fort to make this exchange program not
only truly representative of the people of
the United States, but a unique example
of citizens' diplomacy in action.
I commend this report to the thought-
ful attention of the Congress.
The White House,
October 11, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, entitled "Educational and
Cultural Exchange: People's Diplomacy in Ac-
tion" (31 pp. plus addenda), was published
by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural
Affairs, Department of State.
Federal Spending
October 12, 1972
345 Statement About the Proposed
Ceiling and the Economy.
THE TAXPAYERS of the Nation won a
significant victory this week when the
House of Representatives approved my
$250 billion spending ceiling. The finan-
cial fate of the taxpayers now rests with
the United States Senate, which should
approve the ceiling-without adding loop-
holes as a guarantee against excessive
Federal spending that could generate eco-
nomic pressure for a tax hike.
It should be emphasized that my tax-
proof ceiling on spending would not be a
pinchpenny approach to government. A
quarter of a trillion dollars is a lot of dol-
lars, a sum that would permit continued
generous Federal financing of all worthy
programs such as Atlanta's rapid transit
system, for which the Federal Government
recently committed additional design
funds.
The $250 billion, huge as it is, would
not be inflationary-that is the real sig-
nificance of the figure. We know from our
experience with the impact of Federal
87-234-74- -65
973
