Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [400]
Chicago has one of the largest nonpublic
school systems in our Nation, a network
of education centers that keep alive in our
children the religious and moral values
on which a full life must be based.
Today that nonpublic school system is
threatened by the growing financial pres-
sures which it must overcome to survive.
So I ask the people of Chicago to join
with me in working for the passage of leg-
islation that will allow the parents of
children attending nonpublic schools tax
credits to offset a part of their tuition
costs. I have actively worked for the
passage of this kind of legislation in the
past. I am pledged to continue working
for it, so that we can achieve passage of
this much needed measure to maintain
diversity and to keep a strong spiritual
and moral element in the American edu-
cation system.
The opportunity for diverse, quality
education, the chance to work hard at a
meaningful job, the perpetuation of the
values and beliefs that made this country
great-each of these things is an im-
portant part of the "Spirit of Chicago,"
and of the spirit of America itself.
NOTE: The statement was released at Chicago,
Ill.
400 Remarks at Chicago, Illinois.
November 3, 1972
Governor Ogilvie, Senator Percy, Con-
gressman Arends, all of the distinguished
candidates and other guests here on the
platform, and all of you who have been
so kind to, on such very short notice, come
here to the airport to welcome Mrs. Nixon
and me here:
I want to say to you that, first, to come
to Illinois is always a very great pleasure
for me. I want you to know, too, that to
come here at a time that I know the city
of Chicago is grieving for those who were
the victims of the terrible accident¹ last
Tuesday, is one that is a very sad time.
But in a way it, too, is a time for hope
for all of us.
I want to thank and express my ap-
preciation to all of those who, during that
tragedy, handled themselves so mag-
nificently-the people in the hospitals, the
firemen, the policemen. Let's give them
the hand they deserve.
1 See Item 392.
I want to express also my admiration
for the people of Chicago, for the way
they have reacted with great compassion
and great sincerity and great heart. You
know, this part of the country is known
as the heartland of America. Chicago is
known as the capital of the heartland of
America, and the way the people of
Chicago responded to this tragedy proves
that Chicago truly has a big heart. We
thank you for that big heart.
I am very proud, too, today to be here
on the platform with others who are
candidates for office, as I am. I would like
to mention them all by name, but time
will not permit it. May I say, first, that
on the national scene all of them have my
support: Chuck Percy, who is one of the
top men in the United States Senate, one
of the leaders of the United States Senate;
the entire delegation from the State of
Illinois. There is only one thing wrong
with it. We would like to have a few more
just like them back there in Washington.
1095
