[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Seabeds. A treaty banning weapons of
mass destruction from the seabeds was
signed in Washington on February 11,
1971 and subsequently submitted to the
Senate. This is a significant achievement.
The major powers have agreed not to
place nuclear weapons on the ocean floor,
an area which encompasses about 70 per-
cent of the earth's surface. It has already
been signed by more than 80 states.
Nuclear Non-Proliferation. Further
progress has been made in restricting the
spread of nuclear weapons to new regions.
Following a unanimous vote of advice and
consent by the Senate, the U.S. ratified
on May 12, 1971 Additional Protocol II
to the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nu-
clear Weapons in Latin America. Under
this Protocol, the United States agreed to
respect the nuclear-free zone created by
the treaty, which is now in force for
seventeen of our Latin American neigh-
bors and applies to an area of over 22
million
square miles containing a popula-
tion of more than 100 million persons.
NEW AREAS FOR PROGRESS
New areas for progress in controlling
arms demand attention.
--In the Middle East the U.S. is com-
mitted to maintaining a military
balance. Our fundamental position,
however, is that the U.S. and USSR
have a special responsibility to re-
strain the flow of armaments.
-In South Asia outside powers should
assume a similar responsibility. At-
tempts to strengthen local forces
through supply of major armaments
have exacerbated tensions inherent
in the political situation.
-Different forums, such as a world
conference or a five power nuclear
conference, have been suggested for
dealing with arms control issues. The
United States is willing to consider
these and other efforts. However,
rather than searching for new mech-
anisms or institutions, we believe that
the primary challenge for the present
is to complete the work already be-
gun in the UN, in the CCD at
Geneva, in regional arrangements,
and, above all, in Soviet-American
discussions.
CONCLUSION
Advances in arms control have en-
hanced prospects for a new era of greater
mutual security in the world. The progress
already achieved has helped provide a
basis for new opportunities in 1972 to
discuss constructively a broad range of
differences with potential adversaries. In-
creased security will become a reality if
together we can create a new structure of
international understanding, stability and
restraint.
In this period of transition, we cannot
ignore the potential security threats to this
nation and its allies or our obligation to
maintain a credible and effective Ameri-
can military position. We are committed
to progress in arms control, but I will not
allow negotiations to become a subterfuge
by which potential adversaries obtain
military advantages. The continuing suffi-
ciency of our strength is not incompatible
with our arms control efforts; on the con-
trary, it helps create the conditions that
make equitable settlements of political
differences possible.
Consistent with the Nixon Doctrine, we
will maintain those forces essential to deal
with the challenges of the 1970's, and we
will develop a solid foundation for
324
