[153] May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
Ladies and gentlemen, you will remem-
ber the time in this room that I made the
announcement with regard to my nomi-
nation of Secretary Connally, Secretary
of the Treasury. It is hard to realize it
was 18 months ago, on December 14. At
that time, Secretary Connally had agreed
to come to Washington to take this very
arduous assignment, arduous for him,
particularly, because he was not one who
had had that kind of background, al-
though he had enormous capability, as he
later demonstrated in handling the
position.
But he agreed to take that assignment
for one year. When the year ended, we
had a discussion. It was December 14,
and the time was right in the middle of
the very, very sensitive monetary negotia-
tions that were taking place. Through,
shall we say, some persuasion, I was able
to get the Secretary to stay on through
those negotiations, and after that time I
discussed the matter again with him when
we were in San Clemente for the meeting
with Mr. Sato,2 and he agreed that he
would extend his 12 months to 18 months.
The 18 months now has been reached.
This is now May 16 and Secretary Con-
nally has asked that we send a new nomi-
nation for Secretary of the Treasury,
which I am prepared to do.
Before doing so, and before presenting
the man that I have selected for that
position, I would like to say a word with
regard to Secretary Connally, a word
now, and I will elaborate later when he
2 Eisaku Sato, Prime Minister of Japan, met
with the President at the Western White House
on January 6 and 7, 1972. See Items and
4
5.
finally does leave the position, when his
successor is confirmed, because, of course,
he will stay on as Secretary during the
transition period and until his successor is
confirmed.
I know that when he was appointed,
there were those who wondered how a
man who had had a great background as
Secretary of the Navy, in government, a
Governor, a lawyer could handle this
position. I think even the most skeptical
critics agree that perhaps no Secretary
of the Treasury, as a matter of fact, no
member of the Cabinet, in an 18-month
period has contributed more to this coun-
try than has Secretary Connally.
Then I look back and think of the
new economic policy of August 15-he
was the architect of that policy. As Chair-
man of the Cost of Living Council he has
led the fight against inflation, a fight
which we are now winning. He has also
led the Administration in the direction of
our economic policy for expansion of the
economy. And when we look at the first
quarter results we can see there, too, our
policy is proving to be successful.
The activities he has undertaken in the
international field have not been as well
understood by people in this country, but
they are certainly understood abroad. I
remember a conversation I had with the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Bar-
ber, of Great Britain, when we met in
Bermuda. This was right after the
Smithsonian agreement had been reached.
That was a pretty rugged session for all
concerned. I must say that there are
people abroad who may have objections
to the Secretary because he stands up so
strongly for America, but they respect
him. The Chancellor of the Exchequer
said to me that without any question,
without Secretary Connally's leadership,
594
