Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [46]
needs a diversity of approaches; a free
Nation should invest its faith in the right
and ability of its people to meet the needs
of their own communities. No greater
sense of confidence can be found than that
of a community which has solved its own
problems and met its own needs.
Confidence in government is nowhere
under greater challenge than among the
young, yet the future of America depends
upon the involvement of our young in the
day-to-day business of governing this land.
By making resources available to the more
localized units of government, where more
people can play a more direct role—and
by placing the power of decision where the
people are I hope that many of the
young will come to realize that their par-
ticipation can truly make a difference.
This purpose this philosophy-is at the
heart of Special Revenue Sharing.
The people's right to change what does
not work is one of the greatest principles
of our system of government—and that
principle will be strengthened as the
governments closest to the people are
strengthened. Though the Federal Gov-
ernment has tried with intelligence and
vigor to meet the people's needs, many of
its
purposes have gone unfulfilled for far
too long. Now, let us help those most
directly affected to try their hand. Ameri-
can society and American government can
only benefit from ensuring to our citizens
the fullest possible opportunity to make
their communities better places, for them-
selves, for their families, and for their
neighbors.
The White House,
February 7, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released two fact sheets on special revenue
sharing for manpower and the transcript of a
news briefing by Secretary of Labor James D.
Hodgson on the message.
46 Statement on Signing the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971. February 7, 1972
WHEN I vetoed the bill to limit expendi-
tures on political broadcasting in October
of 1970, I pointed out that the goal of con-
trolling campaign expenditures was a
highly laudable one. The chief problem
with the bill then before me was that it
did not limit overall costs but applied only
to radio and television. As I put it then,
it plugged "only one hole in a sieve."
Since that time, the House and Senate
have worked to design a better bill. I
believe they have succeeded in that en-
deavor. S. 382, the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971, limits the amount
candidates for Federal elective offices may
spend on advertising, not just on radio and
television, but through all communica-
tions media. It limits contributions by can-
didates and their families to their own
campaigns. It provides for full reporting
of both the sources and the uses of cam-
paign funds, both after elections and dur-
ing campaigns. By giving the American
public full access to the facts of political
financing, this legislation will guard
against campaign abuses and will work to
build public confidence in the integrity of
the electoral process.
The Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 is a realistic and enforceable bill, an
165
