Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 7 [290]
the Agricultural Act of 1970. This Admin-
istration is committed to both the revitali-
zation of rural America and the mainte-
nance of a sound balance between rural
and urban America. This commitment is
reflected by the data in this report show-
ing that during the last year more than
half of all newly located offices and other
facilities have been placed in areas of
lower population density.
The philosophy of this administration
concerning the location of Federal facili-
ties was expressed in Executive Order
11512 in February of 1970:
Consideration shall be given in the se-
lection of sites for Federal facilities to
the need for development and rede-
velopment of areas and the develop-
ment of new communities, and the
impact a selection will have on improv-
ing social and economic conditions in
that area.
We have since moved to carry out this
philosophy through a wide variety of ac-
tions. The Agricultural Act of 1970 serves
as a further stimulus in the same direc-
tion. I am confident that our choice of lo-
cations for new offices and facilities is
strengthening the balance between rural
and urban America.
The White House,
September 7, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 157-page report, entitled "The
Second Annual Report on the Location of New
Federal Offices and Other Facilities," was pre-
pared within the executive departments and
agencies and compiled by the Department of
Agriculture for transmittal to the Congress by
the President.
290 Memorandum on the 10th Anniversary of the
Federal Labor Relations Program.
September 7, 1972
Memorandum to Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
This year the Federal Government
marked the tenth anniversary of its labor
relations program, which now
more than one million Federal employees.
I support collective bargaining for
Federal workers, and I have demonstrated
that support during the past three years
by strengthening the program with the
issuance of two Executive Orders [11491
and 11616] broadening the scope of
bargaining.
Now, at the end of the first decade of
this, the largest organized labor relations
program in the Nation, I am calling on
you to make this program even more ef-
fective. At my request, the Chairman of
the U.S. Civil Service Commission and
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget have drawn up a set of guide-
lines for Federal agencies under the
Federal labor-management relations pro-
gram. These guidelines are a solid step
forward and should be implemented as
quickly as possible.
If we can make this program work bet-
ter, we can make Government work
better.
I cannot urge you too strongly to take
a personal interest in the labor relations
activities in your agency and to make
your managers aware of your interest.
You should impress on your top managers
859
