Richard Nixon, 1972
June 29 [214]
of all Americans within 4 months, a total
cessation of all bombing-these, we think,
are very reasonable offers, and we believe
the enemy should seriously consider them.
ARMS CONTROL AND WEAPONS
DEVELOPMENT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, hardly had you
signed the arms control agreements in
Moscow than your Administration asked
for new money for new strategic weapons.
Some of your critics are saying that this
is almost a deception giving the Pentagon
what it wants, namely concentration on
developing quality weapons. Will you try
to dispel this contradiction?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Morgan [Edward
P. Morgan, ABC News], the problem with
regard to arms control is that we do not
deal with it in a vacuum. We have to deal
with the problem as it affects the security
of the United States. Now, first, let me say
that if we had not had an arms control
agreement, a limitation of ABM's and a
temporary limitation for 5 years on certain
classifications of offensive weapons, I
would-and I am saying this conserva-
tively-have had to ask the Congress of
the United States to approve an increase
in the defense budget for nuclear strategic
weapons of at least $15 billion a year on
a crash program. Reason: Had there been
no arms control agreement, the Soviet
Union's plans called for an increase of
their ABM's to 1,000 over the next 5 years.
The arms control agreement limits them
to 200 as it does us. Had there been no
arms control agreement, the Soviet Union
had a program underway in the field of
submarines which would have brought
them up to over 90. The agreement limits
them to 62.
Had there been no arms control agree-
ment-and this is the most important
point-in the terms of offensive strategic
weapons, the Soviet Union that has now
passed us in offensive strategic weapons-
they have 1,600, we have roughly 1,000—
they would have built 1,000 more over
the next 5 years. Now, under those cir-
cumstances, any President of the United
States could see that in 5 years the United
States would be hopelessly behind; our
security would be threatened, our allies
would be terrified, particularly in those
areas and our friends like the Mideast-
where the possibility of Soviet adventurism
is considered to be rather great.
Therefore, the arms control agreement
at least put a brake on new weapons. Now,
with regard to the new weapons that you
refer to, however, let me point out they
are not for the next 5-year period. We are
really talking about the period after that.
And they are absolutely essential for the
security of the United States for another
reason: Because looking at this not in a
vacuum but in terms of what the other
side is doing, Mr. Brezhnev made it very
clear that he intended to go forward in
those categories that were not limited.
Now, in fairness to him, he also said,
and made it very clear-he made it per-
fectly clear, I should say-he said that he
expected that we would go forward. Now,
under these circumstances, then, for the
United States not to go forward in those
areas that were not controlled would mean
that at the end of the seventies we would
be in an inferior position, and no President
of the United States can take the respon-
sibility of allowing the United States to be
the second most powerful nation in the
world, not because of any jingoistic idea,
but because if we are in that position, our
711
