[409]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Nov. 4
all over the world. And that kind of peace,
my friends-and let us understand what
the issue is, and this is the basic differ-
ence between the two candidates-I say
it shall be peace with honor and not
peace with surrender for the United
States of America.
Beyond that, when we speak of peace,
let us remember that is one small part of
the world. Our eyes have been upon it
because of the long and difficult war that
we have been engaged in, a war that
started 5 years before I became President
of the United States, and that we are now
bringing to an end. But there is much
more of the world, and you have seen that
world, all of you, on television, more than
you have ever seen it before, in this year
1972.
Why the trip to Peking? Why the trip
to Moscow? The first time that a Presi-
dent of the United States has ever been
in those two capitals. I will tell you why.
It has to do certainly with my generation
and all of you who can say you are in my
generation. But it has even more to do
with their generation and their generation
over there.
Let me tell you what the world would
be like if I had not taken the trip to
Peking. One-fourth of all the people of
the world live in the People's Republic of
China, one-fourth of all the people. They
are among the ablest people in the world.
Their government is a Communist gov-
ernment. I do not agree with their
philosophy. We will continue to have
differences with their government. We
will have
have disagreements with their
philosophy. But if a billion people in the
world, 10, 15, 20 years from now, were
lined up in confrontation against the
United States of America it would be a
dangerous world.
I had to take the steps now to reduce
that danger. We have done it so we have
a better chance for a generation of peace
for our young Americans.
The trip to Moscow was taken for
similar reasons. The Soviet Union is also
a nation that has a government that is
different from ours. Their interests are
different. Their philosophy is different.
But they are a fact of life and a very
important fact of life. They are, in nuclear
terms, as strong as the United States of
America. They are basically one of the
super powers in the world. We were going
down a track, a track in which we would
inevitably confront each other at some
time in the future and war might be the
result. We couldn't let that happen.
So, on both sides-and it was on both
sides the leaders of the Soviet Union
and the leaders of the United States met
in Moscow. We didn't settle all of our
differences, but we made agreements with
regard to trade, we made agreements with
regard to the environment, we made
agreements with regard to cooperation in
space, we made agreements-this one will
not seem important perhaps when we
think of the last one I am going to men-
tion, the one with regard to the control
of nuclear weapons-we made agree-
ments, for example, with regard to ex-
change and cooperation in the field of
health.
Let me tell you just what that means
to this younger generation. We consider,
for example, the dread diseases that afflict
mankind. They don't just afflict Ameri-
cans. They afflict all people, wherever
they are. One of them is cancer. Did you
know that last year more people died of
cancer in the United States than were
killed in action from America in all of
World War II? So we are out to find
1124
