Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 30 [389]
nomically, and strong in the moral values
and the trust in God which is our ultimate
defense.
Only in this way can we make certain
that the 1970's will not be the twilight of
America's greatness, but the dawn of a
new age; not a time of tension and tur-
moil, but the beginning of a full genera-
tion of peace for us and for all mankind.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
the Library at the White House. The address
was broadcast live on nationwide radio. Time
for the broadcast was purchased by the Com-
mittee for the Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released on
the same day.
389 Statement on Signing the Social Security
Amendments of 1972.
IT GIVES me very great pleasure to
sign H.R. 1, landmark legislation that
will end many old inequities and will pro-
vide a new uniform system of well-earned
benefits for older Americans, the blind,
and the disabled. This bill contains many
improvements and expansions of the so-
cial security, Medicare, and Medicaid
programs which this Administration rec-
ommended and is proud to bring into
reality today.
But this legislation aims at goals which
are larger than the sum of all of its various
program improvements:
-It represents another step in my ef-
fort to end the gap that separates far too
many older Americans from the main-
stream of American life.
-It furthers my concept that, rather
than being viewed as a problem, older
Americans should be recognized and uti-
lized as a priceless American resource
whose energy, ideals, and commitment
the Nation needs. But first they have to
be protected against both the realities and
the fears of income and health problems-
and this bill will do much to advance such
protections.
-It reaffirms and reinforces America's
traditional efforts to assist those of our
October 30, 1972
citizens who, through no fault of their
own, are unable to help themselves.
America has always cared for its aged
poor, the blind, and the disabled-and
this bill will move that concern to higher
ground by providing better and more
equitable benefits.
-Finally, it supports my conviction
that the best way to help people in need
is not with a vast array of bureaucratic
services, but by providing them money
and insurance so that they can secure
needed services themselves.
H.R. 1's cost has always been a part of
my budget estimates for fiscal year 1973.
Due to its late enactment, the bill will
actually provide a $900 million surplus
over the additional outlays in fiscal year
1973.
Therefore, I am able to sign this bill
without violating my promise to hold
down Federal spending in order to avoid
a general tax increase.
The social security taxes imposed by
this bill, to pay for these benefits, also were
included in my fiscal year 1973 budget
estimates.
H.R. 1, as enacted, does not contain
my proposals for reforming the welfare
system for families with dependent chil-
87-234-74—————71
1069
