[355] Oct. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
sponding to local conditions and local
constituencies who will decide what
should happen, and not some distant
bureaucrat in Washington, D.C.
The American people are fed up with
government that doesn't deliver. Revenue
sharing can help State and local govern-
ment deliver again, closing the gap be-
tween promise and performance.
Revenue sharing will give these hard-
pressed governments the dollars they need
so badly. But just as importantly, it will
give them the freedom they need to use
those dollars as effectively as possible.
Under this program, instead of spend-
ing so much time trying to please distant
bureaucrats in Washington-so the money
will keep coming in-State and local of-
ficials can concentrate on pleasing the
people-so the money can do more good.
This is why I am determined to keep
redtape out of this program. States and
cities will not have to worry about filing
complicated plans, filling out endless
forms, meeting lots of administrative reg-
ulations, or submitting to all sorts of
bureaucratic controls. When we say no
strings, we mean no strings. This program
will mean both a new source of revenue
for State and local governments and a new
sense of responsibility.
As State and local governments are re-
vitalized, I believe that our people will
begin to feel once again that they are in
control, that they can shape events rather
than being shaped by events, that they
can make things happen rather than
always having things happen to them.
Thomas Jefferson believed in local gov-
ernment because he believed every per-
son needed to feel that he is a participant
in the affairs of government. By revitaliz-
ing grassroots government, revenue shar-
ing can make it possible for more people
to be participants in events that make a
difference.
Under revenue sharing, more decisions
will be made at the scene of the action-
and this means that more people can have
a piece of the action. By multiplying the
centers of effective power in our country
we will be multiplying the opportunities
for involvement and influence by indi-
vidual citizens.
The enactment of general revenue
sharing would have been impossible with-
out the strong support of hundreds of
State and local officials-from both polit-
ical parties and I extend to them my
profound thanks. The Vice President has
also played a leading role in the battle for
revenue sharing-and I salute him for all
that he has done. And, of course, the
Members and leaders of the Congress
have my deep appreciation-and that of
all Americans-for the constructive way
in which they pursued their deliberations
on this matter and for the favorable action
which they have taken.
We expect great things from this pro-
gram-and we are going to be watching
for them. I am asking the Advisory Com-
mission on Intergovernmental Relations
to monitor and evaluate the results of
revenue sharing so that we can all know
its full impact as we follow up on this
initiative. And follow up we shall. For the
enactment of general revenue sharing
represents only the first part of our com-
prehensive design to reform the institu-
tions of government so they can respond
to the needs of the people.
It is my earnest hope that the next
Congress will move on to enact other
996
