Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
ple warhead deployment, there will be no
disadvantage for the U.S. in an interim
freeze of certain systems. Moreover, Soviet
willingness to limit the size of its offensive
forces would reflect a desire for longer
term solutions rather than unilateral ef-
forts to achieve marginal advantages.
Achieving initial agreements to limit
both offensive and defensive strategic pro-
grams will be a major step in constraining
the strategic arms race without compro-
mising the security of either side. On the
other hand, if negotiations are protracted
while the Soviets continue offensive mis-
sile deployments and development of new
systems, the U.S. has no choice but to
proceed with major new strategic pro-
grams. This is a reality of our competitive
relationship. The SALT negotiations offer
a constructive alternative to unlimited
competition. I am confident that agree-
ments limiting strategic arms are feasible
and in the interests of both nations. Equi-
table agreements can only enhance mu-
tual security. They would represent an
enormous change in the course of our
postwar competition.
MUTUAL AND BALANCED FORCE
REDUCTIONS (MBFR)
Although negotiations to limit strategic
arms are of fundamental significance to
U.S.-USSR relations, the existence of
large military forces in Central Europe
provides another opportunity for increas-
ing international stability by negotiated
reductions. This issue, of course, is not pri-
marily between the U.S. and USSR; it
involves the vital interests of our allies
and states of the Warsaw Pact.
The possibility of mutual and balanced
force reductions was first raised by NATO
in 1968, but thus far has elicited no spe-
cific reply from the USSR or the other
Warsaw Pact countries. Not until the
spring of 1971 did the Soviet leaders even
acknowledge this Western initiative di-
rectly. Nevertheless, this Administration
has conducted an intensive analysis of the
issues in order that we and our NATO
partners will be in the best possible posi-
tion should negotiations develop.
We found that attitudes toward force
reductions in Central Europe often re-
flected certain abstract assumptions that
needed more extensive analysis. For exam-
ple, there was the view that reductions
could be primarily a means of political
detente because it was believed that the
military balance would not be affected as
long as both sides were reduced by equal
percentages. Therefore, the size of reduc-
tions could be determined on the basis
of what proved negotiable, since an equal
percentage reduction presumably would
not alter the balance of forces. On the
other hand, there were arguments that no
reductions of any size should be considered
because the USSR's geographic advantage
enables the Warsaw Pact to reinforce
forces more rapidly than NATO, and thus
quickly compensate for earlier reductions.
In addition, there were also important
technical questions to be resolved: how to
establish criteria for equating the forces
and equipment of several different coun-
tries; how to compensate for the fact that
our forces would be withdrawn to the
continental United States while Soviet
forces withdrawn would return to the
USSR, only a few hundred miles distant;
and how to verify reductions, particularly
smaller ones. Other forces might be dis-
banded within national territory, which
would pose quite different problems of
verification. Constraints would have to be
introduced to verify that reduced levels
321
