Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [54]
I have no complaint over the fact that
during this period, when I have been end-
ing a war I did not begin, I have been
subjected to vigorous criticism. I do not
question the patriotism or the sincerity
of those who disagree with my policies to
bring peace, but as I said in 1968 when I
was a candidate for President, we have
only one President at a time, and only the
President can negotiate an end to the war.
There should always be free debate and
criticism, so that our policy will represent
the best thinking of our Nation, but a can-
didate for President has a higher respon-
sibility than the ordinary critic. A
candidate should make any criticism he
believes would contribute to bringing an
honorable peace. But I would hope that
anyone seeking the Presidency would ex-
amine his statements carefully to be sure
that nothing he says might give the enemy
an incentive to prolong the war until after
the election.
Trust in the United States among the
45 nations with which we have treaty
commitments is essential if peace and free-
dom are to be preserved in the world. Let
us end our involvement in the war in
Vietnam in a way which will not destroy
that trust.
Looking ahead on the world scene, how
can we move ahead to make the most of
the breakthroughs of the past year? We
must advance the delicate process of
creating a more constructive relationship
between ourselves and the People's Re-
public of China.
We must bring the arms race under
control, and by so doing, lay the basis for
other major steps toward peace that can
be taken together by the United States
and the Soviet Union. And equally im-
portant, we must continue to strengthen
the partnership with our friends. We must
work with friends and adversaries to build
an international structure of
peace which
everyone will work to preserve because
each nation will realize its stake in its
preservation.
We must continue the process of re-
forming the world's financial and trading
systems so that workers and consumers
can benefit in America and in every
country that has a competitive spirit.
Those are by no means the only items
on our international agenda. We want to
see the cease-fire in the Middle East,
which we initiated, moved toward a more
secure and permanent peace. We want to
work out with our friends in Latin Amer-
ica, Africa, and non-Communist Asia new
ways of helping them help themselves.
We want to shore up the eroding con-
fidence in the United Nations.
There is much unfinished business. But
there is a new awareness of reality grow-
ing in the world. Movement and progress
can be felt today where there was stagna-
tion and frustration before.
By facing the realities of the world
today as this breakthrough year has
shown we are capable of doing-we can
make peace a reality in the generation
ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
NOTE: The President spoke 11:05 a.m. in a
room adjoining the Oval Office at the White
House. His remarks were broadcast live on
nationwide radio.
He spoke from a prepared text. An advance
text of his remarks was released on the same
day.
193
