Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 26 [375]
United States and the People's Republic
of China talk about their differences-we
negotiate hard, but we have now devel-
oped at least a dialogue.
Let me say in that connection then, I
would not hold out to this audience, and
particularly to these younger people be-
hind me, the certainty that there will not
be conflict in the world, the certainty that
there will not be small wars in the world.
But I do say this: The chance for this
new generation of Americans to grow up
in a world without war for a whole gen-
eration is better than it has been, in my
opinion, any time in this century, and we
want to keep it that way.
When we speak of these next 4 years,
what we ask for is the opportunity to con-
tinue, to continue to develop these initi-
atives. We think we have learned some-
how, some of the methods with which
to deal with these problems, and in deal-
ing with these problems, we think that
over the next 4 years we can make more
progress in reducing the tensions in the
world, in cooling the trouble spots like
the Middle East and others that might
explode into war.
This is the challenge we face, and this is
what we ask from the American people:
the opportunity to continue the progress
that we have made in that direction.
Let me relate it now to what we need if
we are going to be able to accomplish
that.
Louie Nunn very properly mentioned
national defense. I know Kentucky's
interest in national defense, and it isn't
simply the interest that you have in jobs.
It is more the interest you have in this
country and the fact that it must main-
tain its strength.
I noticed, for example, that the foot-
ball team-I think they are the Tom
Cats, aren't they? I knew I had the name
right when Happy Chandler¹ smiled
right there.
I noticed that they were number two,
with the possibility of being number one.
Now football is a great game, and every-
body wants to be number one. But there
is certainly nothing wrong about being
number two.
But let me tell you, in the kind of world
in which we live, let the United States
of America never be number two. Let's
always be sure of that.
Now why? It is different from the foot-
ball game. Here you like your town or
your team, whatever the case might be, to
be number one, and you are kind of
proud, and I like to be for my school or
for my town or my team, whoever they
happen to be, and my country, as all of
you.
But it isn't just that. The reason that
the United States cannot have the second
strongest navy or the second strongest
air force and be the second strongest
power in the world is that if we are in
that position, or allow ourselves because
of misguided people recommending pro-
grams that would put us in that position,
it means that the danger of war in the
world would be tremendously increased,
and let me tell you why.
The day we become number two, there
is no other nation in the world, in the
free world, that can deter aggression. You
see, before World War I, before World
War II, there were the British and there
were the French, there were other great
1
Albert B. "Happy" Chandler was Gov-
ernor of Kentucky 1935-39 and 1955-59,
United States Senator from Kentucky 1939-45,
and commissioner of baseball 1945-51.
1039
