[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
with multiple warheads that could
attack a number of targets.
-The addition of air-to-surface missiles
to strategic bombers for better pene-
tration of air defenses and the de-
velopment of an improved strategic
bomber.
-Continued research and development
programs to improve the quality of
our forces and to ensure that ad-
vances in technology would not place
us in a disadvantageous position.
Our actions have been designed pri-
marily to guarantee the continuing sur-
vivability of our retaliatory forces. These
improvements in our existing forces and
the development of new programs are not
incompatible with negotiations to limit
strategic arms. They complement the
broad effort of this Administration to
guarantee the security of the United States
while moving toward a structure of
greater international stability and re-
straint. We have been conscious of the op-
portunities provided in the Strategic Arms
Limitation Talks to add a vital dimension
of stability to our competitive relationship
with the USSR.
THE STRATEGIC BALANCE-1972
Last year there were uncertainties in
our appraisal of Soviet strategic forces.
Some of these uncertainties have now been
removed, unfortunately not in a reassur-
ing way. Others remain. At this time last
year it appeared that the Soviets might
have slowed and perhaps ceased deploy-
ment of land-based strategic missiles. It
was hoped that this was an indication of
self-restraint. It was not. Since that time
the overall Soviet strategic program has
continued to move ahead.
-The pause in construction of ICBM
silos was apparently related to the
introduction of major improvements
or the deployment of a totally new
missile system. There is evidence that
two new or greatly modified ICBM
systems are being developed.
-Nearly 100 new ICBM silos are
being constructed. Some of these
silos are for large modern missiles
such as the SS-9, which, because of
their warhead size and potential ac-
curacy, could directly threaten our
land-based ICBMs.
-The multiple warhead version of a
second ICBM system has already
been extensively tested.
-An improved submarine-launched
ballistic missile is also being perfected,
and ballistic missile submarine pro-
duction has increased significantly.
The Soviet Union now has opera-
tional or under construction more
modern ballistic missile submarines
than does the United States. In the
near future the USSR will have
achieved parity in nuclear-powered
ballistic missile submarines while
additionally maintaining some 100
SLBM launchers on older sub-
marines.
-A new Soviet bomber is being flight
tested.
-ABM construction has resumed
around Moscow; new types of ABM
radars and ballistic missile intercep-
tor systems are being tested.
In short, in virtually every category of
strategic offensive and defensive weapons
the Soviet Union has continued to im-
prove its capability.
These collective developments raise
serious questions concerning Soviet objec-
tives. The Soviet Union is continuing to
create strategic capabilities beyond a level
308
