Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 2 [36]
hope they are right, and I urge the parties
to continue their bargaining, but the 15
months of fruitless bargaining which have
already passed convince me that we can-
not depend on this solution.
ISSUES OF GREAT URGENCY
In the absence of an agreement, the
critical question is whether all of us in
Washington sense the urgency of these
issues. I can assure you that the farmer
whose grain is wasting away and the ex-
porter who has lost his contract regard this
strike as a matter of utmost urgency, and
I plead with the Congress to recognize
their plight.
For two years I have been trying to
impress upon the Congress the need for
new legislation in this field. In 1970, dur-
ing the 91st Congress, and again in 1971
during the 92nd Congress, I proposed the
comprehensive crippling strikes preven-
tion program so that future transporta-
tion stoppages could be resolved. There
has been precious little affirmative re-
sponse. Yet I am confident that if the
Congress had enacted those measures,
there might have been no strike on the
West Coast and the issues in dispute would
have been fairly settled.
Let us resolve that this stoppage on the
West Coast will be the last of its kind. The
Congress should act immediately to end
the West Coast strike and, with utmost
dispatch, pass the Crippling Strikes Pre-
vention Act.
THE CRIPPLING STRIKES PREVENTION
Аст
Certainly the more far-reaching of the
two proposals on which I am seeking ac-
tion is the Crippling Strikes Prevention
Act. It would give the President addi-
tional-and, in my opinion, essential-
new authority to deal with emergency dis-
putes in the railroad, airline, maritime,
longshore, and trucking industries.
First, it would discontinue the emer-
gency strike provisions of the Railway
Labor Act of 1926 and provide that all
transportation disputes be settled under
the Taft-Hartley Act. Currently, disputes
in the railroad and airline industries are
subject to the Railway Labor Act while
all other emergency transportation dis-
putes are governed by the Taft-Hartley
Act. Of the two acts, the railway labor law
is clearly the inferior. Under it, the Presi-
dent can delay a strike or lockout for 60
days by appointing an Emergency Board
to study the issues and recommend a set-
tlement. Unfortunately, these provisions
only seem to discourage hard bargaining
because the parties are hesitant to com-
promise their position before the Board is
appointed, and then, recognizing that the
Board will probably seek a middle posi-
tion, the parties tend to adopt a more ex-
treme stance in order to pull the Board in
their direction. Thus the gap widens be-
tween the disputants and because neither
the Board nor the President has any ad-
ditional authority, strikes often resume at
the end of the 60-day period. These re-
sumptions have occurred at the rate of
more than one per year since 1947, and
four times during this administration
alone I have been forced to ask Congress
for special legislation. This is a sorry rec-
ord, best consigned to our history books.
THREE NEW OPTIONS
Secondly, I propose a major revision of
the Taft-Hartley Act to give the President
three new options in the case of all emer-
139
