Appendix B
July
7 Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania re-
ported to the President by telephone from
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on relief efforts following
Tropical Storm Agnes.
7 House leaders Hale Boggs and Gerald R.
Ford reported to the President by telephone
from the airport on their return from the
People's Republic of China.
12 Soviet Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin
met with the President at the Western
White House.
15 The President attended memorial services
for his aunt, Edith Timberlake, in River-
side, Calif.
17 The President met with Federal and State
government representatives who were dis-
cussing action on the President's request
to provide additional facilities for the beach
at San Onofre State Park for public recrea-
tional use. The beach, located near the
Western White House, was part of Camp
Pendleton until the President directed, on
March 31, 1971, that it be turned over to
the State of California for public use.
17 Members of the executive committee of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters
met with the President at the Western
White House.
19 Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, met with
the President at the White House to report
on his session, earlier in the day in Paris,
with Special Adviser Le Duc Tho and Min-
ister Xuan Thuy of the North Vietnamese
delegation to the Paris peace talks.
July
19 The White House announced that the
President would send a message of con-
dolence to Mrs. Samuel Z. Westerfield, Jr.,
on the death of her husband, the United
States Ambassador to Liberia.
20 The President today announced the trans-
fer of 12 parcels of Federal land to State
and local governments for park and recrea-
tional use under the Legacy of Parks pro-
gram. Included are lands in California,
Florida, Idaho, Louisiana, Maryland, Mis-
sissippi, New York, Oregon, Puerto Rico,
and Texas.
20 Armand Hammer, chairman of the board
of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation,
met with the President at the White House
to discuss the recently signed assistance
agreement between Occidental Petroleum
and the Soviet Union.
21 Ambassadors Amos M. Dambe of Bots-
wana, Abdullah Saleh Al-Mana of Qatar,
Tran Kim Phuong of South Vietnam, U
Lwin of Burma, and Harry Reginald
Amonoo of Ghana presented their creden-
tials to the President in ceremonies in the
Blue Room at the White House.
21 The President has sent a telegram to
President Georges Pompidou of France
expressing his congratulations on the dis-
covery and seizure of three heroin-produc-
ing laboratories by French anti-narcotics
agents.
21 The President sent a letter to U.S. Civil
Service Commission Chairman Robert E.
Hampton requesting the Commission to
review its procedures for recruiting, ex-
amining, and rating architects, artists, and
designers for the Government.
B-12
