Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
health care systems which could lead
to the saving of as many as 30,000
lives each year;
-finding new ways to curb drug traffic
and rehabilitate drug users.
And these are only the beginning.
I cannot predict exactly where each of
these new thrusts will eventually lead us
in the years ahead. But I can say with
assurance that the program I have out-
lined will open new employment oppor-
tunities for American workers, increase
the productivity of the American econ-
omy, and expand foreign markets for
American goods. I can also predict with
confidence that this program will enhance
our standard of living and improve the
quality of our lives.
Science and technology represent an
enormous power in our life-and a unique
opportunity. It is now for us to decide
whether we will waste these magnificent
energies or whether we will use them to
create a better world for ourselves and for
our children.
A GROWING AGENDA FOR ACTION
The danger in presenting any substan-
tial statement of concerns and requests is
that any subject which is omitted from the
list may for that reason be regarded as
unimportant. I hope the Congress will
vigorously resist any such suggestions, for
there are many other important proposals
before the House and the Senate which
also deserve attention and enactment.
I think, for example, of our program
for
the District of Columbia. In addition to
proposals already before the Congress, I
will soon submit additional legislation out-
lining a special balanced program of phys-
ical and social development for the
Nation's capital as part of our Bicentennial
celebration. In this and other ways, we
can make that celebration both a fitting
commemoration of our revolutionary ori-
gins and a bold further step to fulfill their
promise.
I think, too, of our program to help
small businessmen, of our proposals con-
cerning communications, of our recom-
mendations involving the construction of
public buildings, and of our program for
the arts and humanities-where the pro-
posed new budget is 6 times the level of
3 years ago.
In all, some 90 pieces of major legisla-
tion which I have recommended to the
Congress still await action. And that list
is growing longer. It is now for the Con-
gress to decide whether this agenda repre-
sents the beginning of new progress for
America-or simply another false start.
THE NEED FOR REASON AND REALISM
I have covered many subjects in this
message. Clearly, our challenges are many
and complex. But that is the way things
must be for responsible government in
our diverse and complicated world.
We can choose, of course, to retreat
from this world, pretending that our prob-
lems can be solved merely by trusting in a
new philosophy, a single personality, or a
simple formula. But such a retreat can
only add to our difficulties and our
disillusion.
If we are to be equal to the complexity
of our times we must learn to move on
many fronts and to keep many commit-
ments. We must learn to reckon our suc-
cess not by how much we start but by how
much we finish. We must learn to be
tenacious. We must learn to persevere.
If we are to master our moment, we
must first be masters of ourselves. We
73
