Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
1
condone this military action. Immediately,
in early April, we ceased issuing and re-
newing licenses for military shipments to
Pakistan, we put a hold on arms that had
been committed the year before, and we
ceased new commitments for economic
development loans. This shut off $35
million worth of arms. Less than $5
million worth of spare parts, already in
the pipeline under earlier licenses, was
shipped before the pipeline dried up com-
pletely by the beginning of November.
The crisis quickly acquired an inter-
national character. The flood of refugees
was a tremendous burden on India's
scarce resources and a threat to political
stability in the Indian states into which
the refugees poured. With support from
India, a guerrilla movement developed in
East Pakistan. Both countries moved their
military forces to their common borders,
and tensions mounted dangerously be-
tween them.
It was a foregone conclusion that if war
broke out, India would win. But in our
view war was neither inevitable nor
acceptable.
We realized full well that there were
objective limits to what the United States
could do. South Asia was a region in
which we had no preeminent position of
influence. Tensions between Hindus and
Moslems, and among the many feuding
ethnic groups in this subcontinent of 700
million people, had endured for centuries.
Nevertheless, because of our ties with both
countries, in 1971 we were the only great
power in a position to try to provide a
political alternative to a military solution.
There were three levels of the crisis, and
the United States addressed them all:
-The humanitarian problem of the
Bengali refugees in India and the
millions who remained in East Pakis-
tan facing chaos and the threat of
famine;
-The problem of political settlement
between East and West Pakistan-
the basic issue of the crisis;
-The danger of war between India
and Pakistan, which grew week by
week.
On May 28, I expressed our concerns
in letters to the leaders of both Pakistan
and India. To President Yahya, I wrote:
"I feel sure you will agree with me that
the first essential step is to bring an end to
the civil strife and restore peaceful condi-
tions in East Pakistan. Then full-scale
efforts can go forward within an inter-
national framework to help your govern-
ment provide relief assistance to the people
who need it. . . .
"While this is being done, it will, of
course, be essential to ensure that tensions
in the region as a whole do not increase to
the point of international conflict. I would
be less than candid if I did not express my
deep concern over the possibility that the
situation there might escalate to that dan-
ger point. I believe, therefore, that it is
absolutely vital for the maintenance of
peace in the Subcontinent to restore con-
ditions in East Pakistan conducive to the
return of refugees from Indian territory
as quickly as possible. I urge you to con-
tinue to exercise restraint both along your
borders with India and in your general
relations with that country. We are coun-
seling the Government of India to do the
same.
"It is only in a peaceful atmosphere
that you and your administration can
make effective progress toward the politi-
cal accommodation you seek in East
Pakistan."
To Prime Minister Gandhi, I wrote:
"We share your government's hope that
297
