Richard Nixon, 1972
[58]
Feb. 10
concerned, I would say that I think any
American would be delighted to have the
rug pulled out from under him on this
issue if it brings peace and an end to the
killing. That is what we are trying to do.
I would hope that Presidential candi-
dates, particularly, would consult their
consciences before they make proposals
which might be misread-might be-they
would not intend it, I am sure--but might
be misread by the enemy and thereby
encourage them to wait until after the
election before even discussing a very
forthcoming proposal.
PRESIDENTIAL NEWS CONFERENCES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, why are you
not, sir, holding news conferences with
very much regularity or frequency? And
what, in particular, do you have against
televised news conferences? I believe it
has been more than 8 months since you
have held one of those.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will hold news
conferences whenever I believe that they
will serve the public interest.
As far as televised news conferences are
concerned, I find that the ladies and gen-
tlemen in the press corps have a very
vigorous difference of opinion as to which
is the more valuable forum.
I remember the last time, or a few
months ago, that I was in this office, the
first time I had an in-office conference.
Mr. Bailey [Charles W. Bailey 2d, Min-
neapolis Tribune and Minneapolis Star],
the former head of the White House Cor-
respondents, said, "This is the best kind of
press conference." I am sure Mr. Rather
[Dan Rather, CBS News] thinks the best
kind of press conference is one with him
alone. [Laughter]
So I will have Q&A with one com-
mentator. I have had questions and an-
swers with some members of the press, as
you know, alone. I will have in-office press
conferences. Sometimes I have walked
out into the room there, as I did when I
announced the Soviet summit, and have a
press conference in the press room, so
that whoever wants to may film it, and
on other occasions we may have a tele-
vised press conference.
I would only say, finally, with regard
to the televised press conference, it is no
more work than one like this, and I would
suggest that I do follow the columns and
the commentators pretty well, and I noted
that there was considerable-I wouldn't
call it criticism-but eyebrow-raising with
regard to "Why has the President been on
television so much? He had 'A Day in the
Life of the President,' and that took an
hour of prime time. He had a half-hour
the night before Christmas, CBS. Then he
had an hour with Rather, another CBS.
Then he had a State of the Union Mes-
sage, and he took prime time for the
purpose of making announcements on
Vietnam in addition to all the rest."
Let me say, I think television has prob-
ably had as much of the President as it
wants at this point, and that is why you
are getting this kind of a conference
today.
PRESIDENTIAL ASSISTANT HALDEMAN
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you had some
public advice today and yesterday about
how critics of the war should conduct
themselves. Do you have any public advice
for Mr. Haldeman?
THE PRESIDENT. I have answered the
question. Anything further?
353
