[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
our first Regional Trade Center in Africa.
It should lead to a further expansion of
African-American trade.
No one's interest is served by under-
estimating the magnitude of the task
ahead, or by exaggerating the contribu-
tion outsiders are able or willing to make
to the realization of Africa's aspirations.
The earlier era of euphoria is over. If
Africa is to move ahead in the 1970's, it
must be largely on the basis of its own
efforts and its own prescriptions. Assist-
ance from others will supplement, but will
not replace, the need for the application
of major resources from the African na-
tions themselves. There is no need to
hesitate in expressing that fact. Africans
know it, and say it, for it has been a recur-
ring theme in my many private discussions
with African leaders.
THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN DILEMMA
For more than a decade, leading Amer-
icans in all fields have expressed this
nation's profound concern over racial in-
justice in southern Africa, and decried the
serious potential of the issue for bringing
large scale conflict to this region. As I have
repeatedly made clear, I share the convic-
tion that the United States cannot be in-
different to racial policies which violate
our national ideals and constitute a direct
affront to American citizens. As a nation,
we cherish and have worked arduously
toward the goal of equality of opportunity
for all Americans. It is incumbent on us to
support and encourage these concepts
abroad, and to do what we can to forestall
violence across international frontiers.
The United States can take pride in the
measures it has taken to discourage a mili-
tary buildup in the areas of minority rule.
We have maintained our arms embargoes
in those areas. We have stressed the need
for self-determination in colonial areas.
We have facilitated contact between the
races, and underlined the fact that greater
political and economic opportunity for
Africans serves the true interests of all
races. I detailed the steps we have taken
in last year's Report. It is a record second
to none among the major powers.
Americans alone, however, cannot
solve the racial problems of southern
Africa. The notion that one nation, how-
ever powerful or well-intentioned, can
master the most intractable issues plagu-
ing foreign societies belongs to a past era.
For our part, we look toward black and
white in Africa to play the primary role
in working toward progress consistent
with human dignity. We support their
efforts by:
-Encouraging communication be-
tween the races in Africa, and be-
tween African peoples and our own.
---Making known directly to the parties
involved our views on their actions.
My Administration will not condone
recourse to violence, either as a
means of enforcing submission of a
majority to a minority or as a formula
for effecting needed social change.
The situation today offers no grounds
for complacency about the imminence of
racial justice in southern Africa. It is,
therefore, important that we continue to
do everything we can to encourage re-
spect for human dignity.
In South Africa, men continue to be
demeaned for reason of their race, and to
be detained and harassed for their views
about official policy. But the outside world
is witnessing with sober hope the sugges-
tions of change inside South Africa, where
270
