[64] Feb. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
without referring to notes. The departure cere-
mony was broadcast live on radio and television.
The President had met with the Bipartisan
leaders of the Congress prior to the departure
ceremony.
On February 12, 1972, the White House re-
leased a list of the members of the official
party and biographical data on each mem-
ber. The list is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 444).
65 Statement on Signing a Bill To Arbitrate Settlement of
the West Coast Dock Strike. February 21, 1972
THE SECRETARY of Labor has in-
formed me today that an agreement has
now been reached in the west coast dock
strike and the workers have returned to
their jobs.
While this contract will still be subject
to approval by the Pay Board, the entire
Nation can be gratified by the willingness
of the parties to settle their differences
voluntarily. For thousands of Americans
whose livelihoods have been threatened,
this strike has been a painful experience
and its end is most welcome.
For several days, I have delayed action
on S.J. Res. 197, a bill to end the strike by
arbitration, in the hope that the pending
legislation would encourage the parties to
reach a voluntary accord. Today, as this
legislation takes effect with my signature,
I am pleased to note that the arbitration
machinery will no longer be needed.
I must point out, however, that our
agenda on transportation strikes is not yet
clear. Repeatedly over the past 2 years I
have urged the Congress to act on a com-
prehensive measure to avoid future strikes
of this kind, and yet the Crippling Strikes
Prevention Act still awaits action. The
Congress did approve special legislation
for this west coast strike, and I appreciate
the significance of that action. The other
shoe must now drop, however, or the
Nation can only hobble into the future.
NOTE: The statement was released at Peking,
People's Republic of China, where the President
signed the bill. As enacted, S.J. Res. 197 is
Public Law 92-235 (86 Stat. 40).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Secretary of
Labor James D. Hodgson on the act and on the
agreement reached in the dock strike.
On February 7, 1972, the White House re-
leased a statement by Secretary Hodgson on a
proposed settlement of the dock strike. On
February 8, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
Hodgson on further progress toward settlement
of the strike.
66 Toasts of the President and Premier Chou En-lai of the
People's Republic of China at a Banquet Honoring
the President in Peking.
Mr. Prime Minister and all of your dis-
tinguished guests this evening:
On behalf of all of your American
guests, I wish to thank you for the in-
comparable hospitality for which the Chi-
nese people are justly famous throughout
February 21, 1972
the world. I particularly want to pay
tribute, not only to those who prepared
the magnificent dinner, but also to those
who have provided the splendid music.
Never have I heard American music
played better in a foreign land.
368
