[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
world, and turbulent change and inter-
national rivalries. But we can seek a new
structure of global relationships in which
all nations, friend and adversary, par-
ticipate and have a stake. We can seek
to build this into a world in which all
nations, great and small, can live without
fear that their security and survival are in
danger, and without fear that every con-
flict contains for them the potential for
Armageddon. In such a structure of peace,
habits of moderation and compromise can
be nurtured, and peoples and nations will
find their fullest opportunities for social
progress, justice, and freedom.
This is what we mean by a generation
of peace.
NOTE: The text of the above item was issued
by the White House in the form of a 215-page
booklet entitled "U.S. Foreign Policy for the
1970's: The Emerging Structure of Peace; A
Report to the Congress by Richard Nixon,
President of the United States, February 9,
1972."
On the same day, the White House released
the transcripts of two news briefings on the
President's report. The briefings were held by
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, on February 7
and 9.
57 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the United States Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency. February 10, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the Arms Control and Dis-
armament Act as amended (P.L. 87-
297), I herewith transmit the Eleventh
Annual Report of the U.S. Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency. I am also
pleased to report to the Congress that this
document reflects appreciable progress in
the disarmament field during calendar
year 1971.
Our progress has been especially signif-
icant in the Strategic Arms Limitation
Talks with the Soviet Union. In May
1971, I was able to announce that a dead-
lock had been broken. We reached an
understanding with the Soviet leadership
to concentrate on working out an accord
to limit the deployment of defensive anti-
ballistic missile systems (ABMs), and to
conclude it simultaneously with an agree-
ment on certain measures limiting of-
fensive strategic weapons. This joint
understanding reinforces my firm commit-
ment to reach an equitable agreement
limiting both offensive and defensive
strategic nuclear weapons.
Another highlight of 1971 occurred
when the American and Soviet SALT
Delegations reached two collateral agree-
ments that were signed in Washington on
September 30. The first dealt with meas-
ures to be taken by each country to reduce
the risk of accidental nuclear war, while
the second provided for improvements in
the reliability of the Washington-Moscow
Direct Communications Line, or "Hot
Line", by using satellite communications
systems.
In Geneva, at the Conference of the
Committee on Disarmament, the United
346
