[267] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment for a more modern national defense,
we risk the safety of the next generation of
Americans, because this I know: The So-
viet Union is not cutting back on its re-
search and development.
Let us remember: We have made a
significant step forward in our talks with
the Soviets, but it was hard-headed bar-
gaining. We expected them to bargain
hard. We bargained hard. We have had
the first step taken to limit nuclear arms.
We have had a treaty to limit, of course,
nuclear arms as far as defensive arms are
concerned. We have an offensive limita-
tion as an understanding. We are going to
go on with further negotiations, we trust,
later in this year.
But, my friends, the only way, in any
kind of a negotiation, you can get some-
thing in dealing with a major power like
the Soviet Union, or any other major
power-the only way you can get some-
thing is if you have something to give. If
the United States unilaterally cuts back
on what we have, you have destroyed their
incentive to come to the conference table,
because they will already have what they
want.
That is another reason why we have to
keep these defenses up. That is the respon-
sible position. We are going to continue to
be responsible. If we do, putting it on the
positive side, we stand today on the brink
of a more peaceful, more secure era for all
mankind, because from a positive stand-
point, we can negotiate in these areas-
negotiating not from weakness.
Now, none of this could have been
achieved without the strong moral support
of groups like the American Legion, of
individual Americans of both political
parties, as I have indicated. If there is one
thing that can sustain a President in trying
times, it is the support and faith of the
people themselves. More than any other
American, the President has the opportu-
nity to witness this faith in a thousand big
and little ways.
People write letters. They say they are
praying for you. A commander of the
American Legion or the VFW or another
veterans organization comes in or he calls
on the phone. These things mean a great
deal, particularly when we have difficult
times. I am grateful for the support that
you have given, not to me as an individual,
not to my party, but to the President of
the United States, who is Commander in
Chief of our Armed Forces. You have
stood behind your Government during the
difficult but successful policy of winding
down the war in Vietnam and settling it in
an honorable way.
That is why we have been able to bring
home half a million American fighting
men from Vietnam. But what is more im-
portant, we have done it without selling
out our allies, without surrendering to our
enemies, and without abandoning our
prisoners of war or our missing in action.
That we will never do.
Now, I would like to say something, if
I could, about the men who have served
and are serving our country in Vietnam
and other parts of the world. I know that
it has become rather fashionable in recent
times, perhaps in the last 4 or 5 years as
we have gone through the terribly difficult
war in Vietnam, to find everything that is
wrong about the men who serve in our
Armed Forces: They are drug addicts;
they are dangerous people; they are
savage; they are people that are really
the inferior people, the ones who, from a
moral standpoint, agreed to serve rather
than not to serve, and so on and so forth.
Let me tell you that I have been to
Vietnam a number of times. Since our in-
800
