Richard Nixon, 1972
June 17 [203]
the view that world peace with social jus-
tice is essential to the well-being of all
mankind.
The Presidents discussed overall rela-
tions between their two countries-politi-
cal and economic affairs, and cooperation
in the scientific, technical, cultural and
other fields.
The President of the United States rec-
ognized the important role developing
countries could and should play in erect-
ing a new international monetary system
and in progressing toward a free and fair
trading system. In endorsing trade policies
more responsive to the problems of both
developed and developing countries, he
reaffirmed his intention to seek congres-
sional authorization at the appropriate
time for the United States to participate
with other industrialized countries in a
system of Generalized Tariff Preferences
for imports from developing countries.
Regarding the problem of the salinity
of the Colorado River, President Echever-
ría told President Nixon that Mexico
reiterates its position as regards receiving
its assignment of original waters from the
Colorado River, to which the Treaty of
February 3, 1944 refers, and therefore,
with the same quality as those derived
from the Imperial Dam.
To this, President Nixon replied that
this was a highly complex problem that
needed careful examination of all aspects.
He was impressed by the presentation
made by President Echeverría and would
study it closely. It was his sincere desire
to find a definitive, equitable and just so-
lution to this problem at the earliest possi-
ble time because of the importance both
nations attach to this matter.
As a demonstration of this intent and
of the goodwill of the United States in
this connection, he was prepared to:
(a) undertake certain actions immedi-
ately to improve the quality of
water going to Mexico;
(b) designate a special representative
to begin work immediately to find
a permanent, definitive and just so-
lution of this problem;
(c) instruct the special representative
to submit a report to him by the
end of this year;
(d) submit this proposal, once it has
the approval of this Government to
President Echeverría for his con-
sideration and approval.
President Echeverría said that he rec-
ognized the goodwill of President Nixon
and his interest in finding a definitive so-
lution to this problem at the earliest possi-
ble time. He added that based on two
recent trips to the Mexicali Valley and
his talks with farmers there, his Govern-
ment, while reserving its legal rights, had
decided to stop using waters from the
Wellton-Mohawk project for irrigation
purposes while waiting for receipt of the
US proposal for a definitive solution.
Both Presidents agreed to instruct their
Water and Border Commissioners to pre-
pare and sign a Minute containing the
above program and commitments as soon
as possible.
The Presidents discussed the many
areas of ongoing cooperation between
Mexico and the United States, and their
conviction that such cooperation serves
to bind our people even closer together in
mutual effort and understanding. They
took note of the agreements concluded
during the visit by their respective Secre-
taries for Foreign Relations: a bilateral
agreement with regard to the exchange
of information, training and research in
the fields of science and technology; a
subsidiary agreement which contemplates
87-234-74 47
685
