Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 31 [281]
leaders of the United States Government at
the earliest possible opportunity. It is indeed
a great pleasure for me that the opportunity
is now realized.
I feel that it is most appropriate and sig-
nificant that the meeting is taking place here
in Hawaii, where peoples of diverse races with
diverse traditions and cultures in the Pacific
area have come and toiled together under
the American flag to build a paradise in the
Pacific.
All of you are aware that Japan and the
United States, as partners situated across the
Pacific, have maintained close cooperative re-
lations in a variety of fields for many years.
Today we are living in an increasingly multi-
polarized world where Japan has come to as-
sume greater responsibilities in the inter-
national community commensurate with her
increased national strength. With this in mind,
we wish to strengthen further the already
solid foundation of friendship and mutual trust
between Japan and the United States and to
promote even more wide-ranging cooperative
relations in the coming years. I earnestly hope
that my meeting with President Nixon will
mark the beginning of a new era of constant
dialogue between our two countries.
Let me lastly convey, on behalf of the people
of Japan, their very sincere greetings to the
people of the United States.
281 Special Message to the Congress Recommending
Delay in Pay Increases for Federal Employees.
August 31, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
As we approach the October date on
which pay rates for Federal employees
under the statutory pay systems would
normally be adjusted, I wish to advise the
Congress that I will recommend a pay
increase for Federal employees effective
January 1, 1973. I believe it is appropriate
to point out that section 3 of Public Law
92-210, the Economic Stabilization Act
Amendments of 1971, requires that this
adjustment this year be delayed until
January 1973.
The pay raise required by section 3 of
the Economic Stabilization Act Amend-
ments was limited by the terms of the law
to the guideline that the Pay Board has
established for pay increases throughout
the economy, 5.5 percent a year. Clearly
it was the intent of this law to see that
Federal employees would be treated in a
comparable manner with private enter-
prise employees under the Economic Sta-
bilization Program. In recognition of this
intent, on January 11, 1972, I directed
that Federal wage employees should also
have their pay increase limited by the
Pay Board guidelines.
The necessary comparability studies
have been completed and, under the Fed-
eral Pay Comparability Act of 1970, I
will recommend that the increase neces-
sary to achieve comparability, be paid,
starting January 1, 1973, the first date our
employees will be eligible to receive an
increase under the Economic Stabilization
Act. Our employees received their full 5.5
percent annual increase last January, and
therefore their next increase cannot be
effective until January 1, 1973. The pro-
visions of Public Law 92-210 preclude
submission of an alternative plan under
section 5305(c) (1) of title 5, United
States Code.
I believe it is important to express once
again my strong personal support for the
principle that our Nation's public servants
should receive pay that is comparable
843
