[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
policy. . . to encourage older adults to
volunteer," and urged "that existing na-
tional older adult voluntary programs
should be expanded and funded at ade-
quate levels in order to serve extensive
numbers of volunteers." They urged a
mobilization of public and private orga-
nizations to strengthen the volunteer
movement.
I agree completely with these judg-
ments. That is why, at the time of the
White House Conference, I pledged to
move successful voluntary programs from
demonstration status to full operation on
the national level, an expansion effort that
is rapidly moving forward.
I requested, for example, that the Fos-
ter Grandparent program be doubled to
$25 million, providing for 11,500 foster
grandparents to serve 23,000 children
each day-50,000 children in all each
year-in some 450 child care institutions
throughout the country. I also asked that
ACTION's Retired Senior Volunteer
Program (RSVP) be tripled to $15 mil-
lion so that as many as 75,000 senior vol-
unteers could be involved in community
services.
When the RSVP program has devel-
oped to the full extent permitted by the
new appropriations, as many as 11,000
volunteers will be serving older persons in
nursing homes and other extended care
facilities, bringing companionship and
personal assistance to some 45,000 resi-
dents who might otherwise be lonely and
isolated. At the same time, as many as
13,000 part-time RSVP volunteers will be
serving as homemaker and health aides,
enabling thousands of older persons to
continue to live in their own homes. By
using senior volunteers in a variety of pro-
grams, we can foster that human contact
which brightens the lives both of those
who are served and those who volunteer.
But other new steps are also needed in
this area.
As one such step, the Congress should
enact legislation which would enable the
ACTION agency to expand person-to-
person volunteer service programs for
older Americans. These efforts would
build on the successful experience of the
Foster Grandparent program. One im-
portant characteristic of such programs is
that so much good can be accomplished,
so many people helped, for a relatively
small dollar investment. It would indeed
be tragic if we did not capitalize on this
opportunity.
Measures are also needed to improve
coordination among the many Federal and
non-Federal volunteer activities which
affect the aging. As one important step in
this direction, the Administration on
Aging and the National Center for Volun-
tary Action have enlisted the cooperation
of 130 national voluntary organizations in
a program to help older men and women
in 300 communities live dignified lives in
the familiar settings of their own homes.
Too often, older Americans are displaced
from such settings simply because small
problems such as simple home repairs,
shopping and trips to obtain health care
have become too difficult. And yet, with
only minimal assistance from volunteers,
these problems could easily be met.
I have directed the ACTION agency
to work in every possible way to help pro-
vide such assistance. Already, the RSVP
program is moving forward in this area.
I am confident that other ACTION pro-
gram volunteers can also make a major
impact in this field. It is my hope, too,
that communities will consider the elderly
482
