Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 26 [129]
Government of South Vietnam and to
impose a Communist dictatorship in its
place.
As you will recall, I have warned on a
number of occasions over the past 3 years
that if the enemy responded to our efforts
to bring peace by stepping up the war, I
would act to meet that attack, for these
three very good reasons: first, to protect
our remaining American forces; second,
to permit continuation of our withdrawal
program; and third, to prevent the im-
position of a Communist regime on the
people of South Vietnam against their
will, with the inevitable bloodbath that
would follow for hundreds of thousands
who have dared to oppose Communist
aggression.
The air and naval strikes of recent
weeks have been carried out to achieve
these objectives. They have been directed
only against military targets which sup-
port the invasion of South Vietnam and
they will not stop until the invasion stops.
The Communists have failed in their
efforts to win over the people of South
Vietnam politically. And General Abrams
believes that they will fail in their efforts
to conquer South Vietnam militarily.
Their one remaining hope is to win in the
Congress of the United States and among
the people of the United States the victory
they cannot win among the people of
South Vietnam or on the battlefield in
South Vietnam.
The great question then is how we, the
American people, will respond to this
final challenge.
Let us look at what the stakes are-
not just for South Vietnam, but for the
United States and for the cause of peace
in the world. If one country, armed with
the most modern weapons by major
powers, can invade another nation and
succeed in conquering it, other countries
will be encouraged to do exactly the same
thing-in the Mideast, in Europe, and in
other international danger spots. If the
Communists win militarily in Vietnam,
the risk of war in other parts of the world
would be enormously increased. But if,
on the other hand, Communist aggression
fails in Vietnam, it will be discouraged
elsewhere, and the chance for peace will
be increased.
We are not trying to conquer North
Vietnam or any other country in this
world. We want no territory. We seek no
bases. We have offered the most generous
peace terms-peace with honor for both
sides-with South Vietnam and North
Vietnam each respecting the other's
independence.
But we will not be defeated, and we
will never surrender our friends to Com-
munist aggression.
We have come a long way in this con-
flict. The South Vietnamese have made
great progress; they are now bearing the
brunt of the battle. We can now see the
day when no more Americans will be in-
volved there at all.
But as we come to the end of this long
and difficult struggle, we must be stead-
fast. And we must not falter. For all that
we have risked and all that we have
gained over the years now hangs in the
balance during the coming weeks and
months. If we now let down our friends,
we shall surely be letting down ourselves
and our future as well. If we now persist,
future generations will thank America for
her courage and her vision in this time of
testing.
That is why I say to you tonight, let us
bring our men home from Vietnam; let
us end the war in Vietnam. But let us end
it in such a way that the younger brothers
553
