Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
DISASTER RELIEF
Each year, the sudden, savage violence
of natural and man-made disasters strikes
at millions of our fellowmen. Despite the
certainty that disasters will continue to
occur, the world community has been very
slow in establishing a central mechanism
to plan for and coordinate disaster relief.
We have encouraged the United
Nations to meet this need. Last year, the
General Assembly voted to create a co-
ordinator for disaster relief. He will have
a small staff-rapidly expandable in
emergencies-to undertake his vital task.
I applaud this development.
Even before it accepted the new role of
coordinating disaster relief, the UN last
year showed its ability to mount a very
impressive large-scale relief effort to as-
sist the refugees and to avert famine dur-
ing the crisis in South Asia. The job was
effectively done—although interrupted by
the India-Pakistan war-and our Govern-
ment supported it with large financial
contributions.
These, then, are beginnings the inter-
national community has made in address-
ing the new tasks for diplomacy. Our
country is in the forefront of these efforts,
and we will continue to be. But these are
world challenges, and nothing less than
a global response can suffice. Thus far, the
response is heartening.
PART VII: THE POLICY-MAKING
PROCESS: THE NSC SYSTEM
"If our policy is to embody a coherent
vision of the world and a rational concep-
tion of America's interests, our specific
actions must be the products of rational
and deliberate choice."
U.S. Foreign Policy for the 1970's
A Report to the Congress
February 18, 1970
My Reports in 1970 and 1971 described
in detail the structure of the National Se-
curity Council system and how it works.
Its function is so central to the conception
and development of our national security
policy, however, that it is well to look
again briefly at the purposes and role of
the system.
THE TASK WE FACED
At the time of my inauguration, it was
clear that we were on the threshold of
momentous decisions in our foreign policy.
The postwar era in international relations
was fast disappearing, and with it many
of the fundamental assumptions under-
pinning our policy for the past genera-
tion. In order to redefine the nature of
American participation in world affairs,
we needed to ask the kinds of basic ques-
tions that Americans have not had to face
for many years. Moreover, we would be
examining these questions during a period
of growing debate over national priorities
and competing claims for the resources
available to support our global posture.
It was imperative that I have at my
disposal an effective mechanism for policy
review and decision making. Before my
election, I stated my firm conviction that
the foreign policy successes of the Eisen-
hower period were in part attributable to
the careful planning and regular review of
policy issues carried out by the National
Security Council. I pledged to restore the
NSC to its preeminent position in na-
87-234-74-26
341
