[294] Sept. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
that. Rotterdam, for example, was a city
that was almost totally destroyed by
bombs, and there was only one building in
the center of the town where the few that
were left on the council of the city got
together and talked not about the de-
struction, but how they were going to re-
build the city. Today it is one of the most
beautiful cities in Europe, but rebuilt
from the ground up. All of the old that
should probably have been replaced now
has been replaced with something new,
something better.
I was in Kiev, Russia, down in the
Ukraine. You watched the Olympics. You
know some of the great runners, the ath-
letes, came from the Ukraine. They are
very proud there that after that city was
almost totally destroyed in World War II
they rebuilt it better than ever.
I wondered when I came up to Wilkes-
Barre I wondered, of course, whether
Carlucci was doing a good job-I know
he is. I wondered whether or not we were
providing the money that we should and
I know we are providing a great deal, and
of course we will provide what is neces-
sary, what we can. I wondered, too,
whether the Federal agencies were work-
ing together rather than against each
other. Due to Carlucci they are working
together and they are not fighting each
other; they are fighting the problem. That
is what government is supposed to do.
But the thing that I wondered about
the most was whether the people of
Wilkes-Barre had the spirit of the people
of San Francisco, the spirit of the people
of Rotterdam, the people of Kiev. And
I think I saw it.
This is something that I want to leave
with all of you. What impressed me as I
drove through-I saw the people, I have
met you, I see the smiles on your faces,
I see the courage of the young and the
old-but what really impressed me was
to see a house almost totally destroyed and
a flag on it, an American flag flying there
high in the breeze. That tells us some-
thing about America.
You wonder, of course, about this kind
of a visit. I know that many of the people
were very kind. They said, "Thank you
for coming, you have made us feel better."
I want you to know that you have made
me feel better. I have never been so proud
of America and of the American people
as I am today. You are great people. We
appreciate what you have done for the
spirit of Wilkes-Barre, the spirit of this
country.
In that connection, I would simply
close by saying that as I went by the Para-
mount Theatre I saw a sign on it, a
wonderful sign. It says, "We will be open-
ing soon with a brand new look." That
is going to be Wilkes-Barre. Wilkes-Barre
is going to be cleaned up. It is going to
be opened up. It is going to have a brand
new look. It is going to be better than
ever. But it is going to be better than ever
not because of what government did-we
can help but it is going to be better than
ever because of what you did, what you
believe in, your faith, your spirit. You are
going to make it better than ever, and
we are going to help you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
2:15 p.m. at Scanlon Field Mobile Home Park.
He spoke without referring to notes.
Prior to the President's departure for Wilkes-
Barre, Frank C. Carlucci, Deputy Director,
Office of Management and Budget, met with
him at Camp David, Md., to report on Federal
disaster assistance in Wilkes-Barre and other
areas of Pennsylvania following Tropical Storm
Agnes.
On the same day, the White House released
864
