Appendix E
Michigan Law School and will be returning to
the University of Michigan Law School to con-
tinue his teaching profession.
Leo Pellerzi, Assistant Attorney General for
Administration, is also leaving his post. The
President takes specific note of the fact that he
has contributed significantly to administrative
reform in the Department of Justice during his
time in office. He has been Assistant Attorney
General for Administration since March of
1968.
President Nixon is also today announcing his
intention to nominate Professor Robert H.
Bork, of Yale Law School, to become Solicitor
General. Professor Bork will succeed Erwin
Griswold, whose intention to retire at the end
of the current term of the U.S. Supreme Court
has been known, I believe, for some time. Dean
Griswold will be leaving the post of Solicitor
General at the end of the term of the Court this
spring or early summer.
Professor Bork will work under Solicitor
General Griswold in the upcoming months in
preparation for the assumption of the responsi-
bilities of Solicitor General in the spring or
early summer. Robert Bork will serve as Deputy
Solicitor General during the period between
January and spring or early summer.
Professor Bork has been on the faculty of
the Yale Law School since 1962 in the major
teaching areas of constitutional law and anti-
trust law. This year he served as a consultant
to the Cabinet Committee on Education and
participated in the drafting of the Adminis-
tration's legislation relating to the busing of
schoolchildren.
He is a native of Pittsburgh, where he was
born in March of 1927. Professor Bork is a
1948 Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the Univer-
sity of Chicago and of its law school, where he
received his law degree in 1953. Professor Bork
was editor of the school's Law Review.
Prior to joining the Yale law faculty, Profes-
sor Bork was with a Chicago law firm specializ-
ing in antitrust and other major areas of
litigation.
Also, I am announcing today the fact that
the President will name Jewel Lafontant to ac-
cept a position in the Justice Department. The
President has known Jewel Lafontant since
1952. She currently is serving on the United
States delegation to the United Nations, and
comes highly recommended by Ambassador
Bush.
President Nixon saw Jewel Lafontant at the
meeting of the black appointees that was held
at the White House a short time ago. At that
time, the President had a discussion-actually
following that meeting-with Jewel Lafontant
and asked her if she would serve in this capac-
ity in the second term, and it was worked out
at that time. So I am announcing today that
she will be assuming a position in the Justice
Department in the Solicitor General's office,
and will be named Deputy Solicitor General in
the spring or early summer when Professor
Bork assumes the position of Solicitor General.
In the period between the first of the year
and early summer, she will be serving in the
Solicitor General's office, preparing herself to
assume the role of Deputy Solicitor General.
She is a Chicago lawyer, a senior partner in the
law firm of Stratford, Lafontant, Fisher &
Malkin. She currently is serving as a U.S.
Representative to the 27th Session of the
United Nations General Assembly. She was
appointed to that position in September.
She is a member of the United States Ad-
visory Commission on International Educa-
tional and Cultural Affairs. She was a member
from 1970 to 1972 of the Advisory Council
for Minority Enterprise. She is a graduate of
Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio. She grad-
uated in 1943. She received her law degree
from the University of Chicago in 1946.
Mrs. Lafontant has a son 14 years of age
and lives in Chicago. She is 50 years old. She
was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Chicago
from 1955 to 1958.
Q. Does she have the title of Ambassador
right now?
MR. ZIEGLER. No. She does not carry the title
of Ambassador. She carries the title of U.S.
Representative to the 27th Session of the United
Nations General Assembly.
I also have two announcements relating to
the Department of the Interior. Harrison
Loesch, Assistant Secretary for Public Land
Management, will be leaving his post. Mr.
Loesch has held the post of Assistant Secretary,
Public Land Management, since April of 1969.
Mr. Loesch has devoted many dedicated years
to his responsibilities. The Administration and
the President appreciate the great job he has
E-14
