Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 29 [276]
still stuck in the mud of Senate and House
controversy when I see that, I think that
the country needs to speak out.
I would also suggest, Mr. Lisagor
[Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], be-
cause I know that you, like myself, have
sort of followed campaigns over the years,
and we go back this far, at least I do-
I believe that if we can get a clear major-
ity, if we can get a new majority at the
Presidential level in this campaign,
which we are going to seek by crossing the
country and crossing all the lines of vari-
ous age groups and religious groups and
ethnic groups, et cetera, that we could
have a legislative record in the first 6
months of the next Congress which could
equal in excitement, in reform, the 100
days of 1933. It will be very different from
the 100 days but we have it all there, and
my State of the Union Message summed
it up early this year.
What we are seeking here is not only
a majority for the President, but we are
seeking a new majority, of course, in the
House and the Senate which will support
the President in terms of his domestic
policies, and we trust continue to support
us on national defense and foreign policy.
CAMPAIGN TRAVEL AND DEBATES
[7] Q. Mr. President, how are you
going to conduct the campaign personally
in terms of your travel plans, and would
you be willing to debate with Senator
McGovern over national television?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Schecter [Jerrold
L. Schecter, Time-Life], let me turn to the
debate question first, because it is one
which I know
of
many you have specu-
lated about, and we might as well set the
speculation to rest.
Mr. MacGregor, and before him Mr.
Mitchell, both indicated it would be not
in the national interest for the President
to debate. I did not share that view in
1964. Quite candidly, you may remember
that when Senator Goldwater was a can-
didate I said that having been a Vice
President and having debated and know-
ing all of the information that the Presi-
dent debated, I saw no reason why the
President shouldn't debate.
4
Frankly, I think I was wrong. I was
wrong, in that President Johnson was
right, Senator Mansfield was right, and
even Senator Pastore, who supported the
amendment to 315 but who said that
even in supporting the 315 amendment,
he said he had serious doubts about
whether a President of the United States
should debate.
Now just to say why. The reason does
not have so much to do with confidential
information that a President has, because
such information can be made available
to the other candidate, if he desires to
obtain it. What really is involved is that
when a President speaks, as distinguished
from a Vice President even, he makes
policy every time he opens his mouth. For
example, just as I spoke a moment ago
with regard to our plans in Vietnam, what
is going to happen, that is policy.
Now, when we are involved-even
though it is the concluding phases-but
The requirements of section 315 of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
which provide equal broadcasting opportunity
to any legally qualified candidate for public
office, were suspended for the period of the 1960
campaign with respect to the Presidential and
Vice Presidential nominees (Public Law 86-
677, 74 Stat. 554).
In 1963 a bill (H.J. Res. 247) was introduced
to suspend the requirements of section 315 for
the period of the 1964 Presidential campaign,
but it was never enacted into law.
833
