Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 28 [28]
of White House conferences on drug
abuse have been conducted.
In addition, the Federal Government is
carrying out a number of major research
programs to help us better to identify and
analyze drugs and more fully to under-
stand how they are moved about the
country and around the world. I have also
recommended the creation of a United
Nations Fund for Drug Control-to
which we have already contributed $1
million and pledged $1 million more-
and have recommended several steps
to strengthen international narcotics
agreements.
In the enforcement field, the number
of authorized new positions in the Bureau
of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs and
in the Bureau of Customs has jumped by
more than 2,000 in the past year alone.
We are expanding our program to train
State prosecutors to handle cases under
the newly enacted Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act. We are step-
ping up the work of the Joint State-Fed-
eral Narcotics Task Force in New York
City.
It is estimated that the amount of
heroin which will be seized in the current
fiscal year will be more than four times
what was seized in fiscal year 1969. Since
that time, the number of drug-related
arrests has nearly doubled.
OVERALL EXPENDITURES
Perhaps the most dramatic evidence of
our stepped-up campaign against drug
abuse lies in the budget figures for various
aspects of our effort. In the last 3 years, for
example, Federal obligations for drug
treatment and rehabilitation have in-
creased nearly sevenfold, from $28 million
to $189.6 million, and we have proposed
a further increase of $40.6 million for next
year. Obligations for research, education,
training, and prevention activities have
also grown nearly sevenfold, from $17.5
million in fiscal year 1969 to $120.5 mil-
lion this year, and our new budget calls
for a further increase of $14.5 million.
This means that we will be obligating
more than eight times as much for treat-
ment, rehabilitation, research, education,
training, and prevention in the coming
fiscal year as we were when this Adminis-
tration took office.
As far as law enforcement obligations
relating to drug abuse are concerned, the
level has increased more than eightfold
in our first 3 years in office-from $20.2
million to $164.4 million. We plan to in-
crease this figure by another $64.6 million
next year to the $229 million level.
A BALANCED AND COMPREHENSIVE
PROGRAM
The central concept behind all of these
programs is that our overall approach to
the drug menace must be balanced and
comprehensive-fighting those who traffic
in drugs, helping those who have been
victimized by drugs, and protecting
those who have not yet been threatened.
The new initiative I have launched today
in the area of law enforcement is aimed
against those who would profit from the
misery of others. It will confront the
street-level heroin pusher with a dedi-
cated group of lawyers and investigators
intent upon exposing and eliminating
retail sales of heroin. At the same time,
however, we must be sure that we have
sufficient treatment facilities to handle
any increase in the number of addicts
seeking treatment because of the disrup-
tion of heroin trafficking. The Special
87-234-74- 12
117
