[88] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
heritage and we take special pleasure in
greeting our fellow citizens of Hibernian
descent-and all those who, on St. Pat-
rick's Day, celebrate America's gratitude
for what Erin has given us.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was made available to the
press.
On March 17, 1972, Ambassador and Mrs.
William Warnock of Ireland called on the
President at the White House to present the
traditional St. Patrick's Day gift of shamrocks
in a Waterford crystal vase.
89 Special Message to the Congress on Science and
Technology. March 16, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The ability of the American people to
harness the discoveries of science in the
service of man has always been an im-
portant element in our national progress.
As I noted in my most recent message on
the State of the Union, Americans have
long been known all over the world for
their technological ingenuity-for being
able to "build a better mousetrap"-and
this capacity has undergirded both our
domestic prosperity and our international
strength.
We owe a great deal to the researchers
and engineers, the managers and entre-
preneurs who have made this record pos-
sible. Again and again they have met
what seemed like impossible challenges.
Again and again they have achieved suc-
cess. They have found a way of prevent-
ing polio, placed men on the moon, and
sent television pictures across the oceans.
They have contributed much to our stand-
ard of living and our military strength.
But the accomplishments of the past
are not something we can rest on. They
are something we must build on. I am
therefore calling today for a strong new
effort to marshal science and technology
in the work of strengthening our econ-
omy and improving the quality of our life.
And I am outlining ways in which the
Federal Government can work as a more
effective partner in this great task.
The importance of technological inno-
vation has become dramatically evident in
the past few years. For one thing, we have
come to recognize that such innovation
is essential to improving our economic
productivity-to producing more and bet-
ter goods and services at lower costs. And
improved productivity, in turn, is essential
if we are to achieve a full and durable
prosperity-without inflation and without
war. By fostering greater productivity,
technological innovation can help us to
expand our markets at home and abroad,
strengthening old industries, creating new
ones, and generally providing more jobs
for the millions who will soon be entering
the labor market.
This work is particularly important at
a time when other countries are rapidly
moving upward on the scientific and tech-
nological ladder, challenging us both in
intellectual and in economic terms. Our
international position in fields such as
electronics, aircraft, steel, automobiles and
shipbuilding is not as strong as it once
was. A better performance is essential
to both the health of our domestic econ-
omy and our leadership position abroad.
At the same time, the impact of new
technology can do much to enrich the
quality of our lives. The forces which
threaten that quality will be growing at
416
