[121] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
kindness to interrupt the pleasures of the occa-
sion with too much speaking. That is usually the
apology to a long speech. As Santayana recog-
nized, "The language of friendship is not words,
but meanings."
The delight of my wife and me to receive you
as guests in our official home has its meanings,
as has the presence here, in your honor, of our
Canadian guests, leaders in state and church,
meanings as intelligible and eloquent, I hope,
as they are real.
In any event, a few hours ago at the airport I
tried with words, en français et en anglais, to
express for ourselves and for the Canadian peo-
ple our great appreciation of the honor of your
visit and the spirit of good will in which you
have come, and that, Mr. President, in the midst
of many and great responsibilities.
I ask only one favor: that you put no sig-
nificance or meanings on our backward weather.
Our tulips, the local equivalent of your cherry
blossoms, are unintentionally late, and the snow
which loiters in our fields seems to be giving
point to what your poet, Walt Whitman, wrote
in his "Diary in Canada," presumably as a
compliment to us. He said, "I have sometimes
doubted whether there could be a great race
without the hardy influence of winters in due
proportion." By April, we put a heavy emphasis
on the "due proportion."
For many generations, your people and ours
have lived side by side in harmony and under-
standing, while seeking, in separate but parallel
ways, to develop our respective shares of this
continent. Our relationship has been casual and
easy, seldom requiring much articulation, and
scarcely ever causing any sustained anxiety.
We look proudly on the success in your
country of many of our Canadian emigrés. They
are like the Scots in London. It took a little
time for the Honorable Mr. Macdonald [Min-
ister, Department of Energy, Mines, and Re-
sources, Canada] to appreciate that one.
At the same time, we acknowledge our great
debt to countless Americans who have come to
settle in Canada.
I could cite my own family as an example of
these exchanges. My paternal great-grandfather
was a Quaker from Pennsylvania, whose fore-
bears had lived there for five generations before
he moved to Ontario in 1819, for what reason
I was never able to ascertain.
Today, a reverse movement gives me a sister
domiciled in California, another in Florida, a
daughter and grandchildren in Rhode Island,
without depleting too much the Canadian
stock. We all remain one family, even though
our allegiance and electoral activities are dif-
ferent. Perhaps I should not mention the latter
in this particular year, especially as I am the
only one present who never engages in electoral
activity and, in fact, never votes.
However, in the generation since 1945, the
United States, Canada, and the entire world
have undergone great changes. In the process,
the relations between our two countries have
become increasingly complex. With the growing
interaction in almost every field of daily life,
the once tacit and, one might almost say, in-
stinctive understanding between us has perhaps
become partially obscured. This should not sur-
prise us, nor does it reflect a fading of our
traditional friendship. At the same time, it does
oblige us to put forward greater efforts to
achieve what before seemed easily attainable.
Mr. President, for Canadians, your great of-
fice, with its power and prestige throughout the
world, symbolizes the virtues and the strength of
the United States and its people. Since assum-
ing that office, you have given leadership in a
long-sighted transformation of America's for-
eign relations and her role in the world. The
full measure of your initiatives in the military,
political, and economic fields is just beginning
to be recognized, together with their implica-
tions for the peace and the well-being of people
everywhere. In the case of Canada and the
United States, I have no doubt that they will
help us in defining anew the many areas where
our desires and our policies converge.
At a time, Mr. President, when both our
countries are adjusting to a world in transition,
it is a happy omen to have you and Mrs. Nixon
in our midst, an omen of enduring and advan-
tageous new relationships to come, an omen
that the sympathy, respect, and understanding
which we have achieved in the past may be pro-
jected indefinitely into the future.
536
