Richard Nixon, 1972
June 17 [204]
Federal agencies which are furnished
space or services by the General Services
Administration. It provides 3-year au-
thority for construction of public buildings
by purchase contracts with terms of up to
30 years. It also authorizes the National
Park Service to provide maintenance,
security, and information services for the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform-
ing Arts.
The requirement that agencies budget
for their own space and pay user charges
approximating commercial rental rates
should provide an incentive for more effi-
cient space utilization and will move
agency budgets one step nearer to the goal
of reflecting total program costs.
It is regrettable that S. 1736 contains
two provisions which I am advised by the
Attorney General are unconstitutional
"coming into agreement" clauses, in-
fringing upon the fundamental principle
of the separation of legislative and execu-
tive powers.
These provisions appear in section 7 (d)
of the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as
amended by section 2 (4) of the bill, and
in section 5(f) of the bill.
The amended section 7(d) provides
that no emergency lease authorized by
that section shall be for a period of more
than 180 days without approval of a
prospectus for such lease by the Com-
mittees on Public Works.
Section 5(f) provides that, except for
previously approved prospectuses, no pur-
chase contract shall be entered into until
a prospectus has been submitted and ap-
proved by the Committees on Public
Works.
Under section 7(a) of the Public Build-
ings Act of 1959, as it would be amended
by this bill, no appropriations may be
made to construct, alter, purchase, or ac-
quire a public building, or to lease any
space at an average annual rental in ex-
cess of $500,000, until the Public Works
Committees have approved GSA's pro-
spectuses for such projects. I understand
that Congress regards this "no appropria-
tion may be made" provision as internal
Congressional rulemaking which does
not affect the executive branch. This Ad-
ministration has acquiesced in that
construction.
However, the two sections of this bill
previously referred to give the General
Services Administration the authority to
enter into leases and purchase contracts
and then condition the use of that au-
thority on that agency's getting the ap-
proval of the Public Works Committees
on prospectuses. This conditioning of the
authority of the executive branch upon
an action by committees of the Congress
is found by the Attorney General to be an
unconstitutional "coming into agree-
ment" provision.
In signing the Second Supplemental
Appropriations Act on May 27, 1972,ยน
I commented on the unconstitutionality
of a similar clause contained in that act.
I wish to emphasize, as my predecessors
have done, my firm opposition to any
"coming into agreement" provisions and
also to indicate that I cannot act under
such a provision.
Therefore, I am directing GSA to co-
operate with the Committees on Public
Works in assuring full compliance with
the acceptable procedures contained in
section 7(a) of the Public Buildings Act,
without regard to the unconstitutional
provisions I have previously referred to.
1 See Item 173.
687
