[17] Jan. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
junction in an earlier attempt to settle this
dispute, thousands of farmers reaped a
harvest of despair as their export crops
were blocked by closed ports and could not
reach waiting customers overseas. Hun-
dreds of millions of dollars were lost. Be-
cause the strike has now resumed, these
farmers are again victimized.
-There is an increasing danger that
some of these trade losses will become
per-
manent, as foreign purchasers come to
believe that our farmers and businessmen
cannot provide dependable deliveries.
Japan, a billion-dollar market for agricul-
tural imports, has already asked other sup-
pliers to step up production so that it
can lessen its dependence on American
exports.
-Layoffs, reduced operations, and
even business failures also hang over the
heads of many other Americans who en-
gage directly or indirectly in exports. Some
areas are especially vulnerable, such as
the State of Hawaii, which has been hit
by shortages of vital supplies, mounting
food costs and unemployment rates un-
matched for half a generation. Also hard
pressed are California, Oregon and
Washington.
I cannot emphasize too strongly that
all of these people—and, indeed, our na-
tional economy-have been made hostage
to the interests of those few who persist in
prolonging this dispute. These men and
women who are hurt so unfairly cannot
accept the fact that a dispute in which
they play no part can destroy them-nor
can you and I. There is no justification
for waiting any longer.
It is with extreme reluctance that I pro-
pose this legislation, for as I have stressed
to the Congress before, I firmly believe
that governmental intervention in the
collective bargaining process should be as
limited as possible. Compulsory arbitra-
tion is not generally a satisfactory method
of resolving labor disputes. Under the
present, deplorable circumstances, how-
ever, there is no remaining alternative.
As this resolution is considered, there
is one very tough question before us to
which reasonable Americans deserve an
answer: Why have we once again reached
the flash point?
Let there be no mistake about the facts.
For two long years, the Congress has had
before it comprehensive proposals which
I submitted and have repeatedly urged
that it pass for the resolution of emergency
transportation disputes. This legislation
still languishes unenacted.
These proposals, which should best be
called the "crippling strikes prevention
act" in the future, would have avoided
the present crisis, and if enacted will avert
what will otherwise be the inevitability of
similar crises in the future. They would
encourage the parties to bargain more
responsibly, and in the event that no settle-
ment is reached, would establish a work-
able mechanism for resolving the dispute
without Congressional action.
Our present legislative tools are plainly
inadequate. Four times since I called for
these comprehensive measures, it has been
necessary for the Congress to enact special
legislation to deal with disputes in the
troubled transportation industry.
The present dock dispute is perhaps
the best illustration of how futile Govern-
ment actions can be under present law.
Bargaining between the parties began in
November 1970. After six months of nego-
tiations, the parties gave up their attempt
to reach early agreement and suspended
their talks until the contract deadline ap-
proached. On July 1, 1971 the longshore-
men went out on strike, creating a ship-
76
