[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
cational, cultural and professional ex-
changes; volunteer and other humani-
tarian programs; counterpart contacts
between schools, industries, labor unions,
credit unions, foundations, cooperatives,
and other non-governmental institutions.
These people-to-people contacts have the
advantage that they are less politically
sensitive and generally can survive un-
certainties and fluctuations in official re-
lations. In 1970, the United States created
the Inter-American Social Development
Institute to assist the growth of non-gov-
ernmental institutions in Latin America.
This is a contribution to pluralism and to
the kinds of social organization by which
people and communities participate di-
rectly in improving their own lives.
The government and people of the
United States contribute to human better-
ment in Latin America in other ways. Our
public and private assistance to victims of
natural disaster is a well-known and long-
standing tradition. Our aid to Peru after
the 1970 earthquake, and Mrs. Nixon's
visit to the scene, were symbolic of our
concern.
THE HEMISPHERIC FUTURE
The United States cannot be indifferent
to the hemisphere in which it lives. But
geography alone does not make a commu-
nity. Our association will thrive only if
our common purposes do. The United
States believes it has much to contribute,
as well as much to gain, in a continuing
close relationship with its fellow inhabit-
ants of the Western Hemisphere. We
recognize nevertheless that the difficulties
facing United States policy will grow,
rather than diminish, as the decade un-
folds; there will inevitably be strains and
disappointments. This will test our com-
passion, our tolerance and our maturity.
The new United States policy I first
announced in October 1969 was a state-
ment of a new philosophy and a blueprint
for concrete action. Our philosophy is one
of realism and restraint. This is the ap-
proach best suited to the realities of the
new era and to history's lesson that we in
the U.S., whatever our good intentions,
cannot mold the continent to our pre-
ferred image. Our program of concrete
action, designed for effectiveness rather
than glamor, is directly responsive to Latin
American ideas and needs.
To realize our purposes, these will be
our tasks in the years ahead:
To share initiative and responsibility
more widely in collective enterprises. This
is a constructive way of responding to a
radically new political environment in
which our partners are more assertive of
their right and capacity to determine their
own future. The inter-American system
and its practices should reflect this more
balanced relationship.
To demonstrate in word and deed the
vitality of the common aspirations of the
hemisphere. We are realistic. Differences
in interest and perspective are natural.
We need to discuss differences and nego-
tiate solutions, as is proper among sover-
eign states who share an interest in
preserving a constructive relationship.
To make an effective contribution to
economic development in Latin America.
We cannot allow the ferment of the age
to immobilize us. We can be responsive to
good programs in many practical ways-
even given the broad limits on what the
United States is capable of providing or
accomplishing by itself. We will move for-
ward with our program of action.
266
