Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
fundamental to national security become
the subject of negotiations between
competing powers. Agreement to limit
strategic nuclear weapons would be an
unprecedented achievement not only in
the field of arms control, but also in the
evolution of political relations.
The limitation of armaments is an es-
sential element in the larger political proc-
ess of building a more stable international
system. By contributing to international
stability and restraint, arms control agree-
ments can provide a greater measure of
security than could be achieved by relying
solely on military power. A mutual will-
ingness to curb arms competition indicates
constructive intentions in political as well
as strategic areas. Progress in controlling
arms can reinforce progress in a much
wider area of international relations.
This Administration has made a de-
termined effort to negotiate equitable
strategic arms agreements with the Soviet
Union. Our efforts at arms control, more-
over, have not been confined to bilateral
strategic negotiations, but have encom-
passed a variety of weapons and inter-
national forums. The process of develop-
ing agreements has proceeded in three
separate but related areas:
-First, and of overriding importance,
has been the effort to control stra-
tegic arms competition between the
United States and the Soviet Union.
-Second, in regions where major pow-
ers confront each other, as in Central
Europe, we have explored means for
establishing a more stable military
balance at reduced force levels.
-Finally, on the broad international
front, arms control measures such as
elimination of biological and toxin
weapons and restrictions on the de-
ployment of nuclear weapons in vari-
ous environments have been under-
taken with the participation of
nuclear and non-nuclear powers.
In each of these areas, the United States
has taken important initiatives in the
interest of international stability and
peace. Three years of intense efforts have
produced significant progress.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
TALKS (SALT)
From the beginning of this Administra-
tion, issues related to strategic arms limi-
tations have been given the highest pri-
ority. I recognized that even a modest
success in such an endeavor could break
the pattern of seemingly endless and in-
creasingly dangerous competition.
In order to have maximum flexibility in
negotiations with the Soviet Union, we
began our preparations for strategic arms
talks with a systematic examination of the
issues. By analyzing every combination of
weapons systems that might conceivably
be subject to limitation and by examining
measures that could be used to verify com-
pliance in any agreement, we developed a
sound basis for moving negotiations in the
direction most likely to lead to an equi-
table agreement. In the ensuing discus-
sions with the Soviet Union, we were
determined not to be restricted to a fixed
position which would have to be renego-
tiated internally every time there was a
change of position. It was anticipated that
our new approach might forestall the early
stalemates which had characterized previ-
ous arms control negotiations when open-
ing positions inevitably differed.
We recognized that negotiations would
be especially complicated because of the
difficulty of establishing equivalence be-
tween Soviet and American weapon sys-
317
