[178] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
pos-
the USA and the USSR in social systems,
ideologies, and policy principles, it is
sible to develop mutually advantageous
cooperation between the peoples of both
countries, in the interests of strengthening
peace and international security.
Both Sides expressed the desire to con-
tinue close contact on a number of issues
that were under discussion. They agreed
that regular consultations on questions of
mutual interest, including meetings at the
highest level, would be useful.
In expressing his appreciation for the
hospitality accorded him in the Soviet
Union, President Nixon invited General
Secretary L. I. Brezhnev, Chairman N. V.
Podgorny, and Chairman A. N. Kosygin
to visit the United States at a mutually
convenient time. This invitation was
accepted.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcripts of two news briefings on
the joint communique and the statement of
basic principles (Item 177): the first, by Dr.
Kissinger; the second, by Press Secretary Zieg-
ler and Leonid M. Zamyatin, Director General,
TASS. Dr. Kissinger's news briefing is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 8, p. 951).
During the President's visit to Moscow Press
Secretary Ziegler and Director General Zam-
yatin held daily news briefings on discussions
between United States and Soviet officials.
Transcripts of the news briefings were released
as follows: one on May 22, two on May 23,
and two on May 24.
On May 29, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Dr. Kissinger on
discussions held during the visit. The transcript
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, p. 956).
On May 30, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by John D. Ehrlich-
man, Assistant to the President for Domestic
Affairs, and Peter G. Peterson, Secretary of
Commerce, on the domestic impact of the
agreements reached with the Soviet Union.
179 Toast at a Dinner in Kiev.
May 29, 1972
Mr. Chairman of the Presidium and all of
the distinguished guests here this evening:
I first express appreciation for the elo-
quent remarks of the Chairman and I will
respond to those remarks somewhat briefly
because I had the opportunity to speak at
some length on television last night.
my
But tonight I would like to address
remarks particularly to this city and par-
ticularly to the Ukraine-a city and a
republic that has meant so much to the
Soviet Union and so much to the world.
We had a very difficult time selecting
the cities we would visit on this trip to the
Soviet Union. In consulting with Ambas-
sador Dobrynin, he, of course, said that we
must spend most of our time in Moscow
for our official talks; and then, logically,
it was necessary, too, and we welcomed
the opportunity, to return to Leningrad,
the second city of the Soviet Union.
Then we said to Ambassador Dobrynin,
"What should be the third city?" And he
answered, "The mother of all Russian
cities, Kiev." And so we come here for the
first time and we are glad that we came.
We are glad to have enjoyed this won-
derful dinner, these fine wines that are
the product of this very rich country. We
are glad, too, to have the opportunity to
know some of the people of the Ukraine-
a people who are world famous for their
warmth, for their strength, for their
courage.
642
