[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
press conference. I am not trying to do
that. It is useful, it is important. It re-
quires hard work in preparing for it, I can
assure you. But I think I can best put it this
way: Every President has to make a deci-
sion when he enters the office about his
relations with the press and about his job.
I mean, I am as human as anybody else,
I like to get a good press. But on the
other hand I had to determine, and I did
determine, as I am sure most Presidents
do, that what was most important at this
time was for me to do a good job because
the stakes were so high, particularly in
foreign policy, and also in some areas of
domestic policy.
Now, if I do a good job, the fact I get
bad press isn't going to matter; if I do a
bad job, a good press isn't going to help.
When November comes, the people will
decide whether I have done a good job
215 Veto
or not and whether I have had so many
press conferences is probably not going to
make a lot of difference.
I trust I can do both because it is essen-
tial for a President to communicate with
the people, to inform the press who, of
course, do talk to the people, either on tele-
vision, radio, or through what they write.
I hope perhaps in the future we can
avoid the feeling on the part of the press
that the President is antagonistic to them.
I can't say whether the President thinks
the press is antagonistic to him, but that is
another matter.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-fifth news con-
ference was held at 9 p.m. in the East Room at
the White House on Thursday, June 29, 1972.
It was broadcast live on radio and television.
The President spoke without referring to notes.
Veto of Public Broadcasting Bill.
June 30, 1972
To the House of Representatives:
I find it necessary to return without my
approval H.R. 13918 which is intended to
provide increased financing for the Cor-
poration for Public Broadcasting and to
modify the Public Broadcasting Act of
1967 by making various changes in the
structure of the non-commercial, educa-
tional broadcasting system.
Public broadcasting can and does make
important contributions to our Nation's
life by presenting educational and cul-
tural programs of diversity and excellence.
Programs such as "Sesame Street" and
"The Electric Company" already have
begun to repay the far-sighted decision
the Nation made in the 1950s when chan-
nels were reserved for educational pur-
poses. Public broadcasting deserves to be
continued, and to be strengthened.
The legislation before me, however,
offers a poor approach to public broad-
cast financing. It ignores some serious
questions which must be resolved before
any long-range public broadcasting financ-
ing can be soundly devised, and before the
statutory framework for public broadcast-
ing is changed.
There are many fundamental disagree-
ments concerning the directions which
public broadcasting has taken and should
pursue in the future. Perhaps the most im-
portant one is the serious and widespread
concern-expressed in Congress and with-
in public broadcasting itself—that an or-
ganization, originally intended only to
718
