Richard Nixon, 1972
June 29 [214]
is what it does to the Social Security Sys-
tem, and also what it does to the cost of
living and to future taxes in this country.
We must realize that if a 20-percent
social security [increase] is passed by the
Senate and by the Congress, that the in-
creased payroll tax to pay for it will com-
pletely wipe out the tax reduction that was
given to middle-income and lower-middle-
income wage earners in 1969. That is a
question that the Congress has got to
address itself to.
If, on the other hand, the Congress
passes the 20-percent increase in social
security and does not finance it ade-
quately, it will seriously jeopardize the
integrity of the social security trust fund,
and it could be highly inflationary which,
of course, will hurt most the social security
people, the retired people.
So these are considerations that have
motivated me in expressing concern. It is
not that we do not want an increase in
social security. It isn't that we do not want
as high an increase as possible. But the
increase must be a responsible one. It
should be funded. And the Congress, if it
does not fund it, would be doing some-
thing that would not be in the interest of
retired people, who would be faced with
an increase in the cost of living.
THE VICE PRESIDENT
[13.] Q. Sir, I know you have said that
you don't care to discuss politics until
after the Republican Convention, which
has to make you kind of an unusual man
in Washington, but in your answer a while
ago regarding Vice President Agnew, I
gained the impression that he may be a
one-term Vice President. Am I correct in
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly not, no. As
I said to Mr. Rather-I cannot recon-
struct it exactly, he probably can-but in
any event, as I said to him in that pro-
gram, Mr. Agnew had conducted himself,
I thought, with great dignity, with great
courage, some controversy-which is in-
evitable when you have courage-and
that under these circumstances, since he
was a member of a winning team, I did
not believe breaking up a winning team
was a good idea.
That was my view then, that is my view
now. However, the final decision, as I
indicated in my answer a few moments
ago, will be deferred until before the Re-
publican Convention, and I will make it
in time for the delegates to know what my
views are.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[14] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Mr. President, with all the shifts in
the economy, unemployment seems to be
stalled at just under 6 percent. What plans
do you have to do something about that?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been mak-
ing great strides on the employment side,
as you know, Mr. Theis: 2,300,000 new
jobs since the new economic policy was
announced on August 15. We expect that
the rapid expansion of the economy,
which most economists agree is taking
place, is going to reflect itself in reducing
unemployment rolls, not as fast as we
would like, but in reducing them, through
the fall and winter months.
As far as additional actions are con-
cerned, we do not contemplate any at this
time, except that we are going to continue
those policies that have resulted in the
economy growing at a rate of 52 percent
in real growth, and that have resulted-
713
