Richard Nixon, 1972
July 27 [239]
only issue that is left. Those who say “End
the war" really should name their resolu-
tion "Prolong the war." They should name
it "Prolong the war" not because they
deliberately want to. They want to end
the war just as I do, but we have to face
this fact: We have only one President at a
time, as I said in 1968. At that time, as
you may recall, I was pressed quite often
by you ladies and gentlemen, "What do
you think we ought to do about negotia-
tions?" I didn't think there was much
chance for successful negotiations then.
But I said, I thought quite correctly, we
have only one President, and I didn't
want to destroy any chance he might have
to end this war. At this point, the chance
for a negotiated settlement is better now
than it has ever been. Oh, it is not sure,
and I am not going to raise any false
hopes, but the enemy is failing in its mili-
tary offensive, although there is still some
hard fighting to take place in the Quang-
tri-Hué area, but the enemy also is, of
course, suffering the consequences of our
mining action and in cutting the roads
and the other systems that would bring in
supplies to North Vietnam.
Under these circumstances, the enemy—
because also we have made a very fair
offer has every incentive to negotiate.
But when you put yourself in the position
of the enemy, and then they hear that the
Congress of the United States says, in
effect, "We will give you what you want
regardless of what the President has of-
fered," why not wait? This is the problem,
and I would hope that as Senators and
Congressmen consult their consciences,
they would realize that we have just 3
months left before the election. In those 3
months we hope to do everything we can
to bring this war to an end, and they
should take no action which would jeop-
ardize those negotiations. I can only say
that the resolutions to this point cannot
help. They can only confuse the enemy
at best, and at the worst, they will prolong
the war.
SELECTION OF VICE PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEES
[6.] Q. The Vice Presidential nominee
often is chosen under great pressure. This
means often that the Vice President even-
tually is under great pressure of time and
circumstance. Sometimes this turns out
all right and sometimes it doesn't. Do you
think that that method could be
improved?
THE PRESIDENT. I was a Vice Presi-
dent once, too. [Laughter]
I will answer. I can only give my own
experience, and I know that this was the
experience of President Eisenhower.
When an individual feels that he is
quite shall we say, has a better than even
chance or an even chance to be President,
he does a lot of thinking about who should
be the Vice Presidential candidate, both
because of his potentialities as a candidate
and in terms of could he fill the office of
Vice President and, in the case of an ac-
cident to the President, the President.
I can assure you that naturally I went
through that process in making my own
decision and I would think that any can-
didate would do that. I don't think it is
quite as, shall we say, off the top of your
head as you would indicate, because most
of us, when we are seeking the Presidency,
long before the convention, have a pretty
good idea as to whether we have a good
shot at it and we do a lot of thinking about
the Vice Presidential nomination.
87-234-74-51
749
