Appendix E-White House Announcements of
Personnel Changes for the Second Term
NOTE: Speaking to reporters at Camp David on November 27, 1972 (Item 421), the President
stated that his decisions on Cabinet officers for the second term would be announced by Press
Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler in the next 2 or 3 weeks. This appendix carries the announcements,
relating to Cabinet, sub-Cabinet, and White House Staff positions, as made by Mr. Ziegler in news
briefings from November 28 to December 22, 1972.
Announcing New Assignments for the Second
Term
November 28, 1972
The President intends to nominate Elliot
Richardson, currently Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, to be Secretary of
Defense succeeding Melvin Laird, who has
long intended, as you know, to return to private
life at the end of the first term.
The President is also announcing that Caspar
Weinberger, currently Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, will be nominated
to succeed Elliot Richardson as Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
The President has asked Roy Ash, who is
president of Litton Industries, to succeed Cas-
par Weinberger as the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget.
Elliot Richardson has served as Secretary of
the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare since June of 1970 and has a distin-
guished career in government service. Mr.
Richardson first joined the Administration in
1969 as Under Secretary of State. After a year
and a half of highly respected service. Mr.
Richardson was appointed Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare. He is a lawyer and a
former Lieutenant Governor and Attorney
General of the State of Massachusetts.
Melvin Laird, as you know, became the
Secretary of Defense as part of the President's
original Cabinet, which was named in 1969.
In accepting Secretary Laird's letter of resig-
nation, the President said he looks back with a
profound sense of pride on the years of dedi-
cated service the Secretary has given his coun-
try and his handling of difficult decisions with
enormous dedication and competence.
In announcing his intention to nominate
Caspar Weinberger to be the new Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, the President
is affirming his respect for both the organiza-
tional and creative skills Cap Weinberger will
bring to the new post.
Cap Weinberger was named Deputy Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
when that office was created in July of 1970. In
May 1972 the President appointed Cap Wein-
berger Director of the OMB. Mr. Weinberger is
a former Chairman of the Federal Trade Com-
mission. Before joining the FTC, he was
Director of Finance for the State of California.
Mr. Weinberger is an attorney and also served
6 years in the California State Legislature.
It was the energetic leadership of Roy Ash
that steered the President's Advisory Council
on Executive Organization, a council which
many of you know was established in 1969 to
undertake an exhaustive, critical review of the
way the Government is operated.
Among the innovative reforms that resulted
from the recommendations of the Council was
the formation of the Office of Management and
Budget. That office was formed following the
Ash Council recommendation in July of 1970.
It was formed, as the President said at that
time, to bring better management and effi-
ciency into the operation of the Government.
During the second term, President Nixon
intends for the Office of Management and
Budget to assume a new and expanded role. He
intends for the Office of Management and
Budget to undertake a comprehensive examina-
tion of all Government programs now in exist-
ence to determine whether they are actually
meeting the purpose for which they were
designated. The President feels the proven
management skill and strong leadership of Roy
E-1
