Appendix B
April
4 The White House announced that Secre-
tary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz will visit
the Soviet Union April 9-12. Secretary
Butz will be returning the visit to the
United States of the Soviet Minister of Ag-
riculture, V. V. Matskevitch, last Decem-
ber. The Secretary will participate in the
April 10 opening session of talks concern-
ing the possibility of additional sales of
U.S. grains and feedstuffs to the U.S.S.R.
4 John H. Chafee who is resigning as Secre-
tary of the Navy met with the President
at the White House.
4 French Ambassador Charles Lucet paid a
farewell call on the President at the White
House.
5 The White House announced plans for
Dr. Theodore H. Reed, Director of the Na-
tional Zoological Park, to leave on April 6
for Peking to deliver the two musk oxen
which are being presented to the Chinese
people. The two pandas which are be-
ing given in return to the American peo-
ple will be brought back to Washington by
Dr. Reed. Two Chinese advisers will come
to the United States with the pandas to
discuss their care and housing at the zoo.
7 The President announced transfer of 17
Federal properties to local governments for
use as park and recreational facilities as
part of the Legacy of Parks program. In-
cluded are lands in Florida, Iowa, Ohio,
Washington, Wisconsin, Louisiana, Cali-
fornia, Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi,
New York, Puerto Rico, and Rhode Island.
10 Ambassador William J. Porter, head of the
United States delegation to the Paris peace
talks, met with the President at the White
House before returning to Paris.
10 The President greeted approximately 250
members of the National Alliance of Busi-
nessmen at a reception at the White House.
He also announced appointment of Gordon
M. Metcalf as Chairman of the Alliance.
April
II The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to accession by the
United States the Convention Establish-
ing an International Organization of Legal
Metrology, as amended.
11 The President transmitted to the Congress
the budget for the District of Columbia for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1972.
11 Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott
met with the President to discuss their
forthcoming visit to the People's Republic
of China.
14 The President and Mrs. Nixon were guests
of Prime Minister and Mrs. Pierre Elliott
Trudeau at a gala performance in their
honor at the National Arts Centre in
Ottawa. The program featured the Na-
tional Arts Centre Orchestra conducted
by Mario Bernardi, and the Festival Singers
of Canada.
17 The President met with Ambassador Witold
Trampczynski of the Polish People's Repub-
lic. The Ambassador delivered an invita-
tion to the President from Chairman of the
Council of State Henryk Jablonski and
Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz to visit
Poland following his visit to the Soviet
Union and Iran at the end of May. The
President has accepted the invitation with
pleasure.
17 The President met with Donald B. Rice to
thank him for his service as Assistant Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget. Mr. Rice has resigned to become
president of the RAND Corporation.
17 The President went to the Capitol to at-
tend an annual seafood luncheon hosted
by Representative William M. Colmer of
Mississippi.
19 The President has asked Vice President
Agnew to act as his personal representative
at the Okinawa Reversion Day ceremony in
Tokyo on May 15. Other members of the
delegation will be United States Ambassa-
dor to Japan Robert S. Ingersoll and the
United States High Commissioner of the
Ryukyu Islands, Lt. Gen. James B. Lampert.
B-6
