[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
REFORMING AND RENEWING EDUCATION
It was nearly 2 years ago, in March of
1970, that I presented my major proposals
for reform and renewal in education.
These proposals included student as-
sistance measures to ensure that no quali-
fied person would be barred from college
by a lack of money, a National Institute
of Education to bring new energy and new
direction to educational research, and a
National Foundation for Higher Educa-
tion to encourage innovation in learning
beyond high school. These initiatives are
still awaiting final action by the Congress.
They deserve prompt approval.
I would also underscore my continuing
confidence that Special Revenue Sharing
for Education can do much to strengthen
the backbone of our educational system,
our public elementary and secondary
schools. Special Revenue Sharing recog-
nizes the Nation's interest in their im-
provement without compromising the
principle of local control. I also call again
for the enactment of my $1.5 billion pro-
gram of Emergency School Aid to help
local school districts desegregate wisely
and well. This program has twice been
approved by the House and once by the
Senate in different versions. I hope the
Senate will now send the legislation
promptly to the conference committee so
that an agreement can be reached on this
important measure at an early date.
This bill is designed to help local school
districts with the problems incident to
desegregation. We must have an end to
the dual school system, as conscience and
the Constitution both require-and we
must also have good schools. In this con-
nection, I repeat my own firm belief that
educational quality—so vital to the future
of all of our children-is not enhanced by
unnecessary busing for the sole purpose
of achieving an arbitrary racial balance.
FINANCING OUR SCHOOLS
I particularly hope that 1972 will be
a year in which we resolve one of the most
critical questions we face in education to-
day: how best to finance our schools.
In recent years the growing scope and
rising costs of education have so over-
burdened local revenues that financial
crisis has become a way of life in many
school districts. As a result, neither the
benefits nor the burdens of education have
been equitably distributed.
The brunt of the growing pressures has
fallen on the property tax-one of the
most inequitable and regressive of all
public levies. Property taxes in the United
States represent a higher proportion of
public income than in almost any other
nation. They have more than doubled in
the last decade and have been particularly
burdensome for our lower and middle in-
come families and for older Americans.
These intolerable pressures-on the
property tax and on our schools-led me
to establish the President's Commission on
School Finance in March of 1970. I
charged this Commission with the respon-
sibility to review comprehensively both the
revenue needs and the revenue resources
of public and non-public elementary and
secondary education. The Commission
will make its final report to me in March.
At the same time, the Domestic Coun-
cil-and particularly the Secretaries of
the Treasury and of Health, Education,
and Welfare-have also been studying
68
