Richard Nixon, 1972
May 22 [168]
ing. It is a testimonial to the flexibility and
vigour of our Federal-State system that
the fifty States, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin Islands
have all expressed a willingness to develop
plans for setting and enforcing standards
that are at least on a par with the Federal
requirements fixed by the act.
In addition, many States are actually
aiding the Federal Government by gather-
ing superior statistical data that will pro-
vide a basis for charting the future direc-
tion of safety and health programs. Many
States, too, are now assisting the Federal
Government in the enforcement of
standards.
In short, I feel that the essential ground-
work has been laid for genuine progress in
on-the-job safety and health. This report
describes the structures that have been set
in place, and it outlines how the building
process will continue.
The White House,
May 22, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "The President's
Report on Occupational Safety and Health-
Including Reports on Occupational Safety and
Health by the United States Department of
Labor and by the United States Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 210 pp.).
168 Toasts of the President and Nikolai V. Podgorny,
Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of
the U.S.S.R., at a Dinner in Moscow. May 22, 1972
Mr. President, Mr. General Secretary, Mr.
Prime Minister, and all of the distin-
guished guests from the Soviet Union and
from the United States:
I would like first to express our very
grateful appreciation for the hospitality
which has been extended to Mrs. Nixon
and myself, and all the members of our
party, on this, the first visit of an Ameri-
can President to Moscow.
The courage of the Russian people, who
generation after generation have hero-
ically defended this city from invaders,
makes this vivid point: The only way to
enter Moscow is to enter in peace.
All of us in this great room can feel the
history that is here. Here, as comrades in
arms, Russians and Americans met to-
gether to work out some of the key deci-
sions of World War II, setting an example
of selfless cooperation and of wartime co-
operation that has taken us too long to
follow in peacetime. And now here this
week, 25 years later, we meet within these
walls to make decisions that could help
pave the way to peace for all the world.
The Soviet Union and the United
States are both great powers. Ours are
both great peoples. In the long history of
both of our nations, we have never fought
one another in war. Let us make decisions
now which will help insure that we shall
never do so in the future.
The American people want peace. I
know, from my travels through the Soviet
Union, the people of the Soviet Union
want peace. My fervent hope is that we,
we who are the leaders of the people, that
we can work together to insure that all
the people of the earth can enjoy the bless-
ings of peace.
We meet at what is called a summit
meeting. Summit meetings of the past
have been remembered for their "spirit,"
619
