[207] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
us your view of the relationship between
the development of offensive weapons, as
proposed in your defense budget, and the
SALT agreements?
THE PRESIDENT. I have noted the
progress of the debate in the committee,
and particularly the controversy, or al-
leged controversy and contradiction which
seems in some quarters to have been de-
veloped between the views of the Secre-
tary of Defense and the views that I have
expressed and the views that have been
expressed by Dr. Kissinger and Secretary
Rogers.
I think that I can put the thing in con-
text best by first pointing out the Secretary
of Defense's position, and then relating
that position to the overall position of the
United States in attempting to develop
policy that will adequately protect the
security of the United States and also
move forward on the arms limitation
front.
The Secretary of Defense has a respon-
sibility, as I have a responsibility, to rec-
ommend to the Congress action that will
adequately protect the security of the
United States. Moving on that respon-
sibility, he has indicated that if the SALT
agreement is approved and then if the
Congress rejects the programs for offen-
sive weapons not controlled by the SALT
agreement, that this would seriously
jeopardize the security of the United
States. On that point he is correct.
What I would suggest to the Congress
and would recommend to individual Con-
gressmen and Senators, who will have the
responsibility of voting on this matter, is
the following course: First, the arms limi-
tation agreements should be approved on
their merits. I would not have signed those
agreements unless I had believed that,
standing alone, they were in the interest
of the United States. As a matter of fact,
the offensive limitation is one that is par-
ticularly in our interest because it covers
arms where the Soviet Union has ongoing
programs which will be limited in this 5-
year period, and in which we have no
ongoing programs.
So, consequently, I would recommend
and strongly urge that the Congress ap-
prove the ABM treaty, and also the
limited, temporary, offensive limitations
curb. However, after the Congress moves
in that field, all Congressmen and Sena-
tors-and this would, of course, include
them all-who are concerned about the
security of the United States should then
vote for those programs that will provide
adequate offensive weapons in the areas
that have been recommended by the Sec-
retary of Defense and by the Administra-
tion.
Now the reason for that is twofold:
First, because if we have a SALT agree-
ment and then do not go forward with
these programs, the Soviet Union will,
within a matter of a very limited time, be
substantially ahead of the United States
overall, particularly in the latter part of
the seventies.
If the United States falls into what is a
definitely second position, inferior position
to the Soviet Union overall in its defense
programs, this will be an open invitation
for more instability in the world and an
open invitation, in my opinion, for more
potential aggression in the world, par-
ticularly in such potentially explosive
areas as the Mideast.
Therefore, it is important from the
standpoint of the United States being able
to play its role of maintaining peace and
security in the world-a role that the
United States, of all the non-Communist
nations, is the only one capable of play-
692
