Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [54]
54 Radio Address About the Third Annual Foreign Policy
Report to the Congress. February 9, 1972
Good morning:
Today I have submitted to the Congress
my third annual report on United States
foreign policy. I want to share my
thoughts with you now on some of the
highlights of that report.
For the first time in a generation, the
most powerful nation in the world and
the most populous nation in the world,
the United States and the People's
Republic of China, have begun a process
of communication.
For the first time in a generation, we
have taken a series of steps that could
mean a new relationship with the Soviet
Union.
For the first time in a generation, our
alliances with the nations of Europe,
Japan, and other nations have been re-
shaped to reflect their new capacity to
assume a greater responsibility for their
own defense.
For the first time in a generation, we
have laid a new basis for fair competition
in world trade that will mean more jobs
for American workers.
These are great changes. They have
brought the world closer to a stable
peace.
They did not happen by accident. These
breakthroughs toward peace took place in
the past year for good reason.
Three years ago we stopped reacting on
the basis of yesterday's habits and started
acting to deal with the realities of today
and the opportunities of tomorrow.
Where has this new attitude taken us?
In our relations with the Soviet Union,
these were the elements of the break-
through that took place over the past 12
months.
We broke the deadlock in the arms
limitation negotiation and agreed on a
framework for progress in the SALT
talks.
We agreed on a treaty barring weapons
of mass destruction from the ocean floor,
and on another treaty to remove the
threat of germ warfare.
We agreed on a more reliable "hot line"
between Washington and Moscow, and
found new ways to consult each other in
emergencies which will reduce the risk of
accidental nuclear war.
And in a step of the greatest impor-
tance, we reached an agreement on Berlin.
If there was one city where World War
III could have broken out in the past 20
years, it was Berlin. This new agreement
reduces the danger of the super powers in
direct confrontation.
There are other areas where we have
had, and continue to have, serious dif-
ferences with the Soviet Union. On bal-
ance, however, I have concluded that
Soviet willingness to take positive steps
toward peace in the past year makes a
meeting at the highest level timely, par-
ticularly in arms limitation and economic
cooperation.
And that is why, for the first time, a
President of the United States will visit
Moscow. I will go to that meeting in May
with no naive illusions, but with some
reasonable expectations.
Our relations with the Soviet Union
were helped by the fact that our two na-
tions have had long-established com-
munications. Because we deeply under-
stood what our real differences were, we
could move to negotiate them.
191
