[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
set out to clarify the dimensions of the
problem. In mid-September, Secretary
Connally, at the London meeting of the
Group of Ten-the Finance Ministers and
Central Bank Governors of the major in-
dustrialized nations of the free world-
spelled out our objectives and stressed the
necessity for action.
During the same period several coun-
tries allowed their currencies to float. De-
pending on the degree of intervention and
exchange restriction by the particular
country, this would permit market forces
to play a significant role in determining its
currency's value. Had all currencies been
permitted to float freely, without govern-
ment intervention or restriction, the proc-
ess of currency realignment might have
been facilitated. As an incentive Secretary
Connally proposed at the annual meeting
of the IMF at the end of September that,
if other governments would allow their
currencies to float freely for a transitional
period-and if tangible progress toward
the removal of certain barriers to trade
could be made-we would immediately
remove the surcharge. This approach met
with little response. Many countries were
reluctant to allow market forces to deter-
mine the value of their currencies and at-
tached priority to a return to fixed rates.
But there were grounds for optimism in
the fact that some currencies were ap-
proaching more realistic exchange rates.
At the Group of Ten Meeting in Rome
in early December, possible avenues for
resolving the immediate problems were
clarified and developed. The United
States had strongly opposed any change
in the official dollar price of gold, out of
concern that such a change might feed
hopes or expectations that gold might
achieve and maintain a more important
role in the monetary system, contrary to
our intentions. Nevertheless, Secretary
Connally, on behalf of the United States,
explored the extent to which a formal
devaluation of the dollar in terms of gold
might help to bring about a satisfactory
comprehensive agreement. It was particu-
larly necessary to determine whether a
realignment of satisfactory magnitude
could be agreed upon, and what con-
tributions other nations would make to it.
An adequate realignment required the
participation of all major industrialized
nations. The failure of one nation to par-
ticipate would have made it more difficult
for others to agree to a significant revalua-
tion vis-a-vis the dollar. The participation
of France, in particular, was important
because of the significance certain other
countries attached to the exchange rate
between their currencies and the franc.
We recognized France's strong interest in
its competitive position in Europe and in
maintaining the gold parity of the franc at
the level established in 1969.
In mid-December in the Azores, Presi-
dent Pompidou and I reached an agree-
ment in principle on our joint contribu-
tion to an overall solution. We agreed to
work toward a prompt multilateral re-
alignment of exchange rates through a de-
valuation of the dollar and a revaluation
of some other currencies.
At the Group of Ten Meeting at the
Smithsonian in Washington, the negotia-
tions bore fruit. On December 18, Secre-
tary Connally, who chaired the Group
during this significant series of meetings,
reported to me that a satisfactory agree-
ment had been reached. It covered a new
pattern of exchange rate relationships, in-
volving both revaluations and devalua-
tions. The Group also recognized that
trade arrangements were important to as-
suring a new and lasting equilibrium in
242
