[125] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
people of the United States and the people
of the People's Republic of China.
Friendship between our two great peo-
ples will mean a better chance for peace
for all the world. And now we thank you
for making this long journey. We hope
that you continue to have great success
and receive a warm welcome, and at the
conclusion of our remarks, we want you to
have a special tour of the White House.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Chuang Tse-tung, head of the Chinese dele-
gation, responded in Chinese. His remarks were
translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
After our arrival in the United States, the
Chinese table tennis delegation visited the in-
dustrial city of Detroit, and also Williamsburg,
an old, historical town which played a progres-
sive role in the War of Independence, and on
the 16th we have arrived here in Washington,
the U.S. Capital.
During our visit, we have had friendly con-
tacts with students, players, workers, faculty
members, and schoolteachers, and were ac-
corded a warm welcome by them all. We have
personally felt the friendly sentiments of the
American people towards the Chinese people.
This time last year the U.S. table tennis team,
headed by Mr. Steenhoven, made a friendly
visit to China, and today, in the warm spring
season, when flowers are in full bloom, the
Chinese table tennis delegation is here on a
reciprocal visit.
The exchange of visits between the Chinese
and American table tennis delegations is con-
ducive to the furthering of the friendship and
the mutual understanding between the peoples
of our two countries, and this is in conformity
with the desire of our two peoples.
In conclusion, I wish to extend our thanks
to you, Mr. President, for receiving us in the
name of our delegation.
126 Remarks Commending the District of Columbia
Metropolitan Police Department on the Decline in the
District's Crime Rate. April 19, 1972
I WOULD like to say a word, if I could,
to the whole group.
Ladies and gentlemen, 3 years ago the
rate of crime in the District of Columbia
was one of the highest in the Nation. As a
matter of fact, there were some who were
describing Washington, D.C., as the poten-
tial crime capital of the world.
We went to work on that problem, and
the statistics that have been issued just
this week for the month of March show
how much has been accomplished: The
rate of crime in the District of Columbia
has been cut in half in the past 3 years.
The credit for that goes to Chief Wilson
for his leadership, and to the officers and
men that I have just met, the dedicated
people that have worked on the police
force of the District of Columbia, and of
course, credit also to the citizens of the
District who have backed up law enforce-
ment in the best possible way.
Now Washington, D.C., instead of be-
ing an example of lawlessness, is one of the
safest cities in this country for the millions
of tourists who come to this city every year,
particularly at this springtime of the year.
Chief, we congratulate you, and will you
also congratulate the hundreds of men
that I could not meet, for this marvelous
achievement.
CHIEF JERRY WILSON. I certainly will,
Mr. President.
It is certainly a pleasure to have these
548
