[398] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
recent years than the progress of medical
science.
I believe the best way to continue this
progress in the future is to build on the
system that produced our progress in the
past.
We have done a lot of building in the
last 4 years.
We have increased Federal spending on
health more than 50 percent, from $16
billion to $25 billion.
I proposed and the Congress en-
acted-the most comprehensive program
in history to train more doctors and nurses
and dentists, to train them faster and
more effectively, to attract them to small
towns and inner cities and other places
where they are now in short supply.
In the last 2 years we have more than
doubled Federal support for cancer re-
search. We have stripped away the red-
tape from our cancer programs. We have
made them directly accountable to the
President.
We have taken new steps to fight heart
disease. We have launched a new cam-
paign against sickle cell anemia, a cruel
threat to black Americans. Our program
to prevent occupational accidents and ill-
nesses has been enacted.
We have taken major steps to expand
Medicare and Medicaid, to improve vet-
erans hospitals, nursing homes, and emer-
gency medical services, to protect con-
sumers against unsafe food and drugs and
dangerous household products.
Our campaign against drug abuse is
II times bigger than it was 4 years ago.
We are spending more than three times as
much to fight hunger and malnutrition.
We have established a national goal to
cut the incidence of mental retardation in
half by the year 2000.
One of the greatest problems we faced
in the 1960's was the skyrocketing cost of
health care. In that 10 years, medical
prices went up twice as fast as the cost of
living.
Just last week [October 27] I met with
the Committee on the Health Services
Industry of our Cost of Living Council.
They reported that under our new eco-
nomic policy we have cut the rise in medi-
cal care prices by more than two-thirds,
from 6.4 percent a year ago to only 2.1
percent in the last year. The health care
industry, once one of the most inflationary
sectors of our economy, has become one of
the least inflationary. Now to keep it that
way we must balance the growing demand
for health care with a growing supply of
health services.
As I look back at the record of the past
4 years, I think of the comment which Dr.
Jonas Salk made when he received a gold
medal from President Eisenhower for de-
veloping the vaccine against polio. "I
feel," he said, "that the greatest reward
for doing is the opportunity to do more."
Well, I feel the same way today.
As we look to the future, one of our
great goals is to make our health system
more efficient-so that each doctor, each
hospital, and each health dollar can do
more good. The Federal Government is
already taking the lead in demonstrating
the effectiveness of medical assistants
who help doctors with routine tasks.
We also want to encourage programs
which will help doctors organize their
services more conveniently and more effi-
ciently, with greater emphasis on keeping
people healthy rather than treating them
only after they get sick.
No American family should be denied
access to adequate medical care because
1090
