[32] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Then before we become too arrogant
with the most deadly of the seven deadly
sins, the sin of pride, let us remember that
the two great wars of this century, wars
which cost 20 million dead, were fought
between Christian nations praying to the
same God.
Let us remember now that fortunately
Christian nations in the world live in
peace together, and we trust will in the
future. Let us remember that as a Chris-
tian nation, but also as a nation that is
enriched by other faiths as well, that we
have a charge and a destiny.
No longer do we have a monopoly on
nuclear weapons, but the United States
has this great asset as a nation that may be
able to play the role of peacemaker in this
last generation of the 20th century: We
want nothing from any other nation. We
want to impose our will on no other
nation. We do not want their economic
subversion or even submission. We want
for them what we have, in their way as
we have in our way, and try to have in
our way, one nation, with liberty and
justice for all.
They will all not have it, just as we have
not had it perfectly. But our role may be
to help build a new structure of peace in
the world, where peoples with great dif-
ferences can live together, talk about those
differences, rather than fight about them.
Do it because we fear to die, but do it
also because we think of those children-
black children, yellow children, white
children, brown children-over half the
world is less than 20 years of age--and we
think: Let us leave the world one in which
they can have what we have never had,
a full generation of peace.
In the great agony of the War Between
the States, which Abraham Lincoln so
eloquently expressed in his Second Inau-
gural, he pointed out that devout men on
both sides prayed to the same God. And
in pointing it out, he, of course, expressed
what all of us need to understand here
today: that because of our faith we are
not perfect, because of our faith we are
not superior. Only the way we live, what
we do, will deserve the plaudits of the
world or of this Nation or even of our own
self-satisfaction.
In that same period, as the war was
drawing to an end, a man came to Lincoln
and said, "Is God on our side?" And Lin-
coln's answer, you will all remember, was,
"I am more concerned not whether God
is on our side, but whether we are on
God's side."
Virtually everyone this morning who
has prayed, has prayed for the President
of the United States, and for that, as a
person, I am deeply grateful. But as you
pray in the future, as these journeys take
place, will you pray primarily that this
Nation, under God, in the person of its
President, will, to the best of our ability,
be on God's side.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 a.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Washington
Hilton Hotel. He spoke without referring to
notes.
Representative Albert H. Quie of Minnesota
presided at the 20th annual breakfast, spon-
sored by the United States Senate and House
Prayer Breakfast Groups.
More than 3,000 guests, including represent-
atives from government, the diplomatic corps,
industry, labor, and the academic community,
attended the breakfast.
126
