[276] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
we can adjust this trade balance so that
it is less favorable to the United States is,
of course, in order.
One final thing that I would say from a
symbolic standpoint: Since World War
II, Presidents of the United States have
welcomed Prime Ministers of Japan to
Washington on several occasions. I wel-
comed, as you know, the Emperor in the
United States, in Anchorage, and we have
met here with Prime Minister Sato.
It seems to me that we could have no
better proof of the fact that the war is over,
not only the shooting but also the enmity,
than the fact that we are having this meet-
ing between the leader of Japan and the
leader of the United States in Hawaii,
where the war began. And I am very glad
that the Prime Minister and I mutually
agreed that we should have it in Hawaii
because we talk about the initiatives
towards the People's Republic of China
and towards the Soviet Union and the
rest. As I have often said, and I repeat
again, Japan being an economic giant with
great potentials for political and other
leadership in the Pacific plays an indispen-
sable role if we are going to have peace in
the Pacific.
As I have said, Japanese-American
friendship and cooperation is the linchpin
of peace in the Pacific, and we are going
to try to strengthen that linchpin in these
meetings.
the political people talk about that, but I
understand there have been on both
sides.
VIEWS ON AMNESTY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, you have
touched on the question of amnesty be-
fore, but since it is obviously a campaign
issue, I wonder if you could spell out what
you perceive to be the differences between
your thoughts on amnesty and those of
your opponent.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Semple [Robert
B. Semple, Jr., New York Times], the
Vice President made a very responsible
statement on that, and I read it before
he made it. That statement totally reflects
my views and I back it, in other words-
the speech that he made just a few days
ago. Insofar as my own views are con-
cerned, without going into that statement,
because as you know it involves legal mat-
ters and a lot of other things, it is my view,
and I hold it very strongly, that those who
chose to desert the United States or to
break the law by dodging the draft have
to pay the penalty for breaking the law
and deserting the United States before
they can obtain amnesty or pardon or
whatever you want to call it.
Now, where we disagree, apparently, is
that the other side does not share that
view. I say: Pay a penalty; others paid
with their lives.
CAMPAIGN FINANCING
[9] Q. Mr. President, back to the
campaign financing. You said that there
had been technical violations of the law
on both sides. I was just wondering what
Democratic violations you had in mind.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that will come
out in the balance of this week. I will let
THE NEW MAJORITY
[11] Q. Mr. President, the majority
you talked about a minute ago, what kind
of majority will it be, a Nixon majority or
a Republican majority, and will it bring
a Congress along with it?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
the majority, the thrust of our campaign,
836
