Appendix B-Additional White House Announcements
NOTE: This appendix lists those items of general interest which were announced to the press during
1972 but which are not noted elsewhere in this volume. A special series of announcements concern-
ing the President's decisions on personnel changes for his second term is printed in Appendix E.
January
I The President went with Mrs. Nixon to
Andrews Air Force Base where the First
Lady departed for her visits to Liberia,
Ghana, and the Ivory Coast.
3 Ambassador Gerard C. Smith, head of the
United States delegation to the strategic
arms limitation talks, met with the Presi-
dent before leaving for the next session
of the SALT negotiations in Vienna.
3 Clarence C. Hoffman of Minneapolis,
chosen by the American Trucking Asso-
ciations as Driver of the Year, was greeted
by the President at the White House.
3 The President greeted three members of
the American Hospital Association: Ste-
phen M. Morris, association president;
John W. Kauffman, president-elect; and
Jack A. L. Hahn, immediate past
president.
3 The President met with Henry Ford II,
chairman of the National Center for Vol-
untary Action, to discuss the Center's
programs.
7 The President sent congratulatory letters
to Robert T. Stafford on his election as
United States Senator from Vermont and
to Richard W. Mallary, elected to suc-
ceed Mr. Stafford in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
10 The President met with Arthur A. Fletcher,
executive director of the United Negro
College Fund, to present a personal contri-
bution to the fund.
10 Members of the Committee on the Health
Services Industry met with the President
to discuss their work in assisting the Cost
of Living Council.
January
13 The President attended the swearing in
of John E. Sheehan as a member of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System at a ceremony in the Oval Office
at the White House.
13 The President met with Edwin M. "Jiggs"
Fauver who is retiring this month as Chief
of the White House Travel and Telegraph
Services.
13 Members of the fifth-grade class of Ascen-
sion Academy, Alexandria, Va., called on
the President at the White House. The
President had received a birthday card
from the class and wanted to express his
appreciation personally.
19 The President announced the promotion of
Tom C. Korologos to Deputy Assistant to
the President and the appointment of
Wallace H. Johnson as Special Assistant
to the President, for assignment to Con-
gressional relations duties with the United
States Senate.
20 Terence Cardinal Cooke, Archbishop of
New York, met with the President at the
White House.
20 The President and Mrs. Nixon honored
members of the Cabinet at a dinner mark-
ing the third anniversary of the President's
inauguration.
21 The President announced that he has asked
John S. D. Eisenhower, former United
States Ambassador to Belgium and son of
the late President, to head a delegation to
the funeral of King Frederik IX of Den-
mark.
B-I
