[124] Apr. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
has another sense. It also, we believe and
trust, will be recorded in history as a
"House of Peace." And therefore we think
that that Spanish word, Casa Pacifica,
and that sentiment is one that should
particularly characterize our thoughts
tonight.
When we think of Pan American Week,
it is hard to realize that 82 years ago the
First International Conference established
the International Union of American Re-
publics, which of course was the fore-
runner of this organization.
And we have to realize and I have noted
that during the course of your discussions
that we have had some differences, dif-
ferences this week and differences over
those 82 years, but considering what hap-
pened in those 82 years, in the Americas
and in the world, it would be considered
remarkable that an organization like this,
which is comprised, as it is, of many diverse
viewpoints, could endure at all over these
eight decades of change.
So, we stand tonight, not only in exist-
ence in the OAS, but we stand poised for
even more progress as partners. But let me
put the term partners in a different sense:
Partners in principles, but not necessarily
partners in every policy. And, of course,
partners in principle is what really
matters.
This week has been Pan American
Week, in creative deeds as well as in the
generalized words of the customary proc-
lamations and resolutions. Yesterday, on
Pan American Day, I addressed the Parlia-
ment of Canada, as I referred to a mo-
ment ago, the American nation of the
North. And tonight, here in Washington,
we gather with the representatives of the
American nations of the South, after a
week of conferences that you have had.
We are, in the year 1972, in a year that
world attention is focused on East-West
relations, the relations for example of the
great powers, great in terms of their mili-
tary strength, their potential military
strength-the Soviet Union and the
United States, the Soviet Union and
China, China and the United States. And
in this year of East-West activities, it is
good for the United States and for all our
fellow American nations to devote this
week to the vitality of the North-South
relationship. Because, as I said in Canada,
at a time that we in the United States, we
believe in the interest of world peace, are
attempting to develop a new relationship
with our adversary, it is enormously im-
portant to develop better relationships
with our friends and particularly our
friends in the American community.
Our Western Hemisphere ties provide
the basic strengths which sustain us as
we move toward that goal.
And now if I could turn to my good
friend Galo Plaza [Secretary General,
Organization of American States]. He
spoke of the "fresh winds of change" that
are blowing through the OAS and through
the Americas in general and he is right.
And we have felt those winds of change.
That is good, that we have felt them and,
frankly, that they are blowing, because we
live in a world in which there must be
change, change for the better, progress for
all people.
Our basic policy position is a new prac-
tical acknowledgment that the general
term "Latin America" now means some-
thing that it didn't used to mean. It means
not a uniform voice, Latin America, all
those countries down there speaking with
one voice, one language, in a sense, but
rather a plurality of views.
If I could interpolate here, I am the
first President of the United States who
544
