Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 27 [421]
a man, has said that having that oppor-
tunity, as a matter of fact being directed
to take that opportunity, proved to be
valuable. Each has come back with rec-
ommendations for reorganization of his
own department, each has come back
with recommendations for very significant
cuts in expenditures and significant cuts
in personnel, which had not been con-
sidered possible in the prior budget run-
down which took place about a month
ago. And each, of course, had had an
opportunity to think of his own role,
what he would want it to be, in the period
ahead.
Now, with regard to the members of
the Cabinet and what decisions you may
expect as to those announcements, let
me-without divulging what any of the
decisions are now because they will be
made over the next couple of weeks-let
me tell you what generally has been the
pattern.
Some members of the Cabinet-Sec-
retary Laird, Secretary Romney, of
course, come to mind-had indicated be-
fore the election that they desired to leave
Government after their first 4 years.
4 years. Those
desires, of course, we have accepted, but
with regret, because I would like to say
that I consider every member of the Cabi-
net a valuable member of our team. I con-
sider each one of them one who is a very
valuable public servant, and every one of
them, even those who have left, has been
given the opportunity to remain in Gov-
ernment service in some very high
capacity.
But as I have indicated, some had made
the decision, and that decision has been
respected, to leave Government service.
Others felt that they could better serve
by changing their position, by moving
from one Cabinet position to another
Cabinet position, or from a Cabinet posi-
tion to another position in another area of
Government with similar responsibility.
Without divulging what the eventual
decision with regard to his future is, a
good example of this is Caspar Wein-
berger, the Director of OMB. I remem-
ber, when he first took the job as Budget
Director, he said that no one should be a
Budget Director for more than 2 years,
because by that time he wears himself out
and he is unable to look at the job objec-
tively from that time on. Mr. Weinberger
will leave that position. I have prevailed
upon him to accept another position. That
will be one of the announcements that
will be made in the course of the next few
days.
But that same pattern repeated itself
in a variety of ways with other members
of the Cabinet and of the White House
Staff as I talked to them.
A word, too, with regard to the White
House Staff. Several changes will be
made. I felt from the beginning that it
was important that the White House es-
tablish the example for the balance of the
Government in terms of cutting down on
personnel, doing a better job with fewer
people. Consequently, while there will be
cuts in personnel across the Government,
throughout the departments, the biggest
cuts will be made in the White House Staff
itself.
We have been able to do that for a num-
ber of reasons, but the most fundamental
one is that we are going to put greater
responsibility on individual Cabinet mem-
bers for various functions that previously
have been that of the White House Staff.
The White House Staff has rather
grown like Topsy. It has grown in every
1149
