[103] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. And it is still your intention, Mr.
President, not to campaign until after con-
vention time?
THE PRESIDENT. It is. As a matter of
fact, I will not be making any political
speeches-well, you may call them politi-
cal-but I will not be appearing, Mr.
Warren [Lucian C. Warren, Buffalo
Evening News], before any partisan po-
litical groups, making partisan political
speeches, and I am not going to answer
any partisan political questions one way
or another in any Presidential conference
or in any other forum of this kind.
Between now and the Republican Con-
vention, I shall continue to meet the re-
sponsibility of President of the United
States and I will answer all questions in
that area. I will not answer political ques-
tions. I will have plenty of time to answer
them after the Republican Convention.
itary situation is concerned, an ominous
enemy buildup continues. The press has
very well reported the threats to the
Laotian base of Long Tieng. There have
been some sporadic mortar attacks in
Cambodia and there has been a consid-
erable amount of action in South Viet-
nam. On the other hand, I have gotten a
report from General Abrams just a few
days ago. He says that they still expect-
he doesn't guarantee it--but he says they
are still prepared for some attacks in this
dry season. They have not come yet. He
says if they do come he is confident that the
South Vietnamese will be able to contain
them. He is also confident that while the
South Vietnamese lines, in the event the
attacks are heavy, may bend, that they will
not break. If this proves to be the case it
will be the final proof that Vietnamiza-
tion has succeeded.
MILITARY SITUATION IN SOUTHEAST ASIA
[9.] Q. Mr. President, how do you as-
sess the military situation in Vietnam and
Laos and Cambodia, and will you be able
to follow your schedule for withdrawal of
troops and perhaps tell us something more
of it?
THE PRESIDENT. I will not tell you more
about the withdrawal at this time because,
as you know, we make these announce-
ments at the time that they are scheduled
and on the basis of the situation as it exists
then. Another announcement will be made
before the 1st of May.
Second, with regard to our program for
withdrawal, it has gone well, as you know.
The casualties again were low this week-
still not zero, which is our goal, but, too, it
is better than 200 or 300, which is what
it was when we came in. As far as the mil-
SAN DIEGO INVESTIGATION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, have you satis-
fied yourself, sir, that the Justice Depart-
ment acted properly in quashing an
investigation of campaign contributions to
San Diego last year?
THE PRESIDENT. I have covered that
question already.
INTEGRATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, you spoke in
terms of busing a minute ago and that the
patterns of living are the root cause of it.
Have you then thought of some kind of
new programs to try to break up the pat-
terns that keep the blacks in the inner city,
to try to get at integration in that way?
THE PRESIDENT. It is very difficult to
find any new programs because so many
494
