[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
wants, although our interests are very
diametrically opposed in that part of the
world-except our common interest in not
becoming involved in a war.'
Media Briefing
Rochester, New York
June 18, 1971
Soon after taking office, I pledged that
we would "pursue every possible avenue
to peace in the Mideast that we can."
An end to the perpetual state of crisis
in the Middle East would be a major con-
tribution to the stability of global peace.
It would free energies and resources for
the building of a better life for the people
of the area. It would reduce the danger
of a new clash and spreading war. It
would remove a major obstacle to the
fuller development of productive ties be-
tween the countries of the region and the
outside world.
I also pledged that the United States
would now assume the initiative. Inaction
was unlikely to promote peace; it was
more likely to allow the situation to dete-
riorate once again into war as it did in
1967. It was our responsibility to engage
actively in the search for a settlement, in
full awareness of the difficulties we would
face.
In 1971, the danger of war was con-
tained, although the risk remained high.
New approaches to a settlement were ex-
plored, although up to now without result.
-The ceasefire between Israel and its
neighbors, brought about by our ini-
tiative the previous year, endured
through 1971. It has now lasted 18
months. It was in the interest of each
side to maintain it, and to make it
possible for the other side to do so.
-Efforts to achieve an overall Arab-
Israeli settlement lost momentum.
Egypt and Israel, with our help, then
explored the possibility of an interim
agreement a set of concrete steps
toward peace which did not require
addressing all the issues of a compre-
hensive settlement at the outset.
-Despite our restraint in our military
supply policy, substantial new Soviet
pledges and shipments of arms to
Egypt continued the arms race. At
the end of the year I felt obliged to
reiterate that the United States would
not allow the military balance to be
upset.
-The USSR continued to build up its
own military facilities in Egypt and to
station increasingly sophisticated
weaponry there.
In the Middle East, as elsewhere in
Asia and Africa, the essential problem of
peace in the 20th century has been to
shape new patterns of order. The postwar
period-the first generation of independ-
ence in most of the Middle East-has seen
continual turmoil. If this is to give way to
a new era of stability, new relationships
must be shaped-accommodating na-
tional aspirations, fulfilling hopes for so-
cial progress and providing a structure of
security.
The obstacles today are many.
Local tensions in the Middle East pe-
riodically threaten to break into open con-
flict. The Arab-Israeli conflict is foremost
among these. But there are others. In the
Persian Gulf, the special treaty relation-
ships between Britain and some of the
sheikhdoms ended in 1971; the stability
of new political entities and structures re-
mains to be consolidated. On Cyprus, the
Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities
have still not found a durable formula of
290
