[89] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
There are a number of additional steps
which can also do much to enhance the
climate for innovation.
1) I shall submit legislation to en-
courage the development of the small,
high technology firms which have had
such a distinguished pioneering record.
Because the combination of high tech-
nology and small size makes such firms
exceptionally risky from an investment
standpoint, my proposal would provide
additional means for the Small Business
Investment Companies (SBICs) to im-
prove the availability of venture capital
to such firms.
a. I propose that the ratio of Govern-
ment support to SBICs be increased. This
increased assistance would be channeled
to small business concerns which are prin-
cipally engaged in the development or ex-
ploitation of inventions or of technological
improvements and new products.
b. I propose that the current limit on
Small Business Administration loans to
each SBIC be increased to $20 million to
allow for growth in SBIC funds devoted
to technology investments.
c. I propose that federally regulated
commercial banks again be permitted to
achieve up to 100 percent ownership of an
SBIC, rather than the limited 50 percent
ownership which is allowed at present.
d. To enhance risk-taking and entre-
preneurial ventures, I again urge passage
of the small business tax bill, which would
provide for extending the eligibility period
for the exercise of qualified stock options
from 5 to 8 or 10 years, reducing the hold-
ing period for non-registered stock from
3 years to 1 year, and extending the tax-
loss carry-forward from 5 to 10 years.
These provisions would apply to small
firms, as defined in the proposed
legislation.
2) I have requested in my proposed
budget for fiscal year 1973 that new pro-
grams be set up by the National Science
Foundation and the National Bureau of
Standards to determine effective ways of
stimulating non-Federal investment in re-
search and development and of improving
the application of research and develop-
ment results. The experiments to be set
up under this program are designed to test
a variety of partnership arrangements
among the various levels of government,
private firms and universities. They would
include the exploration of new arrange-
ments for cost-sharing, patent licensing,
and research support, as well as the testing
of incentives for industrial research
associations.
3) To provide a focal point within
the executive branch for policies concern-
ing industrial research and development,
the Department of Commerce will ap-
praise, on a continuing basis, the tech-
nological strengths and weaknesses of
American industry. It will propose meas-
ures to assure a vigorous state of industrial
progress. The Department will work with
other agencies in identifying barriers to
such progress and will draw on the studies
and assessments prepared through the Na-
tional Science Foundation and the Na-
tional Bureau of Standards.
4) To foster useful innovation, I also
plan to establish a new program of re-
search and development prizes. These
prizes will be awarded by the President
for outstanding achievements by individ-
uals and institutions and will be used es-
pecially to encourage needed innovation
in key areas of public concern. I believe
these prizes will be an important symbol
of the Nation's concern for our scientific
and technological challenges.
5) An important step which could
422
