[115] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
directly any other nation to use force or
armed aggression against one of its
neighbors.
It is these great principles which we
must eventually implement if we are truly
to have a world of peace, and it is these
great principles that I am confident all
of us will work toward as we take this
step today.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:22 a.m. in
the Main Conference Room at the Department
of State. He spoke without referring to notes.
The convention was signed on behalf of the
United States, the United Kingdom, the Soviet
Union, and 71 other countries. Similar cere-
monies were held in London and Moscow. Sign-
ing for the United States in Washington were
Secretary of State William P. Rogers and James
F. Leonard, Jr., Assistant Director for Interna-
tional Relations, United States Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency. Ambassador Cromer
and Ambassador Dobrynin signed in Wash-
ington for Great Britain and the Soviet Union.
The "Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Production, and Stockpiling of
Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weap-
ons and on Their Destruction" was negotiated
by the Conference of the Committee on Dis-
armament (CCD) in Geneva. Ambassador
Leonard headed the U.S. delegation to the
CCD conference.
116 Statement About the Death of James F. Byrnes.
April 10, 1972
JAMES F. Byrnes was one of those men
who ranked principles first-and that
should be his legacy to all of us who seek
to serve our country.
No man in American history has held
so many positions of responsibility in all
branches of our Government with such
distinction. He was a great patriot who
always put his country ahead of his party.
Governor Byrnes acted always for the
best interests of the United States of
America, as he saw those interests from
the solitary viewpoint of his personal
conscience.
He was trained as a lawyer, began his
public service as a solicitor, and became
an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court
of the United States.
He was also a legislator, representing
the people of South Carolina in the Con-
gress for 24 years. He served the executive
branch of the Federal Government with
particular distinction, as "Assistant Presi-
dent" and Secretary of State. And he
then returned to his beloved home State
of South Carolina to serve its people as
Governor.
America was served exceedingly well
by this distinguished South Carolinian
who became one of the dominant Ameri-
can statesmen and political leaders in the
turbulent years that bridged the new eras
spawned by two world wars and the ten-
sions and realignments, resulting from
each.
I, for one, was always grateful that I
could seek his wise counsel. I will miss it
now that I cannot.
Mrs. Nixon joins me in expressing
deepest sympathy to Mrs. Byrnes.
NOTE: Governor Byrnes, 92, died at his home
in Columbia, S.C., on April 9, 1972.
On April 10, the President signed Executive
Order 11665 ordering the flag to be flown at
half-staff as a mark of respect to the memory
of Governor Byrnes.
On April 12, Mrs. Nixon represented the
President at the funeral services.
On May 3, 1969, the President and Mrs.
Nixon visited Governor and Mrs. Byrnes at
their home. See 1969 volume, Item 182.
526
