[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
cipline of a balanced full employment
budget.
I will soon present a more complete
discussion of all of these matters in my
Budget Message and in my Economic
Report.
A NEW ERA IN INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMICS
Just as we have entered a new period
of negotiation in world politics, so we have
also moved into a new period of negotia-
tion on the international economic front.
We expect these negotiations to help us
build both a new international system for
the exchange of money and a new system
of international trade. These accomplish-
ments, in turn, can open a new era of
fair competition and constructive interde-
pendence in the global economy.
We have already made important
strides in this direction. The realignment
of exchange rates which was announced
last month represents an important for-
ward step-but now we also need basic
long-range monetary reform. We have
made an important beginning toward al-
tering the conditions for international
trade and investment-and we expect fur-
ther substantial progress. I would em-
phasize that progress for some nations in
these fields need not come at the expense
of others. All nations will benefit from the
right kind of monetary and trade reform.
Certainly the United States has a high
stake in such improvements. Our interna-
tional economic position has been slowly
deteriorating now for some time—a con-
dition which could have dangerous impli-
cations for both our influence abroad and
our prosperity at home. It has been esti-
mated, for example, that full employment
prosperity will depend on the creation of
some 20 million additional jobs in this
decade. And expanding our foreign mar-
kets is a most effective way to expand
domestic employment.
One of the major reasons for the weak-
ening of our international economic posi-
tion is that the ground rules for the ex-
change of goods and money have forced
us to compete with one hand tied behind
our back. One of our most important ac-
complishments in 1971 was our progress
in changing this situation.
COMPETING MORE EFFECTIVELY
Monetary and trade reforms are only
one part of this story. The ability of the
United States to hold its own in world
competition depends not only on the fair-
ness of the rules, but also on the competi-
tiveness of our economy. We have made
great progress in the last few months in
improving the terms of competition. Now
we must also do all we can to strengthen
the ability of our own economy to
compete.
We stand today at a turning point in
the history of our country-and in the
history of our planet. On the one hand,
we have the opportunity to help bring a
new economic order to the world, an open
order in which nations eagerly face out-
ward to build that network of interde-
pendence which is the best foundation for
prosperity and for peace. But we will also
be tempted in the months ahead to take
the opposite course-to withdraw from
the world economically as some would
have us withdraw politically, to build an
economic "Fortress America" within
which our growing weakness could be
concealed. Like a child who will not go out
to play with other children, we would
probably be saved a few minor bumps and
50
