Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 25 [318]
United States in its international economic
conduct now and in the years ahead.
We shall press for a more equitable and
a more open world of trade. We shall meet
competition rather than run away from it.
We shall be a stimulating trading part-
ner, a straightforward bargainer.
We shall not turn inward and isola-
tionist.
In turn we shall look to our friends for
evidence of similar rejection of isolation-
ism in economic and political affairs.
Let us all resolve to look at the ledgers
of international commerce today with new
eyes to see that there is no heroism in a
temporary surplus nor villainy in a tem-
porary deficit, but to see that progress is
possible only in the framework of long-
term equilibrium. In this regard we must
take bold action toward a more equitable
and a more open world trading order.
Like every leader of the nations repre-
sented here, I want to see new jobs
created all over the world, but I cannot
condone the export of jobs out of the
United States caused by any unfairness
built into the world's trading system.
Let all nations in the more advanced
stages of industrial development share the
responsibility of helping those countries
whose major development lies ahead, and
let the great industrial nations, in offering
that help, in providing it, forgo the temp-
tation to use that help as an instrument of
domination, discrimination, or rivalry.
Far more is at stake here than the
mechanics of commerce and finance. At
stake is the chance to add genuine oppor-
tunity to the lives of people, hundreds of
millions of people in all nations, the
chance to add stability and security to the
savings and earnings of hundreds of mil-
lions of people in all of our nations, the
chance to add economic muscle to the
sinews of peace.
I have spoken this morning in general
terms about how we can advance our eco-
nomic interdependence. Later this week,
Secretary Shultz will outline a number of
proposals which represent the best think-
ing of my top economic advisers. I com-
mend those proposals to you for your care-
ful consideration.
The word "economics," traced to its
Greek root, means "the law of the house."
This house we live in-this community
of nations-needs far better laws to guide
our future economic conduct. Every na-
tion can prosper and benefit working with-
in a modern world economic order that it
has a stake in preserving.
Now, very little of what is done in these
negotiations will be widely understood in
this country or in any of your countries as
well. And very little of it will be generally
appreciated.
But history will record the vital nature
of the challenge before us. I am confident
that the men and the nations gathered
here will seize the opportunity to create a
monetary and trading system that will
work for the coming generation-and will
help to shape the years ahead into a gen-
eration of peace for all nations in the
world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. in
the Ballroom of the Sheraton Park Hotel at
the opening session of the annual joint meeting
of the Fund and Bank Boards of Governors.
Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz,
who was the United States Governor on the
Boards, introduced the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his remarks was released
on the same day.
911
