[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
course, because of the central importance
of development as a common objective,
our assistance in that effort would be an
essential ingredient in our relationship. In
the long run, we hoped that the achieve-
ment of progress would boost national self-
assurance and reduce the need for foreign
scapegoats. Nevertheless, we had to un-
derstand that the mobilization of national
energies and the frustrations of the devel-
opment process could be accompanied by
greater anti-U.S. sentiment, not less.
In recent years, U.S. policy had fluc-
tuated between taking our neighbors for
granted and launching ambitious crusades
in which we promised a transformation of
the continent. The penalties for taking
our neighbors for granted were obvious.
Our political ties to our own hemisphere
would erode. The United States would
become a target, rather than an ally, of
legitimate national aspirations. Extremist
methods would gain wider acceptance. We
would have betrayed our own humani-
tarian traditions and our national com-
mitment to freedom and human dignity.
The penalties for attempting ambitious
crusades were less obvious but almost as
serious. Enthusiasm was no substitute for
concrete achievement. Pious exhortations
for a massive U.S. effort would serve no
purpose when the U.S. Congress was
barely willing to preserve, let alone in-
crease, our foreign assistance program.
Raising unrealistic expectations would
ultimately end only in greater frustration
and bitterness. History had taught us,
moreover, that progress toward develop-
ment and democracy depended in the first
instance upon indigenous capacities, tradi-
tions, and leadership. Latin Americans
understood this, and so should we.
Therefore, this Administration has
adopted a new approach to hemispheric
policy, more consistent with modern
reality. It reflects the new thrust of United
States foreign policy under the Nixon
Doctrine. We have changed the manner
of our participation in both bilateral and
collective efforts. We pretend no monop-
oly on ideas, but elicit and encourage the
initiatives of our partners. The concrete
economic steps the United States has
taken to assist Latin America have been
responses to their ideas and their concerns.
We give our active support where it is
wanted and where it makes a difference.
Ironically, in an area where the perva-
siveness of change is a cliche of political
rhetoric, old notions of expected U.S. be-
havior are proving difficult to throw off.
United States performance is still to some
extent being measured inappropriately by
the yardsticks of the past. We are in-
evitably a leader, and hemispheric unity
remains a fundamental principle. But a
hemisphere of nations increasingly asser-
tive of their individual identities is less
amenable to U.S. direction and less likely
to achieve cohesion automatically. Latin
American nations vigorously mobilizing
themselves for development should be less
dependent on U.S. prescriptions.
This is a more mature relationship.
Our adjustment is thus a positive de-
velopment of great importance. The
United States has assumed a new role of
leadership and support that we can sus-
tain over the long term. It does justice to
the national dignity of our partners. It is
the only basis on which genuine progress in
the hemisphere can be achieved.
Our policies over the past three years
reflect four positive themes:
-A wider sharing of ideas and respon-
sibility in hemispheric collaboration;
-A mature U.S. response to political
diversity and nationalism;
260
