Richard Nixon, 1972
I
Feb. 1 [33]
telephone users-the largest three-year
growth since the 1950's.
-The Rural Telephone Bank, with an
initial Federal subscription of $60 million
in the first two years, has been established
to provide new credit resources for tele-
phone cooperatives seeking to improve
rural communications.
-Extension Service community devel-
opment activities this year attained a
funding level estimated at $12.7 million,
an increase of $3.7 million over 1969
levels.
-To broaden the role of the employ-
ment service in serving our rural popula-
tion, a Rural Manpower Service has been
established in the Department of Labor.
-A cooperative program called Con-
certed Services in Training and Education
has involved several Federal agencies as
well as local organizations in helping in-
dividuals better utilize Federal programs.
-A special office has been created
within the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare to focus on special
problems of human resource development
in rural areas.
This expansion of Federal efforts to
stimulate the development of rural com-
munities has been paralleled by the in-
creased efforts of individual citizens, civic
organizations, private enterprise and gov-
ernment at the State, county and munici-
pal level. There are many evidences of
the resulting overall progress.
-Outmigration from rural communi-
ties slowed from 4.6 million during the
1950's to 2.4 million during the 1960's.
Most of the population losses during the
1960's occurred in the Great Plains and
inter-mountain areas of the West, but
gains were realized in parts of the South-
ern Piedmont, the middle Tennessee Val-
ley, eastern Oklahoma, and northern and
western Arkansas. This is evidence that
the migratory tide can be slowed-and
in some instances even reversed.
-Income per capita in rural America
is growing faster than in metropolitan
America, though it still remains below
the urban level.
-While the incidence of poverty is
greater in rural than in urban America, its
reduction rate is nearly twice as fast.
-Non-farm employment outside the
metropolitan centers has generally grown
at a slightly faster rate than employment
in metropolitan areas. Manufacturing em-
ployment is expanding more rapidly in
rural areas than in the large cities.
-Although rural America still contains
about two-thirds of our inadequate hous-
ing, the ratio of inadequate to adequate
rural housing units has been reduced from
one-third to one-seventh in recent years.
Rural electric and telephone services have
improved; more than 98 percent of Amer-
ica's farms are now electrified.
-During the past three years, per
capita farm income has averaged about
75 percent that of non-farm workers. This
is still too low, but it represents a signifi
cant improvement over the past decade.
-The median years of school com-
pleted by persons 25 to 29 years of age is
now about the same-12 years plus-in
metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas.
All of these signs of progress are most
encouraging. But this record is not some-
thing to stand on-it is something to build
on. Much significant work has already
been done-but the most important tasks
are still before us.
The longer we put off these tasks the
more difficult they will be. With the coop-
eration of the Congress we can promptly
135
