[106] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Waste continues unabated: State
quality control surveys indicate that as
many as one in 20 welfare recipients may
actually be ineligible for benefits, and that
inaccurate payments are being given to as
many as one case in every four-a poten-
tial total annual waste of more than $500
million.
-Administration remains a quagmire
of red tape: There are 1,152 separate State
and local welfare jurisdictions, with
separate eligibility determinations and ad-
ministrative procedures-making pro-
gram integrity a virtual impossibility.
What we have in short, is a crazy quilt
of injustice and contradiction that has de-
veloped in bits and pieces over the years
with little serious thought of basic reform.
I believe that H.R. I is the best and most
comprehensive answer yet devised to meet
this challenge.
FISCAL CRISIS: WASHINGTON AND THE
STATES
The present welfare system is not only
morally bankrupt-but is a significant
factor in driving the States toward fiscal
bankruptcy.
Since I first proposed reform in 1969,
the costs of maintaining the present sys-
tem have mounted at an alarming rate.
Each day of delay means further costs—
without any offsetting benefits. For
example:
-Welfare costs have skyrocketed from
$6.2 billion in 1969 to an estimated $9.4
billion in 1971, a 51 percent increase in
just two years.
-The overall welfare caseload has
risen from 9.6 million people in 1969 to
13.5 million today. It has been estimated
that, if no changes are made, 17.3 million
people will be on welfare in 1974, an 80
percent rise in just five years.
What we have on our hands is nothing
less than a social and political time bomb.
And, in a development of concern to all
of us, the patience and support of the
American public for welfare programs
has been slipping dangerously. Those who
are truly needy are becoming scapegoats
in the eyes of taxpayers understandably
angered about waste and inconsistency.
What we are seeking is an end to the
need for public support for people who
are essentially employable, but have not
been able to work for reasons beyond
their control, just will not work, or will
not even make themselves available for
work-related training-and this is what
H.R. I would cure.
We also need to establish a nationally
uniform system of efficient aid for totally
needy families and the old and infirm-
and H.R. I would achieve that goal, too.
OUTLINE OF REFORM
My program, as embodied in H.R. 1,
would place a floor beneath the income of
all American families not able to ade-
quately support themselves. Its payments
would vary, according to family size and
resources, from a minimum of $1,600 to a
maximum of $3,600. The basic benefit for
a family of four with no other income
would be $2,400.
Employable adult members of such
families would have to register with the
Department of Labor in its Opportunities
for Families Program for manpower
services, work training and employment
availability before any benefits were paid
to such persons. Exceptions would in-
clude mothers of children younger than 6,
502
