Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
won't be fighting in another Vietnam
5 or 10 years from now. That is what this
is all about.
[3] Q. May we raise our glasses and
pay tribute to the courage of the President
of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. I am most grateful
for that toast. Incidentally, I hope the
champagne holds out for the evening.
But I do want to say that in the final
analysis, what is really on the line here, of
course, is the position of the United States
of America as the strongest free world
power, as a constructive force for peace
in the world.
Let us imagine for a moment what the
world would be like if the United States
were not respected in the world. What
would the world be like if friends of the
United States throughout the non-Com-
munist world lost confidence in the
United States? It would be a world that
would be much less safe. It would be a
world that would be much more dan-
gerous, not only in terms of war but in
terms of the denial of freedom, because
when we talk about the United States of
America and all of our faults, let us
remember in this country we have never
used our power to break the peace, only
to restore it or keep it, and we have never
used our power to destroy freedom, only
to defend it.
Now, I think that is a precious asset for
the world. I also feel one other thing, and
I will close this rather long answer on
this point: John Connally has referred to
the office of the Presidency of the United
States. Earlier this evening I talked to
President Johnson on the phone. We are
of different parties. We both served in this
office. While I had my political differences
with him, and he with me, I am sure he
would agree that each of us in his way
tries to leave that office with as much
respect and with as much strength in the
world as he possibly can—that is his re-
sponsibility—and to do it the best way
that he possibly can.
Let me say in this respect I have noted
that when we have traveled abroad to 18
countries, particularly even when we went
to the People's Republic of China, the
office of President, not the man, but the
office of President of the United States is
respected in every country we visited. I
think we will find that same respect in
Moscow. But if the United States at this
time leaves Vietnam and allows a Com-
munist takeover, the office of President of
the United States will lose respect, and I
am not going to let that happen.
[4.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask you
about strategic targets in North Vietnam?
I have been told for years by the pilots
that there are dams up there that would
be very much defeating to the North
Vietnamese, who have defied what you
have tried to prove in the way of peace. Is
this true or false? Has this crossed your
mind?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is with
regard to the targets in North Vietnam,
and particularly with regard to the dams
and the dikes, which many of the pilots
believe would be very effective strategic
targets.
I would say on that score that we have,
as you know, authorized strikes, and we
have made them over the past 4 weeks,
since the Communist offensive began, in
the Hanoi-Haiphong area.
I have also indicated, as this offensive
continues, if it does continue, that we will
continue to make strikes on military tar-
gets throughout North Vietnam.
Now, the problem that is raised with
regard to dams or dikes is that, while it is
561
