[178] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
tive foundation, and mindful of their re-
sponsibilities for maintaining world peace
and for facilitating the relaxation of in-
ternational tension, the two Sides adopted
a document entitled: "Basic Principles
of Mutual Relations between the United
States of America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics," signed on behalf of
the US by President Nixon and on behalf
of the USSR by General Secretary
Brezhnev.
Both Sides are convinced that the provi-
sions of that document open new possibil-
ities for the development of peaceful
relations and mutually beneficial coopera-
tion between the USA and the USSR.
Having considered various areas of
bilateral US-Soviet relations, the two
Sides agreed that an improvement of rela-
tions is possible and desirable. They
expressed their firm intention to act in
accordance with the provisions set forth in
the above-mentioned document.
As a result of progress made in negotia-
tions which preceded the summit meeting,
and in the course of the meeting itself, a
number of significant agreements were
reached. This will intensify bilateral co-
operation in areas of common concern
as well as in areas relevant to the cause
of peace and international cooperation.
LIMITATION OF STRATEGIC ARMAMENTS
The two Sides gave primary attention
to the problem of reducing the danger of
nuclear war. They believe that curbing
the competition in strategic arms will
make a significant and tangible contribu-
tion to this cause.
The two Sides attach great importance
to the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-
Ballistic Missile Systems and the Interim
Agreement on Certain Measures with
Respect to the Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms concluded between them.ยน
These agreements, which were con-
cluded as a result of the negotiations in
Moscow, constitute a major step towards
curbing and ultimately ending the arms
race.
They are a concrete expression of the
intention of the two Sides to contribute to
the relaxation of international tension and
the strengthening of confidence between
states, as well as to carry out the obliga-
tions assumed by them in the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weap-
ons (Article VI). Both Sides are con-
vinced that the achievement of the above
agreements is a practical step towards
saving mankind from the threat of the
outbreak of nuclear war. Accordingly, it
corresponds to the vital interests of the
American and Soviet peoples as well as to
the vital interests of all other peoples.
The two Sides intend to continue active
negotiations for the limitation of strategic
offensive arms and to conduct them in a
1 The texts of the treaty and the interim
agreement and protocol are printed in United
States Treaties and Other International Agree-
ments (23 UST 3435 and 3462). On May 26,
1972, the White House also released a fact
sheet, a statement by Press Secretary Ziegler,
and the transcripts of two news briefings on
the treaty and the interim agreement. One of
the news briefings was held by Dr. Kissinger
and Ambassador Gerard C. Smith, Director,
United States Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency; and the other by Press Secretary Zieg-
ler and Leonid M. Zamyatin, Director Gen-
eral, TASS. Mr. Ziegler's statement and Dr.
Kissinger's news briefing are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 929). On May 27, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing by Dr.
Kissinger on the same subjects. It is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 8, p. 932).
636
