[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
founders, must give each of its citizens an
equal chance at the starting line and an
equal opportunity to go as far and as high
as his talents and energies will take him.
The Nation can be proud of the prog-
ress it has made in assuring equal oppor-
tunity for members of minority groups in
recent years. There are many measures
of our progress.
Since 1969, we have virtually elimi-
nated the dual school system in the South.
Three years ago, 68 percent of all black
children in the South were attending all
black schools; today only 9 percent are
attending schools which are entirely black.
Nationally, the number of 100 percent
minority schools has decreased by 70 per-
cent during the past 3 years. To further
expand educational opportunity, my pro-
posed budget for predominantly black
colleges will exceed $200 million next
year, more than double the level of 3 years
ago.
On the economic front, overall Federal
aid to minority business enterprise has in-
creased threefold in the last 3 years, and
I will propose a further increase of $90
million. Federal hiring among minorities
has been intensified, despite cutbacks in
Federal employment, so that one-fifth of
all Federal employees are now members
of minority groups. Building on strong
efforts such as the Philadelphia Plan, we
will work harder to ensure that Federal
contractors meet fair hiring standards.
Compliance reviews will be stepped up,
to a level more than 300 percent higher
than in 1969. Our proposed budget for
the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission will be up 36 percent next
year, while our proposed budget for en-
forcing fair housing laws will grow by
20 percent. I also support legislation to
strengthen the enforcement powers of the
EEOC by providing the Commission with
authority to seek court enforcement of its
decisions and by giving it jurisdiction over
the hiring practices of State and local
governments.
Overall, our proposed budget for civil
rights activities is up 25 percent for next
year, an increase which will give us nearly
three times as much money for advancing
civil rights as we had 3 years ago. We also
plan a 42 percent increase in the budget
for the Cabinet Committee on Oppor-
tunities for the Spanish Speaking. And I
will propose that the Congress extend the
operations of the Civil Rights Commis-
sion for another 5-year period.
SELF-DETERMINATION FOR INDIANS
One of the major initiatives in the
second year of my Presidency was de-
signed to bring a new era in which the
future for American Indians is deter-
mined by Indian acts and Indian deci-
sions. The comprehensive program I put
forward sought to avoid the twin dangers
of paternalism on the one hand and the
termination of trust responsibility on the
other. Some parts of this program have
now become effective, including a gener-
ous settlement of the Alaska Native
Claims and the return to the Taos Pueblo
Indians of the sacred lands around Blue
Lake. Construction grants have been
authorized to assist the Navajo Com-
munity College, the first Indian-managed
institution of higher education.
We are also making progress toward
Indian self-determination on the admin-
istrative front. A newly reorganized Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs, with almost all-
Indian leadership, will from now on be
concentrating its resources on a program
of reservation-by-reservation develop-
60
