Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 30 [278]
hoping that the period of rest you now
begin will help bring back the full measure
of good health you so richly deserve.
With warm personal regards,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Ambassador Watson's letter, dated Au-
gust 16, 1972, and released with the President's
letter at San Clemente, Calif., read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
For the last 6 months I have been very trou-
bled by asthma. Having had a physical check-
up, my doctor advises me that I must resign
from my post in France.
This has been the most difficult decision I
have ever made. You are doing such a superb
job as our President, and I have been honored
to serve under you. Yet the climate in Paris
has aggravated my condition and I am told I
must take 6 months off.
My plans, if you agree, Sir, would be to
return to Paris after Labor Day to say our fare-
wells. Then we shall return to private life-
always in your corner.
Again, I repeat, what a great privilege it has
been to have worked for you.
All our best wishes and warmest regards and
appreciation.
Respectfully,
278 Statement on Signing the Rural Development
Act of 1972. August 30,
DURING the last year and one-half I
have on three separate occasions sent to
Congress proposals designed to marshal
more effectively the energies of the private
sector and of government at all levels in a
cooperative program of rural develop-
ment. The most important of those
proposals are:
-Rural community development spe-
cial revenue sharing to provide addi-
tional financial resources to State and
local government without counterproduc-
tive Federal strings attached.
-The creation of a Department of
Community Development to coordinate
and focus all Federal programs for rural
and urban community development.
-New loan authority for commercial,
industrial, and community development
under a credit-sharing system which
would allow the States themselves to select
most of the loan recipients. And strength-
ening certain of the Department of Agri-
culture's conservation and environmental
programs.
The Rural Development Act of 1972
1972
DICK
which has finally been enacted by the
Congress H.R. 12931— incorporates
some of the important provisions which I
originally proposed:
-It authorizes new loans for commer-
cial and industrial development in com-
munities whose population is under
50,000, as well as for various local facilities
in communities whose population is under
10,000. These new loans represent a major
potential for increasing employment op-
portunities and modernizing our com-
munities in rural areas.
-The new loans which it authorizes
would be insured and guaranteed, rather
than direct, Federal loans. This means
that the private sector can play a major
role in rural development and that the
inflationary impact on the Federal budget
will be reduced.
-It authorizes new cost-sharing provi-
sions including those related to improving
water quality and conserving natural re-
sources which I proposed on February 1
of this year in my message to the Congress
on rural development.
839
