Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 7 [250]
them well maintained. The buildings
themselves can be living parts of the com-
munity, preserving their historic past not
as a thing apart but as a vital presence.
Any excess revenues will be used for parks,
recreation, and other local historic preser-
vation projects.
There remain before the Congress a
number of additional measures I have
proposed to aid historic preservation.
Among these are the National Land Use
Policy Act, which will help States to ex-
ercise protective controls over historic
buildings and districts, proposed changes
in the Internal Revenue Code to provide
tax benefits for the restoration and tax
penalties for the destruction of historic
structures, and a new program of loan
guarantees through the Department of
Housing and Urban Development for the
restoration and rehabilitation of historic
structures for residential purposes.
I urge the Congress to enact all these
measures for the benefit of our American
architectural and historic values-and I
sign the GSA surplus property bill with
pride and satisfaction.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 1152) is Public
Law 92-362 (86 Stat. 503).
250 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the Council on Environmental Quality.
August 7, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
At the dawn of the twentieth century,
almost as a voice in the wilderness he
loved, President Theodore Roosevelt pro-
claimed an environmental ethic for Amer-
ica. He said:
no
I recognize the right and duty of this
generation to develop and use our natu-
ral resources; but I do not recognize
the right to waste them, or to rob by
wasteful use, the generations that come
after us.
At the dawn of the 1970's there was still
more significant challenge facing
Americans than the task of wisely con-
serving our natural resources and leaving
the Nation a cleaner and healthier place
for our children and grandchildren.
In my 1970 State of the Union Mes-
sage I asked our people:
Shall we surrender to our surroundings
or shall we make our peace with nature
and begin to make reparations for the
damage we have done to our air, to our
land, and to our water?
This year's report of the Council on
Environmental Quality examines the envi-
ronmental conditions of a dynamic and
mature society. The report addresses some
very complex issues-the need for indices
of environmental quality and forecasting,
the costs and impact on the economy of
pollution control requirements, and the
effects of environmental standards on in-
ternational trade-and puts these issues in
sharper perspective. The increasing so-
phistication which we are bringing to our
perception of environmental problems is
itself an encouraging indication of
progress.
763
