[113] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
worsen the racial isolation of our central
cities-a development we must not
permit.
At a time when many other urban in-
stitutions have been crumbling or leaving
the city, Catholic education has coura-
geously stood its ground, continuing the
effort to maintain good schools in these
poor and racially isolated communities
which need them most.
Let me quote from your NCEA charter.
It outlines an educational philosophy
which ". . . upholds and encourages a
strong and special effort to bring the ben-
efits of good education to all minority
groups . . . to all without regard to eco-
nomic status.
دو
That is what we need in our central
cities today. As we look at that philosophy,
it has been borne out in the fine examples
set by hundreds of schools, your schools,
in urban centers across the country. These
are schools that now constitute beacons
of hope in many neighborhoods where
hope is pretty hard to come by. That is
one reason why I believe that the future
of nonpublic education cannot be di-
vorced from the future of the American
city.
So that is one of the reasons I wanted
to come here today-to salute you for the
service to your country, to reaffirm the
commitment I made last August when I
said to the Knights of Columbus meeting
in New York City, in your fight to save
your schools, "You can count on my
support."
Now, let me just spend a moment
analyzing the problem. Why are the non-
public schools closing? There have been
many articles written, many speeches
made. Many of you are more expert in
this than I am, but we have been studying
the problem.
There are shifting population patterns,
changing attitudes and values, steeply
rising operating costs forcing higher tui-
tions. All of these things seem to con-
tribute. To understand this trend, and
then to stop it, we need scientific data, we
need professional studies, something that
has been seriously lacking in the past.
But we finally have begun to assemble
the basic tools for intelligent action. Let
me tell you some of the things we have
done. The President's Commission on
School Finance, which I appointed in
1970, has recently made public its find-
ings and recommendations after 2 years of
pioneering investigations in this field.¹ My
special panel on nonpublic education,
chaired by Dr. Walton of Catholic Uni-
versity, will be submitting its report in
about 2 weeks.2 I intend to give the re-
ports of both these groups the full and
serious consideration and action that they
deserve.
I have already requested that certain
proposals and alternatives relating to the
findings of the Commission on School Fi-
nance, as well as to the urgent need for
property tax reform, be studied by the
Advisory Commission on Intergovern-
mental Relations. Now this is a committee
¹ On March 6, 1972, members of the Presi-
dent's Commission on School Finance met with
the President to present the Commission's final
report. On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
report by Neil H. McElroy, Chairman, and
Norman Karsh, Executive Director, of the
Commission.
2 On April 20, 1972, members of the Presi-
dent's Panel on Non-Public Education met with
the President to present the Panel's final re-
port. On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
report by Clarence Walton, Chairman, and
Ivan E. Zylstra and the Most Reverend Wil-
liam E. McManus, members, of the Panel.
520
