Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 11 [8]
the President as simply ancillary baggage.
[Laughter]
We are glad to have you back.
THE FIRST LADY. Before my husband
grabs the microphone, I do want to thank
all of you for coming out to the airport
and welcoming me home.
I really had a wonderful journey. The
people in the three countries I visited-
Liberia, Ghana, and Ivory Coast-could
not have been more friendly or more
gracious or more hospitable. In fact, their
hospitality was boundless and they all sent
greetings, the leaders and the people in all
walks of life, to you here in the United
States.
They are proud of the partnership with
the United States, and this partnership is
built on equality, mutual respect, and
friendship. I hope that it will always
remain that way.
Thank you, again.
THE PRESIDENT. And thank you, ladies
and gentlemen, all of our very good
friends who have come out here today,
and thank you, Madam Ambassador.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 6:04
p.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
8 Statement on the Appointment of Arthur S. Flemming as
Special Consultant to the President on Aging.
January 11, 1972
THIS Administration's commitment to
forging a new national policy of respect
for, and service to, older Americans is
significantly forwarded today by the ap-
pointment of Dr. Arthur S. Flemming as
my Special Consultant on Aging. I am
delighted to be gaining the services of this
distinguished public servant, who was an
able Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare under President Eisenhower, who
has been a leader in American education
for many years, and whose energetic direc-
tion as Chairman contributed so much to
the success of the 1971 White House Con-
ference on Aging.
I am determined, as I said in my ad-
dress to that Conference last month, that
the voice of older Americans will be heard
in the White House when matters that
affect the interests of older Americans are
being discussed. No one in the United
States today is better qualified to raise that
voice, forcefully and persuasively, than
Arthur Flemming. He will advise me on
the whole range of concerns relating to
older persons; he will pursue aggressively,
as my representative, the goals of better
implementation and tighter coordination
of all Federal activities in the field of
aging; he will continue as a member of
our Cabinet-level Domestic Council Com-
mittee on Aging; and he will also continue
as Chairman of the White House Confer-
ence on Aging during the crucial post-con-
ference year-the year of action. His
responsibilities in this area will include
appointing and heading up the activities
of a post-conference board to act as agent
for the delegates in following up their
proposals.
In the early days of the Administration
I asked John B. Martin, Commissioner of
the Administration on Aging in the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, to take on the additional respon-
sibilities of a new post as Special Assistant
to the President on Aging. His very effec-
tive service in that post has not only meant
27
