[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
our people. Let us turn then from the
state of the Union abroad to the state of
the Union at home.
THE ECONOMY: TOWARD A NEW
PROSPERITY
Just as the Vietnam war occasioned
much of our spiritual crisis, so it lay at the
root of our economic problems 3 years
ago. The attempt to finance that war
through budget deficits in a period of full
employment had produced a wave of price
inflation as dangerous and as persistent as
any in our history. It was more persistent,
frankly, than I expected it would be when
I first took office. And it only yielded
slowly to our dual efforts to cool the war
and to cool inflation.
Our challenge was further compounded
by the need to reabsorb more than 2 mil-
lion persons who were released from the
Armed Forces and from defense-related
industries and by the substantial expansion
of the labor force.
In short, the escalation of the Vietnam
war in the late 1960's destroyed price
stability. And the de-escalation of that war
in the early 1970's impeded full employ-
ment.
Throughout these years, however, I
have remained convinced that both price
stability and full employment were real-
istic goals for this country. By last summer
it became apparent that our efforts to
eradicate inflation without wage and price
controls would either take too long or-
if they were to take effect quickly—would
come at the cost of persistent high unem-
ployment. This cost was unacceptable. On
August 15th I therefore announced a series
of new economic policies to speed our
progress toward a new prosperity without
inflation in peacetime.
These policies have received the strong
support of the Congress and the American
people, and as a result they have been
effective. To carry forward these policies,
three important steps were taken this past
December-all within a brief 2-week
period-which will also help to make the
coming year a very good year for the
American economy.
On December 10, I signed into law the
Revenue Act of 1971, providing tax cuts
over the next 3 years of some $15 billion,
cuts which I requested to stimulate the
economy and to provide hundreds of thou-
sands of new jobs. On December 22, I
signed into law the Economic Stabilization
Act Amendments of 1971, which will
allow us to continue our program of wage
and price restraints to break the back of
inflation.
Between these two events, on Decem-
ber 18, I was able to announce a major
breakthrough on the international eco-
nomic front-reached in cooperation with
our primary economic partners. This
breakthrough will mitigate the intolerable
strains which were building up in the
world's monetary and payments structure
and will lead to a removal of trade bar-
riers which have impeded American ex-
ports. It also sets the stage for broader
reforms in the international monetary
system so that we can avoid repeated
monetary crises in the future. Both the
monetary realignment-the first of its
scope in history-and our progress in re-
adjusting trade conditions will mean
better markets for American goods abroad
and more jobs for American workers at
home.
48
