Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 12 [347]
some Northern States with regard to Re-
publicans-but there was a time in the
South when any southerner would vote
for any Democrat and never vote for a
Republican.
What this new political development is
that we see in this election, and I think
will be reflected in this election in Georgia
and throughout the Southern States, is
that that is no longer going to be true.
Candidates of either party are going to
have to seek support not on the basis of
the party label, but on the basis of what
they believe, and people of the South are
going to vote for the man or the woman,
rather than the party.
Now let me come right down to the
issues. What are the so-called Southern
issues? This answer is going to surprise
you. They are the same here as they are in
America. Let me take the one that every-
body assumes is a Southern issue-I say
everybody, everybody who takes a super-
ficial view of politics and thinks of the old
politics and the old South, rather than the
new politics and the new South-it is said
that the major issue in the South is race.
Let me tell you something. I was look-
ing at some polls recently. I know, too,
that the issue of busing is one that is a
very hot one right here in this State. But
as I was looking at some polls of various
issues in the State of Michigan and the
State of Alabama, did you know that bus-
ing is a much hotter issue in Michigan
today than it is in Alabama?
Now, what does that mean? It does not
mean that the majority of the people in
Michigan are racist, any more than the
majority of the people of Alabama,
because they happen to be opposed to bus-
ing. It simply means this: It means par-
ents in Michigan, like parents in Alabama
and parents in Georgia and parents all
over this country, want better education
for their children, and that better educa-
tion is going to come in the schools that
are closer to home and not those clear
across town.
That is why our approach is better
education, better education for all and
equal opportunity for all, but not inviting
into this particular matter the kind of an
approach that might, in the name of so-
called racial balance, produce inferior
education and racial strife.
We need better education for white chil-
dren, for black children, for all children.
And the way we can get it, I think, is
through the approach that I have sug-
gested.
Now, getting that issue out of the way,
let me tell you what the number one
issues, based on the polls that we have
seen, national polls-Gallup, Harris, all
the rest, they all come out the same-the
number one issues in the South are, and
the number one issues in the Nation.
These are the issues that make most
southerners potential members of what
we call the new American majority.
First, they want this country to be
strong, not because they want the United
States to be strong for jingoistic reasons,
although southerners have a great deal of
national pride, but because they know
that a strong United States is the guard-
ian of peace in the world and the guard-
ian of freedom.
Southerners know, as do other Ameri-
cans, that the day the United States be-
comes the second strongest nation in the
world, freedom and peace will be in
deadly danger around the world, and we
are not going to let that happen.
The second issue, and this is true of the
South and it is true of the Nation,
is that you want peace, you want
977
