[250] Aug. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
international recognition and protec-
tion was strongly supported at Stock-
holm. When established, the Trust will
provide vital new international dimen-
sion to the national park concept.
Environmental problems do not dis-
tinguish between national boundaries or
differing social and economic systems.
Environmental cooperation offers nations
an opportunity for dealing constructively
with each other and for responding to the
growing aspirations of ordinary people
around the globe to live decently and well
in healthful surroundings.
I am hopeful about the prospects of in-
ternational cooperation in the environ-
mental field. The U.S. will continue to
provide leadership in developing such co-
operation. I am encouraged-even more
profoundly-that the common search for
a better environment can be one of those
activities which serves to unify nations.
THE ENVIRONMENT AND OUR PEOPLE
In October 1971, I initiated the Envi-
ronmental Merit Awards Program. Ad-
ministered by the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency in cooperation with the Office
of Education, this program gives national
recognition to successful student projects
leading to environmental understanding
or improvement. Qualifications for the
awards are determined by local boards.
Each board consists of secondary school
students, faculty, and representatives of
the local community. Already thousands
of high schools and summer camps from
all fifty states are registered in the pro-
gram. This Fall the program will be ex-
panded to include junior high schools as
well.
As I said in my 1972 Environmental
Message to Congress:
The starting point of environmental
quality is in the hearts and minds of the
people. Unless the people have a deep
commitment to new values and a clear
understanding of the new problems, all
our laws and programs and spending
will avail little. The young, quick to
commit and used to learning, are gain-
ing the changed outlook fastest of all.
Their enthusiasm about the environ-
ment spreads with a healthy contagion.
Their energy in its behalf can be an im-
pressive force for good.
As we reflect upon the characteristics
and problems of the dynamic and mature
society that this Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality de-
scribes, there should be a sober realization
that we have not done as well as we must,
that changes in laws and values come
slowly, and that reordering our priorities
is difficult and complicated. But there is
ample room for encouragement in the
growing capacity of a people able to assess
their problems, take stock of their situa-
tion and get on with the unfinished busi-
ness of shaping the United States as a
model of a satisfying and healthful
environment.
I welcome and salute the lead that our
young people are taking in this great
endeavor.
Long before America was powerful or
wealthy, we were already looked to for
leadership in demonstrating the possibil-
ities of a vigorous, free society. By the time
of the Constitutional Convention this
country had captured the world's imagi-
nation and stood high in international
esteem, not for its material wealth, but for
its ideals.
Today as nations around the globe
strive to enhance the lives of their citi-
768
