[319] Sept. 25 Public Papers of the Presidents
319 Memorandum Establishing a Cabinet Committee To
Combat Terrorism. September 25, 1972
Memorandum for the Secretary of State:
SUBJECT: Action to Combat Terrorism
Your report to me on the measures that
are being taken to combat terrorism indi-
cates that we are moving effectively
against the problem of thwartng acts of
terrorism both here and abroad. The two
committees you have set up to cope with
this major problem are making commend-
able progress toward this end.
Because of the great importance and
urgency I attach to dealing with the
worldwide problem of terrorism, which
encompasses diplomatic, intelligence, and
law enforcement functions, I am hereby
establishing a Cabinet Committee to Com-
bat Terrorism.
The Cabinet Committee will be chaired
by the Secretary of State and will comprise
The Secretary of State
The Secretary of the Treasury
The Secretary of Defense
The Attorney General
The Secretary of Transportation
The United States Ambassador to the
United Nations
The Director of Central Intelligence
The Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs
The Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs
The Acting Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation
and such others as the Chairman may
consider necessary.
The Cabinet Committee will be sup-
ported by a Working Group comprised of
personally designated senior representa-
tives of the members of the Committee,
chaired by the designee of the Secretary
of State.
The Committee will consider the most
effective means by which to prevent
terrorism here and abroad, and it will also
take the lead in establishing procedures
to ensure that our government can take
appropriate action in response to acts of
terrorism swiftly and effectively. The Sec-
retary of State will be in touch with other
governments and international organiza-
tions toward this goal.
Federal officers and Federal depart-
ments and agencies are to cooperate fully
with the Cabinet Committee in carrying
out its functions under this directive, and
they shall comply with the policies, guide-
lines, standards, and procedures pre-
scribed by the Cabinet Committee.
More specifically, the Cabinet Commit-
tee shall:
(1) Coordinate, among the government
agencies, ongoing activity for the preven-
tion of terrorism. This will include such
activities as the collection of intelligence
worldwide and the physical protection of
U.S. personnel and installations abroad
and foreign diplomats, and diplomatic in-
stallations in the United States.
(2) Evaluate all such programs and
activities and where necessary recommend
methods for their effective implementa-
tion.
(3) Devise procedures for reacting
swiftly and effectively to acts of terrorism
that occur.
(4) Make recommendations to the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
912
