[145] May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
tensive use of mass media. Employers and
veterans will be brought together at Job
Fairs throughout the country, while ad-
vice and assistance will be provided to the
hundreds of Veterans Task Forces or-
ganized by Governors, Mayors, and com-
munities to help veterans find suitable jobs
and training.
Because of the importance of this effort,
I would like you to continue to make prog-
ress reports to me and prepare a special
twelve-month report on actual program
accomplishments and shortfalls for Cabi-
net discussion. The arrangements for these
reports and any other necessary assistance
should be made with the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. I know that I can
continue to count on your full energies
and the support of all Government agen-
cies in this vital national campaign.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable James D. Hodgson, Secretary of
Labor, Washington, D.C. 20210]
NOTE: The letter was dated May 5, 1972, and
released May 8.
On May 8, the White House released a
fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the Six-Point Jobs for Veterans Pro-
gram. Participants in the news briefing were
James D. Hodgson, Secretary, and Malcolm R.
Lovell, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Manpower,
Department of Labor; and Donald E. Johnson,
Administrator of Veterans Affairs.
146 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the United States Civil Service Commission.
May 8, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I am hereby transmitting the United
States Civil Service Commission's Annual
Report for fiscal year 1971.
The report encompasses a year marked
with considerable progress and innova-
tion in Federal personnel management.
Among the year's highlights were signifi-
cant liberalizations in retirement and
health benefits; increased emphasis on
employment opportunities for returning
Vietnam veterans; a strengthened pro-
gram in equal employment opportunity
for minorities and women; considerable
progress in job evaluation policy and per-
sonnel management evaluation; and
preparations by the Commission to imple-
ment the Intergovernmental Personnel
Act of 1970 which should bring a new
partnership between Federal, State, and
local governments.
These improvements resulted from the
joint action and cooperation of the Com-
mission, the Congress, the executive agen-
cies, employee organizations, and the
President. I therefore hope you share my
pride in these achievements which not
only have made the Government a better
employer but have also provided sharp-
ened government responsiveness to the
changing social and economic needs of the
American people.
The White House,
May 8, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "A Pace-Setting
Year for Personnel Management; 88th An-
nual Report, Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1971,
United States Civil Service Commission" (79
pp. plus appendixes).
582
