[69] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
dividing China from the rest of the world,
but it is a reminder of the fact that there
are many walls still existing in the world
which divide nations and peoples.
The Great Wall is also a reminder that
for almost a generation there has been a
wall between the People's Republic of
China and the United States of America.
In these past 4 days we have begun the
long process of removing that wall be-
tween us. We began our talks recognizing
that we have great differences, but we
are determined that those differences not
prevent us from living together in peace.
You believe deeply in your system, and
we believe just as deeply in our system.
It is not our common beliefs that have
brought us together here, but our common
interests and our common hopes, the in-
terest that each of us has to maintain
our independence and the security of our
peoples and the hope that each of us has
to build a new world order in which na-
tions and peoples with different systems
and different values can live together in
peace, respecting one another while dis-
agreeing with one another, letting history
rather than the battlefield be the judge
of their different ideas.
Mr. Prime Minister, you have noted
that the plane which brought us here is
named the Spirit of '76. Just this week,
we have celebrated in America the birth
of George Washington, the Father of
our Country, who led America to in-
dependence in our Revolution and served
as our first President.
He bade farewell at the close of his term
with these words to his countrymen: "Ob-
serve good faith and justice toward all
nations. Cultivate peace and harmony
with all."
It is in that spirit, the spirit of '76, that
I ask you to rise and join me in a toast
to Chairman Mao, to Premier Chou, to
the people of our two countries, and to the
hope of our children that peace and
harmony can be the legacy of our genera-
tion to theirs.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 p.m. in
the Great Hall of the People. He spoke from a
prepared text. The exchange of toasts was
broadcast live on television via satellite.
Premier Chou responded in Chinese. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon, ladies and
gentlemen, comrades and friends:
First of all, on behalf of all my Chinese
colleagues here and in my own name, I would
like to express appreciation to President and
Mrs. Nixon for inviting us to this banquet.
The President and his party are leaving
Peking tomorrow to visit southern parts of
China. In the past few days President Nixon
met with Chairman Mao Tse-tung and our
two sides held a number of further talks in
which we exchanged views on the normaliza-
tion of relations between China and the United
States and on other questions of concern to
the two sides.
There exist great differences of principle be-
tween our two sides. Through earnest and frank
discussions a clearer knowledge of each other's
positions and stands has been gained. This
has been beneficial to both sides.
The times are advancing and the world
changing. We are deeply convinced that the
strength of the people is powerful and that
whatever zigzags and reverses there will be in
the development of history, the general trend
of the world is definitely towards light and not
darkness.
It is the common desire of the Chinese and
American peoples to enhance their mutual un-
derstanding and friendship and promote the
normalization of relations between China and
the United States. The Chinese Government
and people will work unswervingly towards this
goal.
374
