Richard Nixon, 1972
[71]
Feb. 27
outside intervention; its constant primary
objective has been a negotiated solution;
the eight-point proposal put forward by
the Republic of Vietnam and the United
States on January 27, 1972 represents a
basis for the attainment of that objective;
in the absence of a negotiated settlement
the United States envisages the ultimate
withdrawal of all U.S. forces from the
region consistent with the aim of self-
determination for each country of Indo-
china. The United States will maintain its
close ties with and support for the Repub-
lic of Korea; the United States will sup-
port efforts of the Republic of Korea to
seek a relaxation of tension and increased
communication in the Korean peninsula.
The United States places the highest value
on its friendly relations with Japan; it
will continue to develop the existing close
bonds. Consistent with the United Nations
Security Council Resolution of Decem-
ber 21, 1971, the United States favors the
continuation of the ceasefire between
India and Pakistan and the withdrawal
of all military forces to within their own
territories and to their own sides of the
ceasefire line in Jammu and Kashmir; the
United States supports the right of the
peoples of South Asia to shape their own
future in peace, free of military threat,
and without having the area become the
subject of great power rivalry.
The Chinese side stated: Wherever there
is oppression, there is resistance. Countries
want independence, nations want libera-
tion and the people want revolution—
this has become the irresistible trend of
history. All nations, big or small, should
be equal; big nations should not bully the
small and strong nations should not bully
the weak. China will never be a super-
power and it opposes hegemony and
power politics of any kind. The Chinese
side stated that it firmly supports the
struggles of all the oppressed people and
nations for freedom and liberation and
that the people of all countries have the
right to choose their social systems accord-
ing to their own wishes and the right to
safeguard the independence, sovereignty
and territorial integrity of their own coun-
tries and oppose foreign aggression, inter-
ference, control and subversion. All for-
eign troops should be withdrawn to their
own countries.
The Chinese side expressed its firm
support to the peoples of Vietnam, Laos,
and Cambodia in their efforts for the at-
tainment of their goal and its firm support
to the seven-point proposal of the Provi-
sional Revolutionary Government of the
Republic of South Vietnam and the elab-
oration of February this year on the two
key problems in the proposal, and to the
Joint Declaration of the Summit Confer-
ence of the Indochinese Peoples. It firmly
supports the eight-point program for the
peaceful unification of Korea put forward
by the Government of the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea on April 12,
1971, and the stand for the abolition of
the "U.N. Commission for the Unifica-
tion and Rehabilitation of Korea." It
firmly opposes the revival and outward
expansion of Japanese militarism and
firmly supports the Japanese people's
desire to build an independent, demo-
cratic, peaceful and neutral Japan. It
firmly maintains that India and Pakistan
should, in accordance with the United
Nations resolutions on the India-Pakistan
question, immediately withdraw all their
forces to their respective territories and to
their own sides of the ceasefire line in
Jammu and Kashmir and firmly supports
the Pakistan Government and people in
their struggle to preserve their independ-
377
