Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 28 [387]
ous economic growth which generates
real jobs and provides higher living
standards for all Americans.
I believe that this country needs 4
more years of the solid pocketbook prog-
ress we have achieved this year, when real
spendable earnings of the average wage
earner have made their first major gains
since 1965-a buying power increase
equivalent to two extra weekly paychecks
in a year.
I believe that Michigan needs more of
the economic policies which have brought
the gross weekly earnings of manufactur-
ing workers here in Saginaw up more than
II percent this August over last August,
and which have cut inflation in the De-
troit area from a rate of 6.1 percent during
1970 to 3.9 percent so far this year.
But I am far from satisfied with our
record on combating inflation and on
finding jobs for everyone who wants to
work. We must do still better, and we
shall.
In this effort, I hope to have the invalu-
able assistance of Senator Bob Griffin in
the future as I have had it in the past.
From his key position on the Senate Fi-
nance Committee, Senator Griffin has
supported my new economic policy; he
has supported my efforts to clamp a tax-
proof lid on the Federal budget; and he
has fought for passage of general revenue
sharing, the major new law I signed in
Philadelphia last week, which can help
to provide local tax relief and give the
people of every city and State greater con-
trol over their own lives.
I consider him an exceptionally able
advocate for the workingman and for
Michigan, and a staunch ally in our battle
against higher prices and higher taxes.
NOTE: The statement was released at Saginaw,
Mich.
387 Remarks at Saginaw, Michigan.
October 28, 1972
THANK YOU. Could I have your atten-
tion for just a moment.
First I want to tell you that we are very
sorry we were over an hour late, but there
is a good reason. We were in Ohio. The
crowds were so big that we couldn't get
here until just now, and all that means is
that we are going to have a big win in
Ohio and a big win in Michigan.
Now I would like to say a word about
all of those that are here today with us, to
pay my respects, of course, to Governor
Milliken, to pay my respects and express
my appreciation to the Members of the
Congress who are represented here, to
Garry Brown, Al Cederberg, Mrs. Jim
Harvey, who is here although her hus-
band could not be here because he is a
little under the weather, but boy, he is
really there when it counts on the votes
in the United States Congress.
But particularly I am here in Michigan
to ask for your support not only of our
ticket, but also for your support of these
Members of the House of Representatives
to whom I have referred, and particularly
for a Member of the United States Sen-
ate. I want to say a word about the United
States Senate because I know it well. I
was a Member of the Senate before the
people in that band, that marvelous band
over there, were born. I remember the
years 1950, '51. The Senate is a great
body. I presided over it for 8 years as Vice
1063
