Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 5 [338]
ELECTION PREDICTIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, to follow that
up, if you can be a prognosticator-in
1968 you received 301 electoral votes-
what do you see for yourself in 1972?
THE PRESIDENT. Three hundred and
one was enough, wasn't it?
Q. True.
THE PRESIDENT. Our goal is to get as
many as we can, electoral votes, and as
many popular votes as we can. I know
that the political questions have been dis-
cussed very broadly. I would take a mo-
ment on that and might refer to your
question, too, but then you follow up if
I don't answer.
The problem with a candidate who is
ahead in the polls-of course, I like this
kind of a problem better than being be-
hind-but the problem of a candidate that
is ahead in the polls, and his organization,
is a very significant one in this respect: It
is the problem of getting his vote out.
What we need above everything else is a
big vote. In order to get a big vote, it
means that people have to be stimulated
to vote. That is one of the reasons that
going to the country and participating will
help get that big vote out, and when the
time permits, I will go to the country in
order to get the vote out, among other
things.
With the candidate who is behind sub-
stantially in the polls, he doesn't have
that problem. With all the pollsters—and
the pollsters always remember when they
predicted right, but never when they pre-
dicted wrong—this doesn't prove anything
necessarily, because when the margins are
up in the 60-40 range, on the fringes it is
always quite soft either way.
But in 1964 I was interested to find that
Gallup never had Goldwater as more than
32 percent as against Johnson. In fact,
Gallup's poll, taken one week before the
election, showed Goldwater at 32 percent.
He got 39 percent. Why? The Goldwater
people voted, and many of the Johnson
people thought they had it made.
We, of course, have the same problem.
Of course, Johnson still won. Maybe we
will. What I am simply suggesting is that
as far as predictions are concerned, I have
told all of our people: "Don't rely on the
polls. Remember that the candidate who
is behind will tend to get his vote out.
Ours will tend not to get out. Get our vote
out and try to win as big a popular vote as
we can and as big an electoral vote as we
can."
The purpose: Not to make the other
candidate look bad, but the purpose is to
get what I have described as the new
American majority in which Republicans,
Democrats, and independents join to-
gether in supporting not a party, or not
an individual, but supporting the record
of the past 4 years, the positions which are
very clear-cut that I have taken on the
great issues, and thereby giving us the op-
portunity to continue in the next 4 years.
THE PRESIDENT'S AVAILABILITY TO THE
PUBLIC AND THE PRESS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, as election day
comes closer, you have also been criticized
for isolating yourself, not making yourself
available for questioning.
THE PRESIDENT. Hiding [laughter]—
isolating is a great big word.
Q. Hiding. Apart from going out and
hitting the hustings, do you plan to have
more press conferences between now and
election day?
959
