Richard Nixon, 1972
June 1 [187]
this treaty as well as of other recent agree-
ments in contributing to confidence and
cooperation among the European states.
4. Both sides agreed that a reciprocal
reduction of armed forces and armaments,
first of all in Central Europe, would con-
tribute to the goal of ensuring security and
stability in Europe. Any agreement
reached on this matter should not diminish
the security of any of the sides. The two
sides agreed that the states concerned
should reach appropriate agreement as
soon as practicable on procedures for
negotiations on this question in a special
forum. Reduction of armed forces and
armaments in Central Europe would be
an important step toward attaining the
objective of general and complete
disarmament.
5. Both sides expressed the belief that
a European Conference on Security and
Cooperation may constitute an important
step forward in the extensive and long-
range process of the normalization of rela-
tions and detente in Europe. They agreed
that the Conference should be carefully
prepared, and that multilateral consulta-
tions in that regard should begin without
undue delay. The two sides declared their
readiness to cooperate to achieve this aim.
6. Both sides presented their known
positions on the war in Vietnam and the
situation in Indochina. Essential views of
the two sides in this question remained
divergent.
III.
1. Both sides noted with satisfaction the
increasing commercial and other eco-
nomic ties between the two countries and
concluded that there are considerable pos-
sibilities for their further expansion. With
this in mind the two sides discussed issues
related to commercial exchange and
financial and credit matters.
The Polish side indicated an interest in
increased purchases of capital goods, li-
censes and technology in the United
States.
The U.S. side undertook to consider in
a constructive manner further steps lead-
ing to increased bilateral trade and eco-
nomic cooperation.
2. The two sides will exchange infor-
mation leading to expanded trade rela-
tions. In the interest of broadening and
facilitating trade relations between the
two countries and working out concrete
steps towards that end the two sides de-
cided to create a joint Polish-American
Trade Commission.
3. The two sides will encourage and
support contacts and cooperation between
economic organizations and enterprises of
both countries.
4. The two sides expressed their satis-
faction with the expanding program of
scientific and technical cooperation and
appraised positively its mutually advan-
tageous results. Last year's exchange of
visits at the cabinet level, which gave
attention to the development of scientific
and technical cooperation, confirmed the
desirability of continuing cooperation in
this field.
The two sides expressed their interest
in the conclusion of an intergovernmental
agreement on comprehensive cooperation
in science, technology and culture. Appro-
priate institutional arrangements will be
established to promote work in these fields.
5. The two sides agreed that the in-
crease of mutual economic and personal
contacts, including tourism, justifies fur-
ther development of transportation links
between Poland and the United States by
sea as well as by air. The two sides expect
to sign in the near future an air transport
659
