[96] Mar. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
listening or hearing on television or radio,
that the present Turkish Government is
totally committed to stopping all growing
of the opium poppy, and also totally com-
mitted to stop smuggling through Turkey
in any way that will add to the drug prob-
lem in the United States of America."
This, incidentally, is a major tribute to
our State Department people and our
Ambassador and others who have worked
on this problem. It is also certainly a major
tribute to our great friends and allies in
the Turkish Government who have taken
this step, and who, despite the fact that
this is a very profitable crop, one that has
been grown for hundreds and hundreds of
years by farmers in their country, despite
the fact that it is a difficult political issue
for them, they, on the basis of the program
that we have worked out, are cooperating
with us in dealing with what is a bigger
problem, and that is the destruction of the
lives of people who become addicts to
heroin.
Now, in signing the bill, as you know, it
is a rather unusual bill in one sense. There
wasn't a vote against it in either the House
or the Senate. There are not many that I
sign that are that type, or that any Presi-
dent has the opportunity to sign. The fact
that it is bipartisan, that it has total sup-
port, indicates the enormous interest in the
country in moving forward in this field.
To give you an indication of what this
bill deals with and why it is so essential,
let me tell you what happened yesterday in
New York. I met with eight undercover
agents from the law enforcement side and
with the Federal Government, who on a
daily basis go out-undercover agents go
out on the streets in New York and buy
heroin to see what the situation is, and also
to set up the necessary procedures for
arrest of those who may be violating the
law.
The eight agents said that in the last
4 days, when a new program has been
initiated, a stronger program of law en-
forcement in New York City and across
the country, that they noted that the price
of heroin had gone up, and that the
quality had gone down.
To show you that that is not simply an
isolated incident, we also checked with the
Washington, D.C., Police Department.
The same thing has happened here: The
price of heroin has gone up, and the qual-
ity has gone down.
What this means is that on the law
enforcement side, stopping the source of
supply through arrangements that we
have like the one with the Government of
Turkey, criminal penalties which will be
strongly enforced, and on the law enforce-
ment side we are having some success.
But, on the other hand, we can see what
can happen unless we take action in treat-
ing the addicts because as the price goes
up
and the quality goes down, someone
who is hopelessly addicted to drugs will
inevitably do what is necessary to obtain
them. And that is, it must mean that he
will or she will indulge in criminal activ-
ities in order to serve the habit.
This is where this Office comes in.
There are so many who think of some
simplistic answer to every problem, and
particularly in this field. There are many
who feel, rightly, that we should have
strong criminal penalties against the push-
ers and against those who are engaged in
the drug traffic. We do have such penal-
ties, and they should be enforced.
On the other hand, a program of law
enforcement alone is not enough, because,
as we succeed in the law enforcement side,
452
