[84] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
84 Statement on Signing Bills Authorizing United States.
Contributions to Multilateral Development
Institutions. March 10, 1972
TODAY I have signed into law three bills
which are of special importance to our
relations with the developing nations of
Latin America, Asia, and Africa. These
bills authorize significant United States
contributions to three multilateral devel-
opment institutions-the Inter-American
Development Bank, the International De-
velopment Association, and the Asian De-
velopment Bank.
The activities of these institutions over
the past decade have clearly demonstrated
how much can be accomplished by great
multilateral endeavors toward construc-
tive and peaceful goals. Their increasing
capacity to deal with the complex prob-
lems of development promises even
greater achievements during this decade.
It is for these reasons that I have given my
strong support to legislation increasing
the resources of these international devel-
opment lending organizations. And I be-
lieve that it is for these same reasons that
the Congress approved my requests by
substantial bipartisan majorities.
The reasons which underlie our support
for the international financial institutions
are well known; they include: the interna-
tional burden sharing that these institu-
tions make possible, the experience and
expertise that these institutions bring to
development, and the very substantial
long-range benefits to the United States
from expanding markets and sources of
supply in the developing countries.
These factors are consistent with the
evolving world role I see for the United
States in the decade ahead. They are the
counterpart in the development field of
the new approach we are charting in
world monetary and trade policies-an
approach which calls upon all partners to
contribute their fair share to a balanced
international economy. This legislation
reaffirms the willingness of the United
States to play a constructive leadership
role within that context.
The bill providing $900 million of ad-
ditional authority for the Fund for Special
Operations of the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank is an important expression
of our continued commitment to develop-
ment in the Western Hemisphere. This
action completes the authorizing phase
of the arrangements which we and our
Latin American partners worked out at
Punta del Este in April of 1970. It clearly
recognizes the high degree of importance
which we and the Latin American people
attach to this hemispheric institution and
its work.
The funds authorized for the Interna-
tional Development Association of the
World Bank will help that institution con-
tinue its work of providing credits to the
poorest of the developing nations on suit-
able terms. The funds we provide to the
IDA are essential to a broad international
sharing of responsibility for the develop-
ment effort, since other developed coun-
tries will provide more than 12 times
the amount that we contribute. Prompt
410
