Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
couragement. It is, therefore, a sharp
disappointment, both to us and to our
African friends, that our shrinking
aid appropriations may prevent us
from matching our expressions of
good will with the material assistance
which African countries want and
need.
-In the United Nations we were
unable to preserve a place for the
Republic of China.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
In 1971, we passed a critical point in
creating a new world role for the United
States. But we are far from having com-
pleted the task. In almost every case, a
listing of what we have done serves as an
illustration of how far we still have to go.
Our accomplishments as well as our dis-
appointments define the agenda for the
future. In all candor, I must say that the
salient feature of the current state of U.S.
foreign policy is the need for more prog-
ress on a whole series of pressing problems.
-We need to prove, through addi-
tional concrete accomplishments, the
benefit to both the Soviet Union and
ourselves of mutual self-restraint and
willingness to accommodate rather
than merely assert our respective na-
tional interests.
-We need to continue the hopeful but
delicate process of creating a better
relationship between ourselves and
the People's Republic of China.
-We need to bring the arms race
under control. Nothing would do
more for our material and psycho-
logical well-being than to lighten this
burden. It is axiomatic that it cannot
be done at the sacrifice of our na-
tional security; but if it can be done
without such a sacrifice, nothing
would contribute more to our na-
tional security.
-We need to find the most effective
way to help the poorer nations. Yet
we now find ourselves in national
disarray regarding our approach to
economic assistance. Our wealth, our
humanitarian traditions, and our in-
terests dictate that we have an active
foreign assistance program. The
world looks to us for help in this area,
and it is right that we should respond.
I am prepared to work with the Con-
gress to that end.
We need to finish the construction
with our partners of a reformed trade
and monetary system which sustains
our unity by encouraging the eco-
nomic well-being of all.
-We need to continue, with both our
friends and our adversaries, to build
an international system which all will
work to preserve because all recog-
nize their stake in its preservation.
-We need to deal realistically with the
fact that the United Nations is facing
what I can only call a crisis of con-
fidence. Whatever its current weak-
nesses, the UN makes an essential
contribution to the structure of world
peace and thus to mankind's future.
This Report is, therefore, presented
with a very sober awareness of how great
a task still lies before the nation. We are
still engaged in the essential job of re-
defining our role in the world. It must do
justice to our capacity and obligation for
leadership. It must also recognize our
limitations. Above all, it must be based on
a solid consensus of American public un-
derstanding and support. It is my hope
203
