Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
nated. To help achieve this important
objective, I have directed my Special
Consultant on Aging to work with all these
agencies in an intense new effort to de-
velop coordinated services.
As the first step in this effort, I have
directed those agencies whose programs
have a major impact on the lives of older
persons to provide the Cabinet-level Com-
mittee on Aging, within sixty days, with
the amounts they identify as serving the
needs of the elderly. In addition, I am
directing that each agency identify, within
the total amount it expects to spend for its
aging programs, a sum that will be avail-
able to the States and localities for pur-
poses related to the Older Americans Act.
The Administration on Aging will then
provide this information to the States so
that it can be utilized in the State and local
planning process. State aging agencies will
also be able to transmit their views on pro-
posed Federal programs, thereby further-
ing the interchange of information and
strengthening overall coordination.
Under these procedures, we can ensure
that all resources for helping the elderly
are fully marshalled and coordinated, in a
way which is responsive to the special
needs of every State and locality in our
land.
ESTABLISHING INFORMATION AND
COMPLAINT CENTERS
We must also work to improve com-
munications between the Federal Govern-
ment and older Americans and to alert
the Government to areas of special need.
Because older persons often have some
difficulty moving about conveniently, and
because services are often fragmented and
channeled through complex bureaucratic
mechanisms, it is especially important that
the elderly have one place to turn where
they can obtain needed information and
let their views be heard.
As I have already noted, we have been
moving in this direction under my pro-
gram to upgrade the quality of nursing
home care. Following the directive which
I announced at the White House Confer-
ence on Aging, Social Security offices have
also been expanding their information
and referral services for the elderly. Dis-
trict and branch offices are now handling
more than 200,000 such inquiries each
month-and that number is expected to
increase. A task force is now at work
within the Social Security Administration
to examine ways of improving this service.
As another step in this direction, I
have directed the Cabinet-level Commit-
tee on Aging to examine ways in which
we can use other Government offices-
such as the General Services Administra-
tion's Federal Information Centers and
the Agricultural Extension Service's local
offices-in further expanding and improv-
ing our information and complaint
services.
FIGHTING HUNGER AND MALNUTRITION
In addition to our overall funding and
coordination proposals concerning Fed-
eral services, we are also moving ahead in
a variety of specific service areas. One of
the most important is the fight against
hunger and malnutrition among the
elderly.
The thought that any older citizens—
after a lifetime of service to their com-
munities and country-may suffer from
hunger or malnutrition is intolerable.
Happily, since I submitted my message on
hunger and nutrition to the Congress in
May of 1969, we have made significant
477
