Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 21 [309]
needs to be done, especially in the subtle
areas of changing attitudes.
Accordingly, I am asking the Chairman
of the Council of Economic Advisers to
organize an Advisory Committee on the
Economic Role of Women. The Commit-
tee will be composed of women and men
in both the private and public sectors, who
are concerned with the changing role of
women in our Nation's economy.
The Committee will meet periodically
with the CEA Chairman to appraise prog-
ress and problems in this crucial area. I am
confident that it will also fulfill a signifi-
cant role in the vital areas of education
and communication to ensure that prog-
ress and change in this important area of
human rights will be constructive.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
conference on the Committee. Participants in
the news conference were Marina von Neumann
Whitman, member, Council of Economic Ad-
visers, and Barbara H. Franklin, Staff Assistant
to the President for Executive Management.
309 Message to the Congress Proposing Establishment of
New National Wilderness Areas.
To the Congress of the United States:
Everywhere in America, we seek the
horizons where escape is free and where
despair can never catch up. We sense that
our wilderness, more than a concept, is an
experience, where we may find something
of ourselves and of our world that we
might never have known to exist.
Wide-winged birds soaring over remote
treetops can set our dreams in new direc-
tions. Serrated cliffs can tell us about our
geological past. Mountain flowers beside
woodland trails can teach us vital lessons
about our ecological relationships. Sea
winds blowing across lonely beaches can
refresh us for new accomplishments.
It is a prime objective of government to
balance the use of land sensibly to ensure
that the world of nature is preserved along
with the world of man.
"A wilderness. ." according to the
epochal Wilderness Act of 1964, "is hereby
recognized as an area where the earth and
its community of life are untrammeled by
man, where man himself is a visitor who
does not remain." Within the National
September 21, 1972
Wilderness Preservation System estab-
lished by this act, the first 9.1 million acres
of our country were set aside, to be con-
served, unimpaired, in their natural state.
Today, I am proposing to the Congress
16 new wilderness areas which, if ap-
proved, would add 3.5 million acres to our
wilderness system. This is the largest single
incremental increase in the system since
passage of the act.
Five would be located in our National
Wildlife Refuge Areas. They are the
Brigantine National Wildlife Refuge in
New Jersey, the Blackbeard Island Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge in Georgia, the
Chassahowitzka National Wildlife Refuge
in Florida, and the Lostwood National
Wildlife Refuge and the Chase Lake Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge in North Dakota.
A sixth area, administered by the National
Park Service, would be within the Cum-
berland Gap National Historical Park on
the borders of Tennessee, Virginia, and
Kentucky. These six additions would add
40,257 acres to the Wilderness Preserva-
tion System.
881
