Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 15 [350]
the Supreme Court and other Federal
courts.
I will ask the new Congress to move
swiftly in enacting my proposals for law
enforcement special revenue sharing, to
give States and cities greater decision-
making power in meeting their own needs.
And I will work unceasingly to halt the
erosion of moral fiber in American life,
and the denial of individual accountabil-
ity for individual actions.
The increasingly urbanized, technologi-
cal, crowded, pluralistic, affluent, leisure-
oriented society which America has be-
come in these final decades of the 20th
century poses complex new dangers to our
traditional concepts of personal safety,
human dignity, moral values.
Questions which were once the sole
concern of novelists now intrude upon
public policy. The endlessly drugged
"Brave New World" which Huxley de-
scribed could conceivably become our
world a few years in the future.
Remote as such possibilities may seem,
we cannot ignore them. We must shape
our own vision for the seventies and the
years ahead, a vision bright and clear and
sharp, or one of the darker visions may
begin to impose itself by default.
Government alone cannot determine
the legal and moral tone of America's
third century. Much depends on the char-
acter we build in our homes, our schools,
and our churches. Much depends on the
values we exalt in our art, our literature,
our culture.
Yet government has an essential role, a
role it must never abdicate. Government
must never become so preoccupied with
catering to the way-out wants of those
who reject all respect for moral and legal
values that it forgets the citizen's first civil
right: the right to be free from domestic
violence.
Government must never mistake license
for liberty, amorality for tolerance, in-
dulgence for charity, or weakness for
compassion.
Above all, government must maintain
that structure of ordered freedom within
which alone the human spirit can thrive
and flourish.
The work of keeping the structure of
freedom strong in the years ahead will not
be easy, and the price may sometimes be
terribly high. It was terribly high for a
young Federal narcotics agent in New
York named Frank Tummillo.
I met Frank Tummillo last February
when he and other agents came to the
White House along with a group of pro-
fessional athletes who have joined the
fight against drugs. He was a fine young
man-alert, dedicated, selfless. Just 3
nights ago-last Thursday-he was mur-
dered by two hoodlums in the line of his
duty, trying to break up a huge cocaine
transaction.
He was only 25. He lived at home with
his parents. The invitations recently went
out for his wedding next month. Instead
of that wedding, his funeral will be held
tomorrow.
We cannot bring Frank Tummillo back
again, any more than we can bring back
the American soldiers who have given
their lives in Vietnam. But in our war
against crime and drugs, as in our war
against aggression in Southeast Asia, we
can resolve to redeem with honor the ulti-
mate sacrifice which these brave men have
made.
Together, and in their name, let us work
to end the violence and the lawlessness
against which they fought. Let us make
985
