Richard Nixon, 1972
July 12 [228]
fundamental to individual liberty and na-
tional progress.
It is a right on which this Administra-
tion has placed a new and major emphasis.
We have dramatically increased Federal
assistance for State and local authorities.
Where the Federal Government has direct
enforcement authority, such as in orga-
nized crime, drug trafficking, and in the
District of Columbia, we have both
strengthened the laws and poured more
men and money into enforcement.
Through court appointments, conferences
on the judiciary and on corrections, and
other Administration actions, law enforce-
ment has been given additional vigor.
Another key ingredient in the crime
fight has been the development of a new,
less permissive public attitude toward
crime and criminals. The American public
now is fully awake to the social menace of
crime, and fully determined that criminals
must be defeated if America is to make
continued social progress.
This one-percent rise for the first quar-
ter of this year compares with a 6-percent
increase for the same period in 1971, 13
percent in 1970, and 10 percent in 1969.
The increase from 1960 to 1968 totaled
an alarming 122 percent. It is clear from
this that we at last are making real head-
way against the forces of crime.
This can mean that we are ending the
first phase of our battle to turn back crime
in America: the phase in which we had to
stop it from going up in order to start it
going down.
These first quarter figures bring us to
the one-yard line in that effort—so let us
join together to make 1972 the year in
which we score that first goal. Let us make
this the year of victory in our battle to stop
the rise in crime, so that from this year on
we at last can begin measuring not the de-
crease in the rate of increase, but the rate
of decrease, period. What was achieved in
those 80 cities where crime was reduced
must now be our goal for the Nation.
Together, we can do this. Therefore, I
call on all of our law enforcement offi-
cers-Federal, State, and local-to keep
up their valiant battle against crime in our
communities. I call on all citizens to give
them their full support, and I pledge the
total support of the Federal Government.
Together, let us show that the day of the
criminal is past in America, and the day
of the citizen is here.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
228 Telegram About the Reduction of Serious Crime.
July 12, 1972
THE Attorney General has just told me
that 80 of America's largest cities have
actually reduced the number of serious
crimes during the first quarter of 1972.
Chicago was among those leaders, and I
want to extend to you and to all members
of your department my heartiest con-
gratulations for this great achievement.
The first quarter statistics also show
that the overall increase in crime across
the nation was down to 1%-by far the
lowest rate in more than a decade. At long
last we are pushing back the criminal
forces, and now that we are on the one-
yard line, I am determined that 1972 be
the year we score a victory against the
crime rate in America.
With the unstinting efforts of law en-
733
