Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 11 [295]
the text of a memorandum to the President
from Mr. Carlucci on disaster recovery efforts
in Wyoming Valley, Pa. The memorandum is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1353). The
White House also released a fact sheet on
Tropical Storm Agnes recovery efforts.
295 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Federal Ocean Program.
September 11, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
It is with pleasure that I transmit today
the report of the Federal Ocean Program.
It has been a year of significant accom-
plishments and continued evolution of
new directions to know, conserve, and use
the sea.
A most important characteristic of our
maturing ocean program is that we are
increasingly viewing our efforts in the
marine environment from the fresh per-
spectives illuminated by our need for its
abundant resources and by the necessity
to search carefully into the consequences
of our actions in its development. We must
insure the proper balance of these through
measures which are compatible with the
long-term maintenance of a healthy
marine environment.
During 1971, strong emphasis was
placed on improvements in the manage-
ment of our marine living and nonliving
resources, on easing pressures which
threaten certain species with extinction,
and on enforcement of measures to pre-
vent environmental pollution and deg-
radation. We have stepped up our
studies of the ways in which we must
manage our coastal zones to protect our
fisheries, to make them available for
marine transportation, to minimize pollu-
tion, and to enhance their recreational
values. I have recommended legislation to
establish national land use policy pro-
grams which include priority provisions
for coastal zone management.
Further, in view of our increasing con-
cern with energy supplies to sustain the
Nation's economic growth and the health
and well-being of our people, the Federal
Ocean Program moved to explore the geo-
physical and geological character of our
continental shelves. It should be recorded
that 1971 was the year in which the Fed-
eral Government began to move vigor-
ously to map and chart these promising
submerged lands and their resource
potential.
A major share of the Federal Ocean Pro-
gram continued to support vital national
defense objectives related to opera-
tions in the marine environment. Never-
theless, the major program increases of
the past few years and those for the com-
ing year are in the civil sector. Among
the important accomplishments have been
the increasing momentum to provide the
operational capability for man to do useful
work beneath the sea through application
of research submersibles and labora-
tory habitats; the development of a sys-
tem for the asesssment of the abundance
and distribution of harvestable living
marine resources; and the designation of
the first four Sea Grant Colleges.
Our efforts to explore the marine
environment have been increasingly
characterized by the trend toward major
865
