Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 13 [297]
file, by giving him more time and in-
formation to evaluate the strength of his
potential patent and to determine his mar-
keting plans. Thus, this Treaty would
serve to expand established programs of
industry to file foreign patent applications
as well as to encourage smaller businesses
and individual inventors to become more
actively engaged in seeking patent protec-
tion abroad.
A third advantage is to facilitate the
examining process in those member coun-
tries which examine applications for
patents.
In order to carry out the provisions of
the Treaty, proposed implementing legis-
lation will be forwarded to the Congress
in the near future.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Treaty
submitted herewith and give its advice
and consent to ratification subject to three
of the declarations for which provision is
made in the Convention under Article 64,
paragraphs (1)(a), (3) (a), and (4) (a),
respectively, as explained in the report
from the Department of State.
The White House,
September 12, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the treaty and the report
of the Secretary of State are printed in Senate
Executive S (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
297 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Reports on Highway, Traffic, and Motor Vehicle
Safety Programs. September 13, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
This Administration has serious and
growing concerns about the tragic num-
ber of traffic accidents that each year
exact a heavy toll in human life and
suffering and economic loss in our society.
Nearly half of the 115,000 annual ac-
cidental deaths in America are due to
transportation accidents, and regrettably
most of the transportation accidents oc-
cur on our streets and highways.
To these 55,000 annual traffic deaths
must be added the nearly four million
injured each year in traffic accidents.
Many of the injured suffer permanent
disabilities.
The traffic death and injury toll is
alarming enough. But when we add to
this the $46 billion annual drain on our
economy from lost wages, medical ex-
penses, legal fees, insurance payments,
home and family care, and other ex-
penses, we realize that we must do more
to cut our human and economic losses.
The Federal Government is providing
leadership and some financial assistance
to reduce the losses. And much has been
done by States, communities, industry and
private organizations. But we must all
resolve to do even more to cut this tragic
waste of human life and economic drain.
The Reports of the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration transmitted
with this letter have been prepared in ac-
cordance with the Highway Safety Act of
1966, as amended, and with the National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of
1966, as amended. They describe basic
causes and effects of this problem and ef-
forts of Federal, State and local govern-
867
