[190] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
the 7th Vietnamese Division from 1962 to 1963.
He was an adviser for the Agency for Inter-
national Development in South Vietnam from
1965 and was Senior U.S. Adviser of the Sec-
ond Regional Command, Civil Operations and
Rural Development Support, from May 1971.
Secretary of State William P. Rogers repre-
sented the President at the burial services at
Arlington National Cemetery.
On June 16, the President met with members
of the Vann family at the White House where
he awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
posthumously to Mr. Vann. John Allen Vann,
Mr. Vann's son, received the medal on behalf
of his family. On the same day, the White
House released the text of the citation accom-
panying the medal, which read as follows:
Soldier of peace and patriot of two nations,
the name of John Paul Vann will be honored
as long as free men remember the struggle to
preserve the independence of South Vietnam.
His military and civilian service in Vietnam
spanned a decade, marked throughout by re-
sourcefulness, professional excellence and un-
surpassed courage; by supreme dedication and
personal sacrifice. A truly noble American, a
superb leader, he stands with Lafayette in that
gallery of heroes who have made another brave
people's cause their own.
191 Telegram to President Georges Pompidou of France
Commending the French Government's Contribution
of Facilities at Lyons to the International Agency
for Research on Cancer.
Dear Mr. President:
Because of my own deep personal in-
terest in ensuring that everything possible
is being done to expedite the campaign
against cancer, I take this opportunity to
warmly commend the Government of
France for its generous contribution of
new modern facilities to the International
Agency for Research on Cancer. This
action on the part of the French Govern-
ment is impressive evidence of its dedica-
tion to a cause in which all nations can
join the search for effective cures to the
dread disease of cancer.
The work of the International Agency
for Research on Cancer during its rela-
tively brief existence since 1965 has re-
ceived wide recognition among the world
leaders in cancer research. Intensive in-
ternational efforts such as this are
urgently needed to contribute vital new
knowledge in this critical field.
June 9, 1972
Our own National Cancer Act of 1971
emphasizes the importance of supporting
international programs as an essential
component of the Cancer Study Program
of the United States. Success in this en-
deavor depends on a universal sharing of
knowledge and collaborative attacks on
cancer without regard to national bound-
aries or political divisions.
The United States is proud to be a char-
ter member of the International Agency
for Research on Cancer. I pledge the
strong and continuing support of my coun-
try to its important work. We are grateful
to the Government of France for making
it possible for the staff to have excellent
physical facilities in which to conduct
their urgently needed studies.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the telegram was posted
for the press.
668
