[127] Apr. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing cancer research results into regular
clinical and public health practices.
I urge the Congress to give these re-
quests prompt and favorable attention so
that we can continue to move forward as
rapidly as possible in our campaign
against cancer.
128 Statement on the Death of Arthur E. Summerfield.
April 26, 1972
MRS. NIXON and I join with fellow
citizens across the country in mourning
the death of Arthur Summerfield, and in
expressing our deepest sympathy to his
family.
He was a loyal and good friend. He was
an ardent and dedicated Republican. He
was devoted to his country, and in his
service to both party and country he
earned the high admiration of men and
women from both sides of the political
aisle. He will be remembered by history
as a great American whose career was
symbolic of the finest aspects of our na-
tional character.
NOTE: Mr. Summerfield, 73, died of pneumonia
at Good Samaritan Hospital, West Palm Beach,
Fla.
He served as chairman of the Republican
National Committee, 1952-53, and as Post-
master General, 1953-61.
129 Address to the Nation on Vietnam.
April 26, 1972
Good evening:
During the past 3 weeks you have been
reading and hearing about the massive
invasion of South Vietnam by the Com-
munist armies of North Vietnam.
Tonight, I want to give you a first-
hand report on the military situation in
Vietnam, the decisions I have made with
regard to the role of the United States in
the conflict, and the efforts we are mak-
ing to bring peace at the negotiating
table.
Let me begin briefly by reviewing what
the situation was when I took office and
what we have done since then to end
American involvement in the war and to
bring peace to the long-suffering people
of Southeast Asia.
On January 20, 1969, the American
troop ceiling in Vietnam was 549,000.
Our casualties were running as high as
300 a week. Thirty thousand young
Americans were being drafted every
month.
Today, 39 months later, through our
program of Vietnamization-helping the
South Vietnamese develop the capability
of defending themselves-the number of
Americans in Vietnam by Monday, May 1,
will have been reduced to 69,000. Our
casualties even during the present, all-
out enemy offensive-have been reduced
by 95 percent. And draft calls now aver-
age fewer than 5,000 men a month, and
we expect to bring them to zero next year.
As I reported in my television address
to the Nation on January 25, we have
offered the most generous peace terms in
550
