Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
concentrations in some schools."
In addressing the busing question, it
is important that we do so in historical
perspective.
Busing for the purpose of desegregation
was begun-mostly on a modest scale-
as one of a mix of remedies to meet the
requirements laid down by various lower
Federal courts for achieving the difficult
transition from the old dual school sys-
tem to a new, unitary system.
At the time, the problems of transition
that loomed ahead were massive, the old
habits deeply entrenched, community re-
sistance often extremely strong. As the
years wore on, the courts grew increasingly
impatient with what they sometimes saw
as delay or evasion, and increasingly in-
sistent that, as the Supreme Court put it
in the Green decision in 1968, desegrega-
tion plans must promise "realistically to
work, and... to work now."
But in the past 3 years, progress toward
eliminating the vestiges of the dual system
has been phenomenal-and so too has
been the shift in public attitudes in those
areas where dual systems were formerly
operated. In State after State and com-
munity after community, local civic, busi-
ness and educational leaders of all races
have come forward to help make the
transition peacefully and successfully. Few
voices are now raised urging a return to
the old patterns of enforced segregation.
This new climate of acceptance of the
basic Constitutional doctrine is a new ele-
ment of great importance: for the greater
the elements of basic good faith, of desire
to make the system work, the less need or
justification there is for extreme remedies
rooted in coercion.
At the same time, there has been a
marked shift in the focus of concerns by
blacks and members of other minorities.
Minority parents have long had a deep
and special concern with improving the
quality of their children's education. For
a number of years, the principal emphasis
of this concern-and of the Nation's at-
tention-was on desegregating the schools.
Now that the dismantling of the old dual
system has been substantially completed
there is once again a far greater balance
of emphasis on improving schools, on con-
venience, on the chance for parental
involvement-in short, on the same con-
cerns that motivate white parents—and,
in many communities, on securing a
greater measure of control over schools
that serve primarily minority-group com-
munities. Moving forward on desegrega-
tion is still important—but the principal
concern is with preserving the principle,
and with ensuring that the great gains
made since Brown, and particularly in
recent years, are not rolled back in a reac-
tion against excessive busing. Many black
leaders now express private concern,
moreover, that a reckless extension of bus-
ing requirements could bring about
precisely the results they fear most: a reac-
tion that would undo those gains, and that
would begin the unraveling of advances
in other areas that also are based on
newly expanded interpretations of basic
Constitutional rights.
Also, it has not escaped their notice
that those who insist on system-wide racial
balance insist on a condition in which, in
most communities, every school would be
run by whites and dominated by whites,
with blacks in a permanent minority-
and without escape from that minority
status. The result would be to deny blacks
the right to have schools in which they
are the majority.
In short, this is not the simple black-
white issue that some simplistically pre-
433
