Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
our remaining forces as our forces were
becoming less, that I would take action
to deal with the situation.
Most of you reported it. And most of
the reporters also wrote it. I meant ex-
actly what I said. The enemy did step up
its infiltration. They violated the under-
standing of 1968, when the bombing halt
was agreed to, with regard to firing on our
unarmed reconnaissance planes. They
shelled Saigon on December 19.
Under those circumstances, I had no
other choice but to bomb, in this case,
selected military targets and supply
buildup areas. Those were the only areas
that were hit.
The results have been very, very effec-
tive, and I think that their effectiveness
will be demonstrated by the statement I
am now going to make.
Before the first of February, well before
the first of February, I will make another
withdrawal announcement. Our with-
drawal will continue on schedule, at least
at the
present rate, possibly at somewhat a
larger rate. I will not make the decision
with regard to the rate at this point, but
the withdrawal can go forward on sched-
ule and as far as our American casualties
are concerned, which, as you know, as re-
ported on Thursday of last week on CBS
and other networks, were one-the lowest
in 6 years.
MR. RATHER. That included a truce
period for Christmas, did it not?
THE PRESIDENT. It included a truce
period, but as you know they have aver-
aged less than 10 for 3 months, whereas
they were averaging 300-up to 300 a
week when we came into office. But our
casualties as a result of these activities, I
believe, can be kept at this very low level.
AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN VIETNAM
[6.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, you
were quoted in a Time magazine interview
this past week-and I want to get the
direct quotation if I may-saying, “The
issue of Vietnam will not be an issue in
the campaign as far as this Administration
is concerned, because we will have
brought the American involvement to an
end."
Now, may one properly assume from
that, that by Election Day there will be
no Americans, land, sea, or air, no residual
force, fighting in support of Laotians,
Cambodians, or South Vietnamese?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Rather, that de-
pends on one circumstance, which is very
much in my mind, and in the minds I
know of all of our listeners and viewers.
That is the situation with regard to our
POW's. First, as far as American involve-
ment is concerned, we are still pursuing
the negotiating track. There is a possibil-
ity-I know many believe there is no pos-
sibility, but I believe there is some-and
we are continuing to pursue it with the
meeting resuming next week, of ending
the war through negotiation. We have
offered, as you know, a cease-fire through-
out Indochina, including Laos and Cam-
bodia. We have offered a total withdrawal
of all outside forces. We would offer an
exchange of POW's, and under these cir-
cumstances, we believe that this is a time
that those offers should seriously be
considered.
In the event that no progress is made
on the negotiating front, then we will have
to continue on what we call the Viet-
namization front. Now it is quite obvious,
if you look at the numbers, if we are down
3
