Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
prove substantially, making possible
some further adjustments in U.S.
deployments.
-Subversion and guerrilla warfare re-
main a potent danger to our friends
in Asia. While the threat should be
dealt with primarily by indigenous
forces, we must continue to provide
military and economic assistance to
supplement local efforts.
Thus, while helping our Asian friends
improve their forces, we will maintain
our own peacetime land, sea, and air de-
ployments in Asia at a level which pro-
vides assurance to our allies of continu-
ing U.S. support and demonstrates our
ability and determination to meet our
commitments.
In addition to examining our continu-
ing political and military requirements in
Europe and Asia, we have made similar
studies of other areas of the world. In the
process we have assessed potential chal-
lenges to our interests. We are designing
flexible general purpose forces which will
permit us to respond as necessary to
threats to those interests.
EMERGING FORCE STRUCTURE
Having assessed the fundamental ele-
ments of a rational strategy for the 1970's
within the framework of the Nixon Doc-
trine, we have been able to refine plan-
ning for forces to meet post-Vietnam re-
quirements. Alternative force structures
have been examined both in terms of capa-
bilities to carry out missions and in terms
of cost implications. We have also re-
viewed tactical nuclear weapons plan-
ning for both Europe and Asia. In addi-
tion, a number of specific issues concern-
ing the composition of our forces have
been addressed.
-With regard to land forces, the major
issue in the Fiscal Year 1973 program
was the number of Army divisions
necessary to support our post-Viet-
nam strategy. After reviewing the ef-
fect on allied capabilities in Europe
and Asia of an Army ranging between
II and 14 divisions, I concluded that
13 U.S. Army divisions were needed
to support NATO effectively and to
retain the capability to reinforce ade-
quately our Asian allies.
Another issue concerned the best
combination of armored/mechanized di-
visions, most essential to the defense of
NATO, and lighter divisions which are
needed in both NATO and Asia. We de-
cided on a mix of 72% armored/mecha-
nized divisions and 5½ infantry, airborne,
and airmobile divisions.
-The review of naval requirements
considered alternative levels of fleet
deployments including the specific
numbers of aircraft carriers, escorts,
submarines, and support ships needed
to control the seas in a major con-
flict and meet our commitments
throughout the globe. We considered
aircraft carrier levels ranging from
13 to 17. In view of the need to keep
carriers continuously in the Atlantic,
Mediterranean and Pacific, and also
available for a range of other con-
tingencies, I concluded that 16 car-
riers would be required in FY 1973.
-We will retain the flexibility and mo-
bility provided by our three Marine
Corps divisions and three air wings
by maintaining them in a high state
of readiness.
-The effectiveness of our tactical air
force in meeting defense commit-
ments is measured not only by the
numbers of aircraft available, but by
313
