[143] May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
and European steel producers with respect
to their renewal-on improved terms-of
the voluntary restraints on steel exports.
After more than a year's effort, Mr.
Samuels has succeeded in this important
endeavor. The Secretary of State has ad-
vised me that he has received commu-
nications from the steel producers in these
countries in which they pledge a 3-year
restraint—with improved terms of their
voluntary limits on their steel exports to
the United States.
This undertaking represents a substan-
tial improvement over the arrangements
of the last 3 years and will enable domestic
steel producers to make their plans with
confidence that imports will not be dis-
ruptive in the domestic market. It will
help preserve the jobs of American steel-
workers.
I am especially pleased that this under-
taking was reached on a voluntary basis.
Such statesmanlike cooperation is vital
to our mutual efforts to build a more equi-
table and a more progressive system of
international trading arrangements.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the texts of letters to the Secretary of
State from the Associations of the Steel Pro-
ducers of the European Coal and Steel Com-
munity (ESCS) and the Association of Steel
Producers of the United Kingdom, and from
the Japan Iron and Steel Exporters' Associa-
tion on their intention to limit exports of steel
to the United States. A White House announce-
ment of the voluntary restraints agreement was
released on the same day and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 824).
The White House also released a fact sheet
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
voluntary restraints agreement. Participants in
the news briefing were Nathaniel D. Samuels,
Deputy Under Secretary of State for Economic
Affairs, and Stanley Nehmer, Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Resources.
144 Statement About Proposed Expansion of School
Nutrition Programs for Needy Children. May 6, 1972
I SHALL propose to the Congress next
week a three-part program to expand and
improve Federal efforts to provide food
for needy children.
First and most important, I shall sub-
mit a comprehensive school nutrition bill
to revise and reform the present school
lunch and school breakfast programs-so
that incentives will be provided for ex-
panding these programs and so that each
dollar spent on them will do more good.
Second, I will also ask that an addi-
tional $25 million be allocated for feeding
needy children in our cities this summer.
Third, I will request an additional $19.5
million to extend the school breakfast
pro-
gram to some 3,000 additional schools in
the coming year.
In order to maintain budget discipline,
I have directed the Secretary of Agricul-
ture to offset these added expenditures by
an equal amount-$44.5 million-in other
areas so that the Department's outlays will
not be increased by this decision.
The new school nutrition legislation
which I shall send to the Congress would
simplify and improve the structure for
Federal funding in several ways. One of its
578
