[421] Nov. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
in some instances upon whether we have
completed the Congressional consultation
which is necessary when Cabinet appoint-
ments are being made, and also, in other
cases, whether we have completed the
evaluation of appointments to the sub-
Cabinet. Those appointments, as you will
note as time goes on here during the next
2 or 3 weeks, become increasingly impor-
tant in our plans for the operations of the
Cabinet and, particularly, its relationship
with the White House Staff.
I think a word would be in order as to
why we do have you at Camp David, why
these meetings could not have taken place
in the comfort of the White House press
room and, for that matter, the Oval
Office.
I thought it would be interesting to
recap for you in a moment the times that
I have been here and why we will be
using Camp David for activities of this
type and other major decisions that will
be made by the Administration over the
next 4 years.
Looking over the past 4 years, I have
written most of my major speeches here—
the speech of November 3, the speech of
May 8 with regard to the bombing and
mining of Haiphong. A number of the
major decisions have been made at Camp
David, the August 15 economic decision in
1971, for example, the major budget
meeting of this year, the budget for the
next fiscal year, will be held this Thursday
at Camp David.
The reason for that is not that the facil-
ities here are any better than those at the
White House-as a matter of fact I sup-
pose the White House facilities in some
respects, even for members of the Cabi-
net who come here, might be better-but
the reason is that I find, and each indi-
vidual, of course, who holds the position
which I hold must work in the way that
it best fits his own patterns, I find that
getting away from the White House, from
the Oval Office, from that 100 yards that
one walks every day from the President's
bedroom to the President's Office or the
extra 50 yards across to the EOB, getting
away gives a sense of perspective which is
very, very useful.
I developed that pattern early in the
Administration and am going to follow it
even more during the next 4 years. We
know that in all walks of life, even in the
case of you ladies and gentlemen of the
press, that one constantly has the problem
of either getting on top of the job or hav-
ing the job get on top of you.
I find that up here on top of a moun-
tain it is easier for me to get on top of the
job, to think in a more certainly relaxed
way at times-although the work has been
very intensive in these past 2 weeks as it
was before the other great decisions that
have been made here-but also in a way
in which one is not interrupted either
physically or personally or in any other
way and can think objectively with per-
ception about the problems that he has to
make decisions on.
As far as the Cabinet members are
concerned, I asked them to do exactly the
same thing over these past 2 weeks or 22
weeks since the election. I asked each of
them to leave his office or his home for a
period of time to think about his depart-
ment, to think also about his own role in
Government, and then have a discussion
with me with regard to how we could
do a better job over the next 4 years than
we have done over the past 4 years.
It has been interesting to note that
each member of the Cabinet, virtually to
1148
