Richard Nixon, 1972
May 6 [144]
most important provisions would sub-
stitute a performance system for the tradi-
tional apportionment system in allocating
Federal funds for both the school lunch
and breakfast programs. Under the per-
formance system, the more pupils served
in a State the more Federal assistance it
receives. This arrangement establishes an
incentive for States to insure that all needy
children will be fed. This incentive has not
been present in the traditional statutory
apportionment system-under which
funding did not readily reflect increases
in participation.
The proposed legislation would also
establish new minimum and maximum
eligibility standards for needy children.
It would require that all children from
families below the poverty line-who now
may be served either a free or a reduced
price lunch-would receive lunches free.
To account for geographical differences,
the legislation would allow States flexi-
bility to set higher eligibility standards
within reasonable limits.
The additional $25 million for the sum-
mer food program would bring total fund-
ing for this program to $50 million, 22
times as high as last summer's level. These
new sums would make it possible to sup-
port all applications for this program that
meet the criteria which have been spelled
out in laws and regulations. At the same
time, I am instructing the Secretary of
Agriculture to work with States and cities
to improve local program administration
in order to eliminate the severe misman-
agement that marred these programs in
some cities last summer.
The additional $19.5 million for the
school breakfast program would bring
total funding for this program in the com-
ing school year to $52.5 million, compared
to $31 million in the school year now end-
ing. This new money would make it possi-
ble to accept applications from all the
schools indicated in State plans of opera-
tion as potential candidates for establish-
ing breakfast programs.
It was just 3 years ago, on May 6, 1969,
that I sent to the Congress my first mes-
sage on hunger and malnutrition. I noted
in that message that America has long
shared its bounty with hungry peoples
in all parts of the globe, but that now "the
moment is at hand to put an end to hunger
in America itself. For all time."
In the last 3 years, with the cooperation
of the Congress, we have made immense
strides toward reaching that goal. For ex-
ample, the budget I proposed last Janu-
ary allocated nine times as much money
for food stamps and seven times as much
money for school lunches for needy chil-
dren as was allocated in fiscal year 1969.
My new proposals would allow us to
improve even further on our record of
accomplishment. I urge the Congress to
give early and favorable consideration to
these important measures.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing, held on May 5, 1972, on the pro-
posed programs for needy children. Partici-
pants in the news briefing were Earl L. Butz,
Secretary, and Richard Lyng, Assistant Secre-
tary, Marketing and Consumer Services, De-
partment of Agriculture.
On March 7, the White House released a
fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the first annual report of the National Ad-
visory Council on Child Nutrition. Participants
in the news briefing were Secretary Butz and
Assistant Secretary Lyng.
579
