[216] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
supporting industries supplying steel and
machinery.
My new program for a new American
merchant marine-embodied in the Mer-
chant Marine Act of 1970-is designed to
restore our merchant fleet to a vigorous,
competitive position on the high seas, and
to restore employment and profit in our
shipping and shipbuilding industries at
home.
Today's awards, plus the other contracts
which have been signed for other new or
remodeled ships under my program, will
bring us measurably closer to those two
important economic goals.
The United States, as the leading Na-
tion engaged in world trade, must in its
own self-interest have a merchant marine
commensurate with its large stake in in-
ternational commerce. This Administra-
tion has a firm commitment, which we are
fulfilling, to restore the United States to
the rank of a first-class maritime power.
Today's awards, when added to the
previous contracts under my program,
make a grand total so far of $1.1 billion in
new or modernized merchant ships. In
keeping with Federal policy of assisting
the American shipbuilding industry to
compete effectively against lower cost
competitors abroad, the Government is
bearing $479 million of the overall total
cost.
I am pleased to note, however, that
the percentage of subsidy is dropping, as
I urged in announcing my new program.
These new contracts, for example, will
require 43 percent subsidy as compared
with the 55 percent which was permitted
prior to my program.
This is clear and heartening evidence
that the U.S. shipbuilding industry will
meet the challenge I offered: To rebuild
our merchant fleet at reasonable cost,
which is a vital necessity in these years of
close attention to Federal budget demands.
While paring costs and subsidies, how-
ever, we are getting the best. One of to-
day's contracts involves the construction
of three van-type freighters which will be
the largest of their type ever built in this
country. Another calls for construction of
three modern tankers which are the largest
ships ever ordered in the United States.
The American merchant marine and
the industries and workers which support
it clearly are on their way to a promising
era of modern and competitive
American merchant shipping.
NOTE: On the same day, the President met at
the White House with maritime union offi-
cials, shipowners, and shipbuilders to discuss
progress in the U.S. maritime program.
The White House also released a fact sheet
and the transcript of a news briefing on mer-
chant ship construction contracts. Participants
in the news briefing were Peter G. Peterson,
Secretary, Andrew E. Gibson, Assistant Sec-
retary, and Robert J. Blackwell, Acting Assist-
ant Secretary for Maritime Affairs, Department
of Commerce.
217 Statement About Signing a Bill Extending the
Emergency Unemployment Compensation
Act of 1971. July 1, 1972
I AM pleased to have signed H.R. 15587
which extends for an additional 6 months
the Emergency Unemployment Compen-
sation Act of 1971.
This bill provides up to 13 extra weeks
of unemployment compensation for work-
720
