[315]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Sept. 22
as I have been privileged to see him, in moments
of trial, in moments of great decision, display a
compassion and a courage that would warm the
heart of any person in this world and, most par-
ticularly, any American.
Because we are all Democrats, most of us, I
think, have known the President of the United
States only by reputation, and I must say in all
candor that some of the things we have heard
about him over the years have not necessarily
endeared him to us. [Laughter] But I must say
to you also, in all candor and in all frankness,
that he, like all of us who are in public life,
and he more than any of us here, has been mis-
interpreted a bit at times throughout his politi-
cal life.
And I have seen the sympathy, the concern,
the compassion, the interest, the dedication
that is so much a part of him. And I can't help
but think as we sit here on this grass tonight,
and as Mayor [Charles S.] Stenvig of Minne-
apolis said a little bit ago, that this is indeed
a wonderful country, and he said to think that
a man who is a policeman in Minneapolis can
be here and rub shoulders with all of the won-
derful people who are here tonight. He said
this indeed is a great country.
And I responded that, yes, I knew that it was
indeed a wonderful country when a country boy
from Floresville, Texas, who grew up in these
sandy fields, raising peanuts, could host, in be-
half of the Democrats of this country, the Presi-
dent and the First Lady of this Nation.
And as I look around this assemblage tonight,
there are a great many of you whom I have met
just tonight for the first time, but there are a
great many others who I have known for a long,
long time. And many of you weren't policemen
in Minneapolis or peanut farmers in Floresville,
but you had just as humble a beginning as we
did, I assure you, because I know. And I know
that the President of the United States had a
beginning that was as humble as any one of us
here, and he never lost those lessons that he
learned, those lessons of humility, of care, of
consideration, of kindness, and of thoughtful-
ness. It has been a part of his life.
It doesn't make any difference to him whether
you are Democrat or Republican, or black or
brown or white or yellow, or what you do, what
your social status is, or what your bank account
shows. He is a man who concerns himself with
the problems of this country, and I suppose in
one way it is perhaps not appropriate to de-
scribe the President of the United States as
a professional, but President Nixon is a
professional.
He is a professional scholar about this world
and its problems and the role that this Nation
plays in the scheme of things. He is a profes-
sional when it comes to caring for those who
really can't care for themselves. He is a profes-
sional when it comes to studying and under-
standing the temper of this Nation and the
needs of this country. He is a professional when
it comes to looking into the future and not being
satisfied with what is past or even present, but
planning instead for the future of those who
are going to follow us.
He is a professional in the discipline that he
manifests in his personal life. He is a profes-
sional in the honesty that he displays in his
personal, as well as his political, life. He is a
professional in every sense that that word can
be used to describe a great statesman of this
world who understands the role of leadership
that this Nation must play and the role that
the President of the United States must be in
seeing that this country lives up to its duties,
to its responsibilities, and even to its manifest
destiny.
And I must say to all of you that I, like you,
have no doubt about what we are doing. I have
no regrets whatsoever about what we are doing.
I, as a lifelong Democrat, am proud to say to
each of you here tonight, as I have said to you
before and as I will say to all Americans who
will listen to me, that this year we have a
choice. The conventions are over, the election
process is well on its way. It is 6 weeks off.
And we have a choice of whom we shall select to
be our next President. There are only two men
that we can choose-Mr. Schmitz 2 wouldn't
agree with that, he would probably say there
would be three-but I think for all practical
purposes, there are two men that really we can
choose, and, so far as I am concerned, the inter-
est of this country leaves no choice.
The interest of this country clearly dictates
that whatever you are, whatever your political
Representative John G. Schmitz of Cali-
fornia was the American Party's candidate for
President in the 1972 election.
900
