[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
BUSING
[10.] SECRETARY CONNALLY. Ladies
and gentlemen, the President has been
going for about an hour. Let's see if we
can take one more question, and we won't
count this: Mr. President, the people here
from Dallas, Corpus Christi, Houston,
Austin, and in very recent months, I sup-
pose, perhaps, the most emotional, most
critical issue in those cities has been the
question of busing. Do you have any
comment on it?
THE PRESIDENT. My views on the
merits of busing have been expressed on
many occasions. I will repeat them only
briefly, and then talk about the remedy
briefly.
The reason that I am against busing for
the purpose of achieving racial balance in
our schools is that it leads to inferior edu-
cation. Let's look at the situation with
regard to what the whole busing contro-
versy is about, and there are many law-
yers here tonight, and all of you are, of
course, familiar with the famous, land-
mark case of Brown v. the Board of Edu-
cation in 1954.
The very title of that case tells us some-
thing. Brown v. the Board of Education,
which provided that the dual school sys-
tem had to be eliminated, was about edu-
cation, and correctly, in the opinion of
observers at that time, and I was one of
them, and certainly most observers now, a
system that legally sets up a dual school
system and divides people according to
race is one that could lead and would
inevitably lead to inferior education. So
Brown v. the Board of Education dealt
with that problem.
That problem has been moved on very
effectively, particularly during this Ad-
ministration, to the great credit of those
particularly in Southern States, where
some of the dual school systems had to be
removed. We now find that the South
has gone really further than the North
insofar as meeting the goal of getting rid
of a dual school system.
Let's look at busing. Where busing
comes in, is when in attempting to deal
with the problem a board of education
or a court orders that schoolchildren be
bused across town away from their neigh-
borhood schools in order to create some
artificial racial balance.
If you will read the decisions, they never
use the term "racial balance," but there
are over 23 that we already have identi-
fied where that is exactly what the court
was ordering.
Now, why do I believe this is wrong?
Because in my view, when you bus chil-
dren, particularly young children, away
from their neighborhood schools, into an
unfamiliar neighborhood, whether they
are black or white, it leads to inferior edu-
cation. It also has some other disadvan-
tages. It divides communities; it creates
hostility among people that didn't exist
before. I think that for that reason, we
have got to find more effective ways to
have equality of education opportunity
for all Americans than to use busing.
So that is why I have come up with
these remedies: First, a moratorium on
any new busing orders for a year. We have
asked the Congress to act on that.
Second, I have ordered the Attorney
General of the United States to intervene
in those cases where the courts have gone
beyond what the Supreme Court presently
has laid down as the requirement insofar
as eliminating the dual school system is
concerned.
And then, third, we have asked for the
enactment of the Equal Educational Op-
568
