[329] Sept. 27 Public Papers of the Presidents
Oh, it could simply mean winning an
election, and, of course, we want to win,
or it could simply mean 4 more years of
what we have been doing, and that
wouldn't be bad because we have a record
we are very proud of.
remarks of Governor Reagan-we had
also met earlier in San Francisco, and he
flew down with us to this dinner tonight-
the superlative performance, and it is al-
ways superlative, of Bob Hope. I have
often thought that he is without question
the most generous man in giving his time
to good causes, and the most ungenerous
man, as an opponent on the golf course,
of any man I know. I am just going to
have my daughter play him from now on,
though.
But I do know that so many people,
people I have never had a chance to
meet-tonight I have met some of
you,
only a few-but so many people have
helped to make this dinner a success, have
worked in order to make it the enormous
success that Ed Carter has just announced.
You can imagine how I feel representing
our ticket.
I spoke in New York, which at that
time was the biggest dinner ever held in
New York or in the country, just last night.
I spoke in San Francisco at noon today.
It was the biggest dinner ever held in the
Bay Area. And now tonight, here in really
our home area of southern California, we
have the biggest dinner in the whole his-
tory of American politics.
I would like to tell you what I think this
dinner is about. I would like to tell you
what I think this victory is about that we
talk about, Victory 1972. It is more than
simply victory for a man or a party; it is
victory, in my view, for this Nation, for
what we want it to stand for.
I have heard, as you have heard so
often, starting at the convention in Miami,
and here tonight before we came in, and
now right here in this auditorium, those
words "Four More Years." I think all of
us for a moment would like to think about,
"What does 'Four More Years' mean?"
But I want to tell you that what I think
about this "Four More Years"--what you
have contributed to, what you are work-
ing for and will be working for between
now and the election day, November 7,
all of you here, all of the young people, all
the others across this country who are
working in our cause, Republicans and
Democrats and independents-is not just
4 more years of standing on a record, not
just 4 more years of what we have done,
but what I would hope would be four of
the best years in the whole history of the
United States of America.
That is a very high goal. This country
has had many good 4-year periods, more
than sometimes we realize, because in
these days when we find so much fault
with America, we overlook some of the
greatness of our country, not only in the
past but also in the present.
But as I look over these next 4 years
and what we want it to be, let me outline
briefly for you tonight, in three areas, how
I think we can achieve that great goal:
four of the best years in the history of
America.
We have to start, of course, with peace.
We start with that because that affects
every American, his family, his hopes, his
future. Here we look to our record. It is a
record we are proud of. We have not ac-
complished everything we would have
desired as fast as we might, but as we look
at that terribly difficult war in Vietnam,
we have brought home 500,000 men. We
have cut our casualties, as you are quite
aware. We have ended the American
934
