[276] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
In other words, this is not a pro-business
or pro-labor Administration. It is an Ad-
ministration that calls it right down the
middle. When labor is wrong we say so,
as I did when I was in Miami with Mr.
Meany. When business is wrong we say
So.
Now, I have digressed a bit, but let me
come back to the point. We need a man-
date, therefore, in which the President
receives a clear majority. We are going to
work for a clear majority and as big a one
as we can get. Although as I say, we don't
assume that it is going to be big, but it will
be clear because there is not a third party
candidate of significance.
Second, we need a new Congress. Now,
on the Congress, I am sophisticated
enough, as all of you are, because I have
read some of your columns here, to know
that in both the House and the Senate it
is tough for us to elect a Republican ma-
jority. Also, I am honest enough to say
that there are several Democrats in the
House and several Senators without whose
support I could not have conducted the
foreign policy of the United States over
these past 4 years.
When I speak of a new Congress, I
mean of a Congress I would hope that
would be a Republican Congress because
then we at least could have responsibility
for leadership, but if it is not, I hope there
is a new majority in Congress made up
of Republicans and Democrats who sup-
port what the President believes in. Then
we can get action on some of these things
rather than being stuck in the mud as we
have been these past 3 years, particularly
since we have offered our new initiatives.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press).
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-seventh news
conference was held at 11:03 a.m. on the
grounds of his residence in San Clemente,
Calif., on Tuesday, August 29, 1972. The
President spoke without referring to notes.
277 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Arthur K. Watson
as United States Ambassador to France.
August 29, 1972
Dear Dick:
Your gracious letter has just come to
my attention, and I was saddened to learn
your doctor has recommended that you
leave your post. I will, of course, abide by
your wish and accept your resignation as
Ambassador to France effective upon a
date to be determined.
In doing so, I want you to know how
greatly I have valued your distinguished
service in Paris. You have been a superb
representative to our oldest ally and friend,
bringing to your position an uncommon
understanding and profound appreciation
for the importance of ties between our
two countries. On a broad range of issues
vital to our national interest-from drug
abuse to a new relationship with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China-you have played
a key role. The prospects for a more stable
era of peace have been significantly
strengthened by your outstanding efforts.
As Nancy and you prepare to leave the
Embassy you both served so well, you may
be certain you take with you not only the
admiration of your American colleagues
and many French friends, but also my last-
ing gratitude and thanks. Pat joins me in
838
