[387] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
President. In the past 4 years, of course,
I have worked with the Senate and with
the House of Representatives for what I
have thought and what they have thought
were the interests of the Nation.
Let me tell you a thing about the Sen-
ate. It is considered to be the most exclu-
sive club in the world. Now Members of
the House won't agree with that, but at
least the Senate is smaller. There are 100
Members of the Senate, two from each
State, as you know. I can tell you that of
those 100 Members there are five Mem-
bers of the Senate who are the big men.
They are the ones that will determine the
future of this country, and one of those
five is Michigan's Bob Griffin. I need him
in the Senate, Michigan needs him in the
Senate, America needs him in the Senate.
Let me tell you just a word about what
Bob Griffin has worked for, what these
Members of the Congress have worked
for, and what we are going to work for in
these next 4 years. First, I have noted the
interest that everybody here and interest
that I have seen all over Ohio today in
what every American wants, and that
means peace, just not now, but for a gen-
eration to come. As you know, we have
made a very significant breakthrough in
the negotiations. As you know, we now can
look forward with confidence to winning
the kind of peace in Vietnam that all
Americans want, and that is the kind of a
peace Bob Griffin has worked for and sup-
ported-peace with honor and not peace
with surrender.
But beyond that, Vietnam being over,
we are proud of the fact that our trips
to Peking and to Moscow have paved the
way not just for ending this war, but for
a generation of peace so that those young
people that we see over here can have
something that we have not had in this
century in America: a full generation
without war. We have a beginning, but
we need to continue, and we ask for your
help to continue to work for a generation
of peace over these next 4 years. I pledge
you, that is what we are going to work for.
If we are going to have it, we need a
strong America. Don't listen to the voices
of those that would have America have
the second strongest army, the second
strongest navy, the second strongest air
force in the world.
Let me tell you, that when it comes to
football we, of course, can take a little
pride in whether we are number one or
number two, but let's make sure that the
United States is never number two in the
world so that the United States can con-
tinue to lead the world to peace.
Then here at home, could I say a word
about Bob Griffin and his leadership in
the Senate? Everybody in this great tri-
city area, in this State of Michigan, that
contributes so much to the economy of
this country, is interested in jobs. But you
want peacetime jobs. Our goal is full em-
ployment without war and without in-
flation, something we have not had in
America since Dwight Eisenhower was
President. We can have it again, but we
need your help. We need Bob Griffin's
help in the United States Senate and these
men that I have mentioned for the Con-
gress of the United States.
But jobs, as good as they are-and I
know they are very good in this State-
let me tell you they don't mean anything
if
your income is eaten up by higher prices
or higher taxes.
I think that government in Washington
has grown too big. Bob Griffin agrees. I
believe that the Government in Wash-
ington is taking too much money out of
your pocket. He agrees. He has been a
1064
