Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [49]
joy the highest standard of living in the
world, and still compete in the world's
markets because we had the best technol-
ogy and the highest productivity.
But in recent years, while other nations
have been modernizing, while others have
been spurting ahead in productivity, in
America we have let productivity slip; we
have neglected capital investment; we
have fallen behind other nations in the
attention and support we give to applied
science and to advances in technology.
We can be proud, as Americans, of our
record of generosity in the 25 years since
World War II. With your help, the help
of business and labor, this great, produc-
tive American economy made it possible.
Old enemies as well as old friends have
gotten back on their feet, and new na-
tions have been started on the long road to
prosperity.
This help has been good, certainly, for
other nations. It has been good for the
world, and in the long run I believe it has
been good for America.
But let us see where we are now. During
the decade of the sixties, exports of Amer-
ican manufactured goods increased by 110
percent.
During the same 10 years, exports of
German manufactured goods rose by 200
percent, Canada's by 285 percent,
Japan-now the second greatest producer
in the non-Communist world—increased
her exports of manufactured goods in the
past 10 years by 400 percent.
Now, this is just one measure of the
competition we face. It is one of the rea-
sons why last year, for the first time since
1888, we had our first unfavorable trade
deficit.
Nations never stand still. They go for-
ward or they fall backward.
Other nations in the world today are
going forward—some of them rapidly for-
ward. And America has to exert itself, we
have to be at our very best, if we are to
remain competitive in the world.
In business and in life, there is a time
when tough decisions have to be made. In
this Administration, we made some tough
decisions in order to help get the economy
back on its feet in the transition from war
to peace, to get it back on a stable basis,
with full employment, moving forward in
a sustainable way.
I believe in discussing these tough de-
cisions. I am going to talk about my phi-
losophy and some of the things, very
candidly, that I have had to do.
I believe in economic freedom. I believe
the best economy for America is a free
market economy. But faced with the
choice of temporary wage and price con-
trols or continued inflation, I chose tem-
porary controls to curb inflation.
I believe in balanced budgets, but faced
with the choice between budget deficits
and unemployment, I chose deficits to
help create more jobs.
In the long run, our goal is to remove
the controls, get rid of the deficits-once
we have brought about price stability and
full employment.
But in the short run, there is going to be
a lot of complaining, and I understand
that. I am prepared to take the heat be-
cause I believe that in the position I hold,
I have to put first things first, and full
employment without inflation in a period
peace must come first for America.
of
Now, I talked about some of my hard
decisions. Let me talk about some of yours.
Are you going to crawl into a shell and
demand protection from world competi-
tion; or are you going to roll up your
sleeves and increase productivity?
Are you going to expend your energy
169
