Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 7 [250]
this year. The Congress has a splendid
opportunity to leave an historic record of
environmental achievement, an oppor-
tunity which it must seize. The time for
deliberation has passed. It is now time for
action.
NATIONS ACTING TOGETHER
While our most immediate concern
must be for the quality of our national en-
vironment, it is clear that we are part of a
global environment whose long-range
protection must be achieved by a mix of
national and international efforts. This
past year witnessed three historic mile-
stones in the field of international environ-
mental activity.
On April 15, in Ottawa, Prime Minis-
ter Trudeau and I signed the Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement providing a
common commitment to work togeth-
er to clean up these important, shared
resources.
On May 23, in Moscow, President
Podgorny and I signed a Co-operative
Agreement on Environmental Protection
which opens a new area of U.S.-Soviet
cooperation and permits our two peoples
to work together on the solution of en-
vironmental problems in eleven broad
areas.
Between June 5-16, in Stockholm, the
United Nations Conference on the Hu-
man Environment brought together the
representatives of 113 nations represent-
ing nine-tenths of the world's people to
explore together the opportunities for
national and international action on com-
mon environmental problems. The Con-
ference achieved nearly all of the goals
which the United States had urged in ad-
vance. Specifically, the nations:
-Reached agreement on the establish-
ment of a permanent new organiza-
tion within the United Nations to co-
ordinate international environmental
activities.
-Agreed to the establishment of a
United Nations environmental fund
to be financed by voluntary contribu-
tions from U.N. member govern-
ments. I shall ask Congress to au-
thorize and appropriate $40 million
as our Nation's share of a five-year,
$100 million fund.
-Endorsed completion of a conven-
tion proposed by the United States
to control ocean dumping of shore-
generated waste. The favorable
prospect for international action
heightens the urgency of passing the
domestic legislation. I have proposed
to curtail ocean dumping from our
shores.
-Approved an "earthwatch" program
for worldwide environmental moni-
toring.
-Endorsed in principle a convention
on endangered species, designed to
protect species of plants and animals
threatened with extinction by impos-
ing control in international shipment,
import and export.
-Endorsed our recommendation for a
ten-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. (Despite vigorous U.S. ef-
forts, this moratorium was not agreed
to by the International Whaling
Commission at its recent meeting,
although we were successful in
achieving substantially reduced
quotas and other protective meas-
ures.)
In addition, a proposal which I made
in 1971 for a World Heritage Trust-to
give uniquely important historic, cultural
and natural areas of the world special
767
