[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
the naval and into the air bases around
Vietnam to support the South Vietnam-
ese during this offensive?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Jarriel [Tom
Jarriel, ABC News], to date the effect of
the mining and also the bombing of the
military targets in North Vietnam-par-
ticularly the railroads and the oil sup-
plies--the situation in Vietnam has been
completely turned around. I was looking
at some news magazines that came out
the week before the mining was ordered,
and I noted that each one of them has as
its heading, "The specter of defeat in
Vietnam." That was the situation when
we started it.
It has been turned around. The South
Vietnamese are now on the offensive. It
is not over. We expect, perhaps, some
more North Vietnamese offensive, but I
believe that now the ability of the South
Vietnamese to defend themselves on the
ground, with the support that we give
them in the air, has been demonstrated.
Their ability to defend themselves in An-
loc and Kontum, and now in the area
of Hué, is an indication that Vietnamiza-
tion, as far as their ground activity is con-
cerned, has proved to be a successful
action. Now, as far as the future is con-
cerned, I have already indicated that we
will be returning to negotiations in July.
That is the important area to watch at
this time, as well as the battlefield. And
as far as any future announcements are
concerned, that will depend upon prog-
ress at the negotiating table and on the
battlefront.
DIKES AND DAMS AS TARGETS
[5.] Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Rather [Dan
Rather, CBS News]. I remember your
name. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I remem-
ber yours, too. [Laughter]
The background of this question is
your own statements made down in Texas,
among other places, saying that you had
not sanctioned and would not sanction
the bombing of the dikes and dams in
North Vietnam, because you considered it
an inhumane act because of what it would
do to civilians.
Within the past week there have been
reports of eyewitnesses-one of these re-
ports came from the French Press Agency,
and another, I think, was the Swedish
Ambassador in Hanoi-eyewitnesses
claiming to have seen American planes
hit dikes and dams.
The question is, has such bombing oc-
curred? If so, what steps are you taking to
see that it doesn't happen again?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Rather, we have
checked those reports. They have proved
to be inaccurate. The bombing of dikes is
something, as you will recall from the
gentleman who asked the question in
Texas, was something that some people
have advocated. The United States has
used great restraint in its bombing policy
and, I think, properly so. We have tried
to hit only military targets and we have
been hitting military targets. We have had
orders out not to hit dikes because the
result in terms of civilian casualties would
be extraordinary.
As far as any future activities are con-
cerned, those orders still are in force. I do
not intend to allow any orders to go out
'See Item 134 [4.].
708
