Richard Nixon, 1972
July 17 [230]
insure adequate METRO service for the
elderly and the handicapped.
Late last year, when it appeared that
METRO might die altogether because of
a complex legislative and judicial tangle,
I appealed to the Congress for respon-
sible action to cut the Gordian knot. The
metropolitan Washington community was
enormously heartened when such action
was forthcoming. At that time I also asked
that there be no further derailments of
METRO progress--and enactment of this
bond guarantee proposal now offers en-
couraging evidence that the Congress
means to follow through and prevent
such delays.
The role of municipal legislature for
Washington, D.C., which the House and
Senate must often of necessity play, is not
an easy one either for the city or for the
Congress. But as METRO construction
now moves forward at a quickening pace
with solid Congressional support, there is
reason to hope that the lessons learned en
route to completion of the world's most
modern subway for our National Capital
area may also mark the beginning of a new
and more effective Federal-local partner-
ship in District of Columbia government.
This Administration is committed, and I
am committed personally, to furthering
that result by every means available to us.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, H.R. 15507, approved July 13,
1972, is Public Law 92-349 (86 Stat. 464).
230 Message to the Congress Proposing Additional Disaster
Relief Measures Following Tropical Storm Agnes.
July 17, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
Tropical Storm Agnes has caused un-
paralleled destruction in many areas of
the eastern United States. More than
128,000 homes and businesses have been
damaged or destroyed, and whole com-
munities have been dealt a heavy blow.
The losses to so many individuals cannot
be measured only in terms of destruction
of property and belongings; they must
also be counted in terms of loss of jobs,
disruption of families, personal privation,
and anxiety about the future. In the whole
history of our Nation, we have not be-
fore encountered such massive destruction
over so wide-spread an area as a result of
natural disaster.
Individuals, private groups and gov-
ernments have responded magnificently
to this calamity in the finest tradition of
neighbor helping neighbors. The stamina,
the courage and the spirit to fight back
and recover are already evident through-
out the devastated areas. My statement of
July 12, 1972 summarized these impres-
sive efforts. I also pointed out at that time,
however, that an unparalleled disaster re-
quires extraordinary measures to help in
recovery. I announced my intention to
recommend to the Congress supple-
mentary and massive measures aimed at
short and long-term recovery. I herewith
transmit those recommendations, and the
proposed legislation to carry them out.
My proposals are in three parts.
First, I propose the Agnes Recovery
Act of 1972. This measure deals with dis-
aster loans for homeowners, farmers and
businessmen. Because of the unprec-
edented scope of the destruction, un-
735
