Appendix B
September
25 National officers of the Order of the Amer-
ican Hellenic Educational Progressive As-
sociation called on the President to present
a gold medal commemorating the 50th an-
niversary of the Order of AHEPA.
25 The President met with a group of Re-
publican candidates for national and State
offices. They were: Mario D. Belardino of
New York, Charles Conrad of California,
Luther F. Hackett of Vermont, Dr. William
R. Hunt of Pennsylvania, Martin A. Lin-
sky of Massachusetts, Henry A. Povinelli
of Connecticut, Wesley Powell and Meldrim
Thomson, Jr., of New Hampshire, Joel
Pritchard of Washington, and Edward
Young of South Carolina.
25 Dr. Carl Hoffman, president of the Amer-
ican Medical Association, met with the
President at the White House to report
on his recent trip to the Soviet Union to
review their medical program.
25 Thomas W. Gleason, president of the Inter-
national Longshoremen's Association, called
on the President at the White House.
26 Robert E. Merriam, Chairman of the Ad-
visory Commission on Intergovernmental
Relations, met with the President at the
White House.
26 Joseph P. Tonelli, president of the United
Papermakers International Union, called
on the President at the White House.
26 The President met at the White House with
a group of general presidents of building
trades unions.
26 The President and the First Lady met with
the British Ambassador to the United
States, the Earl of Cromer, and the Coun-
tess of Cromer.
26 In a series of meetings at the Waldorf-
Astoria Hotel in New York City, the Presi-
dent met with
-a group of Jewish leaders from cities.
throughout the country,
-leaders of the New York Committee
for the Re-Election of the President,
and
-representatives of Democrats for Nixon
from New York State.
September
27 In New York City, the President met at the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel with a group of ap-
proximately 200 New York State labor
leaders, headed by Peter J. Brennan, presi-
dent of the Building and Construction
Trades Councils, AFL-CIO.
28 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
on board the Presidential yacht Sequoia to
report on his meetings on September 26 and
27 in Paris with Special Adviser Le Duc
Tho and Minister Xuan Thuy of the North
Vietnamese delegation to the Paris peace
talks.
29 French Minister of Foreign Affairs Maurice
Schumann met with the President at the
White House.
29 Sir Alec Douglas-Home, British Secretary
of State for Foreign and Commonwealth
Affairs, met with the President at the White
House and was his guest at a working
dinner in the evening.
October
2 Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko
met with the President at the White House
and was the President's guest at a working
dinner and for an overnight stay at Camp
David.
2 Ambassadors Lombo Lo Mangamanga of
Zaire, Anand Panyarachun of Thailand,
Henri Raharijaona of the Malagasy Re-
public, Lloyd White of New Zealand, Philip
J. Palmer of Sierra Leone, Paul Bomani of
Tanzania, Douglas V. Fletcher of Jamaica,
and Abdoulaye Diallo of Niger presented
their credentials to the President in cere-
monies in the Blue Room at the White
House.
3 Joe L. Matthews, newly elected national
commander of the American Legion, made
a courtesy call on the President at the
White House.
3 John Leyden, president of the Professional
Air Traffic Controllers Organization, met
with the President at the White House.
6 Pote Sarasin, Assistant Chairman of the
Thai National Executive Council, met with
the President at the White House.
B-17
