Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [399]
|
had been the symbol of a closed world, a
world of suspicion and confrontation, a
place where some of the best minds of
our nation had prepared for a possible
war against this nation.
Now this same place had become the
symbol of an open world, a world of co-
operation and trust. It had become a
meeting ground where the best minds
from every nation could work together to
save life everywhere on earth.
We still have a long way to go-but our
goal is clear. And for me its symbol is Fort
Detrick, Maryland, welcoming the Soviet
Minister of Health.
This is the kind of world we must leave
for our children, a world in which the
genius that split the atom and took us to
the Moon is turned not to conquering
one another but to conquering pain and
disease, making our world a healthier,
happier place for our people and for all
people.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The address was recorded at the White
House for broadcast at 12:07 p.m. on nation-
wide radio. Time for the broadcast was pur-
chased by the Committee for the Re-Election
of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
399 Campaign Statement in Illinois.
November 3, 1972
MORE than any other city, Chicago has
come to symbolize the strength and re-
sourcefulness of the American worker.
Throughout the 20th century, Chicago
has been a showplace for the growth,
diversity, and progress that this dedica-
tion has made possible. The spirit of
Chicago is the true spirit of America.
Chicagoans, drawn from so many differ-
ent ethnic backgrounds, have earned a
reputation for patriotism and competi-
tiveness.
This spirit is reflected in Chicago's
economy. At a time when some politicians
are constantly harping on what is wrong
with America, let us consider the progress
that Chicagoans have made, and continue
to make.
In manufacturing, for instance, Chi-
cagoans enjoy higher average weekly earn-
ings (over $175 per week) than the na-
tional average ($154 per week). During
the past year, when the cost of living in-
creased by 2.9 percent in Chicago, the
average weekly earnings of Chicagoans in
manufacturing increased by 9.6 percent,
a real increase of 62 percent-the equiv-
alent of three extra weekly paychecks.
Chicagoans today are working hard.
They are making an enormous contribu-
tion to our free enterprise system, and they
are benefiting from the results as never
before.
In addressing the domestic concerns of
this Nation, we have tried to apply the
Chicago spirit nationally. The willingness
to work has been the cornerstone of
America's great economic strength.
We want to keep it that way. There-
fore, the record of this Administration
has been one of creating real jobs-not
artificial government make-work jobs or
handouts while fighting inflation and
converting our economy from war to
peace.
When this Administration took office,
civilian employment stood at 77 million,
but approximately 33 million were em-
1093
