[269] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
believe in the neighborhood school. It is
important to the youngsters of a com-
munity and it strengthens the neighbor-
hood as well. It is important to the child
and it is important to the family.
My first proposal to the Congress is a
moratorium on all new and additional
busing of schoolchildren. That would stop
any further busing now.
Second, I proposed that Congress set
uniform national standards for school de-
segregation, in which busing would be a
remedy of last resort. That bill also pro-
vided means to aid and improve poor
quality schools.
Although the House of Representatives
passed an equal educational opportunities
act this month, which restricts busing,
there has been no action in the Sen-
ate. Neither House has acted on the
moratorium.
Earlier this summer the Congress in-
cluded an amendment to another bill, the
Higher Education Act, which was in-
tended to stay the implementation of
court-ordered busing until all court ap-
peals had been exhausted. When I signed
that bill, I expressed concern that different
lower courts might construe that amend-
ment in different ways, and I continued
to urge immediate passage of the
moratorium.
On Monday of this week we had the
first example of the very thing I feared:
The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the amendment did not provide relief
from busing in a California case.
Now school is about to open, and the
Congress so far has failed to take the
needed action. They must act promptly
when they return into session. If children
begin the new term under court-ordered
busing plans, the present law apparently
will be ineffective in terms of providing
stays to parents who wish to appeal.
I am sure the citizens of Michigan join
me in urging the Congress, and particu-
larly the Senate, to give vigorous and
diligent attention to this needed legisla-
tion at once.
NOTE: The statement was released at Utica,
Mich.
270 Remarks on Arrival at San Diego, California.
August 24, 1972
WE WANT to express our very, very great
appreciation to you for the wonderful
welcome that you have given us as we
return home to California.
Incidentally, some people have sug-
gested if you would put your signs down,
they could see a little better. I like the
signs, but you put them down for them.
I think you probably are aware that
we were attending a convention yesterday
across the country, and at that convention
there were some very distinguished peo-
ple. I didn't bring them with me on the
plane, but they haven't been introduced,
and before I say a few words, I would
just like to present some of these people
to you.
First, the Governor of our State, Gov-
ernor Reagan, who was the temporary
chairman.
Gov. RONALD REAGAN OF CALIFORNIA.
This is once when we can say "fellow Cali-
fornians" not only to all of you, but to our
guests, and we are so happy to have them
here. As the President explained to you,
there were 3 days of preliminaries, but
810
