Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 15 [417]
416 Statement on the Death of Representative Frank T. Bow
November 13, 1972
of Ohio.
I HAVE been deeply saddened to learn
of the death of Representative Frank Bow
of Ohio. In over 20 years of outstanding
service in the Congress, Frank Bow earned
respect as a man of energy, principle, and
dedication. As ranking minority member
of the House Appropriations Committee,
he was a strong voice for fiscal responsibil-
ity, repeatedly taking his stand against
excessive Government spending.
I hardly need to add that as President,
I found in Frank Bow a staunch friend
and supporter-a man whose loyalty
never wavered and whose commitment
was always total. His loss will be felt by
his colleagues in the Congress, and by all
Americans who value the example of a life
well spent in the public service. Mrs.
Nixon and I extend our heartfelt con-
dolences to Frank Bow's family and many
friends.
NOTE: Representative Bow, 71, died at Be-
thesda Naval Hospital. He served in the United
States House of Representatives from 1951
until his death.
Richard K. Cook, Deputy Assistant to the
President for Congressional Relations, repre-
sented the President at funeral services in Can-
ton, Ohio, on November 15, 1972.
417 Memorandum About the "Zero-In On Federal Safety”
Program. November 15, 1972
Memorandum for Heads of Federal De-
partments and Agencies:
In 1971, I initiated the "Zero-In On
Federal Safety" Program to replace "Mis-
sion Safety 70." The value of the "Zero-
In" program was clearly demonstrated
during that year when the frequency rate
of disabling injuries dropped by nine per-
cent over 1970. The 1971 rate of 6.0 dis-
abling injuries per million man-hours
worked is in fact the lowest ever achieved
in the Federal Government.
This downward trend must be con-
tinued.
In an effort to obtain greater benefits
from this program and to carry out our
responsibility under the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970, I am ex-
tending the program of "Zero-In On Fed-
eral Safety" through December, 1973. In
addition, we must develop a concerted
effort to reduce occupational health
hazards which may be present in Govern-
ment workplaces.
Each agency is hereby directed to estab-
lish means to meet these objectives. The
Secretary of Labor will outline a suggested
program for all agencies to follow. Specific
guidelines and materials will be provided
through the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration of the Department
of Labor.
It is my sincere hope that you will con-
tinue to give your fullest support to the
"Zero-In On Federal Safety" program
during 1973. Through its effective imple-
mentation, the Federal Government-as
the Nation's largest employer-will set an
example for all.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was posted for the
press.
1143
