[182] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is very unusual for me to stand up in
a house that is not my own, or one which
the Government allows me to live in for 4
years at a time, and be able to act as the
host.
But this, of course, is typical of the
hospitality which is legendary here, which
we have learned to know over almost 20
years, and which is enriched each time we
come.
Perhaps the best way it can be said-
and I am not a language expert, unfortu-
nately, and most everybody here is, being
from a world of diplomacy and the rest-
but the way I feel now in this position of
being able to offer the informal toast to
Their Imperial Majesties is the way the
Spanish say it. In our country whenever
we invite anybody into our house, when
somebody comes in, we say, "Make
your-
self at home." That is the phrase. But the
Spanish say it in two different ways. They
will say, “Estan en su casa,” or “Mi casa
es su casa," which means, "My house is
your house," or, "You are in your own
house."
So because His Imperial Majesty and
Her Majesty have been so kind to say
"Mi casa es su casa," we have had a
memorable 24 hours here.
We aren't able to pay the rent, but on
the other hand we hope that we can show
our appreciation in a very easy way for
us-through that continued, deep friend-
ship which has characterized our relations
for so many years and that, perhaps, is
worth more than the rent.
So I suggest we all raise our glasses to
Their Imperial Majesties.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:08 p.m. in the
Saadabad Palace. He spoke from a prepared
text.
The Shah responded as follows:
It was a long time since we were expecting
you, Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon, to come
to this country-although you have been here
before-but in your present capacity as Presi-
dent of the United States. And this is for many
reasons.
But the first one, and foremost, because we
have established friendship with you and your
country at one of the greatest moments of our
history. It was almost a question of touch-and-
go. And at that time we found you and your
country right at our side. And, obviously, we
cannot forget these things.
So I personally followed the career of the
man who in those hours came to see us also in
an important capacity as Vice President of the
United States.
And I could not hide it from you that I was
personally very happy to see this man be elected
as the President of his country.
And since his election, standing to all the
highest standards that anybody could show
during his tenure of office, which was hearten-
ing for us because it came from a friend, but
also the head and the President of a country
whose friendship we value so high and also we
need so much. And I don't think that we are
the only people who need that friendship and
those high standards of conduct and model;
many others do. Some say it openly; some others
just profit by it without saying something.
Some others profit by it by even kicking you.
But be sure that we are not one of those. By
sticking to our principles, we are sticking to our
friends also at the same time.
In first of all congratulating you on what
you have achieved internally in the United
States and what you have achieved in these two
historic trips abroad, I say that we fully agree
with everything you have done and you have
said. We wish you Godspeed, happy return to
your country, very happy and successful future.
And we regard your success very much also
as our own success, because we know that this
success represents something on which we can
count and something with which we are familiar
and that we can trust.
So thanking you once again for having ac-
cepted this heartfelt invitation, we wish you, on
behalf of my wife, of our people that you saw
yesterday in the streets, the actual generation,
650
