Appendix E
Latin America. Following these visits which he
will make, the President has asked him to make
recommendations to the President on how the
United States can better coordinate our eco-
nomic policy with our major trading partners
throughout the world.
The special assignment which I am referring
to which Mr. Peterson will undertake before
he returns to private life will be completed
sometime in the spring. In the spring, the
President will receive a very detailed and, I
am sure, very thorough report, because that is
the nature of all of Pete Peterson's work, on
the matters of how we can better coordinate
U.S. economic policy with our major trading
partners.
So I did want to tell you that Mr. Peterson
would be assuming the position as Special
Representative to the President and will under-
take this temporary assignment that I have
referred to.
Succeeding Pete Peterson will be Frederick B.
Dent, of Spartanburg, South Carolina. Mr.
Dent has had an exceptionally distinguished
career in industry and business. Mr. Dent be-
came president of Mayfair Mills, a leading
South Carolina textile firm, in 1947 at the age
of 25, and has held that position ever since.ยน
He has long been a leader in South Carolina
civic affairs and has previously served in the
Administration as a member of the Gates Com-
mission, which made recommendations to
President Nixon on the transition to an all-
volunteer armed force.
President Nixon feels that Mr. Dent's wide
knowledge of domestic and international busi-
ness, and his proven executive ability, will make
him an outstanding Secretary of Commerce.
Turning to the sub-Cabinet level, with regard
to changes at the Treasury Department which
we announced yesterday, President Nixon has
asked me to announce his intention to nomi-
nate William E. Simon to be Deputy Secretary
of the Treasury succeeding Charls Walker, who
we announced yesterday would be returning
to private life.
Also, the President intends to nominate
Edward L. Morgan to be Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Enforcement, Tariff and
1 The White House Press Office later indi-
cated that Mr. Dent joined Mayfair Mills in
1947 and became its president in 1958.
Trade Affairs, and Operations, succeeding
Eugene Rossides. We announced the fact yes-
terday that Mr. Rossides would be returning
to private life.
Mr. Simon, 45 years of age, lives in New
Vernon, New Jersey, and is currently a partner
in the New York investment banking firm of
Salomon Brothers. Salomon Brothers specializes
in the area of Government bonds and public
finance. It is felt with his experience in this
field, and his credentials as a young, forceful
manager, that Mr. Simon is ideally suited to be
second in command in the Department of the
Treasury in a period when Federal, State, and
local fiscal relationships are being transformed
by revenue sharing, and also at a time when
Secretary Shultz's new role as Assistant to the
President for Economic Affairs will place in-
creased departmental responsibilities on the
Deputy Secretary of the Treasury.
Ed Morgan is well known, I think, to most
of you, having played a key role in domestic
affairs as a member of the White House Staff
since the President's Inauguration in 1969. Ed
Morgan first served as Deputy Counsel to the
President, and then as Deputy Assistant to the
President for Domestic Affairs and as Assistant
Director of the Domestic Council. His addi-
tional duties at present include the post of
Executive Director of the Cabinet Committee
on Education and Vice Chairman of the Coun-
cil of the Administrative Conference of the
United States.
Before joining the White House Staff, Mr.
Morgan had been in private law practice in
Phoenix, Arizona. In asking Ed Morgan to
take this new assignment, the President ex-
pressed his appreciation for Mr. Morgan's out-
standing record here at the White House and
his expectation that Secretary Shultz's team
will be a strong team with Ed Morgan as a
member of the Department of the Treasury.
Announcing Intention To Nominate a United
States Ambassador to Italy and a New Sec-
retary of Transportation
December 7, 1972
We are continuing today with the announce-
ments relating to the makeup of the President's
Cabinet in the second term.
E-II
