Richard Nixon, 1972
[19]
Jan. 24
-substantial increases in medical per-
sonnel at veterans' hospitals and in
funds for constructing new and
better hospital facilities for veterans.
DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION.-Last sum-
mer, I emphasized the need for a coordi-
nated attack on drug abuse and drug de-
pendency in this country and created the
Special Action Office for Drug Abuse Pre-
vention and the Cabinet Committee on
International Narcotics Control to moni-
tor and coordinate a concerted Federal ef-
fort. Legislation to give the Special Action
Office a statutory base was proposed by
the Administration more than 7 months
ago and should be approved promptly.
In 1973, I am proposing an increase in
program levels of $120 million for treat-
ment, rehabilitation, and law enforce-
ment programs, including control of illicit
supplies. Funds for research, education,
prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation
will increase from $310 million in 1972 to
$365 million in 1973 while obligations for
law enforcement activities will grow from
$164 million in 1972 to $229 million in
1973. Under the direction of a Special
Consultant to the President, we
mounting a coordinated attack on dope
sellers in 24 cities throughout the country.
GUARANTEEING CIVIL RIGHTS.-All of
our citizens should expect a first priority
of government to be protection of their
civil rights. My Administration is com-
mitted to a course of action to insure that
people can share fully in the benefits of
our society regardless of race, sex, religion,
or national origin. Significant accomplish-
ments have been made. Much remains to
be done:
•
We will continue the increase in
minority hirings in the Federal serv-
ice, especially in professional and
supervisory positions, despite cutbacks
•
in Federal employment. More than
13,000 minority employees were hired
between November 1969 and May
1971, and minority increases in upper
and middle grade levels occurred at
much faster rates than for non-
minorities. Minorities now constitute
approximately one-fifth of all Federal
employees.
We will continue to press efforts to
assure that women will hold more jobs
with greater responsibilities than ever
before. Between October 31, 1970 and
October 31, 1971, women holding
Federal positions at levels GS-13 and
above increased by 7%.
• We will continue the upgrading of
efforts to open opportunities for
Spanish-speaking Americans. The
budget of the Cabinet Committee on
the Spanish-Speaking will be in-
creased by 42%.
·
We will step up our efforts to promote
self-determination for Indians on
reservations and to assist them in their
economic development. For example,
legislation to establish an Indian
Trust Counsel Authority has been
proposed to guarantee that the rights
of the Indian people in natural
resources are at last-effectively de-
fended. Outlays for programs bene-
fiting Indians on reservations will
reach $1.2 billion in 1973.
• We will double our resources and our
efforts to assure that Federal con-
tractors meet the commitments of
their affirmative minority hiring
plans. Compliance reviews will in-
crease to 52,000 compared to 12,300
in 1969.
• We will continue to accelerate Fed-
eral financial aid and technical as-
sistance to increase minority business
89
