[107] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
sultant ability to conduct domestic policy
on the President's behalf should speed,
streamline, and strengthen the whole
process significantly.
Comparable decentralization could also
be achieved within each department. At
present, too many questions can be de-
cided only in Washington, because of the
multiplicity of field organizations and the
limited authority of their regional direc-
tors. By enlarging the scope of responsi-
bility of the departmental Secretaries and
by giving them the tools they need, we
could facilitate broad delegation of au-
thority to appropriate field officials. And
this in turn means that citizens across the
country would receive faster and better
service from their Federal Government.
Secondly, the new alignment of domes-
tic departments would enhance the ac-
countability of Federal officials to the
people. It is easy to see how the new Sec-
retaries, each with his or her own broad
area of responsibility to discharge, would
be useful to the President and the Con-
gress in monitoring compliance with di-
rection and accomplishment of objectives.
Once scattered responsibility was concen-
trated, today's frequently used and often
quite accurate excuse, "It was the other
fellow's fault," would no longer apply.
More importantly, though, whatever
slack and tangle can be taken out of the
lines of control within the Federal estab-
lishment will then result in a tightening of
those same lines between elected Federal
officials and a democratic electorate. Not-
withstanding the famous sign on Presi-
dent Truman's desk-"The buck stops
here”—there will be no stopping of the
buck, no ultimate clarification of blame
and credit, and no assurance that voters
will get what they contracted for in elect-
ing Presidents, Senators, and Congress-
men, until the present convoluted and
compartmentalized Washington bureauc-
racy can be formed anew and harnessed
more directly to the people's purposes.
COOPERATING FOR REFORM
Where, then, does the reform effort
stand today? I am pleased to note that
the Congress, acting through its Commit-
tees on Government Operations, has held
extensive hearings on my proposals; that
testimony, most of it favorable, has been
taken from a broad, bipartisan array of
expert witnesses; and that committee work
on the House side is nearly complete on
the bill to establish a Department of Com-
munity Development.
For our part, we in the Administration
have continued working to perfect the
legislation and the management concepts
set forth in my message of March 25, 1971.
The Office of Management and Budget
has taken the lead in working with Mem-
bers of the Congress, adopting a flexible
and forthcoming approach which has led
to refinements in our legislation: one to
clarify responsibility for highway safety,
another to remove doubts concerning
the reform's impact on the Appalachian
Regional Commission and the Title V
regional planning and development com-
missions, another to guarantee Com-
munity Development participation in
airport access and siting decisions, and
several more. They have also clarified that
the reorganization need not entail any
shift in congressional committee juris-
diction.
I am confident that this refinement and
510
