[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
vigorous. The global challenge has been
accepted and the new tasks for diplomacy
are being addressed.
THE OCEANS
Future generations may well look back
upon the 1970's as the decade in which
the nations of the world made the funda-
mental decisions regulating the use of over
two-thirds of our planet.
The task is urgent. Technological ad-
vances have made all nations increasingly
aware of the new benefits which the ocean
can yield. Competition among nations for
control of the ocean's resources, and the
growing divergence of national claims,
could constitute serious threats to world
peace.
The United States relies upon the seas
to meet its global responsibilities. Our se-
curity, and that of our friends, depends
upon freedom of navigation and overflight
of the high seas, and on free movement
through and over international straits. A
significant portion of our strategic deter-
rent is seaborne. The trend to more ex-
tensive territorial sea claims by other
nations thus threatens very directly our
national security.
Shortly after taking office, this Admin-
istration began what is probably the most
comprehensive review of U.S. oceans
policy in our history. Several conclusions
emerged.
First, multilateral agreement is essential.
Nations have interests in the seas which
differ widely and result in different na-
tional priorities. Unilateral claims to the
sea or its resources force other nations to
make a stark choice between confronta-
tion and acquiescence in situations preju-
dicial to their interests. Neither result
contributes to stable world peace.
Second, freedom of navigation and
overflight must be protected. Any signifi-
cant diminution of such freedoms beyond
a narrow territorial sea would funda-
mentally affect international security and
trade. The basic political decision, made
centuries ago, that nations would not in-
terfere with each other's rights to com-
municate by sea must be preserved. We
need, however, to reconcile traditional
uses of the seas with their new potential.
Third, an equitable system must be es-
tablished for regulating the exploitation
of the resources of the ocean and seabeds
beyond national jurisdiction. The value of
the resources ensures that exploitation will
follow promptly the development of the
necessary technology. Therefore, it is es-
sential to set up a system under which the
exploitation will contribute to, rather than
endanger, peace among nations. No state
should be permitted to treat these re-
sources as an exclusive national property
or to exploit them in a manner harmful to
the interests of other states or the global
environment. Moreover, the smaller and
poorer nations of the world should be
given a fair share of the benefits from
these resources, which are the common.
heritage of mankind. While nations with
long coastlines can acquire this share from
resources solely off their own coasts, others
with short coastlines or none at all must
look to a reasonable international sys-
tem if they are to receive a fair portion of
the ocean's wealth. A system which per-
mits a just allocation of ocean resources
is, therefore, an important ingredient of a
stable arrangement which all nations will
support because all have a stake in its
preservation.
Fourth, it is not possible for any nation,
acting unilaterally, to ensure adequate
protection of the marine environment.
334
