Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 25 [69]
I would put it this way: That when we
think of the world, most of us think of
our own countries, some even our own
States, and some just our cities. We
should think of the whole world, and we
have not known Asia well enough. And
when you speak of Asia, the great country
of China is a country we have not known
long enough. That communication has
been cut for the last 20 years, and in the
future I would hope one of the develop-
ments that would occur as a result of our
trip is that apart from the relations be-
tween governments, that people will be
able to come here and that, of course, Chi-
nese people would be able to come to the
United States.
69
I don't mean to suggest that that ex-
change of people solves the problems of
the world or problems between govern-
ments. But it so enriches the lives of peo-
ple to know other civilizations and not to
live simply on their own little island.
That is why this experience, I am sure,
is not only an interesting experience for
us but for the members of the press. I
think it reminds us that all of us must
work for an open world where people of
different cultures, different philosophies,
and so forth, may at least have an oppor-
tunity to know each other.
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately
I p.m. following the President's tour of the
Ming Tombs.
Toasts of the President and Premier Chou En-lai of China
at a Banquet Honoring the Premier in Peking.
February 25, 1972
Mr. Prime Minister and our very distin-
guished guests from the People's Republic
of China and the United States of
America:
It is a great privilege while we are
guests in your country to be able to wel-
come you and the Chinese who are present
here as our guests this evening.
On behalf of Mrs. Nixon and all of the
members of our official party, I want to
express our deep appreciation for the
boundless and gracious hospitality which
you have extended to us.
As you know, it is the custom in our
country that the members of the press
have the right to speak for themselves and
that no one in government can speak for
them. But I am sure that all those from
the American press who are here tonight
will grant me the rare privilege of speak-
ing for the press in extending their ap-
preciation to you and your government for
the many courtesies you have extended to
them.
You have made it possible for the story
of this historic visit to be read, seen, and
heard by more people all over the world
than on any previous occasion in history.
Yesterday, along with hundreds of mil-
lions of viewers on television, we saw what
is truly one of the wonders of the world,
the Great Wall. As I walked along the
Wall, I thought of the sacrifices that went
into building it; I thought of what it
showed about the determination of the
Chinese people to retain their independ-
ence throughout their long history; I
thought about the fact that the Wall tells
us that China has a great history and that
the people who built this wonder of the
world also have a great future.
The Great Wall is no longer a wall
87-234-74-28
373
