[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
1968, mindful that our bombings in Indo-
china now are at a 5-year high, accord-
ing to the Pentagon, mindful that troops
are still coming out but even more are
going into Thailand and the 7th Fleet, I
wonder if you can say with any confidence
that you can end the war by January 20
of next year?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier, we have
made great progress in ending the war
and particularly in ending American in-
volvement in the war.
Since you have recounted the record
to an extent, let me recount it also from
the positive side.
When we came into office, there were
540,000 Americans in Vietnam. Our cas-
ualties were running as high as 300 a
week, the cost was $22 billion a year. We
have taken out 500,000 men since that
time.¹ Our casualties have been reduced
95 percent, down to 2, that is too many,
but from 300 to 2. As far as the cost is
concerned, instead of $22 billion a year,
it is down to $7 billion a year.
As far as the situation on the nego-
tiating front is concerned, instead of being
in a position where we did not have a
positive offer on the table, we have made
what Mr. Brinkley of NBC character-
ized last night as being a very constructive
offer, one in which in return for an all-
Indochina cease-fire and the return of
POW's and an accounting for all of our
missing in action, that we would stop all
military activities in Indochina and we
would withdraw all Americans, all those
that remain, within 4 months.
1
¹On June 28, 1972, Press Secretary Ronald
L. Ziegler announced the President's decision
to withdraw additional United States troops
from Vietnam. Mr. Ziegler's statement is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1110).
Now, having reached this position at
this time, we believe that that is an ex-
cellent record. The only thing that we
have not done is to do what the Com-
munists have asked and that is to impose
a Communist government on the people
of South Vietnam against their will. This
we will not do because that would reward
aggression, it would encourage that kind
of aggression and reduce the chances of
peace all over the world in the years to
come, and it would dishonor the United
States of America.
RESUMPTION OF PARIS TALKS
[2] On the negotiating front, we
have informed the North Vietnamese,
after consultation with the Government
of Vietnam, that we will return to the
negotiating table in Paris on April [July]
13, Thursday; we have been informed
by the North Vietnamese and the Viet-
cong, that they, too, will return on that
date. We have returned to the negotiating
table, or will return to it on the assump-
tion that the North Vietnamese are pre-
pared to negotiate in a constructive and
serious way. We will be prepared to nego-
tiate in that way. If those negotiations
go forward in a constructive and serious
way, this war can be ended, and it can be
ended well before January 20. If they do
not go forward on that basis, the United
States will continue to meet its commit-
ments. Our bombing, as far as that is
concerned, our mining, is for the purpose
only of preventing Communist aggression
from succeeding, to protect the remain-
ing Americans, 40,000 or so, that are still
in Vietnam, and to have some bargaining
position in getting our POW's back.
One last point with regard to the
POW's: I know that every American is
706
