[342] Oct. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
have helped to build this country. They
are the builders of America, and, con-
sequently, we owe a debt to this group
for what they have done in building
America, for what they have done in
teaching us all that the dignity of work
is what made this country what it is and
that we must always respect the dignity of
work and the dignity of those who lead
the workers of America, as does Peter
Fosco so well.
There is a second feature which is
represented by this head table tonight.
Those of Italian background bring with
them a very deep religious faith. We in
America have varying religious back-
grounds, but the day when America loses
its religious faith, this will cease to be a
great country. Those of Italian back-
ground, with their deep religious faith,
have helped to sustain the strength of
America, the moral strength, which is
more important than all the military
strength and the economic strength in the
world. For that religious faith which is
represented here in so many different
ways-by the Knights of Columbus and
by other organizations-we are, of course,
in the debt of those of Italian background
as well as other groups who have come to
this country.
There is another factor that this eve-
ning reminds us of. Those of Italian back-
ground have a deep love of family. I think
tonight that Peter Fosco, as we honor him,
would want us all to honor his wife, Mrs.
Fosco. But most important of all is the
fact that those of Italian background,
along with so many other immigrant
groups who have come to this country,
are proud of where they came from, where
their parents or grandparents came from,
but they are prouder still to be Americans.
As we think of that particular fact, I
would like to put it in terms of what we
really owe to so many groups who have
come to America from abroad and have
added character and strength and fiber
to this country's idealism, to the love of
country which sustains us through dif-
ficult times and other times as well.
3
Speaking of American labor, for ex-
ample, of which Mr. Fosco is proud to be
one of the major leaders, I recall a time
in 1947 which Ambassador Ortona ³ will
recall, and some of the rest of you here
may recall. I was a freshman Congress-
man then. I was visiting Italy immediately
after the war, studying, along with other
Congressmen, a bipartisan group, what
we could do to assist that country to get
back on its feet.
An election was coming up. It was an
election in which many felt that the Com-
munist Party in Italy might succeed. But
they did not reckon first with the Italian
people and their love of freedom and their
antagonism toward any kind of govern-
ment that would impose a dictatorship
upon them, but they also did not reckon
with another factor.
Naturally, the Government of the
United States cannot and did not inter-
fere in an election in another country, but
the people of the United States of Italian
background wrote letters by the hundreds
of thousands to their relatives in Italy,
and that may have made the difference
in that election.
I should also say that I know what
American labor did not only then but in
supporting free labor in Europe and Latin
America and all over the world. We know
Egidio Ortona was Italian Ambassador to
the United States.
970
