Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [363]
nations that have character, courage, and
the strength to make their good intentions
credible to others.
That is the kind of country America
must remain. I promise that I will work
to keep America that kind of country.
I can think of no better occasion than
Veterans Day to renew this pledge to the
American people.
362 Veterans Day Message.
October 23, 1972
AS AMERICAN troops return home with
honor from another distant conflict, the
hope is strong for a full generation of
peace. No group has sacrificed more to
achieve this goal than the men and women
who have proudly worn the American
uniform.
In serving God and country, they have
sought not glory for themselves, but peace
and freedom for us all. They have ex-
pressed in their service much of what is
finest in our Nation. Courage, selfless-
ness, discipline, and devotion-these are
qualities we will need as much to build
a future of peace as we have needed them
in the past in time of war.
Each year we set aside a special day to
salute our veterans-to pay our tribute to
the millions of quiet, undemanding heroes
who have served so that other generations
Thank you, and good morning.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:36 a.m. from
Camp David, Md. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio. Time for the broad-
cast was purchased by the Committee for the
Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
might be spared war's anguish and de-
struction. At a time when a small minority
has tried to make heroes of the few who
have refused to serve, it is more impor-
tant than ever that we honor the example
of the millions of men and women who
have loyally stood by their country.
Speaking for the American people, I
say today that the vast majority of us
have never been prouder of our country's
nearly 29 million veterans, whether they
are the survivors of World War I or the
outstanding young men who have served
in Vietnam. To all of them I say that our
respect has never been stronger, nor our
gratitude greater, than on this Veterans
Day, 1972.
NOTE: The President's recorded message was
played at ceremonies marking the observance of
Veterans Day at Arlington National Cemetery.
363 Campaign Statement About Federal Spending.
October 23, 1972
THE ABJECT failure of the 92d Con-
gress to hold to a responsible level of
spending casts a long shadow over the
glow of a resurging American economy.
Our economy is expanding at a very
healthy rate, and it now looks as if our
projection of a 6-percent production gain
this year will be surpassed.
We have also cut the rate of inflation
in half. Here in the New York area, the
1009
