Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
a terminal date of August 1, 1972,
provided an agreement was signed by
November 1, 1971.
-We made specific proposals to ensure
a fair political process in South Viet-
nam based on a number of political
principles meeting both North Viet-
namese and NLF concerns. These
included (1) total U.S. neutrality in
Vietnamese elections; (2) acceptance
of the outcome of their results; (3)
limitations on foreign military aid
to South Vietnam if North Vietnam
would accept similar restrictions; (4)
nonalignment for South Vietnam to-
gether with the other countries of
Indochina; and (5) reunification on
terms for the North and South to
work out.
-I also gave my personal undertaking
to request from the Congress, im-
mediately after the signing of an
agreement in principle, a five-year
reconstruction program for Indo-
china.
-At the next secret meeting, on Sep-
tember 13, Hanoi turned down our
proposal. They cited two main rea-
sons. First, they said the interval be-
fore total withdrawal (9 months)
was too long, and that we had been
unclear about how we defined total
withdrawal. Secondly, they rejected
our political principles as insufficient.
They repeated their demand that we
replace the Thieu government.
We reflected on these two issues and
consulted closely with President Thieu.
On October 11, we conveyed to the North
Vietnamese a new proposal in one more
attempt to break the deadlock. We pro-
posed a November I meeting with Mr. Le
Duc Tho, or any other appropriate North
Vietnamese political leader, together with
Minister Xuan Thuy. They countered
with a proposal for a November 20 meet-
ing. We accepted.
On November 17, just three days before
the scheduled meeting, the North Viet-
namese advised us that Mr. Le Duc Tho
was unable to attend the meeting. We
responded that we stood ready to meet at
any time with Mr. Tho or any other mem-
ber of Hanoi's political leadership, to-
gether with Minister Xuan Thuy.
Since that time there has been no re-
sponse to our October 11 proposal or a
suggestion for a meeting. It was that fact
which finally led me to make our proposals
public. We owed the American people an
account of where we stood.
For we had paid a considerable price
all those months for respecting the con-
fidential nature of our private talks. The
North Vietnamese themselves constantly
berated us in public for not responding
to the NLF's public proposal, even though
they had asked us instead to respond to
their private proposal, and we had done
so. This propaganda tactic created a seri-
ous divergence between American public
understanding and the factual situation.
It led some Americans into believing that
their Government was not doing all it
should to reach a negotiated settlement.
Continued silence on our part would
only have perpetuated the domestic con-
fusion concerning our negotiating position
and efforts. Moreover, by committing our-
selves publicly and formally to a new
plan, we could also erase any possible
doubts Hanoi might have about our will-
ingness to back up our private offers.
Our Eight Point Proposal. On Janu-
ary 25, President Thieu and I publicly
offered a new eight point peace proposal
which was presented in detail at the Paris
Peace Talks two days later. Its main ele-
87-234-74-22
277
