[322] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
American heroes-many of whose names
may be forgotten but whose vision and
sacrifice have added so much to our
American heritage.
In dedicating this museum, we mark
the fact that ours is a nation of many na-
tions, that, uniquely among all the nations
of the world, ours draws its people from
every continent, from every corner of the
world, and what we have and what we are
today is the result of what they brought
to these shores.
So we dedicate this museum, not to
a dead chapter of our history, but to a liv-
ing ideal. The displays inside this build-
ing will remind us and our descendants
of where many of our people came from.
Every facet of American life today is filled
with examples of what they did when they
got here, of what they added to America,
and of how they strengthened and en-
riched all of our lives, and continue to do
so today.
The skyscrapers that dot the skyline of
New York City, the railroads that con-
nect the continent, the industrial might
of modern America-all of these are the
work of immigrants and of the descend-
ants of immigrants. All of these are
monuments to the strong hearts and hands
of men and women from all nations, all
races, and all religions who came here and
became proud Americans. The walls of
this museum, even if they were a hundred
times this size, could not begin to house
the full story of their contributions—yet it
is a story that must and shall be told,
especially now, as we complete our second
century as a nation and prepare to cele-
brate our Bicentennial.
America has often been called a melting
pot, perhaps because it has forged the cul-
tures and traditions of many lands into a
strong new alloy-an American alloy. But
let us never forget that one of the finest
things about our country is that it does
not force its people into a narrow mold
of conformity. America is a rich mosaic of
many cultures and traditions, strong in its
diversity. Each new immigrant has added
another piece to the mosaic of American
life-a fresh perspective and a fresh ap-
preciation of what it means to be an
American.
Edouard de Laboulaye, the French
patriot who inspired the idea for the
Statue of Liberty and who persuaded the
sculptor Bartholdi to create it, looked
upon the monument not only as a symbol
of the love for freedom shared by the
French and American people but as a
monument to the spirit of freedom itself—
a spirit that beats in the hearts of people
everywhere.
The words he used to describe the
Statue of Liberty should also serve to de-
scribe this museum we dedicate today:
". . . a symbol that braves the storms of
time. It will stand unshaken in the midst
of the winds that roar about its head and
the waves that shatter at its feet."
The American ideal has also braved
the storms of time. And it always will, as
long as we keep alive the spark of freedom,
ambition, opportunity, and self-respect, as
long as we keep alive the faith and the
commitment that transformed the poor,
the oppressed, and the downtrodden of the
earth into proud, free citizens of the
United States.
NOTE: The statement was released at Liberty
Island, N.Y.
916
