[337] Oct. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
for married couples. It would not deepen
the presently-projected deficits of the
Railroad Retirement Trust Fund.
I urge the Congress to adopt this
prudent alternative, which would give
these deserving pensioners an equitable
benefit increase on a timely basis and
which would still preserve the flexibility
for basic readjustments that will be needed
later in the railroad retirement system.
Working together, I hope that we can
constructively reform this system so it
can continue to serve the needs of rail-
road workers and their families for
decades ahead.
The White House,
October 4, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, H.R. 15927 was en-
acted over the President's veto as Public Law
92-460 (86 Stat. 765).
338 The President's News Conference of
October 5, 1972
QUESTIONS
CHARGES OF CORRUPTION
[1.] Q. Mr. President, what are you
planning to do to defend yourself against
the charges of corruption in your
Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have noted such
charges. As a matter of fact, I have noted
that this Administration has been charged
with being the most corrupt in history,
and I have been charged with being the
most deceitful President in history.
The President of the United States has
been compared in his policies with Adolf
Hitler. The policies of the U.S. Govern-
ment to prevent a Communist takeover
by force in South Vietnam have been
called the worst crime since the Nazi ex-
termination of the Jews in Germany. And
the President who went to China and to
Moscow, and who has brought 500,000
home from Vietnam, has been called the
number one warmaker in the world.
Needless to say, some of my more
partisan advisers feel that I should re-
spond in kind. I shall not do so-not now,
not throughout this campaign. I am not
going to dignify such comments.
In view of the fact that one of the very
few Members of the Congress ยน who is
publicly and actively supporting the op-
position ticket in this campaign has very
vigorously, yesterday, criticized this kind
of tactics, it seems to me it makes it not
necessary for me to respond.
I think the responsible members of the
Democratic Party will be turned off by
this kind of campaigning, and I would
suggest that responsible members of the
press, following the single standard to
which they are deeply devoted, will also
be turned off by it.
SENATOR MC GOVERN'S CAMPAIGN
[2.] Q. Mr. President, do you feel, as
Vice President Agnew said the other day,
that Senator McGovern is waging a smear
campaign against you? Would you char-
acterize it as that?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to
ยน Representative Jerome R. Waldie of
California.
952
