[327] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world together. We did proceed on the
assumption that in the event there was a
nuclear war, that all of us would suffer
together, and we, therefore, said that we
had to find a way for governments with
different philosophies to live together,
to negotiate their differences rather than
fight about them.
We had to find a way, for example—
and thinking of all of these young people
who have honored our luncheon today-a
way in which the leaders of governments
might disagree, but where the people,
and particularly the younger people of the
world, might still be friends. So we have
proceeded on these assumptions.
We have made some progress, but don't
let us overestimate it-and here is where
I come to the job that lies ahead. As far
as the People's Republic of China is con-
cerned, we have begun a dialogue. We
must now continue it, but it must be con-
tinued with no illusions that simply be-
cause we are talking that all the problems
will evaporate. They are strong people.
I am speaking now of the leaders as well
as the people that they lead. They are de-
termined. Their interests are different
from ours in many cases; in some cases
they are the same.
And only as each of us consult our
interests and find that they are compatible
will we get along. But the important thing
is to continue, and we believe we have the
experience, the know-how, to continue
this dialogue so that it can develop into
perhaps cooperation in the future.
Looking at the Soviet Union and our
relations there, look at some of the things
that have happened-they are significant.
A cooperative venture in space is on the
way, cooperation in the field of science, in
the field of the environment, in the field
of health, to which I will refer a little later,
cooperation also in the field of trade, in
which there will be significant announce-
ments at a later date as these various
agreements are reached, and cooperation,
perhaps most important of all, in the field
of arms control.
But let me take the last, which has
captured the imagination of the American
people the most, and put it in the context
of what this election is about.
Arms control is important. We have
agreed to a total ban, or agreement with
regard to the limitation I should say, of
defensive nuclear weapons. We have
agreed to a partial limitation on offensive
nuclear weapons. But the really hard nego-
tiations lie ahead. Those negotiations will
involve going forward on offensive nuclear
weapons, limiting them, in Phase 2, and
then, eventually, we trust, reducing them
so that these two great powers can reduce
the burden of arms which now rests upon
their peoples and thereby also potentially
reduce the danger of war.
It will not be easy. It was not easy to get
where we did. But in order to continue
from where we are, it is essential again
that we do it in a realistic, pragmatic,
nonsentimental way, because that is the
kind of men we are dealing with, and we
must be exactly that way in dealing with
them.
Now I come to the point, then, of why
the next 4 years are important. I am proud
of this record of the last 4 years. I wish
we could have done more. But we have
changed the world. A thaw has occurred
in the relations between the People's Re-
public of China and the United States.
An even greater thaw has occurred in rela-
tions between the United States and the
Soviet Union.
But you all know that the time of thaw
is one of either very great promise or one
928
