Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 4 [248]
Letter to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
on Pending Revenue Sharing and Welfare Reform
Legislation. August 3, 1972
Dear Elliot:
As you know, George Shultz is leading
the Administration's effort to obtain a
clean general revenue sharing bill.
I have been advised that the revenue
sharing proposal will probably be con-
sidered by the Senate prior to considera-
tion of H.R. 1. There is speculation that
some selected elements of H.R. 1 might
be amended to the revenue sharing bill. I
would strongly oppose such a move, be-
cause it could doom the possibility of real
welfare reform in this Congress and could
seriously jeopardize the revenue sharing
bill. As we proceed on general revenue
sharing, I would like you to make known
to the Senate leadership my reasons for
this position.
The H.R. I bill is likely to follow reve-
nue sharing to the Senate floor. After a
three year struggle, during which welfare
reform has twice been passed by the House
of Representatives, I am certain that the
Senate will carry out its public obligation
to consider and vote upon H.R. 1.
I remain firmly committed to welfare
reform and to revenue sharing, but they
should be passed and signed as separate
bills. The House-passed version of welfare
reform contains the major elements of our
original proposal:
-Strong work incentives and require-
ments;
-National eligibility standards and
minimum benefit standards;
-Coverage of the working poor;
-Fiscal relief for the States.
This legislation, by eventually bringing
under control the exploding costs of our
current wasteful welfare programs, is a
strong step forward toward the fiscal in-
tegrity we are determined to achieve.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington,
D.C. 20201]
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated August 2,
1972, was made available to the press on
August 3.
248 Statement About Signing a Bill Providing Emergency
Highway Repairs Following Tropical Storm Agnes
and the South Dakota Flood.
I AM gratified to have signed H.R.
15950, the first of the emergency measures
I have recommended to the Congress for
relief in those areas devastated by Tropical
Storm Agnes and the flood in Rapid City,
S. Dak.
This measure, which will add $150 mil-
lion to the normal $50 million program for
August 4, 1972
emergency highway repairs, is a most wel-
come and vitally needed aid program-
but it should be regarded only as a down
payment on the total disaster relief pro-
gram of $1.8 billion I proposed to the
Congress on July 17, 1972.
H.R. 15950 will give us a total of $200
million in this fiscal year and $100 million
761
