[347] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
ligious ties, who have faith in this country,
faith in their God, and who believe in
moral virtues.
Oh, you can call them old-fashioned,
but the day America loses its moral values,
its dedication to idealism and religion,
this will cease to be a great country. We
are not going to let that happen.
Ladies and gentlemen, related to that
point is the final one, and this is something
that is somewhat at times derided as
patriotism, as if patriotism were a bad
thing. Let me quote two southerners, one
known to the people of Georgia and the
people of the South as a southerner, and
one, of course, who was born in Virginia
and, therefore, was the last President of
the United States really to have a South-
ern background, Woodrow Wilson.
I remember when I first became Presi-
dent, Dick Russell ยน and I had a talk about
the Vietnam war. He hated war as much
as I did. He wanted to find a way to end
this war honorably as much as I did. But
when there were demonstrators by the
hundreds of thousands marching around
the White House, he came down to see
me and he said, "When my flag is com-
mitted, I am committed." That was his
attitude.
And Woodrow Wilson put it all in con-
text and at a different level when he spoke
at Constitution Hall in Philadelphia in
1912, on the Fourth of July, and he said:
A patriotic American is never so proud of
the flag under which he lives as when it
comes to mean to others, as well as to
himself, a symbol of hope and liberty and
freedom.
1 The late Richard Brevard Russell was
United States Senator from Georgia 1933-71.
That is the message I would leave with
you finally today. I would only say we are
proud of our record. We are proud not
only of what we have done in moving to-
ward a more peaceful world, in moving
toward a new prosperity without infla-
tion, without war, in moving toward prog-
ress and toward opportunity for all, but
there is much left to be done.
I want you to know that as I saw the
thousands of young people on the street
today-high school, grade school, some
college students, some were white, some
were black, all were American-I thought
my obligation and yours is to them and to
future generations.
As I see it, what I want is a world in
which the United States leads the way
toward peace and, remember, if we don't,
no other nation has the power to do so.
That is why I went to Peking. That is why
I went to Moscow. That is why I ask the
chance to continue on those great ini-
tiatives, so that we can build a world in
which young men will not have to fight
in another Vietnam or another Korea or
something like that.
And at home it means that we need
to continue, to continue to build a nation
in which the hatreds that divide us are
put aside, in which we have our dif-
ferences but we discuss them in an intel-
ligent, rational way, and in which we can
be lifted by our dreams and by our hopes
rather than divided by our fears and our
hatreds. That is the legacy we want to
leave.
I want to say to all of you, from all over
the South, some of you are Democrats,
some of you are Republicans, all of you are
Americans, all that I ask, as you go back
to your States, is take this message: Join
980
