[404] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
are going to vote for the national ticket,
for John Chafee, for your next Governor,
Governor DeSimone. I want to tell you
why.
This is not going to be a contest in
which the people of Rhode Island are
going to divide on partisan terms, Repub-
lican versus Democrat. It is going to be
a contest in which the people of Rhode
Island, like the people of this Nation, real-
ize that this is one of those elections when
what is best for America must come first,
and the new American majority, Demo-
crats and independents and Republicans
together, are going to give America the
leadership that we need in these next 4
years.
John Chafee has mentioned the subject
which is closest to my heart and closest to
the heart of all the people here. From the
time that I was at Quonset and came out
of Quonset as a naval officer, from the
time that I finished my service in World
War II, I have felt, as everyone in this
audience feels, a deep dedication to the
cause of peace.
I have realized that in this century this
great Nation has been involved in war in
every generation, and every time the war
ends, we think, now we can have peace.
But it has not been that way. The genera-
tion that fought in World War I saw their
sons fighting in World War II. The gen-
erations that fought in World War II saw
their younger brothers and some of their
sons fighting in Korea. The ones who
fought in Korea found their younger
brothers and some of their sons fighting
in Vietnam.
Let me say that is why we seek peace
in the world, but we seek peace with
honor, the kind of a peace that will lead
to a lasting peace and not peace with
surrender.
We have made a breakthrough in the
negotiations which will lead to peace. I
have referred to that breakthrough. I
want to summarize briefly where it stands
and to tell you why I am confident we
are going to reach the agreement which
will end this war and end it with honor
and without surrender.
First, we have reached agreement on
the three major principles that I laid
down in my speech of May 8. First, that
we are going to have a cease-fire through-
out Indochina, not just in Vietnam but
in Cambodia and Laos. We have agreed
on that.
Second, we have an agreement that all
of the American POW's will be returned
and our MIA's will be accounted for
wherever they are in Indochina.
Third, we have reached agreement on
the principle that the people of South
Vietnam shall determine their future
without having a Communist government
or a coalition government imposed upon
them against their will.
What is left to be done is to work out
some details on which there are still dif-
ferences. Details, however, are important.
They must be worked out in the right
way, because we are not going to have a
repetition of what we had in 1968, when,
with the best of intentions, the United
States agreed to a bombing halt and when
there was misunderstanding because the
details were not worked out.
We are working out those details; we
will work them out. We will succeed. But
the most important thing is we are going
to end this war and end it in a way that
will lay the foundation for real peace
in the years to come. That is what all
Americans want.
Now, may I say a word about the role
that you can play and the role that John
1108
