Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
interned in a neutral country, a pro-
posal supported by the U.S. Govern-
ment on the same date at the Paris
Peace Talks.
On April 29, 1971 South Vietnam
offered to return 570 sick and
wounded North Vietnamese pris-
oners to North Vietnam and to in-
tern in a neutral country 1,200 North
Vietnamese prisoners held four years
or longer.
-On November 1, 1971 on the occa-
sion of President Thieu's inaugura-
tion, it announced the freeing of
almost 3,000 Viet Cong prisoners of
war in South Vietnam.
We have reinforced these initiatives:
special envoys, such as Astronaut Frank
Borman and Postmaster General Blount,
have gone abroad to seek support for
proper POW treatment; a dramatic res-
cue attempt was made at Son Tay in
November 1970.
We have explored all possible channels
and all responsible means of gaining free-
dom for the men. I have reaffirmed my
personal commitment. In meeting with a
group of POW/MIA families on Sep-
tember 28, 1971, I told them:
"... I have considered the problem of
obtaining the release of our POW's and
missing in action as being one that has
Presidential priority.
"I can assure you that every negotiat-
ing channel . . . including many private
channels that have not yet been disclosed,
have been pursued, are being pursued,
and will be pursued. . . ."
Despite the other side's behavior thus
far, this Administration will continue to
use every means to press for proper treat-
ment and prompt release of all Americans
held in captivity. I have said that Ameri-
cans in significant numbers will remain in
South Vietnam until we secure the release
of our imprisoned men.
At the same time, we will continue to
work for a responsible settlement to the
Indochina conflict which will give the
people of that area the opportunity to
determine freely their own future and
speed the return of all our men to their
families.
South Vietnam's Growing Capacity
To Protect Itself
Public attention naturally has focused
on the withdrawal of American forces, the
transfer of combat responsibilities to the
South Vietnamese and the resulting de-
cline in American involvement. But this
is only one aspect of Vietnamization; there
are psychological, political, and economic
dimensions as well as military ones.
The Vietnamization program in its
broadest sense means establishing security
and winning allegiance in the countryside;
developing responsive political institu-
tions; managing a war-torn economy and
steering it toward longer range develop-
ment. Progress in these efforts will deter-
mine South Vietnam's future.
As the withdrawal of most American
forces from Vietnam has proceeded, we
have seen to it that those remaining are
not jeopardized by North Vietnamese
efforts to build up their strength and
launch new offensives. We continue to
work closely with the other countries who
have had troops in Vietnam: Australia,
Korea, New Zealand, and Thailand.
These nations are also withdrawing their
forces as South Vietnam's defense capa-
bilities grow.
Much of the progress in 1971 can be
traced to the disruption of the enemy's
network in southern Laos a year ago, just
as similar operations in Cambodia two
281
