[46] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
important step forward in an area which
has been of great public concern. Because
I share that concern, I am pleased to give
my approval to this bill.
47
Statement About the Death
E. Thompson. February 7,
THE DEATH of Ambassador Llewellyn
E. Thompson deprives the Nation—and,
indeed, the entire world-of one of its
wisest and most experienced counselors in
statecraft.
He served a succession of Presidents
with consummate skill in the arts of
diplomacy.
I was particularly indebted to him when
he came out of well-earned retirement to
advise me personally, on the crucial SALT
talks, and to participate in the early nego-
tiating sessions as a member of the U.S.
Delegation.
I deeply regret the passing of this great
public servant, who contributed so much
to the successes of American foreign policy
48
NOTE: As enacted, S. 382 is Public Law 92-225
(86 Stat. 3).
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement summarizing the provisions
of the act.
of Ambassador Llewellyn
1972
over the past generation.
Mrs. Nixon and I join Ambassador
Thompson's wife and children—and his
many friends, colleagues, and admirers in
Washington and around the world-in
mourning this grave loss to the Nation.
NOTE: Ambassador Thompson, 67, died of can-
cer at the Clinical Center of the National In-
stitutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., on Febru-
ary 6, 1972. He had served as Ambassador to
the Soviet Union from 1957 to 1962 and from
1967 to 1969, Ambassador at Large, Depart-
ment of State, from 1962 to 1967, and member
of the United States delegation to the strate-
gic arms limitation talks from 1969 to 1972.
Secretary of State William P. Rogers repre-
sented the President at funeral services for the
Ambassador.
Statement on Signing the Foreign Assistance Act of
1971. February 7, 1972
I HAVE today signed S. 2819, the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1971. That act author-
izes appropriations for our international
development assistance programs until
June 30, 1973, and for the remainder of
foreign aid activities, including interna-
tional security
security assistance programs,
through June 30, 1972.
Viewed against the vital national ob-
jectives which our foreign assistance pro-
grams are designed to pursue, the act is a
great disappointment. It severely cuts the
amounts requested by the Administration
for development assistance and security
assistance and is below minimum accept-
able levels. It does not include the major
reform proposals that I sent to the Con-
gress in April of last year.
Moreover, the bill reaches my desk
more than halfway through the fiscal year,
delayed by legislative entanglements re-
sulting from the attachment in committee
of an unprecedented number of restrictive
and non-germane amendments, some of
which raise grave constitutional questions.
While many were modified or removed in
166
