[276] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
is conducting any investigation on this
matter, and conducting it very, very
thoroughly, because he doesn't want any
evidence at all to be outstanding, indicat-
ing that we have not complied with the
law.
INVESTIGATIONS OF POLITICAL CONTRIBU-
TIONS AND WATERGATE CASE
[2.] Q. Mr. President, wouldn't it be
a good idea for a special prosecutor, even
from your standpoint, to be appointed to
investigate the contribution situation and
also the Watergate case?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to who
is investigating it now, I think it would
be well to notice that the FBI is conduct-
ing a full field investigation. The Depart-
ment of Justice, of course, is in charge of
the prosecution and presenting the matter
to the grand jury. The Senate Banking
and Currency Committee is conducting an
investigation. The Government Account-
ing Office, an independent agency, is con-
ducting an investigation of those aspects
which involve the campaign spending law.
Now, with all of these investigations that
are being conducted, I don't believe that
adding another special prosecutor would
serve any useful purpose.
The other point that I should make is
that these investigations, the investigation
by the GAO, the investigation by the FBI,
by the Department of Justice, have, at my
direction, had the total cooperation of
the-not only the White House-but also
of all agencies of the Government. In
addition to that, within our own staff,
under my direction, Counsel to the Presi-
dent, Mr. Dean, has conducted a com-
plete investigation of all leads which
might involve any present members of
the White House Staff or anybody in the
Government. I can say categorically that
his investigation indicates that no one in
the White House Staff, no one in this Ad-
ministration, presently employed, was in-
volved in this very bizarre incident.
At the same time, the committee itself
is conducting its own investigation, in-
dependent of the rest, because the com-
mittee desires to clear the air and to be
sure that as far as any people who have
responsibility for this campaign are con-
cerned, that there is nothing that hangs
over them. Before Mr. Mitchell left as
campaign chairman he had employed a
very good law firm with investigatory ex-
perience to look into the matter. Mr.
MacGregor¹ has continued that investiga-
tion and is continuing it now. I will say
in that respect that anyone on the cam-
paign committee, Mr. MacGregor has
assured me, who does not cooperate with
the investigation or anyone against whom
charges are leveled where there is a prima
facie case that those charges might in-
dicate involvement will be discharged
immediately. That, of course, will be true
also of anybody in the Government. I
think under these circumstances we are
doing everything we can to take this in-
cident and to investigate it and not to
cover it up. What really hurts in matters
of this sort is not the fact that they occur,
because overzealous people in campaigns
do things that are wrong. What really
hurts is if you try to cover it up. I would
say that here we are, with control of the
agencies of the Government and presum-
ably with control of the investigatory
1 Clark MacGregor was campaign director,
Committee for the Re-Election of the Presi-
dent, from July to November 1972.
828
