[327] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
they must have been. We saw replicas of
the ships in which they moved. They were
Poles and Italians and Germans. They
were people from other continents.
Then as I come to San Francisco I think
of the people that have come to this shore,
not only come to this shore from across the
Pacific, but have come here from across
the continent, the strong people that they
were. But the greatness of it all is that
America, and particularly San Francisco,
is all the world in one place. That has
brought a rich diversity to our country
and particularly to this city. It has brought
hard work and determination, but it has
also brought something else, something
else that is enormously important if we are
going to be able to carry forward with the
kind of responsible leadership in the world
that America must have in the years
ahead.
I find that those who have come to
America from other countries, or second
generation or even third, have a deep ap-
preciation of this country that sometimes
those of us who live here have not had. I
think of the time at the Bohemian Grove
5 years ago when a man celebrated what
he said was his 45th birthday.ยน
Now, George Mardikian, 5 years ago,
was much older than 45, but he called it
1 The Bohemian Grove was a redwood grove
in northern California owned by the Bohemian
Club of San Francisco and site of the club's
annual encampment. The club's members are
nationally known artists in music, theater, and
all the arts, as well as distinguished civic, busi-
ness, and professional leaders in California
and other parts of the United States. George
Mardikian, author and restaurateur, was
member of the club.
his 45th birthday because that was the
year that he became a citizen of the United
States. I remember the tears in his eyes
as he spoke of America. And there were
tears in our eyes, too.
As I have participated in citizenship
ceremonies over these last years as Presi-
dent of the United States, in Chicago, in
New York, have welcomed new citizens, I
see the pride in their faces, how proud
they are to be American citizens.
Let me say to our young people today:
Sure, there are some things wrong with
this country, but there is so very much
right about it. One of the great things that
is right about it is that you are participat-
ing in this process in a peaceful way. Oh,
there are other ways. You can get out and
try to shout down a speaker, but the way
to do it is the way that you are doing it,
participating, listening to the candidates,
and supporting the candidates of your
choice.
But the most important thing that I
want to tell you is this: I have spoken of
the world. Along with Mrs. Nixon, we
have visited most of the countries of the
world, in fact, over 80. And every time you
come back to the United States you know
that the people fortunate enough to live
here are the most fortunate people in the
world. This is a great country. Let's never
forget that.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:40 p.m. at a
Republican fundraising luncheon in the Garden
Court Restaurant of the Sheraton Palace Hotel.
He spoke without referring to notes.
Otto N. Miller was chairman of the "Victory
"72" luncheon. David Packard, Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense 1969-71, was chairman of the
Committee for the Re-Election of the President
in northern California.
932
