[74] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
which also would amend Medicare
and Medicaid in several significant
ways.
THE NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
PARTNERSHIP ACT
This proposal for a comprehensive na-
tional health insurance program, in which
the public and private sector would join,
would guarantee that no American family
would have to forego needed medical at-
tention because of inability to pay.
My plan would fill gaps in our present
health insurance coverage. But, beyond
that, it would redirect our entire system
to better and more efficient ways of bring-
ing health care to our people.
There are two critical parts of this Act:
1. The National Health Insurance
Standards Act would require employers to
provide adequate health insurance for
their employees, who would share in
underwriting its costs. This approach fol-
lows precedents of long-standing under
which personal security-and thus na-
tional economic progress-has been en-
hanced by requiring employers to provide
minimum wages and disability and retire-
ment benefits and to observe occupational
health and safety standards.
Required coverages would include not
less than $50,000 protection against cata-
strophic costs for each family member;
hospital services; physician services both in
and out of a hospital; maternity care;
well-baby care (including immuniza-
tions); laboratory expenses and certain
other costs.
The proposed package would include
certain deductibles and coinsurance fea-
tures, which would help keep costs down
by encouraging the use of more efficient
health care procedures.
It would permit many workers, as an
alternative to paying separate fees for serv-
ices, to purchase instead memberships in
a Health Maintenance Organization. The
fact that workers and unions would have a
direct economic stake in the program
would serve as an additional built-in in-
centive for avoiding unnecessary costs and
yet maintaining high quality.
The national standards prescribed,
moreover, would necessarily limit the
range within which benefits could vary.
This provision would serve to sharpen
competition and cost-consciousness among
insurance companies seeking to provide
coverage at the lowest overall cost.
Any time the Federal Government, in
effect, prescribes and guarantees certain
things it must take the necessary follow-
through steps to assure that the interests
of consumers and taxpayers are fully
protected.
Accordingly, legislative proposals have
been submitted to the Congress within re-
cent weeks for regulating private health
insurance companies, in order to assure
that they can and will do the job, and that
insurance will be offered at reasonable
rates. In addition, States would be re-
quired to provide group-rate coverage for
people such as the self-employed and
special groups who do not qualify for other
plans.
2. Another vital step in my proposed
program is the Family Health Insurance
Plan (FHIP) which would meet the needs
of poor families not covered by the Na-
tional Health Insurance Standards Act
because they are headed by unemployed
or self-employed persons whose income is
below certain levels. For a family of four,
the ceiling for eligibility would be an an-
nual income of $5,000. FHIP would re-
place that portion of Medicaid designed
388
