Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [324]
for that matter, who might want to visit
them from the United States of America.
I want you to know all the people of the
world. Even though we may have differ-
ences in government, let's not let the
differences between governments keep
people, and particularly young people,
from being friends.
I want every young person in this coun-
try to have real prosperity. That means
full employment without war and without
inflation. It means also opportunity, op-
portunity for every American, regardless
of his background, but opportunity that is
not limited by putting you in a quota so
that you can't go as high as your talents
are going to take you. And there is some-
thing else that I want for this younger
generation as you vote for the first time. I
tried to say it in Miami when I said that I
hoped that this first vote of yours you
might look back upon as being one of
best.
your
In another way I would like to say this:
It has been very distressing to me from
time to time as I have talked to audiences
across this country to find that some of our
young people had lost confidence in Amer-
ica. Some of them have felt that this was
not a good country to be living in, that this
was a poor time to be alive and particu-
larly a poor time to be alive in America.
Above everything else in this campaign
and in those next 4 years you have talked
about so well, I want you to be proud of
America and proud of our role in the
world. This is a great country, and let's
always remember that.
It is news when a few young Americans
try to obstruct or disrupt some meeting
that is being held, like this. It is bigger
news, in my opinion, when millions of
young Americans are doing what they
are doing this year, peacefully supporting
the candidate of their choice in a Presi-
dential election.
I say, let's make it the biggest news of
all by having a majority of young Ameri-
cans join a majority of older Americans
in winning a great victory for America this
November.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:21 p.m. in
the Imperial Ballroom of the Americana Hotel.
He spoke without referring to notes. His re-
marks were broadcast live on closed-circuit
television to similar Republican fundraising
dinners in 28 cities.
Vice President Spiro T. Agnew was the
principal speaker at the dinner in Chicago and
introduced the President from there.
324 Statement About Action To Combat Terrorism.
September 27, 1972
MONDAY, here in New York, Secretary
of State Rogers urged prompt action by
the United Nations on three measures to
combat the inhuman wave of terrorism
that has been loosed on the world. I am
gratified that the United Nations has
agreed to take up the urgent matter of
terrorism, and-in the strongest possible
terms-I endorse the plea which the Sec-
retary made on behalf of the United States
and of human decency.
Also Monday, in Washington, I di-
rected the establishment of a Cabinet
Committee to Combat Terrorism-to be
chaired by Secretary Rogers-aimed at
bringing the full resources of all appro-
priate United States agencies to bear effec-
tively on the task of eliminating terrorism
921
