Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
pose that a voluntary United Nations
Fund for the Environment be established,
with an initial funding goal of $100 mil-
lion for the first 5 years.
This Fund would help to stimulate in-
ternational cooperation on environmental
problems by supporting a centralized co-
ordination point for United Nations activ-
ities in this field. It would also help to
bring new resources to bear on the increas-
ing number of worldwide problems
through activities such as monitoring and
cleanup of the oceans and atmosphere.
-If such a Fund is established, I will
recommend to the Congress that the
United States commit itself to provide its
fair share of the Fund on a matching basis
over the first 5 years.
This level of support would provide
start-up assistance under mutually agreed-
upon terms. As these programs get under-
way, it may well be that the member na-
tions will decide that additional resources
are required. I invite other nations to join
with us in this commitment to meaningful
action.
CONTROL OF MARINE POLLUTION
Ocean pollution is clearly one of our
major international environmental prob-
lems. I am gratified that in the past year
the Congress has taken several steps to re-
duce the risks of oil spills on the high seas.
However, further congressional action is
needed to ratify several pending interna-
tional conventions and to adopt imple-
menting legislation for the various oil-spill
conventions which have been ratified or
which are awaiting approval.
Action on these recommendations will
complete the first round of international
conventions to deal with marine pollution.
We have taken initiatives in three inter-
national forums to develop a second and
more sophisticated round of agreements in
this area. We are preparing for a 1973
Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative
Organization (IMCO) Conference to
draft a convention barring intentional dis-
charges to the sea of oil and hazardous
substances from ships. In conjunction with
the Law of the Sea Conference scheduled
for 1973, we are examining measures to
control the effects of developing undersea
resources. And, in the preparatory work
for the 1972 U.N. Conference on the Hu-
man Environment, progress has been
made on an agreement to regulate the
ocean dumping of shore-generated wastes,
and further work in this area has been
scheduled by IMCO. We hope to con-
clude conventions in each of these areas
by 1973.
PROTECTING CHILDREN FROM LEAD-
BASED PAINT
To many Americans, "environment"
means the city streets where they live and
work. It is here that a localized but acutely
dangerous type of "pollution" has ap-
peared and stirred mounting public
concern.
The victims are children: the hazard is
lead-based paint. Such paint was applied
to the walls of most dwellings prior to the
1950's. When the paint chips and peels
from the walls in dilapidated housing, it is
frequently eaten by small children. This
sometimes results in lead poisoning which
can cause permanent mental retardation
and occasionally death. We can and must
prevent unnecessary loss of life and
health from this hazard, which particu-
larly afflicts the poorest segments of our
population.
To help meet the lead-paint threat, the
187
