Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [312]
by establishing a much improved system
of survivors benefits for the wives and
children of military retirees.
Flowing from the recommendation of
an interagency committee I established in
1971,
this new law will permit military re-
tirees-at a reasonable cost shared by the
Federal Government-to provide better
benefits for their survivors. The benefits
will range up to 55 percent of the mem-
ber's retired pay to a surviving spouse and
will include benefits for dependent chil-
dren. The payments will be adjusted ac-
cording to the Consumer Price Index so
that their purchasing power will be
steadily maintained.
This will replace a present survivors
benefit system offering lesser benefits at a
cost which must be borne entirely by each
individual retiree.
Many times in the past, men who have
devoted their lifetimes to careers in the
uniformed services have died soon after
their retirement, without having either
enjoyed their earned retirement them-
selves or being able to pass a significant
portion of that earned right on to their
surviving families.
To help remedy the hardships caused
in the past by this deficiency in the retire-
ment system, this legislation also permits
those who have already retired from the
service to elect to participate in this pro-
gram and provide coverage for their
survivors.
Nine hundred thousand persons now
retired as well as all those who retire
from armed services careers from now
on-will be eligible to participate in this
program. The extra security and peace of
mind which it will afford them and their
loyal, self-sacrificing families, at the end of
a job well done, are richly earned. I am
most gratified to be able to approve this
legislation.
312 Remarks to Customs Agents and Inspectors After a
Tour of the Laredo, Texas, Customs Facility.
September 22, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I want to take this opportunity while I
am on the border here at Laredo to ex-
press the appreciation of the American
people and the appreciation, too, of the
people of Mexico for the work that our
people in the Customs group are doing.
As I have walked among you, I haven't
had the chance to shake hands with you
and to thank each of you, but when I see
men who have served 30 years, 32 years—
in fact, one was here when I came across
this border on our honeymoon in 1940, 32
years ago—I think of how devoted your
service has been to this country, and you
have the gratitude of all.
Right at the present time, of course, the
primary emphasis, as far as the American
public is concerned, is the drive against
narcotics, and particularly heroin, and I
know all the work that you are doing in
this particular field. Let me say that in
that respect you have the total backing of
the Federal Government and you also
have the total backing of the American
people.
Now, I realize that when you see a
movie or one of those television specials
87-234-74- -60
885
