Appendix E
General Schulz retired from the military in
December of 1962. He plans to remain in
Washington.
Also, the President accepts with personal
regret the resignation of Desmond J. Barker, Jr.,
as Special Assistant to the President, who has
served the President most effectively in a variety
of assignments over the past few years. Des
Barker will be returning to Utah and to private
life.
George T. Bell, Special Assistant to the
President, also will be returning to private life.
George Bell has handled a wide-ranging variety
of responsibilities. The President has com-
mended George Bell for his competence and ex-
presses appreciation both for his contribution to
the Administration and for his friendship over
the years.
Mark I. Goode, Special Assistant to the
President, who has served as a consultant to
the President, as most of you know, on com-
munications matters, has expressed for some
time that he intended to leave the Government
after the first term. The President is accepting
Mark's resignation with deep regret and, of
course, wishes him, as he does the other indi-
viduals I have mentioned, well in their return
to private life.
I should add that men like Mark Goode,
of course, and others will be available and have
said that they would be available to the Presi-
dent for consultations as we proceed in the
second term.
Just as we are talking about the White House
Staff, for the purpose of reminding you, others
who served on the White House Staff in the
first term and have now received new appoint-
ments and new responsibilities, of course, are
Donald Rumsfeld, whom we announced would
be nominated to become Ambassador
NATO; Ed Morgan, who is going to the
Treasury Department; John Whitaker is going
to the Interior Department; Bud Krogh to
Transportation; and Ron Walker to the In-
terior Department.
to
Previously we have made the point that
Harry Dent, for example, is returning to pri-
vate life; Chuck Colson is returning to private
life; Bob Brown and Bob Finch, we have also
announced their plans to return to private
life.
So I wanted to review that for you today
because as we have been making announce-
ments regarding the various departments, we
are also proceeding with discussions with indi-
viduals on the White House Staff regarding
their intentions and want to bring you up to
date as to where we stand on that.
As President Nixon pointed out at Camp
David, and this does not relate to individuals
I referred to, but during this process of change
that is taking place with new assignments
being given and new responsibilities being
given in some cases, and also taking into ac-
count the fact that some individuals plan to
leave Government throughout this process, you
will see a continuing reduction of the number
of personnel within the Executive Office of the
President.
Now, finally, President Nixon is very pleased
to announce today that he will appoint Mrs.
Anne Armstrong, who is cochairman of the
Republican National Committee, to be Counsel-
lor to the President. This appointment will be
effective upon completion of her tenure as
cochairman of the Republican National Com-
mittee. That takes place on January 19, 1973.
The President expects that Mrs. Armstrong
will bring an articulate voice and great creative
energy to the highest councils of government.
She will be a full member of the President's
Cabinet, as previous Counsellors have been.
Anne Armstrong's counsel will include a
wide range of domestic issues, among which
will be an effective advocacy of increasing the
role of women in government policymaking and
government operations. But she will concen-
trate, of course, on other matters which the
President will assign to her. We will give you
biographical information on Anne Armstrong,
as well as the others I have mentioned.
Just briefly, Mrs. Armstrong has been co-
chairman of the Republican National Com-
mittee since January of 1971 and has served
as Republican committeewoman for Texas
since 1968. She is married to Tobin Armstrong,
also from Texas. She is the first woman Cabi-
net member since Mrs. Oveta Hobby held the
post of Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare in the Eisenhower Administration
from 1953 to 1955.
E-20
