[315] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
They didn't run around to the rich busi-
nessmen and say, "Look, will you pay our
way?" They didn't go to some founda-
tion and say, "Look, will you put up the
money for us?" They decided to earn their
way,
and for a year they washed cars, they
did babysitting, they did all sorts of what
are called menial chores in order to earn
the money so that they could come to
Washington. As a matter of fact, they even
went into business. They made tamales
and then they went house to house and
sold those good Texas tamales for 50 cents
apiece and they kept building up the kitty
so that they could go.
Then, finally, on April 21, 1971, they
stood in the Rose Garden on a beautiful
spring day, proud because they had
earned their way, and I stepped out and
talked to them for a few minutes, and as
I talked to them and I looked at them—
young, idealistic, from working families
for the most part-I realized they had the
stuff that made this country great from
several different standpoints.
I mentioned the fact that most of them
were of Mexican background. You know,
I often hear people say, "That fellow is a
Mexican or this one is an Italian or this
one may be a Jew or this one may be a
Catholic or this one may be a Pole or this
one may be a German." Let me tell
my attitude. They may have that kind of
background, but to me every one of them
is an American first, last, and always.
you
As I came back into the White House
that day, one of the members of my staff
said, "Isn't it a shame that those poor kids
had to work all year in order to make that
trip? Why couldn't one of those rich
Texas oilmen put up the money so that
they could come? Why didn't some foun-
dation do it so that they could have had
an easier time? Wouldn't it have been
better?" And my answer was, "Not at all.”
Because they told us something about the
strength of America. They wanted to earn
their way. They didn't want something
for nothing, and that is the kind of spirit
we need in America if we are going to
meet the challenges that face America
today.
When we think of Texas, we think of a
State that is primarily Protestant, with a
rather heavy Mexican population. Did
you know that within 50 miles of where
you sit tonight there is a German settle-
ment, there is a Polish settlement, there is
one that was founded by a Jewish group,
there is another that is Czechoslovakian?
Of course, there are some that are Mexi-
can and some of other groups. In fact, 26
different nationalities are represented
within 100 miles of where we sit. That is
Texas.
What is America? I have traveled, along
with my wife, to most of the countries of
the world, over 80, and when you really
think of America, America is a great
country because all of the nations of the
world are right here, and we have taken
the diversity, the qualifications, the char-
acter, the richness of all and have molded
them into a great people.
What we must remember as we build
America for the future is how we be-
came what we did. And what we must
remember is that those who came to these
shores, and then those who, after they
came to the eastern shore, moved across
these prairies into Texas and then across
the mountains into California, they were
strong people, they were good people, they
had character. Let's not destroy the char-
acter of the American people today. Let's
keep it strong.
I said to you at the outset that instead
of calling this organization "Democrats
898
