Appendix B
April
May
20 Representative Cliffard D. Carlson, newly
elected Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives from Illinois, called on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
20 Members of the American Society of News-
paper Editors attending the society's an-
nual meeting in Washington were guests of
the President and Mrs. Nixon at a recep-
tion at the White House.
25 The President hosted a dinner for Members
of Congress who are retiring from the
Congress.
25 The White House announced that Henry
A. Kissinger had been in Moscow April
20-24 to confer with Soviet leaders prior
to the President's trip.
26 Minister of Foreign Affairs Yong Shik Kim
of Korea met with the President at the
White House.
26 The White House announced that the
President had sent letters to the chairmen
of six Congressional committees responsi-
ble for legislation outlined in the Presi-
dent's environmental message. The letters
urged action on legislation in the areas
of marine protection, noise control, toxic
substances control, powerplant siting, ports
and waterways safety, national land use
policy, mined area protection, national re-
source lands management, and Federal
environmental pesticide control.
26 The President met with Herbert F. De-
Simone, Assistant Secretary of Transporta-
tion, who is resigning effective May 20.
29 Mrs. Nixon represented the President at
the annual dinner of the White House
Correspondents Association at the Washing-
ton Hilton Hotel.
May
I In observance of National Secretaries Week,
the President greeted a group of White
House secretaries in the Rose Garden to
thank them for their work in the White
House.
1 Ambassador Gerard C. Smith, head of the
United States delegation to the strategic
arms limitation talks, met with the Presi-
dent and senior advisers at the White
House. After the meeting, Press Secretary
Ronald L. Ziegler announced that "the
President has today directed Ambassador
Smith to return to Helsinki with new in-
structions, which, together with the new in-
structions he is confident the Soviet repre-
sentative will receive from his government,
can lead to an agreement which is mutually
acceptable to both sides."
I The White House released the report of the
emergency board created by Executive
Order 11663 on March 31, 1972, to investi-
gate the dispute between the carriers rep-
resented by the National Railway Labor
Conference and certain of their employees
represented by the Sheet Metal Workers'
International Association (AFL-CIO).
2 The President participated in a White
House swearing-in ceremony for Lt. Gen.
Vernon A. Walters, USA, as Deputy Direc-
tor of the Central Intelligence Agency.
2 Members of the Rebild Society of Denmark,
an organization devoted to promoting
Danish-American friendship, called on the
President at the White House.
3 The President has designated Dr. Merlin
K. DuVal, Assistant Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare for Health and
Scientific Affairs, to head the U.S. delega-
tion to the 25th World Health Assembly in
Geneva, Switzerland, from May 9-26, 1972.
4 The President met with L. Patrick Gray
III, Acting Director of the FBI, and Mrs.
Gray at the White House after attending
funeral services for J. Edgar Hoover.
4 Frank E. Fitzsimmons, president of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
and three vice presidents of the union called
on the President at the White House.
4 Entertainer Ray Conniff met with the Presi-
Ident in his office in the Executive Office
Building.
87-234-74-79
B-7
