Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
for Lao forces when requested by the
Government. We also provide economic
assistance to control inflation, support
essential Government services, and assist
economic development.
In Cambodia, we have given military
assistance since April 1970 and economic
assistance and PL 480 programs since
March 1971. With the approval of the
government we are also conducting air
interdiction missions against enemy per-
sonnel and supplies that are, or can be,
used in offensives against American and
allied forces in South Vietnam.
South Vietnam Has Mounted Defen-
sive Operations Against North Viet-
namese Forces in Their Laotian and
Cambodian Base Areas. I have already
described the purposes of these operations
and noted the increasing South Vietnam-
ese capabilities that they have demon-
strated. In Cambodia, operations are at
the request of the Government and serve
to relieve enemy pressures against Cam-
bodia as well as South Vietnam. In Laos,
the South Vietnamese operations were
strictly limited in objective and duration.
It is senseless to claim that these opera-
tions against enemy sanctuaries serve to
widen the Vietnam war. Not a single
South Vietnamese soldier has gone any-
where except where tens of thousands of
North Vietnamese troops have been en-
trenched for years, violating one country's
territory to attack another. It is Hanoi
which widened the conflict long ago.
As I said in last year's Foreign Policy
Report:
"The arguments against South Viet-
nam's defensive actions suggest that Hanoi
has the right--without provocation and
with complete immunity-to send its
forces into Laos and Cambodia, threaten
their governments, and prepare to bring
its full strength to bear on South Vietnam
itself.
"The choice for South Vietnam is not
between limiting and expanding the war.
It is between what it is doing in self-
defense and passively watching the
menace grow along its borders."
The presence and activities of North
Vietnamese troops in Laos and Cambodia
are indefensible. Nevertheless, we can ex-
pect the Lao and Cambodian peoples to
be subjected to additional attacks as Hanoi
pursues its aims in the region. These coun-
tries ask nothing but to be left alone to
shape their own destinies. They have dem-
onstrated their courage, and their deter-
mination to try to provide for their own
defense. Together with others, we shall
continue to provide the support that will
help to sustain them in their struggle.
I once again appeal to the other side to
join in the search for peace in Indochina.
Proposals now on the negotiating table
could end this conflict on a basis that
would respect the sacrifices of all
participants.
It is long past time to still the sound of
war, to return the men of both sides to
their families, and to devote the energies
of all to the fruitful tasks of peace.
MIDDLE EAST
"What I am saying to you today is not
that I predict a Mideastern settlement. I
do say that it is in the interests of both
major powers, the Soviet Union and the
United States, not to allow that very ex-
plosive part of the world to drive them
into a confrontation that neither of them
289
