Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 16 [351]
some as being lacking in compassion. Let
me tell you why I have taken the position
that I have.
Two and a half million young Ameri-
cans, when faced with the necessity of
serving their country in Vietnam in war,
which no one really wants-no one wants
to go to war, wants to risk his life if he
doesn't have to-but two and a half mil-
lion young Americans, when faced with
that responsibility to choose, chose to
serve their country. Thousands of them
died for their choice. Hundreds of them,
your loved ones, are missing in action or
are POW's.
And I say that when thousands of
Americans died for their choice and hun-
dreds are now POW's or missing in action
for their choice, it would be the most im-
moral thing I could think of to give am-
nesty to draft dodgers and those who
deserted the United States.
Your loved ones have and are paying
a price for their choice, and those who
deserted America will pay a price for their
choice.
And now I am here also to thank you.
The hardest decision I have made since
becoming President of the United States
was made on May 8 of this year. You will
recall the circumstances. A Moscow sum-
mit was upcoming after having finished
the Chinese summit. There were great
hopes for an arms control agreement and
other agreements that would perhaps
reduce the danger of war in the world.
At that time, a massive Communist in-
vasion took place of South Vietnam from
North Vietnam. We were faced with the
specter of defeat. And I had to make a
choice, a choice of accepting that defeat
and going to Moscow hat in hand, or of
acting to prevent it. I acted.
As you recall, I made the decision to
mine the harbors, to bomb military targets
in North Vietnam. That decision was the
right decision militarily. It has been effec-
tive. And those who predicted that it
would lead to the dissolution of the sum-
mit and its failure proved to be wrong.
But let me tell you what happened im-
mediately after that decision. It is often
said that when a President makes a hard
decision, the so-called opinion leaders of
this country can be counted upon to stand
beside him, regardless of party.
Who are the opinion leaders? Well,
they are supposed to be the leaders of the
media, the great editors and publishers
and television commentators and the rest.
They are supposed to be the presidents
of our universities and the professors and
the rest, those who have the educational
background to understand the importance
of great decisions and the necessity to
stand by the President of the United
States when he makes a terribly difficult
and potentially unpopular decision. They
are supposed to be some of our top busi-
nessmen who also have this kind of back-
ground.
Let me tell you that when that deci-
sion was made there was precious little
support from any of the so-called opinion
leaders of this country that I have just
described.
But what was the most heartwarming
thing to me was that those who had so
much at stake, those who had suffered so
much, the great majority of those whose
husbands and loved ones are POW's or
MIA's, stood by that decision, and I thank
you very much for that support.
As I am sure you know, I would not
have made that decision unless I thought
it would contribute to our goal of achiev-
ing an honorable peace in Vietnam. I
would not have made it unless I thought
987
