Richard Nixon, 1972
July 26 [238]
"Those who increase spending beyond
that amount will be responsible for
causing more inflation."
Since that time, various Congressional
actions and inactions have heavily under-
scored all of the reasons I then made for
speedy passage of a spending ceiling.
Such a ceiling cannot be completely
effective unless the Congress enacts it as
I have requested-without exceptions and
without loopholes. But if the Congress
fails to do this, I do not propose to sit by
and silently watch individual family budg-
ets destroyed by rising prices and rising
taxes-the inevitable end to spending of
this magnitude.
With or without the cooperation of the
Congress, I am going to do everything
within my power to prevent such a fiscal
crisis for millions of our people.
Let there be no misunderstanding: If
bills come to my desk calling for excessive
spending which threatens the Federal
budget, I will veto them.
It is now generally recognized that the
national economy is in a period of vigor-
ous expansion. The Gross National Pro-
duct soared at an annual growth rate of
8.9 percent in the second quarter of the
year-the best such increase since 1965.
About 22 million additional civilian jobs
have been added in the last year.
We do not plan to reduce or restrict
the very substantial fiscal stimulation we
have already provided. But further mas-
sive Federal stimulation of the economy
at this time-whatever its superficial po-
litical attractiveness-is certain to lead to
the kind of inflation that even wage-price
control machinery would find impossible
to restrain.
In other words, the American people
will have to pay, and pay quickly, for
excessive Federal spending-either by
higher taxes or by higher consumer prices,
or both. Such an intolerable burden would
shortly cause an end to the period of eco-
nomic growth on which we are embarked.
There are desirable features in some of
the individual bills now pending in the
Congress, but to them have been attached
some very excessive spending proposals.
The Federal Government cannot do
everything that might be desirable. Hard
choices must be made by the Congress
in the national interest, just as a family
must decide what it will buy with the
money it has. Moreover, the experience of
past decade proved that merely throw-
ing money at problems does not auto-
matically or necessarily solve the
problems.
the
I have every confidence that the Amer-
ican people, in this era of wide public
awareness of inflation and wide public op-
position to its clear causes, understand
these realities about Federal spending.
I believe that all of us, the President
and the Congress, have a clear duty to
protect the national interest in general
prosperity-and therefore to resist temp-
tations to overspend for desirable special
programs, or to spend for partisan politi-
cal advantage.
I favor and have submitted to the Con-
gress responsible and effective programs
designed to cleanse the air, to purify the
water, to develop and preserve rural
America, to improve education, and for
many other worthy purposes. No individ-
ual and no political party has a monopoly
on its concern for the people, individually
and in groups. But I am required always
to ask:
What is best for all the people? What
are the hard choices that must be made
so that the general welfare is secured?
743
