[168] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
guided unswervingly by these principles in our
practical activities. The Soviet Union, together
with the countries of the Socialist community
and all other peace forces, comes out con-
sistently in defence of peace, for the deliverance
of the present and future generations from the
threat of war, from the disasters of a nuclear
conflict and for the elimination of hotbeds of
war.
We stand for a radical turn toward relaxa-
tion of the existing tensions in all continents
of the world, for freeing the peoples from the
heavy arms burden, for a peaceful political set-
tlement of problems through negotiation and
with due account taken of the aspirations and
will of the peoples and their inalienable right
to decide their destinies themselves without
interference and pressure from outside.
As far back as in the early years of the
young Soviet state, its founder V. I. Lenin
substantiated the objective need for and pos-
sibility of peaceful coexistence of countries with
different social systems. Today, as before, the
Soviet Union is prepared to develop and deepen
relations of business cooperation and mutually
beneficial ties with states of a different social
system.
This fully applies to the relations with the
United States also in the sense that peaceful
coexistence must not be limited to absence of
war. When we say that there is no exception
for the United States in our policy of peaceful
coexistence, these words are backed by our
actual striving for the improvement and de-
velopment of Soviet-American relations. The
Soviet Union deems it possible and desirable to
establish not merely good but friendly relations
between the U.S.S.R. and the United States,
certainly, not at the expense of any third coun-
tries or peoples.
It stands to reason that the differences of
social systems, the divergence of the positions
of our states on a number of very important
aspects of the world politics create serious com-
plications in Soviet-American relations and we
do not underestimate them, by any means.
But even though there exist principled differ-
ences, there are objective factors that determine
similarity of interests and require that the
U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. should act in such a
way as to ward off the danger of a global war,
to remove the vestiges of cold war from Soviet-
American relations and as far as possible to rid
their relations of all that complicated them in
the past and burdens them even now.
The Soviet Union and the United States are
the powers that are most advanced in science
and technology, have vast economic potentials
and rich natural resources. Our peoples made a
weighty contribution to the treasury of world
culture. All this serves as a solid foundation
which, given mutual agreement, makes it pos-
sible to establish Soviet-American cooperation
in the most varied fields, to implement large-
scale projects worthy of the level which the
Soviet Union and the United States have
reached in the world of today.
The peoples of our countries have traditions
of mutual respect and friendship. Our joint
struggle in the years of the Second World War
against Hitler Germany and militarist Japan
lives in the memory of the Soviet people. The
fact that our countries were allies in the two
World Wars is very important in itself.
Under the United Nations Charter, the
Soviet Union and the United States as perma-
nent members of the Security Council are called
upon to play an important role in maintaining
international peace together with other mem-
bers of the Security Council. Experience con-
firms that whenever our countries succeeded
in ensuring by joint efforts the sane balance of
interests both of our two countries and other
states concerned, opportunities opened for solv-
ing acute conflicts and situations and conclud-
ing important international agreements and
treaties.
In other words, cooperation between the
U.S.S.R. and the United States in the spirit
of good will, the improvement of Soviet-Ameri-
can relations was always favourable for the
cause of peace. We proceed from the view that
Soviet-American talks will promote the solution
of the urgent international problems to the
benefit of the Soviet and American peoples, the
peoples of all the countries, in the interests of
world peace.
We believe, Mr. President, that your visit
will enable you and Mrs. Nixon to see more of
our country, to become aware of the scope of
the great plans of Communist construction
which the Soviet people are bringing into life,
622
