Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 24 [67]
who could build a wall like this certainly
have a great past to be proud of and a
people who have this kind of a past must
also have a great future.
My hope is that in the future, perhaps
as a result of the beginning that we have
made on this journey, that many, many
Americans, particularly the young Ameri-
cans who like to travel so much, will have
an opportunity to come here as I have
come here today with Mrs. Nixon and the
others in our party, that they will be able
to see this Wall, that they will think back
as I think back to the history of this great
people, and that they will have an oppor-
tunity, as we have had an opportunity, to
know the Chinese people, and know them
better.
What is most important is that we have
an open world. As we look at this Wall, we
do not want walls of any kind between
peoples. I think one of the results of our
trip, we hope, may be that the walls that
are erected, whether they are physical
walls like this or whether they are other
walls, ideology or philosophy, will not
divide peoples in the world; that peoples,
regardless of their differences and back-
grounds and their philosophies, will have
an opportunity to communicate with each
other, to know each other, and to share
with each other those particular endeavors
that will mean peaceful progress in the
years ahead.
So, all in all, I would say, finally, we
have come a long way to be here today,
16,000 miles. Many things that have oc-
curred on this trip have made me realize
that it was worth coming, but I would
say, as I look at the Wall, it is worth
coming 16,000 miles just to stand here and
see the Wall.
Do you agree, Mr. Secretary?
SECRETARY ROGERS. I certainly do, Mr.
President. It really is a tremendous privi-
lege we have all had to be here today.
THE PRESIDENT. And I really didn't
need the coat.
TRANSLATOR. No, this is great weather.
THE PRESIDENT. It's marvelous. And
nobody is ever going to see the hat that I
brought. I didn't need it. And my ears are
not nearly as cold as they get when I walk
sometimes on the streets of New York-
in those side streets that go, you know,
through the middle of Manhattan and
down through those tall buildings—and
the wind blows. It's much colder than this.
TRANSLATOR. The Vice Premier says
that Mr. President has given a very good
speech. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I was supposed to just
say a word. The Vice Premier has climbed
to the top. But we both decided that this
was a job really for Foreign Ministers and
not for the Vice Premier and myself.
But I would simply conclude, because I
know we have to go on, that while we will
not climb to the top today, we are already
meeting at the summit in Peking.
Let me ask the members of the press, do
you think it was worth coming?
REPORTERS. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. You know, you are
lucky, and my wife is lucky: You get out
to see the great points of interest. She
gives me a report every night. Of course,
I would not trade. My talks are very in-
teresting, too.
Q. Are you finding, Mr. President, the
afterhours events as entertaining as we
such as the athletic events?
are,
THE PRESIDENT. Fantastic. I thought
not only the ballet was great, Tom [Jarriel,
ABC News], but I also thought that the
athletic event last night was just superb.
As you know, I have a rather casual inter-
est in athletics, and it has been so re-
371
