Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 21 [96]
great leader Ataturk, "Peace at home and
peace in the world," is one that we in the
United States can also say is our goal.
That is the purpose of our meeting to-
day-peace at home, peace in the world-
and we know that our talks will contribute
to that great goal.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
Prime Minister Erim was given a formal wel-
come with full military honors. The President
spoke without referring to notes.
See also Items 98 and 99.
The Prime Minister responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am overwhelmed by your heartwarming
words welcoming us to Washington. Mrs. Erim
and I are most happy to have this opportunity
to get to know you personally and to pay this
official visit to your beautiful Capital City.
I am looking forward to our talks, and feel
sure that I shall benefit from your vast experi-
ence as a great statesman in tireless pursuit of
efforts to lay the foundations of a lasting struc-
ture of peace. I am fully aware also of your
concern to improve the quality of life for all the
peoples of the world so that one basic reason of
discord may be eliminated.
In our part of the world, we follow a course
that seeks détente while remaining alert to meet
any threat. We have closely followed and greatly
admired your extensive undertakings toward
the initiation of an era of worldwide under-
standing and peace, and we ardently support
you, Mr. President, in these efforts to lower
tensions and establish a new order in which all
peoples may prosper in security.
Almost exactly 20 years ago, Turkey joined
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
thereby formalizing and strengthening her ties
with the Western community, and in particular
with the United States of America. The last
quarter of a century bears witness to the suc-
cess of the cooperation between our countries
in maintaining peace and security for our
peoples.
Our peoples share many common traits. Both
nations are unflinchingly dedicated to liberty
and parliamentary democracy and stand ready
to defend what they hold dear. Both nations
pursue the same goals: establishment of a just
and lasting peace in the world, where nations
may determine freely their future and respect
each other's territorial integrity and way of life.
I therefore feel confident that, based on these
common traits and ideals, our solidarity and
friendship will continue to flourish in the years
ahead as we hopefully enter a new era of global
understanding and stability. I firmly believe
that the rapport between our two countries con-
tinues to be a vital element of security and
peace. We value this happy partnership between
our two countries in the same measure as we
appreciate your global efforts in promoting
understanding and confidence on a worldwide
scope.
Mr. President, I am indeed looking forward
to exchanging views with you on bilateral sub-
jects, as well as on others that are of mutual
interest. I am confident that this exchange will
enhance the already close relations between our
two countries.
96 Remarks on Signing the Drug Abuse Office and Treatment
Act of 1972. March 21, 1972
I REGRET that I am a little late for this
ceremony, because I know that there is a
very large bipartisan representation from
the House and Senate here for this par-
ticular signing of this bill, but I think it is
quite significant to note that the reason
that I am late has something to do with
this program.
I have just completed a meeting with
the Prime Minister of Turkey. As I told
him I was coming over to sign this bill,
he said, "You can assure the Members of
the House and the Senate, and all those
gathered here, and those who may be
451
