[303] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
While we look back with satisfaction
at our accomplishments in the past and
while we plan for further changes to help
meet new challenges, we remain aware
that the problems of development are
stubbornly complex and that the solu-
tions to some of them are still beyond
our grasp. Yet each year's experience gives
us new insights and firmer hope. And each
year's experience also confirms two fun-
damental facts of development: (1) what
the recipient country does to stimulate
and accelerate its own growth is ulti-
mately of greater value than anything we
do or are able to do; and (2) a measure
of help from the United States can be the
vital factor in assuring steady progress to-
ward development.
I believe most earnestly that the de-
veloped nations of the world cannot long
prosper in a world dominated by poverty
and that improvement in the quality of
life for all peoples enhances the prospects
of
peace for all people.
The White House,
September 19, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "The Foreign Assistance Program,
Annual Report to the Congress, Fiscal Year
1971" (Government Printing Office, 85 pp.).
304 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United.
States-Polish Consular Convention.
September 19, 1972
To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit for the Senate's
advice and consent to ratification the Con-
sular Convention between the Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
the Government of the Polish People's
Republic, with Protocols, signed at War-
saw on May 31, 1972, on the occasion of
my recent visit there. The Convention was
accompanied by two related exchanges of
notes, which are transmitted for the infor-
mation of the Senate.
The signing of this treaty is a significant
step in the gradual process of improving
and broadening the relationship between
the United States and Poland. Consular
relations between the two countries have
not previously been subject to formal
agreement. This Convention will establish
firm obligations on such important mat-
ters as free communication between a
citizen and his consul, notification to con-
sular offices of the arrest and detention of
their citizens, and permission for visits
by consuls to citizens who are under
detention.
The people of the United States and
Poland enjoy a long tradition of friend-
ship. I welcome the opportunity through
this Consular Convention to strengthen
the ties between our two nations. I urge
the Senate to give the Convention its
prompt and favorable consideration.
The White House,
September 19, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive U (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
878
