Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [402]
cent. The purpose of the revenue sharing
legislation just passed is to give the tax
dollar back to the States and local com-
munities where they know best how it
should be spent.
The simple fact is that one of the
reasons we have high taxes is because we
have such an imbalanced tax distribution
system, and revenue sharing is part of an
effort to change that. It was because of
the property tax increases here in Okla-
homa that I was so surprised to see
Dewey Bartlett's opponent oppose revenue
sharing as he did.
I think we are going to have the kind
of Congress we need this year to enact
the legislation and to accomplish the goals
of the new American majority. As we
achieve peace, we need men who under-
stand how to keep the peace, men who
understand that the prudent use of power
is the surest guarantee of peace. Prosper-
ity, too, is within our reach. But we need
people who understand how to bring it
about. We need people who know that a
nation's wealth isn't measured in how
much its government spends but in how
much its people have left to spend.
Oklahoma plays a great role in
America. From the heart of its good
land, from all its industrial and extractive
output, and from the hearts of its good
people, Oklahoma gives much to Amer-
ica. Now we ask Oklahoma to give us a
vote for peace and prosperity, and give
us men in the Congress and in the Senate
who know how to win both peace and
prosperity, and who know how to keep
them both.
NOTE: The statement was released at Tulsa,
Okla.
402 Remarks at Tulsa, Oklahoma.
November 3, 1972
THANK YOU very much. To all of you
who are gathered here inside the hangar,
and to the thousands more outside the
hangar, thank you very much for a won-
derful welcome to the Sooner State.
When I scheduled this stop in Okla-
homa, there were those who said "Why?"
I am going to give you the reasons why. I
remember saying at the time of the nomi-
nation in Miami that we weren't going to
take any State for granted, and that we
were not going to concede any States to
the opposition. Oklahoma is one State
that I have always carried, and we are
not going to start losing it now.
Every time I come here to Oklahoma,
believe me--I remember in '52 as a can-
didate for Vice President, '56, '60, '68—
you just give me a wonderful lift. Thank
you for that wonderful lift that you give
me.
Now, there is another reason that I am
here, and that is to express appreciation
not only for your support in the past, but
also to ask for your help in the future.
Naturally, I am going to talk about what
I hope for the future for those 4 years
you are talking about, but I also want to
tell you that one man, the President of
the United States, cannot do that job
alone. He needs help. He needs it in the
Senate and he needs it in the House of
Representatives. I want you to know that
in Henry Bellmon you have one of the
strongest, best, most loyal Senators in the
whole United States of America.
87-234-74-73
ΙΙΟΙ
