Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 8 [79]
they are all Democrats. As I mentioned
those names, it occurs to me, too, that the
immediate past Commander of the VFW
and the present Commander of the VFW
are Democrats. So why am I here?
I am here for this reason: One of the
most eloquent of all the men who have
served in American political life was a
Senator from Indiana around the turn
of the century. All of you have read about
him; you have read Bower's life of Bev-
eridge. This great Indiana Senator made
perhaps some of the greatest speeches ever
heard in the Senate or in this country. He
once said something that I thought was
very simple but very eloquent. That was
that one who is a partisan of principle is
a prince of statesmanship. Those are the
men we honor tonight.
I could speak of Doc Morgan in terms
of his years of service on the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, chairman of that com-
mittee since 1959. I know that every time
I, in my 3 years in this office, have called
upon him, he has not been found want-
ing. I know that whether we speak, and
79
I now mention those in the House
of Representatives with whom he has
worked, whether it is Speaker Albert, or
the former Speaker, Speaker McCormack,
or George Mahon, or Tiger Teague, and
let's get one Republican in it, or Les
Arends, that whenever an issue came up
that involved this Nation, its security, its
strength, the peace that we all want, he
was a man who was a partisan, a strong
partisan, but a partisan for principle, and
therefore a prince of statesmanship.
I honor him tonight as a prince of
statesmanship.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:52 p.m. in the
Ballroom of the Sheraton-Park Hotel. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Representative Thomas E. Morgan of Penn-
sylvania received the organization's Congres-
sional Award at the banquet.
Following his remarks, the President greeted
the 53 winners of the Voice of Democracy con-
test, sponsored annually by the Veterans of
Foreign Wars. The winners, high school stu-
dents from the 50 States, the District of Colum-
bia, the Canal Zone, and Pacific areas, had
written brief radio scripts on the theme, "My
Responsibility to Freedom."
Statement on Establishing a New System for Classification
and Declassification of Government Documents Relating
to National Security. March 8, 1972
I HAVE today signed an Executive order
[11652] establishing a new, more pro-
gressive system for classification and de-
classification of Government documents
relating to national security. This reform
springs from a review that I initiated al-
most 14 months ago and represents the
first major overhaul of our classification
procedures since 1953.
By a separate action, I have also di-
rected the Secretary of State to accelerate
publication of the official documentary
series, "Foreign Relations of the United
States," so that historians and others will
have more rapid access to papers created
after World War II.
Both of these actions are designed to lift
the veil of secrecy which now enshrouds
altogether too many papers written by
employees of the Federal establishment-
401
