Appendix E
Michael Moskow, who is currently Assistant
Secretary for Policy, Evaluation, and Research;
W. J. Usery, Jr., who is Assistant Secretary for
Labor-Management Relations; and Richard
Schubert, who is the Department of Labor's
Solicitor.
Finally, the President is announcing that
four officials of the Administration will be re-
maining in their present positions for the sec-
ond term: William Eberle will continue as the
President's Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations. As the President's chief trade
negotiator, Bill Eberle will be a principal mem-
ber of the Administration's team which man-
ages foreign economic policy under George
Shultz and Peter Flanigan.
Also continuing will be the two Deputy
Special Representatives for Trade Negotia-
tions, Harald B. Malmgren and William R.
Pearce.
Then, finally, I would like to announce that
Thomas S. Kleppe, a former Member of the
Congress from North Dakota and a distin-
guished business executive, will continue as
Administrator of the Small Business Adminis-
tration.
We will have biographical material for you
on all of the individuals that I referred to after
the briefing.
Also, we are going to provide you, as soon
as the briefing is over, information and some
materials relating to the announcement I am
about to give you. We will give you an Execu-
tive order and a statement by the President on
the subject of intergovernmental relations and
the Domestic Council.
As the statement will point out, the Presi-
dent is accepting the recommendation of the
Vice President that the intergovernmental rela-
tions functions be transferred to the Domestic
Council for improved communication and co-
ordination between Federal and State and local
governments. The functions which are outlined
in the President's statement, which we will be
giving you in a moment now, will be added
to the Domestic Council responsibilities.
In that regard, President Nixon today is
naming Kenneth R. Cole as Executive Director
of the Domestic Council. We will be providing
you a biography on Mr. Cole, who, as you
know, has been Deputy Director of the Domes-
tic Council. John Ehrlichman previously held
the title of Executive Director of the Domestic
Council, but Ken Cole, in this responsibility,
will have the day-to-day responsibilities of run-
ning the Domestic Council as the President
wants John Ehrlichman to be available as As-
sistant to the President for additional respon-
sibilities beyond being the President's chief
domestic adviser. So Ken Cole will assume the
responsibility of Executive Director of the Do-
mestic Council.
Announcing Resignations of Certain Officials
in the Departments of Health, Education, and
Welfare and Transportation
December 15, 1972
The President has asked me to make the fol-
lowing announcements today pertaining to the
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare,
and the Department of Transportation.
As you know, Dr. Merlin K. DuVal, As-
sistant Secretary for Health and Scientific
Affairs, has announced his intention to return
to the University of Arizona to be vice president
of medical affairs. The President is announc-
ing today that he accepts Dr. DuVal's resigna-
tion with appreciation for his outstanding
service in the Department.
President Nixon is also announcing today that
he accepts the resignations of three other offi-
cials in the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare with gratitude for their con-
tributions over the years of their service:
Robert O. Beatty, Assistant Secretary for Public
Affairs, who has been planning to return to
his home State of Idaho for some time; John B.
Martin, Commissioner of the Administration on
Aging, who is returning to the private practice
of law; and Dr. Jesse L. Steinfeld, Surgeon
General, who has agreed to assist for a period
during the transition and will then return to
private life.
As most of you know, announcements have
already been made by three key non-Presi-
dential appointees at the Department with re-
spect to their desire to return to private life.
Those individuals are: Robert Q. Marston,
Director of the National Institutes of Health;
Vernon E. Wilson, Administrator, Health Serv-
ices and Mental Health Administration; and
E-18
