Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
for an immediate ceasefire and with-
drawal of foreign forces. The USSR
vetoed this and a second resolution soon
after. A similar resolution then passed on
December 7 in the General Assembly by
104 to 11, with 10 abstentions. Of all the
nations of the UN, only the USSR, some
of its East European allies, India, and
Bhutan opposed it; our position was sup-
ported by the overwhelming majority of
the nations of the world. The Soviet Union
blocked international action until the
capture of East Pakistan was a fait
accompli.
Then, during the week of December 6,
we received convincing evidence that
India was seriously contemplating the
seizure of Pakistan-held portions of Kash-
mir and the destruction of Pakistan's mili-
tary forces in the West. We could not
ignore this evidence. Nor could we ignore
the fact that when we repeatedly asked
India and its supporters for clear assur-
ances to the contrary, we did not receive
them. We had to take action to prevent a
wider war. On December 12 we called
for another emergency session of the UN
Security Council. We declared:
"With East Pakistan virtually occupied
by Indian troops, a continuation of the
war would take on increasingly the char-
acter of armed attack on the very exis-
tence of a member state of the U.N. All
permanent members of the Security
Council have an obligation to end this
threat to world peace on an urgent basis."
The Soviet Union vetoed again. In-
tensive exchanges took place with the
Soviet leaders. A ceasefire, however, was
not agreed to until December 17.
The U.S. had two choices when the war
broke out.
We could take a stand against the war
and try to stop it, or we could maintain a
"neutral" position and acquiesce in it. The
former course meant strains in our rela-
tions with India, as well as as the risk of
failure. But the latter course, I concluded,
ran even greater risks. Acquiescence had
ominous implications for the survival of
Pakistan, for the stability of many other
countries in the world, for the integrity of
international processes for keeping the
peace, and for relations among the great
powers. These risks were unacceptable.
We did not act out of bias, or in igno-
rance of India's agony under the burden
of the refugees, or in sympathy with
Pakistani actions that had generated the
crisis. As Ambassador Bush stressed in the
Security Council on December 4, the
United States "values its close relations
with both India and Pakistan." He
continued:
"We recognize that a fundamental po-
litical accommodation still has not been
achieved in East Pakistan. ... this body
cannot accept recourse to force to solve
this problem.... The very purpose which
draws us together here-building a peace-
ful world- will be thwarted if a situation
is accepted in which a government inter-
venes across its borders in the affairs of
another with military forces in violation
of the United Nations Charter."
If we had not taken a stand against the
war,
it would have been prolonged and
the likelihood of an attack in the West
greatly increased. It was not my view in
the first place that war was the solution
to a humanitarian problem. The complete
disintegration by force of a member state
was intolerable and could not be acqui-
esced in by the United Nations. The war
had to be brought to a halt.
The global implications of this war
were clear to the world community. The
resort to military solutions, if accepted,
87-234-74-23
301
