Richard Nixon, 1972
May 29 [178]
spirit of goodwill, respect for each other's
legitimate interests and observance of the
principle of equal security.
Both Sides are also convinced that the
agreement on Measures to Reduce the
Risk of Outbreak of Nuclear War Between
the USA and the USSR, signed in Wash-
ington on September 30, 1971, serves the
interests not only of the Soviet and Ameri-
can peoples, but of all mankind.
COMMERCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS
Both Sides agreed on measures designed
to establish more favorable conditions for
developing commercial and other eco-
nomic ties between the USA and the
USSR. The two Sides agree that realistic
conditions exist for increasing economic
ties. These ties should develop on the basis
of mutual benefit and in accordance with
generally accepted international practice.
Believing that these aims would be
served by conclusion of a trade agreement
between the USA and the USSR, the two
Sides decided to complete in the near
future the work necessary to conclude
such an agreement. They agreed on the
desirability of credit arrangements to de-
velop mutual trade and of early efforts to
resolve other financial and economic is-
sues. It was agreed that a lend-lease set-
tlement will be negotiated concurrently
with a trade agreement.
In the interests of broadening and
facilitating commercial ties between the
two countries, and to work out specific
arrangements, the two Sides decided to
create a US-Soviet Joint Commercial
Commission. Its first meeting will be held
in Moscow in the summer of 1972.
Each Side will help promote the estab-
lishment of effective working arrange-
ments between organizations and firms of
both countries and encouraging the con-
clusion of long-term contracts.
MARITIME MATTERS-INCIDENTS AT SEA
The two Sides agreed to continue the
negotiations aimed at reaching an agree-
ment on maritime and related matters.
They believe that such an agreement
would mark a positive step in facilitating
the expansion of commerce between the
United States and the Soviet Union.
An Agreement was concluded between
the two Sides on measures to prevent inci-
dents at sea and in air space over it be-
tween vessels and aircraft of the US and
Soviet Navies. By providing agreed pro-
cedures for ships and aircraft of the two
navies operating in close proximity, this
agreement will diminish the chances of
dangerous accidents.
COOPERATION IN SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY
It was recognized that the cooperation
now underway in areas such as atomic
energy research, space research, health
and other fields benefits both nations and
has contributed positively to their over-all
relations. It was agreed that increased
scientific and technical cooperation on the
basis of mutual benefit and shared effort
for common goals is in the interest of both
nations and would contribute to a further
improvement in their bilateral relations.
2 The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 922). On May 25, 1972, the White
House also released a fact sheet and the
transcript of a news briefing on the agreement.
Participants in the news briefing were John W.
Warner, Secretary of the Navy, and Herbert S.
Okun, Deputy Country Director (USSR), De-
partment of State.
637
