[5] Jan. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic relations between the two
countries.
They shared the expectation that the
international currency realignment of last
December would provide a firm basis on
which to chart future development of the
world economy, and stated their deter-
mination to exert renewed efforts, in com-
bination with other countries, towards
improved monetary arrangements, ex-
panded world trade and assisting develop-
ing countries. In this connection they
affirmed the importance of conditions that
facilitate the flow of both public assist-
ance and private capital.
The Prime Minister and the President
reaffirmed the basic view that Japan and
the United States, jointly ascribing to the
principles of freedom and democracy,
would cooperate closely with each other
in all areas such as the political, cultural,
economic, scientific and technological
fields to achieve the common goals of
maintaining and promoting peace and
prosperity of the world and the well-being
of their countrymen.
They agreed that the two Governments
would expand cooperation in the fields of
environment, of the peaceful uses of
atomic energy and the peaceful explora-
tion and use of outer space. They further
agreed that experts of the two countries
would examine concrete steps in this
regard. They also agreed that steps be
taken to increase cultural exchanges and
in this regard the President welcomed the
explanation given on the contemplated
establishment of a Japanese cultural ex-
change program.
NOTE: The joint statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
On January 6, 1972, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Sec-
retary of the Treasury John B. Connally on a
meeting with Mikio Mizuta, Japanese Minister
of Finance, Kakuei Tanaka, Japanese Minister
of International Trade and Industry, and
Maurice H. Stans, Secretary of Commerce. The
White House also released the transcript of a
news briefing by Secretary of State William P.
Rogers on his meeting with Japanese Foreign
Minister Takeo Fukuda. The transcripts are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, pp. 29 and 32).
6 Letter Announcing Candidacy for Renomination and
Reelection. January 7, 1972
Dear Lane:
Thank you for your generous letter, and
for the petitions you have filed entering
my name in the New Hampshire primary.
It was in New Hampshire that I began
my campaign for the Presidency four years
ago, and I remember well the opportunity
that campaign provided to visit so much
of the State and to meet so many of its
people. I have tried to be true to the trust
they expressed, and to carry forward the
effort we began in New Hampshire in
1968: to bring peace and progress both
abroad and at home, and to give America
the leadership it needs for a new era of
national greatness.
We have made significant beginnings in
these past three years. I want to complete
the work that we have begun, and there-
fore I shall be a candidate for re-nomina-
tion and re-election. I deeply appreciate
the confidence expressed by those who
signed the petitions, and I shall do all in
my power to be worthy of that confidence.
24
