Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 3 [284]
284 Labor Day Message.
September 3, 1972
My fellow Americans:
On this Labor Day, 1972, America's
working men and women can be confident
that the Nation is on the road to the kind
of real prosperity that will last.
For 5 long years-from 1965 to 1970-
the American worker was on a treadmill.
His paycheck kept going up, but he was no
better off. Year after year, wage increases
bargained for him by his union or pro-
vided by his employer were eaten away
by taxes and inflation, the result of too
much Government spending in the sixties.
In the past 2 years, however, that pic-
ture has changed dramatically for the
better.
The real income of the average worker,
after all Federal taxes and after inflation,
is
up total of 6 percent. The days of the
treadmill are over-the average working-
man is now making real progress.
More Americans have jobs now than
ever before, 22 million more than a year
ago, with new jobs being created at the
fastest rate in more than 20 years. As a
result, the unemployment rate is lower
now than it was last Labor Day. We are
not going to be satisfied, however, until we
reach our goal-full employment without
inflation and without war.
We will reach that goal for two reasons:
First, when it comes to cracking down
on prices, this Administration means busi-
ness. We've already cut inflation in half,
and we're not about to let up now. More-
over, we're going to continue to squeeze
down on excessive Government spending,
which is a root cause of inflation. When
Congress passes bills calling for new spend-
ing which would lead to higher taxes or
higher prices, I shall veto them.
The second reason we're going to
achieve a peacetime prosperity is due to
the American worker's cooperation in new
and better production methods. His pro-
ductivity has consequently risen strongly
in the past year, after years of standing
still, and I am convinced it will continue
to rise in the years ahead.
With higher productivity, the worker's
paycheck will buy more. Our ability to
compete more successfully in the world
will mean more and better jobs.
There is a way that Government can
help keep our "productivity momentum"
rolling to the benefit of the worker.
We all know how work stoppages cut
into both paychecks and productivity,
how strikes often harm both the worker
and the economy. Today, we have
achieved an era of relative calm on the
labor-management front, with work stop-
pages at a 6-year low. This is the best
time for labor, management, and Gov-
ernment to get together and see how we
can make an even more regular habit of
industrial peace.
I want to see the American worker get
all that he deserves. I want to see him get
it through the healthy process of free col-
lective bargaining. And I want to see him
get it without long and costly strikes that
interrupt the workingman's income and
sometimes are harmful to all Americans.
I am today announcing the formation
of the National Commission for Industrial
Peace.
The purpose of this Commission will be
to explore ways that labor and manage-
ment can harmonize their differences at
the bargaining table, freely and construc-
tively.
849
