[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Average monthly U.S. draft calls
declined to 7,500 in 1971, one-fourth
the 1968 figure.
-During 1971 the South Vietnamese
army, up to 1.1 million from the 1968
level of 800,000, conducted twenty
major combat engagements for every
one involving U.S. forces. By year's
end U.S. forces had shifted essen-
tially to a defensive and base security
role.
-In the countryside, at the close of
1971 approximately 73 percent of the
rural population was under South
Vietnamese government control, with
24 percent contested and 3 percent
still in enemy hands. Added to the
now secure urban population of 6
million, this represents over 80 per-
cent of the total South Vietnamese
population under GVN control.
-South Vietnamese economic reforms
have reduced inflation to 15 percent
annually, turned over more than
800,000 acres of land to tenant farm-
ers, and laid the grounds for long
range economic development.
-The additional costs of the war have
steadily dropped and total $8 billion
in the current fiscal year, down by
almost 65 percent from the costs
three years ago.
This is the record of our Vietnamiza-
tion policy. It has now effectively con-
cluded the U.S. ground combat respon-
sibility. Our other activities are being
transferred to the South Vietnamese. We
are ending American involvement in the
war while making it possible for those who
do not wish to be dominated by outside
forces to carry on their own defense.
Negotiations
We would greatly prefer to see the con-
flict end for Asians as well as for Ameri-
cans. Thus we have pressed intensive
secret negotiations since August 1969. The
thirty-month record of these negotiations
and the comprehensive peace plan that I
announced on January 25, 1972, under-
line a fundamental aspect of our Vietnam
policy: our first priority and our preferred
solution has always been a negotiated set-
tlement of the conflict.
Together with the South Vietnamese,
we have always been prepared to make a
generous settlement. We have hoped that
the steady success of Vietnamization and
the prospect of South Vietnamese self-
reliance would give the other side an in-
centive to negotiate. Our objective has
been to convince Hanoi that it had better
prospects at the conference table than on
the battlefield.
We knew from the beginning that the
negotiations faced formidable obstacles.
The North Vietnamese view negotiations
as an alternative route to victory, not a
compromise with opponents. For them,
negotiations are a continuation of the
military struggle by other means, rather
than an effort to bridge the gap between
positions.
The North Vietnamese have also calcu-
lated that they could achieve their aims
through military pressures that would
eventually cause the collapse of American
domestic support and the unraveling of
the political fabric in South Vietnam.
The gathering momentum of Vietnami-
zation clearly faces our adversaries with
the prospect of an increasingly stronger
and self-reliant South Vietnam. Yet
Hanoi chooses to fight on instead of seek-
ing a negotiated settlement. Our sweep-
ing proposals offer them a fair chance to
compete for political power in South Viet-
nam. Yet they maintain their patently
274
