[185] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
modern architecture, he is absolutely
right. I prefer the beautiful buildings of
Warsaw.
As we are here tonight in Warsaw, we
cannot help thinking that this city, and
this country, has been often the subject of
very difficult conflicts in the past, from
which it has suffered. The partitions of
Poland through the centuries are well
known, but vivid in our memories is that
Poland was the victim of aggression in
1939, that it was cruelly occupied for
many long years. But now I believe we
can look ahead with some assurance that
the history of war and suffering which has
been inflicted upon this city and this
country will not repeat itself.
Last week in Moscow, major steps were
taken to slow and eventually, we trust,
halt the arms race. This week, treaties
vital to the peace and security of Europe,
and of Poland, are nearing their moment
of completion. And in the months ahead,
we can look forward to new progress in
the building of a broad structure of
friendship and cooperation throughout
Europe. Already, Polish-American rela-
tions, based on a long history of friend-
ship and of ties between our peoples, are
marked by extensive programs of contact
and cooperation.
After a very long discussion with Mr.
Gierek today, I believe I can confidently
say that this trend of cooperation between
Poland and the United States will con-
tinue and be developed even further in
the future.
As we move toward broader negotia-
tions in Europe, we recognize the efforts
which Poland has long made in this field.
Our two countries have not always agreed
on specific proposals, but we do not ques-
tion the desire that we both have to live in
peace and dignity. We know that Poland's
contributions to the coming negotiations
will be major contributions.
In our view, the European Conference,
when it meets, should have real promise of
achievement. That is why we believe it
should be carefully prepared.
We see particular importance in meas-
ures that will reduce the division of
Europe, that will open new avenues for
contact among its peoples and ideas, new
opportunities for exchanging experience
and knowledge.
We hope that a European Conference
could elaborate realistic principles by
which the states involved will conduct
their relations in the decade to come. And
we particularly hope that the multilateral
consultations in which Poland will par-
ticipate, as well as the United States-
that are to take place later this year-
can prepare the ground for progress in
these and other areas.
Also, we should like to see early talks
on the reduction of the ground forces fac-
ing each other in Europe. We recognize
that this is a complex subject and we have
done much intensive study of this subject
within our Government and with our
allies.
One objective is a reciprocal reduction
of forces that will leave both sides more
secure, or at least not less secure. And we
hope the preparatory talks among the
countries involved can get under way
soon; preferably paralleling the multi-
lateral consultations on the European
Conference.
And here it is important to point out
the major role that Poland, in the heart of
Europe, has played in the past and will
continue to play in the future in reducing
the tensions that divide Europe today.
The journey that we are concluding to-
night and tomorrow has been described as
654
