[90] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
achieving racial balance in our schools. I
have spoken out against busing scores of
times over many years.
And I believe most Americans, white
and black, share that view.
But what we need now is not just speak-
ing out against more busing. We need
action to stop it. Above all, we need to
stop it in the right way-in a way that will
provide better education for every child
in America in a desegregated school
system.
The reason action is so urgent is because
of a number of recent decisions of the
lower Federal courts. Those courts have
gone too far-in some cases beyond the
requirements laid down by the Supreme
Court-in ordering massive busing to
achieve racial balance. The decisions have
left in their wake confusion and contradic-
tion in the law; anger, fear, and turmoil
in local communities; and, worst of all,
agonized concern among hundreds of
thousands of parents for the education
and the safety of their children who have
been forced by court order to be bused
miles away from their neighborhood
schools.
What is the answer?
There are many who believe that a con-
stitutional amendment is the only way to
deal with this problem. The constitutional
amendment proposal deserves a thorough
consideration by the Congress on its mer-
its. But as an answer to the immediate
problem we face of stopping more busing
now, the constitutional amendment ap-
proach has a fatal flaw: It takes too long.
A constitutional amendment would take
between a year and 18 months, at the
very least, to become effective. This means
that hundreds of thousands of schoolchil-
dren will be ordered by the courts to be
bused away from their neighborhood
schools in the next school year, with no
hope for relief.
What we need is action now-not ac-
tion 2, 3, or 4 years from now. And there
is only one effective way to deal with the
problem now. That is for the Congress to
act. That is why I am sending a special
message to the Congress tomorrow urging
immediate consideration and action on
two measures.
First, I shall propose legislation that
would call an immediate halt to all new
busing orders by Federal courts—a mora-
torium on new busing.
Next, I shall propose a companion
measure the Equal Educational Oppor-
tunities Act of 1972.
This act would require that every State
or locality grant equal educational oppor-
tunity to every person, regardless of race,
color, or national origin. For the first time
in our history, the cherished American
ideal of equality of educational oppor-
tunity would be affirmed in the law of the
land by the elected representatives of the
people in Congress.
The act would further establish an edu-
cational bill of rights for Mexican-Ameri-
cans, Puerto Ricans, Indians, and others
who start their education under language
handicaps, to make certain that they, too,
will have equal opportunity.
The act I propose would concentrate
Federal school aid funds on the areas of
greatest educational need. That would
mean directing over $22 billion in the
next year mainly towards improving the
education of children from poor families.
This proposal deals directly with the
problem that has been too often over-
looked. We all know that within the cen-
tral cities of our Nation there are schools
426
