[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
further improvement in her relations
with Eastern Europe.
-With all our European allies we have
stressed that the justification for the
continued American military pres-
ence in Europe can only come from a
clear and well-thought-out common
strategy, and a consensus on how to
to share its responsibilities more
equitably.
-We met with Prime Minister Sato at
San Clemente, and agreed to the
expedited return of Okinawa to
Japan. This removes from our
agenda an issue of vast potential for
the disruption of the U.S.-Japanese
friendship. We also indicated that we
would regard a larger Japanese role
in the economic and political affairs
of Asia not as a substitute for or in-
terference with our role, but as natu-
ral, necessary and proper. We clari-
fied the fact that our initiative to-
ward China is consistent with the
continuity of the close U.S.-Japanese
relationship.
THE PROBLEM OF TIMING
These were the most dramatic mani-
festations of our new policy toward both
friends and adversaries. In the nature of
things, progress in all areas could not be
achieved simultaneously—and this led for
a time to understandable concern that our
interests in some areas were being sacri-
ficed to the need for progress in others.
Our approach to China had an impact on
Japan, as did our negotiations with the
Soviet Union on our friends in Western
Europe. Our unilateral economic meas-
ures affected both. As a result, our rela-
tions with our allies appeared for a period
of several months to be somewhat out of
phase with the innovations taken in our
relations with our adversaries.
By the end of the year, however, it was
clear that our initiatives toward both our
friends and our adversaries were in basic
harmony. Progress in each contributed to
progress in the other. In phase, each rein-
forced and gave added momentum to the
other.
The total effect was an integrated and
consistent adjustment of U.S. foreign
policy to the requirements of a changed
world.
OTHER AREAS OF PROGRESS
There were other areas in which im-
portant, if quieter, progress was made in
1971 toward shaping the new American
role in the world.
In our relations with all countries we
proceeded to give effect to our new policy
of insisting that the United States has
neither the prescriptions nor the resources
for the solution of problems in which ours
is not the prime national interest. It is
coming to be widely understood that we
are in earnest when we say that it is for
others to formulate solutions to these
problems, and that our contribution
should be viewed as a supplement to the
application of major resources from those
primarily at interest.
LATIN AMERICA. We have looked to our
Latin American neighbors for their initia-
tives and leadership. We are encouraging
them to shape the political and economic
framework in which our own contribution
to common aims can be most effective.
ASIA. We have helped our Asian allies
create a greater capability to meet their
own defense needs. This has enabled us to
reduce substantially our military presence
there, without abandoning our commit-
ments to those steadfast friends. Indeed,
by adhering to this pattern of building
200
