[7] Jan. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
and Ivory Coast, I realized that the sub-
stitute was doing a much better job than
the principal would have done.
I simply want to say that this trip meant
a great deal to us, the fact that Mrs. Nixon
could go there. We have some very special
memories of Africa. As Vice President, in
1957 we attended the ceremonies in which
the first of the new black African countries
received its independence: Ghana. I have
been back several times since then, but
now, on this occasion, this opportunity to
go to the inauguration of President Tol-
bert, and then to be received again in
Ghana and then in Ivory Coast, what this
trip really demonstrates is this:
We have a very good, friendly, govern-
ment-to-government relationship with the
countries of Africa. But we, in America,
also have a very deep, personal interest in
those countries, and by Mrs. Nixon going
there, she was demonstrating what I know
every person in this country would want
to: that we have a feeling of friendship
and affection for the millions of people
that live in this very old continent, but
with many new countries and with great,
great hopes for the future. And for that
reason, the trip was taken and, of course,
I thought it was a success.
Now, I had a lot more written down,
but anything I said about what Mrs.
Nixon did on this trip, people would at-
tribute to bias, and they would be right.
Now I was trying to think of somebody
who could speak in welcoming Mrs. Nixon
and could appraise the trip in a very hon-
est way. The Vice President always says
just what he thinks. [Laughter] However,
before giving him this microphone, I want
to remind him: I have the last word, and
so does Mrs. Nixon. [Laughter]
Mr. Vice President.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
Mrs. Nixon:
Mr. President, this is a wonderful way
for us to assist you in celebrating your
birthday and welcoming back our very
gracious First Lady from this very effec-
tive and wonderful trip that she made to
three African nations, a trip that took
some 8 days, and which, Mr. President,
we all followed with great interest, just
as you did, via the newspapers and
television.
Now, Mr. President, I am not sure I am
fully qualified to speak frankly on this
occasion, because I must admit to some
bias myself where Mrs. Nixon is con-
cerned. And I think most of the people in
this country, and indeed, just about every-
one that I have talked to in my trips
wherever I go in the world, is aware of the
fact that Mrs. Nixon has discharged her
duties as America's First Lady with dis-
tinction and grace. And the welcome that
was given her in the African nations that
she visited, the warmth of that reception
and her gracious and generous response
to it, made all of us very proud of you,
Mrs. Nixon.
I think that we can simply say that even
though it is the President's birthday, we
all are the recipients of a present by hav-
ing you back among us tonight, and we
hope that this will be not your sole exer-
cise in foreign affairs, but this may be the
beginning of other and more enjoyable
and more fruitful enterprises that you may
undertake. And who knows, the reason I
say more enjoyable and more fruitful is
simply because in recognition of the times
as they exist today, women seem to be
doing more things and perhaps someday
you may visit these countries taking along
26
