[49] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
of that coin is that to the extent we are
able to succeed, to the extent that the
dangers of war in the world become less,
the challenges of peace will become
greater.
Let's look at the world again. Look at
it in terms of where we are and what the
competition will be. Twenty-five years ago
the United States, economically, as every-
body in this room knows, had no compet-
itors whatever. We were only competing
against ourselves. Because of the destruc-
tion in Europe and in Asia, because none
of the other nations in the world were in
our league, we were, in effect, able to lead
the world just as fast as we wanted to. No
one else was pressing us.
Let me use a favorite example from
the world of sports. Many of you have
been watching the Winter Olympics. I
remember the first Olympics that I read
about, in the year 1928. Some of you are
old enough to remember it, too. The great
miler of the twenties was Paavo Nurmi of
Finland. He was probably the greatest
miler who ever lived. He never broke 4
minutes, however.
You also remember that when he ran,
he ran with a wristwatch and he timed
himself on each
each lap because there
was no one who could compete with him
and press him. In order even to get as close
to 4 minutes as he did, he had to run
against the clock.
Twenty-five years ago, economically,
America was running against the clock.
That is not true today. We have the new
Europe with Britain in the Common Mar-
ket. We have the Soviet Union now the
second power economically in the world.
We have Mainland China with all of its
potential in the future. We have Japan,
the second most productive non-Commu-
nist economy in the world. We have also
the future possibilities in Latin America,
and Asia, the Mideast, and Africa.
So, here we see America looking for-
ward to that target date of ours and of this
Conference, the year 1990. We see an
America no longer running against the
clock, an America still ahead, but an
America having to do its best in order to
maintain its leadership.
What I am saying to this audience to-
day is very simply this: In the position
that I hold I want to do everything that
I can to seize the moment to make the
world safer, to make it a more peaceful
world, to make it a more open world.
In the position that you have, as busi-
ness leaders and labor leaders, you will
determine whether the America in that
new world with all those new competitors
is going to slide back and let the others
who are stronger, have a greater spirit, a
greater sense of destiny, pass us by, or
whether that spirit that has made this
country as great as it is, still exists in the
hearts and minds of our people.
Among those who compete with us, a
government edict, a pronouncement by
one leader or a bureaucracy can whip a
people into some kind of productivity.
That is not true in this country. The future
of the American economy can be affected
by government, and I say thank God for
this. However, the future of the Ameri-
can economy is determined not by a few
government officials, but by the decisions
of a million decisionmakers throughout
this country in business and in labor.
That is why, Mr. Secretary, in this his-
toric Conference, as we look down toward
the end of the century, let us hope and
pray it will be a more peaceful world, that
it will be a more open world. And let us
172
