[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
tralist leader supported by Hanoi at the
time of the 1962 Geneva Accords-to re-
institute those Accords. In Cambodia we
long tolerated a difficult military situation
and we encouraged negotiations when
Prince Sihanouk was first deposed by the
National Assembly in March 1970.
Our negotiating proposals on Vietnam
have consistently been addressed to the
broader Indochina context. In the face of
North Vietnam's refusal to address these
problems at the conference table, we have
continued the policies of previous Admin-
istrations in extending military and eco-
nomic support to the Royal Lao Govern-
ment. We have provided military assist-
ance for Cambodia since the spring of
1970, when North Vietnamese troops
moved out of the border sanctuaries and
extended their operations into broader
areas of Cambodia.
Our constant objectives in both coun-
tries have been to ensure the momentum
of Vietnamization and our withdrawals,
to protect American and allied lives, and
to help maintain the precarious balance
within these two countries as they fight to
restore their independence and neutrality.
In both countries our activities are
limited, requested, supportive,
defensive.
and
Laos and Cambodia Provide for Their
Own Defense. In Laos, government forces
continue to offer a tenacious defense
despite years of combat against a numer-
ically superior enemy. The struggle there
ebbs and flows on a seasonal basis. The
Laotian conflict is, in effect, two wars.
In the north, North Vietnamese troops
maintain pressure on the very govern-
ment which Hanoi helped to create in
1962. In the south, the enemy concen-
trates on expanding and protecting the
Ho Chi Minh trail complex which is vital
to its military strength in South Vietnam
and Cambodia.
The Cambodian Government, faced
with the assault on its independence, has
rallied the population to the cause of na-
tional survival. From a lightly-equipped
and largely ceremonial force of 35,000
men in 1970, the Cambodian army has
now grown to approximately 200,000, for
the most part volunteers.
The army has fought bravely, but it
lacks training, equipment, and experience.
And it faces over 60,000 well-equipped
North Vietnamese troops, hardened and
experienced by years of war.
Despite the measures which they are
taking in their own defense, these two
countries are clearly no match for a much
larger North Vietnam, and they must
have external assistance to survive. It
would be a grim development indeed if
these two small nations, so clearly the vic-
tims of external aggression, were over-
whelmed because of restrictions placed on
American and other allied aid while
North Vietnam continued to receive the
full backing of its own allies.
Neither country has requested the de-
ployment of U.S. troops. They are man-
ning the front lines. Thus, there are not—
and there will not be any U.S. ground
combat troops in either country.
Together With Other Countries, We
Provide Military And Economic Assist-
ance. In Laos, this remains as outlined in
my comprehensive report of March
1970-military aid for regular and ir-
regular Lao forces when requested by the
Lao Government; reconnaissance flights
and air operations to interdict North
Vietnamese troops and supplies on the Ho
Chi Minh Trail; logistic and air support
288
