Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 9 [83]
screening programs conducted jointly by
the Government and the airlines since that
time have progressively reduced the
hijacker's chances of success. From a
onetime high of 83 percent, the success
average of hijacking attempts diminished
to 44 percent last year and now to only
25 percent thus far in 1972. Our efforts
will continue until we reduce that rate to
zero.
Now, however, our air transportation
system faces a new threat, in the form of
vicious extortion plots like the ones which
have been directed at air traffic across the
country this week. We must not be in-
timidated by such lawlessness. Rather we
must and will meet this blackmail on the
ground as vigorously as we have met
piracy in the air.
As the attempt to create a crisis situa-
tion has emerged over the past several
days, I have mobilized all appropriate
security forces and resources of the Fed-
eral Government under the overall com-
mand of the Secretary of Transportation.
This includes the Departments of State,
Transportation, Defense, Treasury, and
Justice-particularly the FAA, LEAA,
Bureau of Customs, U.S. Marshals Serv-
ice, and FBI. With this assistance we have
so far rendered the plot a failure; no lives
have been lost; the brazen ransom de-
mands have been resisted. The Federal
mobilization will continue, and will be
augmented as necessary, until the current
threat is crushed.
I have today ordered Secretary Volpe
to take a series of measures aimed at better
protecting against such incidents in the
future.
The Federal Aviation Administration's
new security regulations for air car-
riers, published in the Federal Register
March 7,
will take effect at once; we can
no longer afford the 90-day implementa-
tion period previously stipulated for them.
These regulations mandate immediate
steps by every carrier to prevent or deter
carriage of weapons or explosives aboard
its aircraft; to prevent or deter unauthor-
ized access to its aircraft; to tighten its
baggage check-in procedures; and to im-
prove the security of its cargo and baggage
loading operations.
The Department of Transportation will
expedite final rulemaking action for new
security regulations governing airport
operators, to complement the measures
now required of the airline companies.
The effect of these regulations will be to
enforce the strict separation of operating
areas at airports from public areas, there-
by tightening the control of physical access
to the former so that a security envelope is
created around the aircraft and their sup-
porting systems and personnel.
There is no time to lose. I have asked
Secretary Volpe to convene a meeting as
soon as possible with leaders of the avia-
tion community to check on the followup
of the steps we are taking today. He will
continue to monitor progress of these
efforts closely, and will keep me continu-
ously informed.
Commercial aviation in the United
States has built a commendable record of
service and safety. I mean to do all in my
power to help protect that record, by
preventing air travel from becoming a
vehicle for traffic in terrorism. We shall
keep our airports, our airways, and our air
travelers safe.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's statement by Lt. Gen. Benjamin O.
Davis, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Safety and
Consumer Affairs, and Richard F. Lally, Direc-
tor, Office of Transportation Security, Depart-
ment of Transportation.
409
