Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [89]
a dramatic pace in the years ahead. One of
the great questions of our time is whether
our capacity to deal with these forces will
grow at a similar rate. The answer to that
question lies in our scientific and tech-
nological progress.
As we face the new challenges of the
1970's, we can draw upon a great reservoir
of scientific and technological informa-
tion and skill-the result of the enor-
mous investments which both the Federal
Government and private enterprise made
in research and development in recent
years. In addition, this Nation's historic
commitment to scientific excellence, its
determination to take the lead in explor-
ing the unknown, have given us a great
tradition, a rich legacy on which to draw.
Now it is for us to extend that tradition
by applying that legacy in new situations.
In pursuing this goal, it is important to
remember several things. In the first place,
we must always be aware that the mere
act of scientific discovery alone is not
enough. Even the most important break-
through will have little impact on our
lives unless it is put to use-and putting
an idea to use is a far more complex
process than has often been appreciated.
To accomplish this transformation, we
must combine the genius of invention with
the skills of entrepreneurship, manage-
ment, marketing and finance.
Secondly, we must see that the environ-
ment for technological innovation is a
favorable one. In some cases, excessive
regulation, inadequate incentives and
other barriers to innovation have worked
to discourage and even to impede the
entrepreneurial spirit. We need to do a
better job of determining the extent to
which such conditions exist, their under-
lying causes, and the best ways of dealing
with them.
Thirdly, we must realize that the mere
development of a new idea does not neces-
sarily mean that it can or should be put
into immediate use. In some cases, laws
or regulations may inhibit its implementa-
tion. In other cases, the costs of the process
may not be worth the benefits it produces.
The introduction of some new technolo-
gies may produce undesirable side effects.
Patterns of living and human behavior
must also be taken into account. By realis-
tically appreciating the limits of tech-
nological innovation, we will be in a better
position fully to marshal its amazing
strengths.
A fourth consideration concerns the
need for scientific and technological man-
power. Creative, inventive, dedicated
scientists and engineers will surely be in
demand in the years ahead; young people
who believe they would find satisfaction
in such careers should not hesitate to
undertake them. I am convinced they will
find ample opportunity to serve their com-
munities and their country in important
and exciting ways.
The fifth basic point I would make con-
cerning our overall approach to science
and technology in the 1970's concerns the
importance of maintaining that spirit of
curiosity and adventure which has always
driven us to explore the unknown. This
means that we must continue to give an
important place to basic research and to
exploratory experiments which provide
the new ideas on which our edifice of
technological accomplishment rests. Basic
research in both the public and private
sectors today is essential to our continuing
progress tomorrow. All departments and
agencies of the Federal Government will
continue to support basic research which
can help provide a broader range of future
development options.
417
