Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [49]
If we were ever to permit this Nation to
turn isolationist in its foreign policy, we
would be inviting another war or the de-
struction of our freedom.
If we were to let this Nation turn pro-
tectionist in its economic policy, we would
be inviting a trade war-and like the other
kind of war, every nation on this planet
would lose.
We are not going to let either of these
things happen. We are not going to be-
come isolationist in our foreign policy and
we are not going to become protectionist
in our economic policy. We are not about
to forget the secret of the world's highest
standard of living-a competitive spirit
that results in rising productivity.
That is what America has stood for for
almost 200 years. It is what has made us
the economic wonder of the world today.
After years of lagging productivity,
which I just referred to, we made a come-
back last year-back to a 3.6 percent rise.
Now we have momentum-and we must
never again forget the secret of American
success.
For too long, I think, we have to rec-
ognize that too many of us in this country,
too many businessmen, too many working-
men, thought of the American economy as
a kind of giant turtle. It may have been
fat and lazy, but it had a protective shell
that seemed impregnable.
But let me point out to you that nature
played a trick on the turtle. The only way
he can move forward is to stick his neck
out.
Well, the time has come for that turtle,
this great, giant American economy which
you represent, the leadership of which is
in this room tonight, the time has come for
this turtle to stick its neck out and get
moving.
As it does, it will show that America's
competitive spirit is alive and healthy,
ready to lead the world into the new
prosperity.
As all of you in this room are aware, 2
weeks from now I will be in Mainland
China. And then, a few months from now,
I will be in the Soviet Union. Both of these
trips of course have created great interest
in America and in the world.
As I have often said, neither should raise
any illusions about what can be accom-
plished. Because of the differences in our
systems of government and our attitude
toward the world, there will be great dif-
ferences after the trips as well as before.
The goal is, of course, to try to develop a
dialogue, a communication, a process
through which it may be possible in the
next generation and a generation after
that, that instead of fighting about those
differences that we will continue to have,
we will talk about them. This is a goal
worth journeying halfway around the
world to achieve.
I do not mean to suggest to this audi-
ence or any in the world that we are going
to have instant peace as a result of these
two journeys. But I do know what our
hopes are that it will be possibly a safer
world and that it may be possibly a more
open world, and that our children may
live possibly in a world of peace, with dif-
ferent systems of government, talking
rather than fighting, and that they will
live in an open world, able to move more
or less freely around the world, to know its
excitement, the interest, wherever people
may live, any place on this planet.
That, I would trust, would be a con-
tribution that I might be able to make,
not by myself, but at least make a begin-
ning in these two journeys that I will be
taking.
But I ought to say that the other side
171
