Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
most needed, at the conventional age of
full retirement. I hope these proposals will
receive favorable consideration.
In addition, I support legislation to pro-
vide military retirees with a less expensive
survivor annuity plan-one which is
similar to that now provided to retired
civil servants.
2. Benefits for veterans are also improv-
ing. Our efforts to improve both the
quality of care and the number of patients
treated in Veterans Administration hospi-
tals will have a major impact on older
veterans, since more than one-fourth of
all VA patients are over 65. The staff to
patient ratio at VA hospitals will be in-
creased to 1.5 to 1, an all-time high, if our
budget proposals are accepted.
The fiscal year 1973 budget also pro-
vides for further increases in nursing home
care with the result that the authorized
number of VA-operated nursing beds will
have doubled since 1969 and the number
of community contract beds and State
home beds built and operated with VA
subsidies will have increased by one-third
over the same period.
In addition, I have signed into law
significant improvements in pensions for
elderly veterans which relate benefits more
closely to need and protect recipients from
income loss because of increases in the
cost of living. In January of 1971, pensions
were increased by an average of 9.6 per-
cent. One year later, they went up an
additional 6.5 percent and a new formula
was adopted relating benefits more closely
to need for the first time.
3. Federal Employee Benefits are also
up. Retirement benefits for Federal em-
ployees have been liberalized in several
instances, and-under a more generous
formula for determining cost of living in-
creases-annuities have gone up nearly 16
percent in the last 22 years. In addition,
the Government's contribution to Federal
health benefit premiums of current and
retired employees has been substantially
increased.
WHERE THE MONEY COMES FROM: RE-
FORMING THE PRIVATE PENSION SYSTEM
Only 21 percent of couples now on our
social security rolls and only 8 percent of
non-married beneficiaries are also receiv-
ing private pensions. While this picture
will improve somewhat as workers who
are now younger reach retirement, never-
theless-despite the best efforts of labor
and management-only half the work
force is presently covered by private pen-
sion plans. As the White House Confer-
ence on Aging pointed out, the long-
range answer to adequate income for the
elderly does not lie in Government pro-
grams alone; it also requires expansion
and reform of our private pension system.
Late last year, I submitted to the Con-
gress a five-point program to achieve this
goal. It includes the following items:
1. Tax deductions to encourage inde-
pendent savings toward retirement. Indi-
vidual contributions to group or individ-
ual pension plans should be made tax de-
ductible up to the level of $1500 per year
or 20 percent of earned income, which-
ever is less. Individuals should also be able
to defer taxation of investment earnings
on these contributions.
2. More generous tax deductions for
pension contributions by self-employed
persons. The annual limit for deductible
contributions to pension plans by the self-
employed-on their own behalf and for
those who work for them-should be
87-234-7434
469
