Richard Nixon, 1972
June 15 [201]
that no matter what our ideologies, the young
of the small and great countries of the world
will work together with a hope to contributing
to peace in a better world today that we may
have an international order that will enable us
to face the future with greater hope so that
we will benefit these new generations that are
the essence and the heart of our preoccupations,
of our concern, and of our work.
My warmest thanks to you, Mr. President,
and to the great people of our friendly neigh-
boring country, the United States, and in clos-
ing I express the hope, and I have no doubt,
that out of our conversations will come agree-
ments that will be mutually beneficial for both
peoples.
[At this point, President Echeverría called to
the platform where he was speaking two
mothers and their daughters who had been
viewing the ceremony. They were Countess
Logan Lessana of Rome, now living in Wash-
ington, D.C., with her 4-year-old daughter
201
Barbara, and Mrs. Julie Robinson of McLean,
Va., a member of Mrs. Nixon's staff, with her
4-year-old daughter Tegan. They remained on
the platform during his closing remarks.]
Mr. President, in the whole world you can
see beautiful scenes like this, children held in
the arms of the mothers, and these young gen-
erations should be always on our minds, and I
like to think, I wonder, what will be the
world-what will be the world that we will
leave to them, what will conditions be like in
the year 2000 when these two beautiful young
girls are grown up, what will be the world for
their children and their grandchildren?
Will there be years of danger because of
man's technological progress or will we turn
this technological progress into a better world
and into better living conditions for all people?
This is a thought, Mr. President, we should
also bear with us-the thought of these young
mothers with children in arms, of this new
generation that we are working for.
Toasts of the President and President Echeverría
of Mexico. June 15, 1972
Mr. President, Señora Echeverría, our
very distinguished guests:
As all of you know, Mrs. Nixon and I
during this year, along with the Secretary
of State, have traveled a great deal. We
traveled halfway around the world to
Peking. And then we traveled almost half-
around the world the other way to
way
Moscow.
And on this occasion in this house, we
want all of you, our guests tonight, to
know that it is very good to be home in the
United States and to welcome our very
good and dear friends from our great
neighbor to the south, the President of
Mexico and his wife.
I would like to tell a little story as to
how we feel about the President and his
wife. This is not their first visit to this
house. When he was President-elect, we
had the honor of receiving them in the
family dining room upstairs. And that
was appropriate, because whenever the
President of Mexico visits the President of
the United States, we feel that they are
part of our family. We are all part of the
American family in this hemisphere.
But the story that I want to tell you
relates to a very unfortunate experience.
Just before I went to Moscow, when we
entertained in this room the parliamentar-
ians from Mexico, on that occasion the
distinguished Ambassador to the United
States from Mexico was held up at the
gate. He was not a parliamentarian. He
was not a Senator. He had no invitation.
When he told me why he was delayed,
I said to him, "The Ambassador from
Mexico is always welcome in this house.
He needs no invitation."
681
