[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
troop level has dropped below 139,000—
and will be no higher than 69,000 by the
first day of May. In December 1971 our
combat deaths were down to 17. Air sor-
ties, budget costs, draft calls-all have
sharply declined.
Those facts represent the transforma-
tion of the American role in Vietnam. We
have done this, as we promised to do,
without abandoning our commitments to
our allies. As our role has diminished,
South Vietnam has been able increasingly
to meet its own defense needs and provide
growing security to its people.
PROGRESS WAS TEMPERED BY
DISAPPOINTMENTS
During the year there were several
sharp disappointments.
-The greatest was the failure of our
intense public and private efforts to
end the Vietnam War through a
negotiated settlement. Such a settle-
ment continues to be available to our
enemy whenever he is prepared to
negotiate in earnest. The only serious
barrier to a settlement which remains
is the enemy's insistence that we
cooperate with him to force on our
ally at the negotiating table a solution
which the enemy cannot force upon
him in the field, and is unwilling to
entrust to a political process. That we
are not willing to do. We are ready
to reach an agreement which allows
the South Vietnamese to determine
their own future without outside in-
terference. This goal can be reached
whenever Hanoi distinguishes be-
tween a settlement and a surrender.
-In South Asia, we made a deter-
mined year-long effort to prevent a
war. We did not succeed. Our deep
interest in the well-being of both
India and Pakistan compounded our
disappointment. We attempted to
moderate the crisis with a massive
relief effort and with an intense dip-
lomatic campaign to promote a
political solution. But war had its
own momentum. The violation of
peace in South Asia had ominous
implications for the stability of other
areas of tension in the world and for
our efforts to establish a more hopeful
relationship with our adversaries.
-In the Middle East, we were unable
to make a breakthrough toward
peace. Although the ceasefire result-
ing from our initiative in 1970 was
maintained, it did not prove possible
to engage the parties in negotiations,
and consequently no progress was
made toward the essential require-
ment of Middle-Eastern peace: an
arrangement which rests the security
of all on something more reliable
than the good will of a nation's
adversaries.
-In Latin America, we have yet to
work out with our friends a solution
of the conflict between their desire
for our help and their determination
to be free of dependence upon us.
The thrust for change in Latin
America, and our response to it, have
yet to shape themselves into a pattern
permitting us to make as full a con-
tribution as we wish and as our
hemisphere friends expect.
-In Africa, we have witnessed the
growing maturity of the newly inde-
pendent states, and the increasing
concentration of their governments
on the hard tasks of internal develop-
ment. This is a heartening process,
and it is one which deserves our en-
202
