Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
A BRIGHTER ECONOMIC PICTURE
As a result of all these steps, the eco-
nomic picture-which has brightened
steadily during the last 5 months-will, I
believe, continue to grow brighter. This is
not my judgment alone; it is widely shared
by the American people. Virtually every
survey and forecast in recent weeks shows
a substantial improvement in public at-
titudes about the economy-which are
themselves so instrumental in shaping
economic realities.
The inflationary psychology which
gripped our Nation so tightly for so long
is on the ebb. Business and consumer con-
fidence has been rising. Businessmen are
planning a 9.1 percent increase in plant
and equipment expenditures in 1972,
more than four times as large as the in-
crease in 1971. Consumer spending and
retail sales are on the rise. Home building
is booming-housing starts last year were
up more than 40 percent from 1970, set-
ting an all-time record. Interest rates are
sharply down. Both income and produc-
tion are rising. Real output in our econ-
omy in the last 3 months of 1971 grew at a
rate that was about double that of the pre-
vious two quarters.
Perhaps most importantly, total em-
ployment has moved above the 80 million
mark-to a record high-and is growing
rapidly. In the last 5 months of 1971, some
1.1 million additional jobs were created
in our economy and only a very unusual
increase in the size of our total labor force
kept the unemployment rate from falling.
But whatever the reason, 6 percent un-
employment is too high. I am determined
to cut that percentage-through a variety
of measures. The budget I present to the
Congress next week will be an expansion-
ary budget-reflecting the impact of new
job-creating tax cuts and job-creating ex-
penditures. We will also push to increase
employment through our programs for
manpower training and public service em-
ployment, through our efforts to expand
foreign markets, and through other new
initiatives.
Expanded employment in 1972 will be
different, however, from many other
periods of full prosperity. For it will come
without the stimulus of war-and it will
come without inflation. Our program of
wage and price controls is working. The
consumer price index, which rose at a
yearly rate of slightly over 6 percent dur-
ing 1969 and the first half of 1970, rose at
a rate of only 1.7 percent from August
through November of 1971.
I would emphasize once again, how-
ever, that our ultimate objective is lasting
price stability without controls. When we
achieve an end to the inflationary psy-
chology which developed in the 1960's,
we will return to our traditional policy
of relying on free market forces to deter-
mine wages and prices.
I would also emphasize that while our
new budget will be in deficit, the deficit
will not be irresponsible. It will be less
than this year's actual deficit and would
disappear entirely under full employment
conditions. While Federal spending con-
tinues to grow, the rate of increase in
spending has been cut very sharply-to
little more than half that experienced
under the previous administration. The
fact that our battle against inflation has
led us to adopt a new policy of wage and
price restraints should not obscure the
continued importance of our fiscal and
monetary policies in holding down the
cost of living. It is most important that the
Congress join now in resisting the tempta-
tion to overspend and in accepting the dis-
49
