Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
bruises in the short run if we were to
adopt this course. But in the long run the
world would surely pass us by.
I reject this approach. I remain com-
mitted to that open world I discussed in
my Inaugural address. That is why I have
worked for a more inviting climate for
America's economic activity abroad. That
is why I have placed so much emphasis on
increasing the productivity of our economy
at home. And that is also why I believe
so firmly that we must stimulate more
long-range investment in our economy,
find more effective ways to develop and
use new technology, and do a better job
of training and using skilled
manpower.
An acute awareness of the international
economic challenge led to the creation just
one year ago of the Cabinet-level Council
on International Economic Policy. This
new institution has helped us to under-
stand this challenge better and to respond
to it more effectively.
As our understanding deepens, we will
discover additional ways of improving our
ability to compete. For example, we can
enhance our competitive position by mov-
ing to implement the metric system of
measurement, a proposal which the Sec-
retary of Commerce presented in detail
to the Congress last year. And we should
also be doing far more to gain our fair
share of the international tourism market,
now estimated at $17 billion annually, one
of the largest factors in world trade. A
substantial part of our balance of pay-
ments deficit results from the fact that
American tourists abroad spend $2.5 bil-
lion more than foreign tourists spend in
the United States. We can help correct
this situation by attracting more foreign
tourists to our shores-especially as we
enter our Bicentennial era. I am therefore
requesting that the budget for the United
States Travel Service be nearly doubled
in the coming year.
THE UNFINISHED AGENDA
Our progress toward building a new
economic order at home and abroad has
been made possible by the cooperation and
cohesion of the American people. I am
sure that many Americans had misgivings
about one aspect or another of the new
economic policies I introduced last sum-
mer. But most have nevertheless been
ready to accept this new effort in order to
build the broad support which is essential
for effective change.
The time has now come for us to apply
this same sense of realism and reasonabil-
ity to other reform proposals which have
been languishing on our domestic agenda.
As was the case with our economic pol-
icies, most Americans agree that we need a
change in our welfare system, in our health
strategy, in our programs to improve the
environment, in the way we finance State
and local government, and in the organi-
zation of government at the Federal level.
Most Americans are not satisfied with the
status quo in education, in transportation,
in law enforcement, in drug control, in
community development. In each of these
areas--and in others-I have put forward
specific proposals which are responsive to
this deep desire for change.
And yet achieving change has often
been difficult. There has been progress in
some areas, but for the most part, as a
nation we have not shown the same sense
of self-discipline in our response to social
challenges that we have developed in
meeting our economic needs. We have not
been as ready as we should have been to
compromise our differences and to build a
broad coalition for change. And so we
5I
