Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
SALT agreement with the USSR which
will limit ABM deployments. From the
beginning of SALT negotiations it has
been implicit that we would be willing to
forego extensive ABM protection in return
for the greater stability offered by an
equitable limit on both offensive and de-
fensive strategic forces. In deploying
Safeguard we have taken only those steps
that are essential while preserving the
option for an agreement on ABM limita-
tions. These actions have given the Soviet
Union an incentive for concluding an
agreement controlling defensive deploy-
ments. Our future actions will continue to
reflect progress made in SALT.
In our decisions on deployments of
strategic systems, on qualitative improve-
ments and on SALT, our objective has
been to act with restraint while preserving
the security of the United States and its
allies. Our present strategic forces are
sufficient and we are moving toward an
agreement which should stabilize the
strategic balance and foreclose future
rounds of arms competition. If, however,
important systems are not constrained by
agreements and the Soviet Union con-
tinues to build up its strategic forces, I
will continue to take actions necessary to
protect the national security.
GENERAL PURPOSE FORCES
"The strength that commands respect
is the only foundation on which peace
among nations can ever be built."
Remarks to the
VFW Convention at Dallas
August 19, 1971
At no other time in the nuclear era has
it been so essential to maintain a full range
of credible options for defending Ameri-
can interests. Approaching strategic parity
with the Soviet Union and the developing
Chinese nuclear capability may have re-
duced the range of conflicts deterred by
strategic forces alone. If, in these circum-
stances, allied general purpose forces are
weak, aggression by conventional means
or attempts at political coercion might
seem more inviting.
In 1969 we undertook a comprehensive
assessment of military requirements for
the 1970's. We concluded that general
purpose forces must be capable of meeting
a major threat to American and allied
interests in Europe or Asia and of simul-
taneously coping with a minor contin-
gency elsewhere. The prospect of a two-
front coordinated attack in Europe and
Asia was considered remote because of the
risks of nuclear war and the improbability
of Sino-Soviet cooperation. The likelihood
of that cooperation has now receded even
further.
Nevertheless, the presence of potentially
hostile countries in both Asia and Europe
requires counterposing allied forces ca-
pable of maintaining a successful defense
in either theater until reinforced.
Approaching strategic parity also means
that the probability of challenges below
the level of full-scale nuclear or conven-
tional war has increased. During this Ad-
ministration, the United States has been
involved in crises in the Middle East, Asia,
and elsewhere. The Jordanian crisis of
1970 demonstrated the importance of be-
ing able to employ forces to stabilize a
local situation involving great power
interests.
The emerging Soviet capability to apply
military leverage in remote areas has
further underlined the need for counter-
vailing American forces. In the first years
of this decade there have been:
311
