Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 19 [93]
own account. Also, after it raises $1 mil-
lion in private capital, a SBIC is eligible to
borrow $3 from SBA for every $1 of pri-
vate capital.
Because of these incentives, substantial
amounts of private capital have been in-
vested in small business through SBICS.
More than 40,000 small business financ-
ings have been completed by SBICs from
the program's inception, totaling $1.9 bil-
lion in risk capital. But only a small frac-
tion of that amount has gone into minority
businesses, because usually risks and costs
are even higher for minority small busi-
nesses than for small businesses generally.
MESBICS
To fill the need for minority enterprise
high risk capital, the SBA evolved the
Minority Enterprise Small Business In-
vestment Company (MESBIC). A
MESBIC is a specialized SBIC: 1) it lim-
its its investment to minority enterprises;
2) it is supported by financially sturdy
institutional sponsors; 3) it is underwrit-
ten in large part by its sponsors.
In 1969 OMBE joined with SBA in
launching a national network of
MESBICs with SBA licensing and regu-
lating MESBICs and OMBE promoting
them. Today, 47 MESBICs operate
throughout the Nation with private funds
totaling in excess of $14 million. Since
MESBIC seed capital has the potential of
freeing $15 for investment in minority
enterprises for every one privately invested
dollar, more than $210 million is currently
available through this program. All this
is achieved at relatively low cost to the
Government.
MESBICS have the potential of becom-
ing sophisticated investment companies,
knowledgeable in the peculiar problems of
minority business investment, and able to
bring sound business principles and prac-
tices to their tasks. Seeking a fair return
on investment, MESBICs can act effec-
tively to raise the success prospects of
portfolio companies.
MESBIC Limitations. Despite the
proven values of the MESBIC mechanism,
it labors under burdens which endanger
further development. The cost of admin-
istering minority business investments and
the risk of early loss are both very high.
Moreover, the short term success pattern
of minority businesses has not been suffi-
ciently encouraging to enable them to at-
tract equity investment in normal com-
petitive markets. But the recent successes
of minority enterprises have shown that
they can compete if they are given enough
equity assistance to carry them through
this early period.
THE MINORITY ENTERPRISE SMALL BUSI-
NESS INVESTMENT ACT OF 1972
The primary object of my message
today is to urge that the proposed
Minority Enterprise Small Business In-
vestment Act be acted on favorably and
with dispatch by the House in its upcom-
ing small business hearings. This act will
restructure SBA financing of MESBICS
so that they can operate on a fiscally sound
basis.
Provisions of the Act. The legislation
proposes a statutory definition of a
MESBIC and authority to organize it as
a nonprofit corporation. This status would
facilitate foundation investments and tax-
deductible gifts to MESBICS.
Building on our experience with SBICS
and MESBICs, the act would reduce the
level of private capital required to qualify
for $3 to $1 assistance from SBA, from $1
447
