[238] July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Of what use is it for us to pass these meas-
ures, and more, if they are going to de-
stroy the family budget by higher prices
and more taxes?
No matter what the political pressures,
no matter how frequently I may be told
that in an election year a President cannot
veto a spending measure, I will simply not
let reckless spending of this kind destroy
the tax reductions we have secured and
the hard-won successes we have earned
in the battle against inflation. I intend to
continue to do my utmost to preserve the
American family budget and to protect it
239
from the ravages of higher taxes and
inflation.
The time for fiscal discipline has long
since come. The threat demands bold and
difficult decisions. Let the Congress make
them now.
The White House,
July 26, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
message by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs.
The President's News Conference of
July 27, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. Now we will go forward
with some questions if you like, please.
QUESTIONS
BOMBING TARGETS IN NORTH VIETNAM
[1] Q. Mr. President, you have said
that it is against U.S. policy to bomb the
dikes and dams in North Vietnam. Yes-
terday, the State Department acknowl-
edged there had been incidental and
inadvertent damage from the bombing
nearby.
My question is this: Is it worth the risk
of possible flooding or of having world
opinion turn against us to bomb military
targets near the dikes and dams?
THE PRESIDENT. I think your question
perhaps could be better answered by my
discussing the policy toward bombing of
civilian installations in North Vietnam
generally, and then coming down to the
specifics of your question, in giving the
general answer.
Some of you who were in Texas with
me will recall that that question was
raised at the Connally Ranch,ยน and it was
raised, actually, by an advocate of bomb-
ing dikes as to why we did not bomb dikes.
And I said it had not been U.S. policy
even before the bombing halt of 1968 to
bomb the dikes, that it was not our policy
that it would not be in the future,
because it is the policy of the United States
in all of its activities against North Viet-
nam to direct its attacks against military
targets only.
now,
That was the policy in the sixties, and it
is now the policy since we have had to
resume the bombing for the purposes that
I mentioned in my speech of May 8.
Now with regard to the situation on the
dikes, let us understand what we are con-
fronted with here. This is approximately
a 2,700-mile chain of installations, in-
cluding perhaps a half-dozen major dams
which are the heart of the system and then
1 See Item 134 [4.].
744
