Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [400]
peace officers of this country, the Presi-
dent of the United States has stood back
of them, and I stand back of them today,
against those who would run them down.
That is why we have begun to turn
the tide against crime and against danger-
ous drugs, because we need to respect
those who are peace officers and those who
have to carry out the law. Laws, of course,
if they are to be respected, must deserve
it. And we are going to have continually
that kind of law, to have the increasing
justice and opportunity that every Amer-
ican has as his due.
Today I would like particularly to dis-
cuss with you the issue that I know is
uppermost in the minds of many of you
because of recent developments. As you
know, the major goal that I have had over
these past 4 years is to build a structure
of peace in the world, a peace not just
for the next election, but peace for the
next generation.
We have made very significant progress
in that direction. I refer to the journey
we took to Peking, where, after a quarter
of a century of hardly any contact, finally
the world's most prosperous nation and
the world's most populous nation, with
over one-fourth of the people of the world
living there, now are communicating with
each other.
Think what that means, not to this
generation—ours-but to all of these
wonderful young people here, because 20
years from now instead of being engaged
in ugly and dangerous confrontation with
a billion Chinese, they will be communi-
cating with them. They have a chance for
peace that we did not have.
We have made progress, too, in at-
tempting to bring peace to the Mideast,
in standing by our commitments to Israel,
and we will continue to stand by those
commitments, because that is the way to
peace in that troubled area.
We have made progress, too, in many
other areas in the world, particularly in
dealing with the Soviet Union, where, as
you know, we have had an historic arms
control agreement, agreements in the field
of trade and the environment and health
and science and in many other areas.
I could stop here and talk about those
agreements and also the progress that we
have made in bringing the war in Viet-
nam to an honorable conclusion.
But my purpose in coming to Chicago
is to ask your votes, not because of what
we have done over the past 4 years, but
to give me the chance that I need to com-
plete the job and to build a structure of
peace in the next 4 years.
Before coming to Chicago today I met
for an hour in the Oval Office with Am-
bassador Dobrynin of the Soviet Union
and the science minister from the Soviet
Union [Dr. Mistislav V. Keldysh]. We
spoke about the recent summit in Moscow,
but we spoke about the future, how we
could cooperate more in the future, and
we also spoke about the new agreements
with regard to the limitation of nuclear
weapons, in which the negotiations will
start at the end of November.
We spoke of the other negotiations
which we have already begun, but which
we must continue in the next Admin-
istration. I realized, as I talked to him,
that it was important to go to the country
and get the people of this country to give
to the President of the United States the
backing that he needs, to give to the
President of the United States and to give
a message to all the leaders of the world
that when the President of the United
States goes abroad, he speaks not from
weakness, but from strength. Let's not
1097
