[309] Sept. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the Western States, in units admin-
istered by the National Park Service, my
proposals today would designate as wil-
derness 2,016,181 acres in Yellowstone
National Park, 512,870 in the Grand
Canyon complex, 646,700 acres in Yo-
semite National Park, and 115,807 acres
in Grand Teton National Park.
I further propose for inclusion in our
National Wilderness Preservation System
an additional 216,519 acres in some of the
most beautiful regions of our country.
These would include designated areas in
the Great Sand Dunes National Monu-
ment in Colorado, the Theodore Roose-
velt National Memorial Park in North
Dakota, the Badlands National Monu-
ment in South Dakota, the Guadalupe
Mountains National Park in Texas, the
Carlsbad Caverns National Park in New
Mexico and the Haleakala National Park
in Hawaii.
The 1964 Wilderness Act further
directed the Secretaries of Agriculture
and of the Interior to review federally
owned lands which they administer and to
report to the President, who transmits to
the Congress their and his recommenda-
tions for those areas which qualify as
wilderness as defined by the act. This wil-
derness review process, to be conducted in
three phases, was to be completed by 1974.
Beginning in 1969, I accelerated this
program, and on April 28, 1971, I for-
warded to the Congress 14 new wilderness
proposals which, when enacted, would
substantially increase the acreage added
since passage of the Wilderness Act. I
warned that we would need a redoubled
effort by the Departments of Agriculture
and the Interior in completing the review
process and prompt action on these pro-
posals by the Congress.
On February 8, 1972, I transmitted a
second package of 18 new wilderness pro-
posals to the Congress, which, if enacted,
would designate 1.3 million additional
acres as wilderness. At that time I reported
that the September, 1974 statutory dead-
line for reviews could and would be met.
I also pointed out that the majority of
the wilderness areas recommended to date
had involved western lands. Therefore, I
directed the Secretaries of Agriculture
and Interior to accelerate the identifica-
tion of areas in the Eastern United States
having wilderness potential.
The Congress has now received 78
wilderness proposals which would add 5.8
million acres to the original 9.1 million
acres designated by the Congress.
To date, however, the Congress has
acted on only 35 proposals, approving 1.7
million acres for inclusion in the system.
This leaves pending 43 wilderness pro-
posals encompassing 4.1 million acres.
I now urge the Congress-in this cen-
tennial year of our National Park Sys-
tem-to act quickly in favor of these new
proposals as well as the ones already
pending.
I am aware of the commercial op-
portunities in potential wilderness areas
such as mining, lumbering, and recrea-
tional development. I believe we must
achieve a sensible land use balance-
America can have economic growth and
the unspoiled nature of the wilderness.
Increasingly, in fact, the preservation
of these areas has become a major goal of
all Americans. The process of developing
wilderness proposals is now exemplifying
public participation and cooperation with
the governmental process. Commercial
and conservation groups-and individuals
from all over the country-have, through
public hearings and direct contact with
government agencies, done much more
882
