[315] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
ple? This is the question. How does it
develop in a way that it will contribute to
peace in the Pacific, rather than unrest
in the Pacific? This is the question.
And so we look at the Soviet Union and
we see some striking things that have hap-
pened. We see an arms control agreement.
We see agreements developing in the field
of trade and the environment and health
and many, many other areas-in coopera-
tion in space, for example. But again I
point out, they are simply a beginning, be-
cause in the field of arms control, for ex-
ample, all that we have done is simply to
provide for the limitation of arms in cer-
tain areas, defensive nuclear weapons and
certain classes of offensive weapons.
In the future, in the next few months,
over the next few years, we will move on to
new negotiations with the Soviet Union,
between these two great super powers.
Those negotiations will not be easy. They
will not depend simply on personal friend-
ship, although there will be and might be
personal friendship between the leaders of
the two great powers. They will not de-
pend on simply good will, although we
hope there may be good will, but they will
depend upon how each of the great na-
tions consults its own interests and defends
those interests in such negotiations.
I know, because I have been through it.
And as I look at that challenge in the
future, I realize, and I want all of you to
realize, all of the American people to
realize, that what we must do is, of course,
to negotiate with those who might be our
adversaries, but to negotiate in a way that
builds a lasting peace, negotiate in a way
that does not weaken the United States of
America in its role of being the major
free world country that can keep the peace
and defend freedom around the world.
Let me put it quite bluntly. The mili-
tary strength of the United States, the
economic strength of the United States,
and, even more important, the moral
strength, the unity, the character of the
United States will determine whether
peace and freedom survive in this last part
of this century. And it is the responsibility
of all Americans, whether they be Demo-
crats or Republicans, to see to it that the
United States remains strong in all these
areas, strong not for the purpose of being
simply stronger than somebody else-
there is no jingoism in this-but strong
because in the whole free world today
there is no one else, no one else that can
do the job.
In the Pacific there is no other power
that has the strength or the potential. In
Europe there is no other free world power
that has that potential. And that is why
one of the planks in my campaign pro-
gram, one of the things I have fought for
in the past, that I will fight for in the
future is this:
I believe, of course, that we should al-
ways do everything that we can to see that
the burden of expenditures for the Amer-
ican people is as low as possible. I believe,
of course, that we should see to it that in
the field of military expenditures that we
should not spend more than is necessary.
But I also believe that it is vital and essen-
tial to the survival of the United States,
to the survival of peace and freedom in
the world, that we reject the arguments of
those who say that we should cut our
defenses so that we become the second
strongest nation in the world.
So a strong national defense is the be-
ginning. We will negotiate reduction in
arms, but you cannot negotiate from a
position of weakness. It is very simple, and
this is a point, of course, that we are all
quite aware of.
896
