Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 21 [310]
than is generally realized to contribute to
the wilderness program.
I believe the value of this cooperative
effort between the public and their gov-
ernment officials is reflected in the wilder-
ness proposals I am proud to submit
today. This is an excellent example of the
responsive way in which our government
is meant to work.
The first man on earth, according to
the scriptures was placed in a natural
garden, and he was charged "to dress it
and keep it." Our own great naturalist
John Muir said that our "whole continent
was a garden and . . . seemed to be
favored above all the other wild parks and
gardens of the globe."
The addition of these new areas to our
national wilderness system will help to
keep it that way.
The White House,
September 21, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the President's message. The news
briefing was held by Secretary of the Interior
Rogers C. B. Morton.
310 Remarks on Signing a Bill Providing Better Survivor
Benefits for Dependents of Military Retirees.
September 21, 1972
I WANTED to say to you gentlemen that
on occasions of bill signings, we usually
have a statement made briefly by the
President. I noted the great number who
are here for this bill signing. It allows
me to make a point that many times we
sign bills that have an enormous effect on
groups of people, but very few people in
the Nation are aware of it, very few peo-
ple, really, would seem to care.
This happens to be one of those bills
that would go unnoticed, except for the
fact that there are Members of the House
and Members of the Senate, who have felt
strongly for many, many years that an
inequity ought to be corrected. The bill
came to my desk. When I saw it, I sug-
gested that we invite down Members of
the House and the Senate, Republicans
and Democrats, who had supported this
legislation.
In order that the Nation will know
that a government can be responsive to
an inequity, an inequity involving men
and women who have served in our
Armed Forces and their survivors, I
thought the Secretary of Defense could
take a few minutes to explain the details
of the bill, and then I will sign it. Mr.
Secretary.
SECRETARY LAIRD. Mr. President, ladies
and gentlemen:
This bill is a very significant bill. It is
significant in the lives of the families of
900,000 military people who have already
retired. They have an opportunity to
qualify for the survivors benefits under
the terms of this bill.
In addition to that, it affects the fam-
ilies and the lives of the men and women
of the military service that are currently
serving in our Armed Forces. They have
an opportunity to be treated as other
civilian workers in Government have been
treated, as members of the Foreign Serv-
ice have been treated, for many years.
For 25 years, the House and Senate
Armed Services Committees have been
883
