Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 19 [261]
change in procedures—it is a basic change
in philosophy which requires a change in
attitudes on the part of the Federal Gov-
ernment. I am convinced such a change
is essential. In that sense the Planned
Variations demonstration is a testing
ground-and a successful one-for some
of the new initiatives of this Administra-
tion and an essential part of the under-
pinning for our revenue sharing programs.
As I said when I announced the pro-
gram last year, it is designed to demon-
strate "the validity of the principle that
when local governments are given the op-
portunity and the resources, they can and
will manage their affairs effectively and in
a way which is responsive to the needs of
all of their citizens."
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet on the Planned Varia-
tions program.
261
Statement on Signing a Bill Permitting Continuation
of the Guaranteed Student Loan Program.
August 19, 1972
I HAVE today signed S.J. Res. 260, which
amends the Higher Education Act amend-
ments of 1972. In signing S.J. Res. 260, I
want to express my thanks to the Con-
gress for responding so promptly to an
urgent problem. If the Congress had not
responded promptly-enacting this legis-
lation 48 hours after I requested it-thou-
sands of deserving young people, ready to
return to college or other post-secondary
schools, might have been denied the loans
they need for the coming school year.
The effect of this new legislation will
be to delay the implementation of new
regulations until March 1, 1973. This de-
lay will permit lending and educational
institutions to conduct the program this
fall under ground rules they all under-
stand-regulations that were in effect
prior to June 30, 1972. The task now is to
make certain that the continuing promise
of a truly fine program is fulfilled.
Since its inception in 1965, this program
has been an overwhelming success-more
of a success than even the creators of the
program foresaw. Since that time, some 5
million loans totaling more than $4.6 bil-
lion have been made to more than 3 mil-
lion
young men and women seeking to fur-
ther their education. In fiscal year 1972
alone, more than a million applicants bor-
rowed $1.3 billion.
Those educational and financial institu-
tions which made this record possible de-
serve the gratitude of the American people
for their past achievements. I call upon
all concerned to bend every effort to make
up for lost time during this lending sea-
son-time lost as a result of unintended
ambiguities in the 1972 amendments to
the law. I especially urge everyone in-
volved in the program to reestablish con-
tact with student applicants who have
been turned down because of the uncer-
tainty which has unfortunately arisen and
to process pending applications as rapidly
as possible.
NOTE: As enacted, S.J. Res. 260 is Public Law
92-391 (86 Stat. 563).
87-234-74-53
781
