Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 28 [379]
challenge. This bill will also give strong
support to the delegation we will be send-
ing to London at the end of this month
to seek a much needed international con-
vention on this important matter.
PROTECTING MARINE MAMMALS
Even as I commend the Congress for
responding to the concern over ocean
dumping, I am also grateful for the op-
portunity to sign a second piece of legis-
lation concerning the oceanic environ-
ment, the Marine Mammal Protection
Act, H.R. 10420. This legislation will give
us the important powers we need to ensure
that the world's whales, porpoises, seals,
polar bears, walruses, sea otters, and
manatees do not become depleted or en-
dangered species. H.R. 10420 requires a
specific permit before such animals may
be taken or imported and provides strong
encouragements for other countries to de-
velop similar protections.
In this area, as in the case of ocean
dumping, we are ensuring that our own
regulation programs are up-to-date, and
we are also taking a strong position of
international leadership. We share the
oceans with all who live on this planet.
Our actions are part of what we hope and
trust will be a global commitment to pro-
tect the glory and majesty and life of the
"shining" seas.
MANAGING COASTAL ZONES
S. 3507, the Coastal Zone Management
Act of 1972, is also an outgrowth of ear-
lier efforts by this Administration to pro-
vide for rational management of a unique
national resource.
More than 75 percent of our popula-
tion now lives in States bordering the At-
lantic and Pacific Oceans, the Gulf of
Mexico, and the Great Lakes. The num-
ber of people who use our coastal zones is
rapidly increasing and so are the pur-
poses for which these areas are utilized.
Commercial fisheries, ports, beaches and
other recreation areas, the extraction of
minerals, the siting of powerplants, the
building of homes and factories, the de-
velopment of transportation systems—
these are among the competing functions
which our coastal zones are being called
upon to serve. Yet these same areas, it
must be remembered, are the irreplace-
able breeding ground for most aquatic
life.
S. 3507 recognizes the need for care-
fully planned, comprehensive manage-
ment programs to ensure the most ra-
tional and beneficial use of the coastal
zones. This bill also recognizes that the
States can usually be the most effective
regulators of such a planning process. I
will instruct the Secretary of Commerce
to carry out this statute in a way which
focuses Federal efforts on the adequacy
of State processes rather than to become
involved in the merits of particular land
use decisions.
But the coastal zones are not the only
areas which need this sort of long-range
attention. This is why I proposed to the
Congress in February of 1971 the national
land use policy act-a bill which would
help the States establish management pro-
grams for a wide range of areas which
are of critical environmental concern. It
is my strong hope that the next Congress
will expand on the coastal zone bill which
was passed this fall by approving my na-
tional land use policy act. I signed S.
3507, then, as an important first step
toward a more comprehensive program.
S. 3507 locates administrative respon-
1051
