Richard Nixon, 1972
June 15 [199]
agreements. Let me lay that to rest right
at the outset. This is not a pep talk, and
Dr. Kissinger is not going to make you a
pep talk either.
When I came back from the Soviet
Union, you will recall in the joint session
I said that we wanted a very searching
inquiry of these agreements. I want to
leave no doubt about my own attitude.
I have studied this situation of arms
control over the past 32 years. I am
totally convinced that both of these agree-
ments are in the interest of the security of
the United States and in the interest of
arms control and world peace. I am con-
vinced of that, based on my study. How-
ever,
I want the Members of the House
and the Members of the Senate also to be
convinced of that. I want the Nation to be
convinced of that.
I think that the hearings that you will
conduct must be searching because only
in that way will you be able to be con-
vincing to yourselves and only in that way
will the Nation also be convinced.
In other words, this is not one of those
cases where the President of the United
States is asking the Congress and the Na-
tion to take on blind faith a decision that
he has made and in which he deeply
believes.
I believe in the decision, but your ques-
tions should be directed to Dr. Kissinger
and others in the Administration for the
purpose of finding any weaknesses that you
think in the negotiations or in the final
agreements that we have made.
As far as the procedures are concerned,
as you know, you will be hearing the Sec-
retary of State, the Secretary of Defense,
the head of the CIA, and, of course, Am-
bassador [Gerard C.] Smith in your ses-
sions of the various committees.
I know that a number have suggested
that Dr. Kissinger should appear before
the committees as a witness. I have had to
decline that particular invitation on his
part, due to the fact that executive privi-
lege, I felt, had to prevail.
On the other hand, since this is really an
unprecedented situation, it seemed to me
that it was important that he appear be-
fore the members of the committees in this
format. This is on the record.
All of you will be given total transcripts
of what he says. All of you will have the
opportunity to ask these questions, and in
the event that all of the questions are not
asked on this occasion, he, of course, will
be available to answer other questions in
his office from members of the committees
as time goes on, during the course of the
hearings.
What we are asking for here, in other
words, is cooperation with, and not just
rubber-stamping by, the House and the
Senate. That is essential because there
must be follow-through on this and the
Members of the House and Senate, it
seems to me, must be convinced that they
played a role, as they have up to this point,
and will continue to play a role in this
very, very important field of arms control.
Now, let me go to the agreements them-
selves and express briefly some of my own
views that I think are probably quite
familiar to you, but which I think need to
be underlined.
I have noted a great deal of speculation
about who won and who lost in these
negotiations. I have said that neither side
won and neither side lost. As a matter of
fact, if we were to really look at it very,
very fairly, both sides won, and the whole
world won.
Let me tell you why I think that is im-
portant. Where negotiations between great
powers are involved, if one side wins and
677
