[338] Oct. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
improving our balance of trade and
balance of payments position.
As far as the terms were concerned,
when we went in-I negotiated this di-
rectly after a lot of preliminary work
had been done, and very good preliminary
work, by Secretary Peterson and, of
course, Secretary Butz-they wanted 10
years at 2-percent credit, and they finally
took 3 years at over 6 percent.
Now they got something they needed.
They have a short wheat crop and they
needed this wheat in order to feed their
people, but it was also good for us. Despite
that, however, we certainly want no one
to have gotten any inside information to
make a profit out of it which was illegal
or improper. If that did happen, we are
going to find out, and we will take action
against it.
Q. Mr. President, do you agree with
Secretary Butz that if he had known that
one of his aides was going to join a grain
dealer that he would not have taken him
along in negotiating the Russian deal?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have very great
respect for Secretary Butz's judgment in
this matter. The only addition I would
make to it is that when we announced
the grain deal on July 8 in San Clemente,
as you recall, it was only then that we were
sure-and incidentally many, of course,
are now wondering what is going to hap-
pen to the trade agreement.
I can't tell you whether there will be
one, or when. I think there will be one,
but my point is that when we negotiate
in this economic field, as is the case when
we negotiate in the field of arms control,
it is tough bargaining up and down the
line, and until we get it nailed down we
are not sure that we are going to get it. In
this instance, while Mr. Butz's assistant
did take a trip to the Soviet Union, he
certainly, I think, would have been very
unwise to rely on the possibility there
was going to be a deal until one was made.
If he did rely on it, he probably, in this
instance, came out well. He could have
come out the other way.
PROPERTY TAX RELIEF
[6.] Q. Mr. President, on the question
of property taxes, Mr. Ehrlichman has
said that the Administration's long-term
goal is to reduce property taxes by 50 per-
cent, which would mean about $16 billion
from the Federal Government presum-
ably to States to make up for the prop-
erty tax loss. How will you find that $16
billion without having to increase Federal
taxes?
THE PRESIDENT. We can't do it all in
one bite. We have to begin with that. As
Mr. Ehrlichman has indicated, that is why
we have set as a goal a 50-percent
reduction.
Now, let me indicate to you the prior-
ities that I see developing with regard to
property tax relief. We have to start first
with the elderly. When I met with Mr.
Merriam,³ who, as you know, is the profes-
sional working with the advisory commit-
tee on intergovernmental relations, he
gave me some statistics which to me were
terribly depressing. There are one million
retired people in this country who have
incomes of less than $2,000 a year, and,
who, on the average, pay a property tax
of 333 percent of that income.*
Robert E. Merriam, Chairman of the Ad-
visory Commission on Intergovernmental
Relations.
The 333-percent figure refers to low-in-
come retired persons in the Northeast. Nation-
wide, the average is about 16 percent of retiree's
income.
956
