Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
residents of federally assisted housing proj-
ects as a source of volunteer manpower for
serving other older persons.
As we move ahead with this entire
pro-
gram, we should take encouragement from
successes of the past. One which is par-
ticularly noteworthy is the program in
Mount Vernon and Edmunds, Washing-
ton, where local citizens have designed a
unique bridge across the generation gap
called STEP-Service To Elderly Persons.
Under this program, volunteers from the
local high schools have undertaken, on a
regular basis, to assist elderly persons in
performing small tasks, while at the same
time providing them with companionship
and renewed hope. Everyone gains from a
program of this sort. If leaders at every
level are alert to such possibilities, our
progress can be enormous.
Often in quiet ways, the people of the
United States have been responding to the
challenges of our society with compassion
and resourcefulness. Now it is for those
of us who have the responsibility for na-
tional leadership to provide the Federal
assistance which can help such voluntary
efforts go even further and accomplish
even more.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR
OLDER CITIZENS
Discrimination based on age--what
some people call "age-ism"-can be as
great an evil in our society as discrimina-
tion based on race or religion or any other
characteristic which ignores a person's
unique status as an individual and treats
him or her as a member of some arbi-
trarily-defined group. Especially in the
employment field, discrimination based on
age is cruel and self-defeating; it destroys
the spirit of those who want to work and
it denies the Nation the contribution they
could make if they were working.
We are responding to this problem in a
number of ways. The Department of
Labor, for example, has filed over 80 suits
under the Age Discrimination in Employ-
ment Act of 1967-30 of which have been
successfully concluded. I will soon pro-
pose to the Congress that this act be
broadened to include what is perhaps the
fastest growing area of employment in our
economy-the State and local govern-
ments. I will also send a directive to the
heads of all Federal departments and
agencies reaffirming and emphasizing our
policy that age shall be no bar to a Federal
job which an individual is otherwise quali-
fied to perform.
The Age Discrimination in Employ-
ment Act relates to persons between the
ages of 45 and 65. I recognize that persons
falling within this age group are con-
fronted with special problems in the em-
ployment area and that we should do
everything we can to resolve these prob-
lems. It is also important, however, that
we help open employment opportunities
for persons over 65. To this end, I have
requested the Secretary of Labor to urge
the States and local communities to in-
clude older persons in the opportunities
provided by the Emergency Employment
Act of 1971, and to work with our public
employment offices so that they will be
in a position to help open job opportu-
nities for the over 65 group, including
opportunities for part-time employment in
both the public and private sectors.
I also asked last fall that funds be
doubled for special Operation Mainstream
projects for low-income older workers-
such as Green Thumb and Senior Aides.
This measure can mean that as many as
10,000 older persons will be employed in
483
