[79] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
security." More than that, each agency is
to provide a means of identifying the clas-
sifying authority for each document and
each official is to be held personally re-
sponsible for the propriety of the classifi-
cations attributed to him. Repeated abuse
of the process through excessive classifica-
tion shall be grounds for administrative
action.
6. Monitoring the New System.
Of critical importance to the effective-
ness of my Executive order will be the new
administrative machinery designed to en-
sure that its provisions are not allowed to
become mere meaningless exhortations.
The National Security Council will moni-
tor compliance with the Executive order.
In addition, the order creates a small In-
teragency Classification Review Commit-
tee with extensive powers to oversee
agency implementation of the new system,
and to take action on complaints both
from within and from outside the Gov-
ernment on the administration of the
order.
ACCELERATING PUBLICATION OF FOREIGN
RELATIONS SERIES
My second action today was to direct an
acceleration in the publication by the De-
partment of State of the official docu-
mentary series, "Foreign Relations of the
United States." Since 1861, that series has
been an invaluable resource for historians
and others interested in our past. For
many years each publication contained
documents written only a few years before,
but soon after the Second World War,
when Government files were bulging with
war papers, a 20-year lag developed be-
tween origination and publication. Now,
however, the lag has stretched to 26 years
and the Department of State is presently
publishing materials relating to events of
1946. This delay is too long, and I have
directed the Secretary of State to institute
immediately a program to reduce this time
lag to 20 years, and to accomplish this
mission within 3 years. I have also in-
structed the Secretary of Defense, the
Director of Central Intelligence, and my
Assistant for National Security Affairs to
cooperate fully with this effort.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on the
new classification and declassification system
by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Domestic Affairs, and David R. Young,
Executive Director, Interagency Classification
Review Committee.
On August 3, 1972, the White House re-
leased an announcement of a report by John S.
D. Eisenhower, Chairman, Interagency Clas-
sification Review Committee, on progress made
in the new classification and declassification
system. A fact sheet and chart on the progress
in carrying out the provisions of Executive
Order 11652 were also released. The announce-
ment is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1199).
80 Order Designating Authority To Classify Information or
Material Within the Executive Office of the President.
March 8, 1972
PURSUANT to Section 2(A) of the
Executive Order of March 8, 1972, en-
titled Classification and Declassification
of National Security Information and
Material, I hereby designate the follow-
ing offices in the Executive Office of the
406
