I "A Conversation With the President," Interview With
Dan Rather of the Columbia Broadcasting System.
January 2, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, ladies and
gentlemen. I wish to welcome all of you
to this interview in the Oval Office of the
President, and, Mr. Rather, we will go
right to your questions.
QUESTIONS
DECISION ON CANDIDACY
[1.] MR. RATHER. Thank you, Mr.
President, and for myself and on behalf of
my colleagues in the White House press
corps, Happy New Year to you.
Since this is a new year, may we assume
that you are a candidate for reelection?
THE PRESIDENT. That is not an unex-
pected question.
MR. RATHER. I wouldn't think so.
THE PRESIDENT. I will answer it simply
by saying that before the 14th of January
I will have to make a decision and an-
nounce that decision with regard to can-
didacy, because that is the time that I
will have to decide whether to enter the
New Hampshire primary.
I will be making a decision. I will be
announcing it by the 14th. As far as can-
didacy is concerned, while I cannot, and
therefore will not, announce it on this
program-I think I should save that for
all
your colleagues—I will say that I have
decided already what I will do during
the period of the campaign.
Whatever my decision is, I have decided
that I will engage in no public partisan
activities until after the Republican Con-
vention. The problems of the Presidency,
the problems of this office in which we sit,
in this year 1972, are so great that it will
not be possible to take time off for partisan
politics.
ATTORNEY GENERAL MITCHELL AND THE
CAMPAIGN
[2.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President,
someone will have to run your campaign,
and it is widely assumed that Attorney
General Mitchell will be leaving. Could
you tell us when he will be leaving?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you are getting
me right into the question that I just re-
fused to answer, but I understand that. If
I make the decision to become a candi-
date and there is, of course, good reason
to think that I might make the decision
in that direction, although there is always
the possibility that one might change his
mind—but if I make that decision, the
man who is best qualified to run the cam-
paign is Attorney General Mitchell.
The only problem I have with that is
that he is also, in my opinion, the best
qualified to be Attorney General of the
United States. I haven't crossed that
bridge yet. That is one of the hard de-
cisions I am going to have to make in the
event that we come down affirmatively to
enter the New Hampshire primary.
CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING
CANDIDACY
[3] MR. RATHER. Mr. President,
under what circumstances would you not
be a candidate for reelection?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it would de-
pend, Mr. Rather, on circumstances that
none of us might foresee at this point. I
I
