[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
long, was almost killed in its infancy. The
cause was a rash and provocative Soviet
and Egyptian missile buildup along the
Suez Canal. Soviet-supported Syria at-
tacked and, for a short time, threatened
the survival of Jordan, a good friend of
the United States. The Soviets appeared
to be attempting to build a submarine base
in Cuba, which would have violated the
understanding which ended the Cuban
missile crisis, and could have posed a
threat to peace. The initial progress in the
arms limitation talks gave way to an im-
passe. The talks on Berlin stagnated.
By the fall of 1970 we seemed on the
verge of a new, perhaps prolonged, and
certainly fruitless and dangerous period of
tension. The Soviet Union did not seem to
share our interest in better relations, nor
was there evidence that it was resolved to
practice the self-restraint essential to such
relations.
At the same time, there were other
trends that led us to conclude that a more
personal and direct approach to the Soviet
leaders might be timely and productive,
despite the apparent deterioration in our
relations. They might have their own rea-
sons for second thoughts. The crises in the
Middle East and the Caribbean had un-
derlined once again the dangers of un-
mitigated competition between us. There
were new stresses in Eastern Europe
which might give the Soviets a reinvigo-
rated desire for a reduction of East-West
tensions in Europe. The approach of the
Soviet Party Congress ensured that Soviet
leaders were reexamining their policies
and the prospects they offered. They
might be attracted to alternatives which
carried greater promise.
We were approaching a turning point.
I felt an obligation to convey to the Soviet
leaders my conviction that an improve-
ment in relations was still a distinct pos-
sibility, and that the alternative to it was
a sharp deterioration dangerous for both
of us and bereft of promise to either.
I invited Foreign Minister Gromyko to
Washington on October 22, 1970, and we
discussed at some length the general
prospects for Soviet-American relations
and the status of specific issues.
On the following day I went to New
York and spoke to the United Nations
General Assembly. That speech was ad-
dressed primarily to the leaders of the
Soviet Union:
"The issue of war and peace cannot be
solved unless we in the United States and
the Soviet Union demonstrate both the
will and the capacity to put our relation-
ship on a basis consistent with the aspira-
tions of mankind. . . . In the world to-
day we are at a crossroads. We can follow
the old way, playing the traditional game
of international relations, but at ever-in-
creasing risk. Everyone will lose. No one
will gain. Or we can take a new road.
"I invite the leaders of the Soviet Union
to join us in taking that new road . . .”
Shortly thereafter I initiated a confi-
dential and ultimately productive ex-
change directly with the Soviet leaders.
In all of these initiatives I stressed the
need for concrete progress, and pointed to
the Berlin and arms limitation talks as
ideal candidates for a successful accom-
modation of our interests. Both negotia-
tions were at an impasse. Both required
bold initiatives.
The talks on the limitation of strategic
arms had reached a point of fundamental
conflict beyond the ability of the nego-
tiators to resolve. The Soviet Union
wished to work toward an initial agree-
ment limited solely to anti-ballistic mis-
siles. We considered that so narrow a
208
