[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
told me, "We simply do not have time to
wait while the Government procrastinates.
For us, the future is now." I believe this
same sense of urgency should characterize
the Government's response to the concerns
of the elderly. I hope and trust that the
Congress will join me in moving forward
in that spirit.
A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY FOR
MEETING COMPLEX PROBLEMS
The role of older people in American
life has changed dramatically in recent
decades. For one thing, the number of
Americans 65 and over is more than six
times as great today as it was in 1900-
compared to less than a 3-fold increase
in the population under 65. In 1900, one
out of every 25 Americans was 65 or over;
today one in ten has reached his 65th
birthday.
While the number of older Americans
has been growing so rapidly, their tradi-
tional pattern of living has been severely
disrupted. In an earlier era, the typical
American family was multigenerational-
grandparents and even great-grandpar-
ents lived in the same household with their
children and grandchildren, or at least
lived nearby. In recent years, however,
the ties of family and of place have been
loosened with the result that more and
more of our older citizens must live apart
or alone. The rapid increase in mandatory
retirement provisions has compounded
this trend toward isolation. Under such
conditions, other problems of older per-
sons such as ill health and low income have
become even more burdensome. And all
of these difficulties are intensified, of
course, for members of minority groups
and for those who are blind or deaf or
otherwise handicapped.
The sense of separation which has
characterized the lives of many older
Americans represents a great tragedy for
our country. In the first place, it denies
many older citizens the sense of fulfillment
and satisfaction they deserve for the con-
tributions they have made throughout
their lifetimes. Secondly, it denies the
country the full value of the skills and in-
sights and moral force which the older
generation is uniquely capable of offering.
The major challenge which confronts
us, then, as we address the problems of
older Americans is the new generation gap
which has emerged in this country in
recent decades between those who are over
65 and those who are younger. The way to
bridge this gap, in my judgment, is to stop
treating older Americans as a burden and
to start treating them as a resource. We
must fight the many forces which can
cause older persons to feel dependent or
isolated and provide instead continuing
opportunities for them to be self-reliant
and involved.
If we can accomplish this goal, our en-
tire Nation will reap immense benefits. As
I put it in my speech to the White House
Conference on Aging, ". . . any action
which enhances the dignity of older Amer-
icans enhances the dignity of all Ameri-
cans, for unless the American dream comes
true for our older generation, it cannot
be complete for any generation."
From its very beginnings, this Admin-
istration has worked diligently to achieve
this central objective. To assist me in this
effort, I established a special task force on
aging in 1969. In that same year, I
elevated the Commissioner on Aging, John
Martin, to the position of Special Assistant
to the President on Aging, the first such
position in history. Later, I created a new
Cabinet-level Committee on Aging, under
462
