[238] July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
progress we have made in getting Amer-
ica's workers off the inflation treadmill of
the 1960's.
While specific Federal programs are
important to many people and constituent
groups, none is more important to all the
American taxpayers than a concerted pro-
gram to hold down the rate of taxes and
the cost of living.
In view of this serious threat I again
urge the Congress-in the economic inter-
est of all American citizens-to enact a
spending ceiling of $250 billion. I urgently
recommended a spending ceiling when I
submitted the fiscal 1973 budget earlier
this year.
Our concern with sustaining the in-
creasing purchasing power of all the
people requires and demands such respon-
sible action. Our concern with the cost of
living requires and demands such respon-
sible action. Our determination to avoid
higher taxes requires and demands such
action. The basic fiscal integrity of the
Nation requires and demands such action.
At fault is the hoary and traditional
procedure of the Congress, which now
permits action on the various spending
programs as if they were unrelated and
independent actions. What we should
have-and what I again seek today-is
that an annual spending ceiling be set
first, and that individual program alloca-
tions then be tailored to that ceiling. This
is the anti-inflationary method I use in
designing the Federal budget.
The present Congressional system of
independent, unrelated actions on various
spending programs means that the Con-
gress arrives at total Federal spending in
an accidental, haphazard manner. That
is no longer good enough procedure for
the American people, who now realize
that their hard-won economic gains
against inflation are threatened by every
deficit spending bill-no matter how at-
tractive the subject matter of that bill
might be. And there are impressive gains
which I am committed to help guard:
-We have achieved a substantial suc-
cess in our battle against the inflation we
inherited in 1969. Instead of the more
than 6 percent of 1969, we are now down
to a rate of 2.9 percent per year. Inflation
has been cut in half.
-We have cut the personal income tax
so that a family of four with an income of
$5,000 has had its individual income taxes
reduced by 66 percent since 1969, and a
family of four with an income of $10,000
has had its income tax reduced by 26 per-
cent since that date.
-We have thus brought about condi-
tions in which real, spendable weekly
earnings have risen four percent in the
last year, the largest such gain since 1964.
If we permit unbridled increases in Fed-
eral spending to go on month after month,
however, we are in real danger of losing
the advantages of the tax cuts and our
victories in the battle against inflation.
These are the compelling reasons which
require me to ask again in the most urgent
and explicit language I can frame that
the Congress enact at the earliest possible
opportunity a spending ceiling-without
loopholes or exceptions-to force Govern-
ment spending back to the $250 billion
level in fiscal year 1973.
I again remind the Congress of the sit-
uation I cited last January, when I sub-
mitted the fiscal year 1973 budget:
"It will be a job-creating budget and a
non-inflationary budget only if spend-
ing is limited to the amount the tax sys-
tem would produce if the economy
were operating at full employment."
742
