Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 2 [74]
advisory committee of prominent black
leaders was organized to help direct the
effort. This committee's recommendations
are in hand and an aggressive action pro-
gram is ready to start.
To underwrite this effort, I am propos-
ing to increase the new budget for sickle
cell disease from $10 million in fiscal 1972
to $15 million in fiscal 1973.
The Veterans Administration's medical
care system also can be counted on to
make an important contribution to the
fight against sickle cell anemia.
Eight separate research projects con-
cerning sickle cell anemia are underway
in VA hospitals and more will be started
this year. All 166 VA hospitals will launch
a broad screening, treatment and educa-
tional effort to combat this disease.
On any given day, about 17,000 black
veterans are in VA hospitals and some
116,000 are treated annually.
All these expanded efforts will lead to a
better and longer life for thousands of
black Americans.
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
Nearly three years ago, I called for a
program that would provide family plan-
ning services to all who wanted them but
could not afford their cost. The timetable
for achieving this goal was five years.
To meet that schedule, funding for
services administered by the National
Center for Family Planning for this pro-
gram has been steadily increased from $39
million in fiscal year 1971 to $91 million
in fiscal year 1972. I am requesting $139
million for this Center in fiscal year 1973.
Total Federal support for family plan-
ning services and research in fiscal 1973
will rise to $240 million, a threefold in-
crease since fiscal year 1969.
VENEREAL DISEASE
Last year,
year, more than 2.5
than 2.5 million
venereal disease cases were detected in the
United States. Two-thirds of the victims
were under 25.
A concentrated program to find persons
with infectious cases and treat them is
needed to bring this disease under control.
I am, therefore, recommending that $31
million be allocated for this purpose in
fiscal year 1973, more than two and one-
half times the level of support for VD
programs in 1971.
HEALTH EDUCATION
Aside from formal treatment programs,
public and private, the general health of
individuals depends very much on their
own informed actions and practices.
Last year, I proposed that a National
Health Education Foundation be estab-
lished to coordinate a nationwide program
to alert people on ways in which they
could protect their own health. Since that
time, a number of public meetings have
been held by a committee I established
then to gather views on all aspects of
health education.2 The report of this com-
mittee will be sent to me this
year.
The committee hopes to define more
explicitly the Nation's need for health
education programs and to determine
ways of rallying all the resources of our
society to meet this need.
CONSUMER SAFETY
More than a half century has passed
since basic legislation was enacted to en-
2 President's Committee on Health Educa-
tion.
393
