Appendix B
March
21 Vice President Manea Manescu of Ro-
mania, who is also Chairman of the Eco-
nomic Council of Romania, met with the
President at the White House. They dis-
cussed economic matters, including the
President's determination of March 16 that
will enable the Overseas Private Invest-
ment Corporation to extend its programs
to Yugoslavia and Romania.
21 Winners of the White House News Pho-
tographers Association contest met with the
President at the White House.
23 The President has announced transfer of
the old San Francisco Mint from the Gen-
eral Services Administration to the De-
partment of the Treasury for restoration
and for use by the Federal Government
and the public. Dedicated in 1874 and
declared a National Historic Landmark
in 1961, the mint will now include an
educational and historical museum as well
as the Bureau of the Mint's Numismatic
Service Division and data processing
department.
23 Marshall Green, Assistant Secretary of
State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs,
and John H. Holdridge, Senior Staff Mem-
ber, National Security Council, called on
the President to report on their trip to
13 Asian countries where they met with
officials to discuss the President's trip to
China.
27 Ambassadors Dusan Spacil of Czechoslo-
vakia, Angel Sagaz of Spain, and Zuhayr
Mahmud al-Mufti of Jordan presented
their credentials to the President in cere-
monies in the East Room at the White
House.
27 Members of the Advertising Council, Inc.,
were greeted by the President and Mrs.
Nixon at a reception in the East Room at
the White House.
28 King Hussein I of Jordan met with the
President at the White House. In the eve-
ning, His Majesty attended a dinner hosted
by the President at the White House.
March
28 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
Treaty on the Swan Islands between the
United States and Honduras. The treaty
provides for the recognition by the United
States of the sovereignty of Honduras over
the Swan Islands. The two Governments
also agreed to establish a cooperative
meteorological program on the islands.
28 Kevin Heald, 1972 Poster Child of the
National Association for Retarded Chil-
dren, met the President at the White
House. Kevin is 6 years old and lives in
Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He was accompa-
nied by Calvin Hill, fullback of the Dal-
las Cowboys professional football team
and the association's national sports
chairman.
30 Ann Landers, national education crusade
chairman of the American Cancer Society,
and Mike Finamore, a 20-year-old leuke-
mia victim from Glen Ridge, N.J., called
on the President to launch the 1972 Can-
cer Crusade. The President presented Mr.
Finamore with the society's annual Cour-
age Award.
30 Frank E. Fitzsimmons, president of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
met with the President at the White House.
April
3 The White House announced that Secre-
tary of State William P. Rogers will visit
Western Europe on the President's behalf
early in May to consult with allied nations
preparatory to the summit conference in
Moscow. Secretary Rogers will visit the
United Kingdom, France, the Federal Re-
public of Germany, Italy, Iceland, and
Luxembourg, and will consult with NATO
allies collectively at a special meeting of
the North Atlantic Council in Brussels.
4 The President met with representatives of
the Prisoner of War Committee of the
Young Lawyers Section of the American
Bar Association to thank them for their
work in providing legal assistance to fami-
lies of prisoners of war and those missing
in action.
B-5
