[29] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
I can't for the life of me understand why
there is such a shindig, such a glorious shindig,
because a magazine is still in its infancy. I am
sure it is going to have a long life, and normally
we don't have these pow-wows for an infant
that is still in its swaddling clothes.
Actually, I think the infant is so precocious
that I am hopeful it will even skip entirely the
trying period of adolescence.
By the way, I do not understand why the
30
President and Secretary Connally do not pro-
vide a round-trip 3-month ticket around the
world for all these youngsters who are having
this poor, sufferingness period of adolescence.
But we Lila and I-will certainly remem-
ber this occasion as long as we live, and hope-
fully, far longer. I say that and I hope that
Billy Graham and Norman Peale noted that.
I thank you, thank you, thank you.
Remarks on Intention To Nominate Marina von Neumann
Whitman To Be a Member of the Council of
Economic Advisers.
January 29, 1972
MRS. WHITMAN must be confirmed by
the Senate, so she will not be able to say
anything on her own behalf today, but we
are delighted that she has accepted the
appointment of the nomination to the
Council of Economic Advisers. And as our
chitchat here indicates, while I am sure
most stories, as I know from the inspired
lead which appeared in the papers this
morning indicated, this is very important,
because this is the first time a woman has
ever been a member of the Council. So be
it. That is important.
But what is more important, I think, is
that of those who were considered for this
post, that Herb Stein had Mrs. Whitman
first on his list and this is an indication of
our concern. I think it is the feeling of
this Administration and I think of most
people in the Government, Democrats and
Republicans, when we look for quality,
particularly where brains are concerned,
and achievement, that we are not con-
cerned about color, we are not concerned
about race, we are not concerned about
religion, we are not concerned about sex,
we are concerned about quality.
And you don't have to feel—I always
say this about people-[laughter]. But, in
any event, in this field, we have now added
to the Council an experienced, despite her
young years, and also an intellectual abil-
ity of the first magnitude, and that is what
Mr. Stein wants and Ezra Solomon wants.
You are outnumbered. It is two to one.
MRS. WHITMAN. That is right.
THE PRESIDENT. But not in terms of
brains. So, we are very pleased. You can
say a word. Your main problem I think
was bringing your children downtown this
morning.
MRS. WHITMAN. I guess the family
logistics were a little complicated, but that
seems to have been straightened out with
great success.
Thank you. I guess I can say how very,
very pleased I am to be here and how
pleased and honored and excited I am to
be coming and to be given a chance to
tackle some of the most exciting and im-
portant and difficult, challenging prob-
lems that are in this country today.
One of the things about being an econ-
omist is that unlike doctors and lawyers
and so forth, we very seldom get a chance
to practice our profession as well as to
teach. So, it is a very unique, really, op-
portunity to be given this chance to prac-
120
