Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 8 [114]
down, they were rich, they were strong
militarily, and yet they were not able to
survive.
And, also, it can be said that they went
down at a time when, in terms of educa-
tion, they were better educated in a mate-
rial sense than they had been at any time
in their history up to that time.
I know that it is fashionable in talking
to a group of educators—and I have done
this myself sometimes in the past-to
quote H. G. Wells when he said civiliza-
tion is "a race between education and
catastrophe." Maybe. It depends, how-
ever, on the education.
What I am simply saying is this: A na-
tion can be rich, a nation can be power-
ful, a nation can be well educated, but if
its people lack character it will not stand.
So I simply say to all of you today, you,
the educators-and to all of the public
school educators as well-you do have the
future of America and the future of our
children in your hands. I hope and I know
you will teach them well. I hope you will
teach them with all of the new techniques,
the new math, the new science, the new
technologies. But I hope as those new
techniques are taught so well that you will
not forget to teach them also and to re-
mind them of the old values of honor, of
morality, of love of country, and remind
them also that America's religious faith
has always kept us strong in times of test-
ing. Let us not lose it now in the years
ahead.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in
the Civic Center.
His Eminence John Cardinal Krol was Arch-
bishop of Philadelphia. Frank L. Rizzo was the
mayor of Philadelphia.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his remarks was released
on the same day.
114 Remarks About a Heroin Seizure by Miami Customs
Patrol Officers. April 8, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have just had an opportunity to ex-
press my appreciation and the apprecia-
tion of the people of the United States
to these two Customs officers for what
they have accomplished in the seizure
yesterday.
Mr. Cascavilla has a background of hav-
ing served in the U.S. Marine Corps and
for 15 years in the Customs Service, and
Mr. Torres has been in the Customs Serv-
ice for only 5 months. The suitcase which
they picked up off of an incoming ship
had in it heroin, 99 percent pure [90 per-
cent], of a retail value of $5 million.
In checking with Mr. Ambrose,¹ the
estimate is that this is enough heroin to
provide what they call "fixes" for 200,000
individuals. We can see, therefore, the
vital importance of what the Customs Of-
fice is doing in providing for these seizures,
and this gives me an opportunity to make
two points:
When I was in New York the other day,
going down the line at the airport, I saw
many passengers who had come in from
Europe and other parts of the world. They
¹Myles J. Ambrose, Special Assistant At-
torney General, Office for Drug Abuse Law En-
forcement, Department of Justice.
523
