[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
We were able to inform our friends only
shortly before this announcement, and we
understand the complications this caused
for them. There were overriding reasons
for keeping Dr. Kissinger's July visit se-
cret. We could not risk advance public
disclosure of these conversations whose
outcome we could not predict. This would
have risked disillusionment by inflating
expectations which we could not be cer-
tain of meeting. And it would have created
pressures on both the Chinese and Ameri-
can sides, forcing both of us to take public
positions which could only have frozen
discussions before they began. Moreover,
we knew the July discussions would not
settle anything directly concerning third
parties; neither we nor Peking would set
or accept any preconditions.
Regardless of how it was achieved, the
change in the U.S.-Chinese relationship
after 20 years of animosity was bound to
be unsettling. Indeed, once Peking had
decided to improve relations with the
U.S., it had the capability to shake our
relations with our friends through its own
unilateral moves; the mere invitation to
an American table tennis team had major
repercussions.
The price we paid for secrecy was there-
fore unavoidable. It should prove transi-
tory. The important task was to move
swiftly to explain our purposes to our
friends and to begin meaningful ex-
changes about the prospects for the
future.
This we have done. Since July we have
consulted with interested nations, out-
lining our objectives and expectations, and
making clear we would not negotiate to
the detriment of their interests. Secretary
Rogers was extremely active in explaining
our China policy to Foreign Ministers and
other leaders of foreign countries. Secre-
tary Connally and Governor Reagan
traveled through Asia as my personal rep-
resentatives, and carried my views on our
China initiative and Asian policies in
general. I sent personal messages to many
of our friends and allies. Our Ambassa-
dors were instructed to explain our views
and solicit those of their host govern-
ments. The prospects of my meetings in
Peking and in Moscow were among the
primary topics of my series of talks with
allied leaders in December 1971 and
January of this year.
We shall continue this process of con-
sultation as we move forward in our rela-
tionship with the People's Republic of
China. Our talks with our friends have
focused on the longer term implications
for U.S. policy. Questions have been raised
which we have been careful to address
publicly as well as privately.
How should our Asian friends interpret
this initiative in terms of our commitments
and their direct interests? There are, first
of all, some general principles which ap-
ply to our relations with all concerned
countries. Neither we nor the People's
Republic asked, or would have accepted,
any conditions for the opening of our dia-
logue. Neither country expects the other
to barter away its principles or abandon
its friends. Indeed, we have moved jointly
in the conviction that more normal rela-
tions between us will serve the interests of
all countries and reduce tensions in the
Far East.
My conversations with the Chinese
leaders will focus primarily on bilateral
questions. Either side is free to raise any
subject it wishes, and, of course, issues
affecting the general peace are of bilateral
concern. But we have made it clear to our
Asian friends that we will maintain our
commitments and that we will not nego-
218
