[241] July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
turned down. He was turned down for
only one reason. He was only 19 years of
age.
And Senator Dole pointed out that this
was unfair, that if an individual com-
pletely complied with all the requirements
to get crop insurance he should not be
turned down simply because of his age
and particularly in view of the fact that
we had had the historic action taken last
year of reducing the voting age to 18.
So, Senator Dole, responding to the
letter he had received from Gary Atkin-
son, who is standing on my right—and
his fiance on the right of Senator Dole,
who is separating the two at the mo-
ment--but in any event, Senator Dole in-
troduced an amendment in the Senate
and that amendment was passed.
As a result of that amendment being
passed, it is now in this bill that I am
going to sign.
Now that story, it seems to me, tells us
three things that are very important to
you and important to the country. First, it
shows you that your Government is re-
sponsive. It doesn't mean that every time
you write a Senator or Congressman you
are going to get what you want, but it
does mean if you have got a good case,
you write to your Senator or your Con-
gressman and he can get it into law. It
happened. Gary Atkinson knows and all
of you know, being below 21 years of age,
that now if you are farmers that you and
other young people in the future can
apply for crop insurance.
The second thing that it tells us is that
there is really a future, a great future for
young people in farming. I had not real-
ized, except for meeting with groups like
this, how important that future was. But
I can certainly say that having met you,
having realized that here was a young
farmer who could apply for and receive
crop insurance, that this indicates that
that future is indeed a bright one.
When we hear that only the old people
are in farming, that no young people are
coming in, all they have to do is to look
at this group of young people and you
know that farming has a future in
America.
The point, of course, is that this shows,
finally, that your Government has faith in
young people. We believe you are a good
risk. We believe you can help to build a
better America-not just a better farm-
ing community, but a better America for
all of us.
That is what this signing ceremony is
going to indicate and that is why in this
very historic room, the State Dining Room
of the White House, we are glad to wel-
come you, representing the leadership of
the Future Farmers of America. Because
on this day, by the action that we take,
we are demonstrating your Government is
responsive, we are demonstrating your
Government has confidence and faith in
young Americans, and we are demon-
strating that farming has a future, a great
future.
It is in that spirit that I now will sign
the bill and after signing it, I will give
the two signing pens, one to Senator Dole
and the other to Gary Atkinson, but since
there are so many here, and also several
other distinguished Members of the Con-
gress, I found that we just have enough
pens to go around to every one of you
when I finish the signing.
[At this point, the President signed the bill. He
then turned to Gary Atkinson and his finance,
Dianne Ryff, and resumed speaking.]
Is there a minister in the house? I just
thought you might as well get married
now.
756
