Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
Both political and economic common
sense dictated vigorous action--in our own
national interest, in that of our allies, and
in our shared interest in allied unity. What
we needed was not a patchwork adjust-
ment, but a more fundamental change in
the manner in which the non-Communist
world's economy is managed.
Despite the general dissatisfaction, the
inertia of the existing system and the con-
ventional opposition to drastic change
were tremendous. Hard steps were neces-
sary to bring home to other countries that
we were serious, and that reform of the
international trade environment and a
general realignment of currency values
could no longer be delayed.
We, therefore, took drastic unilateral
measures on August 15. Paradoxically,
these were taken in order to stimulate a
multilateral settlement of the problem. We
did not in the period that followed resort
to bilateral agreements. We sought
instead a new international agreement
which all would participate in creating.
In December of 1971, the general
realignment of currencies took place. That
was the necessary first step. With our part-
ners we will, over the next year or two,
pursue a more balanced monetary system
and a more equitable trading environ-
ment. Most important of all, we have
acted together to meet our economic prob-
lems in a way which strengthens our unity
and guarantees our continued coopera-
tion. We have, therefore, put behind us
the imminent danger that conflicting eco-
nomic interests would lead to the un-
ravelling of free world cohesion.
2. The evolution of our political and
defense relationships. Our partnerships
today comprise a varied and dynamic
coalition of self-assured and independent
states. In this Administration, the United
States has shifted from the predominant
role it played in the postwar period to a
new role of accepting and encouraging
initiative and leadership from our allies.
Our basic common interests establish the
requirement, and maturity and statesman-
ship furnish the tools, for the preservation
of the basic harmony of our policies.
In consonance with our new approaches
to China and the Soviet Union, we sup-
ported a series of measures by our allies
looking toward more autonomous policies.
Both our initiatives and theirs were con-
firmed and coordinated at the end of the
year in a series of meetings with the lead-
ers of our principal allies.
-We welcomed the British decision to
join the movement of European in-
tegration. A stronger Europe and
more dynamic Britain are in the com-
mon interest of the West. I discussed
with Prime Minister Heath at Ber-
muda the implications of that deci-
sion for the traditional special U.S.-
U.K. relationship, and we reached
agreement on how to harmonize our
continuing friendship with Britain's
new policies.
-We recognized France's special con-
cerns as to the nature of the exchange
rate adjustment. We met with Presi-
dent Pompidou in the Azores and
agreed to a mutual adjustment that
made possible the association of all
major allies in the ensuing solution.
-We reaffirmed our acceptance of
West Germany's desire for a more
normal relationship with her Eastern
neighbors. At Key Biscayne, we met
with Chancellor Brandt and agreed
the crucial and central role that
Germany's participation in the At-
lantic Alliance plays in Germany's
future, including her future hopes for
upon
199
