Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
towards further improving their bilateral
relations and enhancing the prospects of
world peace."
In Moscow, we will have three central
objectives. We want to complete work on
those issues which have been carried to
the point of final decision. We want to
establish a political framework for dealing
with the issues still in dispute. And we
want to examine with the Soviet leaders
the further development of the U.S.-So-
viet relationship in the years ahead.
The tasks ahead arise logically from
the present state of relations:
-An accord on an initial strategic
arms limitation agreement, or on the
issues to be addressed in the second
stage of the SALT negotiations.
-A discussion of the problem of the
Middle East and the reasons for the
failure to reach a peaceful settlement
there.
-A discussion of the problem of Euro-
pean security in all its aspects and the
identification of mutually shared ob-
jectives which will provide a basis for
further normalization of intercourse
between Eastern and Western Eu-
rope. No agreements in this area,
however, will be made without our
allies.
-An exploration of our policies in
other areas of the world and the ex-
tent to which we share an interest in
stability.
-An examination of the possibility of
additional bilateral cooperation. The
steps taken so far have been signifi-
cant, but are meager, indeed, in terms
of the potential. There are a variety
of fields in which U.S.-Soviet cooper-
ation would benefit both. Our eco-
nomic relations are perhaps the most
obvious example. Bilateral coopera-
tion will be facilitated if we can con-
tinue to make progress on the major
international issues.
We do not, of course, expect the Soviet
Union to give up its pursuit of its own
interests. We do not expect to give up
pursuing our own. We do expect, and are
prepared ourselves to demonstrate, self-
restraint in the pursuit of those interests.
We do expect a recognition of the fact
that the general improvement in our rela-
tionship transcends in importance the kind
of narrow advantages which can be sought
only by imperiling the cooperation be-
tween our two countries.
One series of conversations in Moscow
cannot be expected to end two decades'
accumulation of problems. For a long
period of time, competition is likely to be
the hallmark of our relationship with the
Soviet Union. We will be confronted by
ambiguous and contradictory trends in
Soviet policy. The continuing buildup of
Soviet military power is one obvious source
of deep concern. Soviet attitudes during
the crisis in South Asia have dangerous
implications for other regional conflicts,
even though in the end the USSR played
a restraining role. Similarly, the USSR's
position in the Middle East reflects a mix-
ture of Soviet interest in expansionist pol-
icies and Soviet recognition of the dangers
of confrontation.
In the past year, however, we have also
had evidence that there can be mutual
accommodation of conflicting interests,
and that competition need not be trans-
lated into hostility or crisis. We have evi-
dence that on both sides there is an in-
creasing willingness to break with the
traditional patterns of Soviet-American
relations. A readiness to capitalize on this
momentum is the real test of the summit.
The USSR has the choice: whether the
21I
