[78] Mar. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion of peace, is infinitely better. That is
why the trip was necessary, and that is why
we took it.
I do not hold out any false hopes. I
would only say that in this period when we
are entering negotiations with those who
could be our enemies, not only there but
in other parts of the world, the need for
the United States of America to maintain
its strength-its military strength, its eco-
nomic strength, and above all its moral
and spiritual strength, its faith in this
country, its belief in America-has never
been greater. Because if we are to have
peace in this period ahead, it will not
come if America, with all of its power and
all of its wealth, withdraws into itself and
refuses to play the role that it must play,
play it not for purposes of conquest and
not for purposes of domination, but for
purposes of using our power so that the
world may be one in which nations and
peoples with different philosophies can
live together, rather than die together.
And so at this particular instant, there
has never been a time when we needed in
this country more men and women like the
men and women who proudly belong to
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, who believe
in this country, who recognize the need for
strength, who also appreciate the necessity
for negotiation. There has never been a
time when we needed people who thought
along those lines more.
I remember talking with President
Eisenhower once, and he said something
very significant, very early in his Admin-
istration. He said, "There is no one who
hates war more than someone who has
seen a lot of it." Of course, he was a great
example of that truth.
That could be said of all of the Veterans
of Foreign Wars. And yet you, as Veterans
of Foreign Wars, you know that if we are
to have peace, it will not come through
weakness, and on the other side it will
not come through belligerence, but it will
come through strength, and the willing-
ness to negotiate a new era in which we
can have peace, peace through strength
and conciliation at the very highest level.
That brings me to our honored guest
tonight. I have been thinking of these din-
ners I have attended. I have been thinking
of the men I have appeared with on the
occasion of these dinners, appeared for
and spoken in behalf of.
Senator Jackson, who is a man who,
when all these great issues have come
before the Senate, stood very firm for the
cause of a strong United States, for put-
ting the country above party.
I think of Congressman Arends. Con-
gressman Arends, a man who could
always be counted upon through all the
years that I have known him-I have not
known him quite as long as he has been
in the Congress, but almost-but a man
who always, like Senator Jackson, put
the country first and his party second.
And I think tonight of Doc Morgan.
Now, Doc Morgan is going to follow me,
so I had better say nice things about him.
In speaking of Doc Morgan, I want to
speak of the House of Representatives be-
cause he, as you know, is the chairman of
the Foreign Affairs Committee of the
House of Representatives. I think of Doc
Morgan, of Speaker Carl Albert, Chair-
man George Mahon, who is here tonight,
of the Appropriations Committee, of
"Tiger" [Olin E.] Teague, the chairman of
the Veterans' Affairs Committee. It oc-
curred to me, as I mentioned those names,
400
