Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
political support in the developed coun-
tries, whose taxpayers are the ultimate
donors. This support cannot be compelled.
Attempts to use the one nation-one vote
principle to do so will, in the long run, en-
danger this whole important area of UN
activity.
THE DECLINE IN CONGRESSIONAL
SUPPORT FOR THE UN
During the past year, the United States
Congress took four actions which require
mention in this report:
-The House of Representatives, al-
though the action is not final, for the
first time refused to provide a volun-
tary contribution to the UN Develop-
ment Program (UNDP).
-For the second year in a row, the
Congress refused to pay the United
States assessed dues to the Interna-
tional Labor Organization.
-The Congress failed to provide the
U.S. contribution to the expansion
of the UN Headquarters facilities in
New York City.
-The Congress exempted strategic and
critical materials, notably chrome,
from the U.S. implementation of the
mandatory UN sanctions on imports
from Rhodesia.
It would be a mistake to conclude that
these actions were motivated by Con-
gressional hostility to the United Nations.
These were not concerted actions, and
they took place for a variety of reasons.
But it would also be a mistake not to
recognize the implications of these actions.
They could hardly have taken place if
the UN, as an entity, enjoyed stronger sup-
port in the Congress and among the
American people. That fact is, I believe,
far more significant than the individual
arguments upon which the Congress based
its decisions.
A reduction of U.S. support for the
UNDP would be particularly unfortunate.
The UN system has gradually become a
major instrument for encouraging eco-
nomic and social progress in the develop-
ing countries, and the UNDP is the pri-
mary instrument by which the UN fills
this role. The United States has been the
major contributor of funds to the UNDP,
and since its inception the UNDP has been
headed by a distinguished American, Paul
Hoffman.
Last year there were several develop-
ments which should reconfirm the Amer-
ican attachment to this program. Progress
continued in making the UNDP's machin-
ery more efficient. The contributions to
the UNDP from other countries were sig-
nificantly increased. And when Paul Hoff-
man retired at the end of the year, the UN
chose another outstanding American,
Rudolph Peterson, as his successor. The
UNDP deserves our continuing support.
During its current session, the Congress
must also face the problem of American
participation in the ILO. The United
States is now almost two years in arrears,
and therefore on the verge of losing its
vote under the ILO rules. There were
cogent reasons behind the Congressional
dissatisfaction with the ILO. During the
past two years, however, the ILO has
responded to our efforts to revitalize its
tripartite structure and procedures. It is
simply not consistent with our national
dignity to attempt to maintain influence
and membership in the ILO if we are
not prepared to pay our dues. This Ad-
ministration will, therefore, have no
choice but to give notice of withdrawal
331
