Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [58]
demonstrated on her trip to Africa, her
events, I think, will be worth covering.
One side note is that, and I am sure
all of you who have been studying, as I
have, will have noted this, is that one
development in 20th century China that
is very significant, is the enormous eleva-
tion in the status of women. Total equal-
ity is now recognized and looking back
over Chinese history, that is, of course, a
very significant change.
Consequently, I think Mrs. Nixon's
activities will be significant for them. It
will be, of course, very significant for us
in the United States to see their schools
and the other institutions and how they
compare with ours and the other coun-
tries that we will visit.
As far as my agenda is concerned, there
will not be a great deal of what I would
call public—well, to put it perhaps rather
plainly-sightseeing. There will be some.
I mean actually I would hope to see some
of the points of interest and the Chinese
Government is arranging for some. But we
have both agreed that this visit is one,
taking place as it does at this time, in
which first priority must be given to our
talks, and sightseeing and protocol must
come second. And consequently, we have
agreed that we will not get frozen in to
any extended travel within the cities which
we will be visiting, in the event that that
might interfere with an extended conver-
sation that might be taking place.
I do not want to suggest here what the
length of the talks will be but, necessarily,
because we are in truth at a beginning,
they will be much longer, both with Mr.
Chou En-lai and with Mr. Mao Tse-tung
than with the leaders of other govern-
ments that we have visited. Because there
we are not starting at the beginning-we
had the opportunity to come immediately
to matters of substance.
Finally, in order to perhaps put the trip
in context, you have heard me discuss it
in various speeches that I have made gen-
erally. I haven't really much to add, be-
cause as I pointed out, the agenda items
will be decided at the beginning of the
meetings, but they will be published at
the end of our meetings and by
communique.
But I think we could say this: This trip
should not be one which would create very
great optimism or very great pessimism.
It is one in which we must recognize that
20 years of hostility and virtually no com-
munication will not be swept away by one
week of discussion.
However, it will mark a watershed in
the relations between the two govern-
ments; the postwar era with respect to the
People's Republic of China and the
United States, that chapter now comes to
an end from the time that I set foot on the
soil of Mainland China, and a new chap-
ter begins.
Now, how the new chapter is written
will be influenced, perhaps influenced
substantially, by the talks that will take
place. On our side and, we believe, also on
their side, we hope that the new chapter
will be one of more communication and
that it will be a chapter that will be
marked by negotiation rather than con-
frontation and one that will be marked
by the absence of armed conflict. These
are our hopes.
We, of course, will now see to what ex-
tent those hopes can be realized in this
first meeting.
I will go to any other questions.
349
