Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
THE ESSENTIAL TASK OF THE UN
Ours is the age when man has first come
to realize that he can in fact destroy his
own species. Ours is the age when the
problems and complexities of technologi-
cal revolution have so multiplied that cop-
ing with them is, in many ways, clearly
beyond the capacities of individual na-
tional governments. Ours, therefore, must
be the age when the international institu-
tions of cooperation are perfected. The
basic question is-can man create institu-
tions to save him from the dark forces of
his own nature and from the overwhelm-
ing consequences of his technological
successes?
I believe profoundly that the answer is
yes, and that a healthy and increasingly
vigorous United Nations is essential to suc-
cess. But the task is too important for mere
sentimentality. We cannot afford to con-
fuse good intentions with genuine accom-
plishment. That is why we shall pursue the
goal of an effective United Nations with
the same hardheaded realism and dedica-
tion that we devote to our other national
goals.
NEW DIMENSIONS OF DIPLOMACY
"Thus there has come into being a new
dimension in the foreign policy of the
United States, not as a matter of choice
and deliberate action on our part, but as
a reflection of the demanding realities of
the world in which we live."
U.S. Foreign Policy for 1970's
Report to the Congress
February 25, 1971
The rise of modern science and the
technological revolution it has brought in
train have been monuments to the crea-
tivity of man and powerful catalysts to a
betterment of the human condition. Yet
man cannot escape the irony of history-
solutions to old problems spawn new ones.
-In our time, man has mastered dis-
tance as it is measured on this planet.
But modern transport and communi-
cations can lead to poisoned air, pol-
luted water, the dissemination of
corrupting and dangerous drugs, and
air piracy for personal or political
advantage.
--Man is rapidly developing the ability
to exploit the new twin frontiers of
the ocean and outer space. However,
being rich in potential benefits, these
frontiers are also potential sources of
international dispute.
-Man is on the threshold of ending
his vulnerability to pestilence and
famine. But one of the results of this
boon is a new specter of uncontrol-
lable population growth.
We have no choice but to cope with the
new problems of technological civilization.
Individual governments must do what
they can, but in a world grown small, these
issues must be recognized for what they
are-problems of the human species to be
addressed on a global scale.
This is one of the great challenges of
our time. Human rationality enables us to
see the need clearly, but it is sobering to
reflect that in the past it has always been
more effective when applied to nature
than when directed to the intractable
difficulties of getting man to cooperate
with man.
I have in the past called on the inter-
national community to focus attention and
energy on these problems. I am happy to
say that the response has, in general, been
87-234-74-25
333
