[113] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
it relates, as you will see, to the problem
you have of the role of the nonpublic
schools.
We have found that where we have
heavy reliance on cross-city busing of
schoolchildren, it has failed to meet either
of its intended purposes-it has failed to
promote quality education for all, it has
failed to end the racial isolation which
we all agree must be ended. Instead, what
it has done in community after commu-
nity, is disrupt and divide increasing
numbers of schools and communities.
Now, let us go to the heart of the prob-
lem. Even the strongest proponents of
busing recognize this fact: It would be
physically impossible to transport pupils
on a scale large enough to solve the most
pressing problem of all, and here it is-
for even the most massive busing imag-
inable would still leave the vast majority
of black and poor children in the inferior
schools of the inner city; they would not
be affected, and there they would be. They
would be a lost generation, deprived of
the educational opportunity to which they,
like all Americans, are entitled.
It is for these reasons that I have asked
the Congress, 3 weeks ago, to declare a
temporary national moratorium on new
busing decrees, and then to enact new
legislation to accomplish these things:
-One, to establish in the law of the
land, for the first time, the right of
every American child to equal edu-
cational opportunity more clearly
and strongly than it has ever been
established before.
-Two, to curb excessive busing by put-
ting its usefulness into perspective
with other more workable school de-
segregation remedies.
-And three, to redirect billions of dol-
lars in effective aid into the inferior
schools of this Nation, many in our
central cities where such aid is so
urgently needed.
The Equal Educational Opportunities
Act of 1972, which we have proposed to
accomplish these ends, I would not con-
tend is the final answer to quality educa-
tion for all Americans, but we believe-I
believe-it points in the right direction.
You, in this audience, know all too well
how limited our public and private funds
for education are. That is why I believe
it makes compelling sense to use those
limited funds to provide better education
for all of our children, rather than more
transportation for just some of our
children.
As we consider all of our children, let
me describe the heart of this new legisla-
tion. Under the act, the old piecemeal
approach to compensatory education
would be replaced by a new concentration
of resources which experts call the "criti-
cal mass" approach. Instead of, in effect,
using the shotgun, in which not enough is
given to the various areas that need it, we
use the approach of the rifle, a "critical
mass" approach.
Under title I, from which many of your
schools already benefit, about $200 per
pupil is now being applied to disadvan-
taged areas. Our new legislation would
increase this average by over 50 percent-
on the basis of encouraging experimental
evidence that assistance in excess of $300
per pupil constitutes the "critical mass❞—
the very minimum-which begins to pro-
duce the results that smaller amounts
have failed to achieve.
Now the question comes: Can I guar-
antee this new approach will work? If
$200 didn't work, will $300 or $350 work
in breaking that barrier in producing bet-
ter education? We can't be sure. But the
518
