[59] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
of senior citizens. I have spoken to num-
bers of senior citizens' groups recently and
Arthur Flemming and I have often
talked about it. This is the impression that
constantly comes through.
When a person retires he no longer has
business responsibilities. He just doesn't
want to be fed, housed, taken care of. He
or she wants to be useful, wants to do
something. And volunteerism is a wonder-
ful way for older people who have retired.
Let us be thankful that we have such
people as that.
Now a word about Mrs. Giles. Here we
really feel it. You think of those 40 chil-
dren who, except for her, might not have
had a chance. But they did have a chance,
and she did it. You are probably wonder-
ing what I was talking to her about. I was
just asking her, now how could you have
done this for 50 years? Mrs. Giles said to
me, "I am only 71." And that tells us
something else, if you want to keep looking
young, be a volunteer. Mrs. Giles is the
best proof of that.
Now, could I say a word about our re-
tiring chairman, Henry Ford. He flew
from London to come here and tomorrow
he flies back to London and then on to
other stops around the world.
I thought of what he represented. Here
is a man that we all know is enormously
successful in business. He is a man we all
know who has contributed, not thousands,
or hundreds-which is about as much as
we can do but millions and millions of
dollars to good causes around the world,
and in America. We are thankful for him,
his organization, his people, for what they
have done. But then we see something else
about him.
2 Chairman of the 1971 White House Confer-
ence on Aging and Special Consultant to the
President on Aging.
Here is a man who could have said,
"Well, I have given these huge checks,
millions of dollars, so I have done my
part." But he goes further, he gives of
himself. He gives us executive talent and
leadership that money could not possibly
buy. What a great credit it is to the Amer-
ican free enterprise system that one of our
top businessmen is not satisfied with just
giving his money, he gives of himself. That
is the kind of example we like in America
and we thank Henry Ford for providing
it.
Now, finally, I would like to leave this
thought with all of you. We would all wish
that more who have worked could be
personally awarded. But let this be a sym-
bol of how we all so deeply feel, the fact
that you are here, the fact that you will go
back to your organizations and tell about
this dinner-this, I hope, will give a new
lift to volunteerism in your communities
and in your States.
I can assure you, that as far as the
government of this country is concerned-
and I say this in a totally nonpartisan,
bipartisan way, whether it is a Republican
administration or a Democratic adminis-
tration, this is something we are not di-
vided on. We are for it because it is good
for America. I think that this is something
that brings Americans together.
We can have religious differences, we
can be of different colors, we can be of
different generations, but when it comes to
working to help people, retarded children,
older people who are shut-ins, sick people,
whatever the case might be, that is some-
thing that brings us together, and that is
why I consider it a very great privilege to
speak at such a dinner as this. I consider it
a very great privilege to honor those who
have been honored tonight and I con-
sider it also a privilege to thank all of you
360
