Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [409]
often about the problems of this State,
the problems that he is interested in and
he is a man who makes up his own mind.
When he comes to Washington he is going
to speak up for the people of New Mexico.
He is going to speak up as he thinks the
interests of the people of this State re-
quire, and that is the kind of a man you
want, one who is independent, but one
who above all, when the chips are down,
when the great issues are involved, is
going to speak up for America, and that
is what Pete Domenici will do.
That brings me to the theme of what I
would like to touch upon today, the fact
that this is not one of those campaigns
where it is party against party or one
individual against another on a person-
ality basis. This is one of those campaigns
where there are great overriding issues
that affect the future of this country and
the future of the world, in which there is
a great gulf between the two candidates
for the highest position in this land, in
which there is complete disagreement be-
tween the two as to what America ought
to do, as to where we ought to go.
I want to state my position today. I
want to say it not in terms of being
against-let's understand what we are for.
I want to start right out with the issue
that I know is closest to your hearts as it
is to that of every American, the issue of
bringing peace to the world and for the
United States to lead the way to peace in
the world.
I begin, of course, with the progress
that we have made in bringing to an end
the war in Vietnam. It has been very
significant. Most important, as you know,
we have made a major breakthrough in
the negotiations. We have already agreed,
in the settlement, to the principles that I
laid down in my speech of May 8, which
you may recall was made at the time that
I ordered the bombing of North Vietnam
and the mining of Haiphong, at the time
that the Communists were invading from
the North. I said then that these were the
three principles that we would have to
have to have a negotiated settlement:
First, that there should be a cease-fire.
Second, that there should be a return of
all of our prisoners of war and accounting
for our missing in action. Third, that the
people of South Vietnam should deter-
mine their own future without having a
Communist government or a coalition
government imposed upon them against
their will.
Those three principles are agreed upon,
and that is a major breakthrough in these
negotiations. There are some details, as
I pointed out on television 2 nights ago, in
terms of the agreement, that are still in
the process of negotiation. Those details,
in my belief, I am confident will be
worked out. We will have a negotiated
settlement and a negotiated end to this
war.
But let me tell you why details are im-
portant. They are important because what
we want is not just peace now. Peace now
is important. What we want is peace now
and for the generations ahead, and we
must have the right kind of peace. You
may recall back in 1968 when, with the
very best of intentions, the previous Ad-
ministration entered into a bombing halt
of North Vietnam and everybody thought
we were going to have peace now. But
we didn't have it down. We didn't have
it understood. We are not going to make
that mistake again.
We are going to have the kind of agree-
ment which will end this war and build
the foundation for a lasting peace that we
can enjoy in that part of the world and
1123
