[14] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now we face a new situation. As other
nations move rapidly forward in tech-
nology, the answer to the new competition
is not to build a wall around America, but
rather to remain competitive by improv-
ing our own technology still further and
by increasing productivity in American
industry.
Our new monetary and trade agree-
ments will make it possible for American
goods to compete fairly in the world's mar-
kets-but they still must compete. The
new technology program will put to use
the skills of many highly trained Ameri-
cans, skills that might otherwise be wasted.
It will also meet the growing technological
challenge from abroad, and it will thus
help to create new industries, as well as
creating more jobs for America's workers
in producing for the world's markets.
This second session of the 92d Congress
already has before it more than 90 major
Administration proposals which still await
action.
I have discussed these in the extensive
written message that I have presented to
the Congress today.
They include, among others, our pro-
grams to improve life for the aging; to
combat crime and drug abuse; to improve
health services and to ensure that no one
will be denied needed health care because
of inability to pay; to protect workers'
pension rights; to promote equal oppor-
tunity for members of minorities, and
others who have been left behind; to ex-
pand consumer protection; to improve
the environment; to revitalize rural
America; to help the cities; to launch new
initiatives in education; to improve trans-
portation, and to put an end to costly
labor tie-ups in transportation.
The west coast dock strike is a case in
point. This Nation cannot and will not
tolerate that kind of irresponsible labor
tie-up in the future.
The messages also include basic reforms
which are essential if our structure of gov-
ernment is to be adequate in the decades
ahead.
They include reform of our wasteful
and outmoded welfare system-substitu-
tion of a new system that provides work
requirements and work incentives for
those who can help themselves, income
support for those who cannot help them-
selves, and fairness to the working poor.
They include a $17 billion program of
Federal revenue sharing with the States
and localities as an investment in their
renewal, an investment also of faith in the
American people.
They also include a sweeping reorgani-
zation of the executive branch of the Fed-
eral Government so that it will be more
efficient, more responsive, and able to
meet the challenges of the decades ahead.
One year ago, standing in this place, I
laid before the opening session of this
Congress six great goals. One of these was
welfare reform. That proposal has been
before the Congress now for nearly 22
years.
My proposals on revenue sharing, gov-
ernment reorganization, health care, and
the environment have now been before
the Congress for nearly a year. Many of
the other major proposals that I have re-
ferred to have been here that long or
longer.
Now, 1971, we can say, was a year of
consideration of these measures. Now let
us join in making 1972 a year of action
on them, action by the Congress, for the
Nation and for the people of America.
Now, in addition, there is one pressing
38
