Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [365]
never take anything for granted. I do tell
you today that the area where we can
have the greatest turnover compared with
'68 and '60 is in the area of the East,
because this year we want to win those
States. I will mention another one,
in-
cidentally, that was not on the "win"
list-Massachusetts.
I don't mean that we are predicting
that we will win them all, but we do have
a chance to win in each one of them. We
are not going to take any one of them
for granted. We are not going to concede
any one of them. But let me say that when
election night comes, there is nothing that
would mean more, certainly, to all of us
than to see a State like New York, Penn-
sylvania, Rhode Island, the ones I have
mentioned, in our column this year, and
you have it in your hands to do it.
Now, just a word of confiding in you
with regard to the relationship that we
have to each of these States. Anyone
who has been a candidate for public of-
fice, or anyone who has heard candidates,
knows that the candidate always tries to
find some way to relate himself to the
State in which he happens to be cam-
paigning. It is interesting to note that my
wife Pat and I have something in com-
mon with each of these States. We have
lived, for example, in the State of New
York. We have lived there for 5 years.
We have lived, also and this was long
before we were in political life-in the
State of Maryland for 2 months, toward
the end of the war when we were settling
terminated war contracts at Middle
River, Maryland, and in the State of
Pennsylvania where we lived in Phila-
delphia for about 6 weeks. So much for
States we have lived in.
In addition, we have these things to
relate to this area: My wife's father was
born in Connecticut. Now, while we have
not lived in the States I am now going to
mention, it happens that we have taken
vacations in each one of the following
States.
We have vacationed at Kennebunk
and Ogunquit in Maine. We have taken
vacations also in the State of New Jer-
sey, at Mantoloking, all that marvelous
beach area there.
We have also taken vacations in the
State of Delaware, at Rehoboth.
When you come down the line, that
only leaves two that I have not men-
tioned. One is Vermont. Now, we have
never vacationed in Vermont, and we
haven't lived there. But I was thinking,
"What do we have in common with Ver-
mont, except that it has never done any-
thing but vote Republican?" And we have
this: Our two girls went to camp in
Vermont.
I have missed Rhode Island. I was in
Rhode Island for 2 months taking a course
so that I could get into the Navy as an
officer in World War II. So there, we
have covered them all.
What I am really trying to say here at
this point is very simply that as we look
at this great belt of States in the eastern
seaboard, with so much history, with so
much character, with so much to offer
America, we feel very close to each of
you, to each one of these States. We visited
each one of them many, many times.
Oh, I have left one State out, and I
have done it quite deliberately. We have
never vacationed in New Hampshire. We
have never lived in New Hampshire. But
believe me, as one who has been in pri-
mary after primary, I have spent more
time in New Hampshire than almost any
State in this country. So, there it is.
Just a couple of final words: I men-
87-234-74-68
1013
