Appendix B
October
6 Irish Minister of External Affairs Patrick J.
Hillery called on the President at the White
House.
6 Dr. L. V. Booth, president of the Progres-
sive National Baptist Convention and a
member of the board of Opportunities In-
dustrialization Centers, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
6 Henry A. Kissinger and Maj. Gen. Alex-
ander M. Haig, Jr., Assistant and Deputy
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, met with the President to
discuss General Haig's recent trip to South
Vietnam to make a general assessment of
the situation there.
9 Winston W. Marsh, president of the Ameri-
can Society of Association Executives, called
on the President at the White House.
9 Sharon McLarty, of Amory, Miss., Miss
National Teenage America of 1972, called
on the President at the White House. She
was accompanied by Senator James O.
Eastland.
10 The Republican Congressional leadership
and the Cabinet met with the President at
the White House for a discussion of the
proposed ceiling on Federal spending and
other domestic matters.
10 Polish Ambassador Witold Trampczynski
met with the President at the White House
to receive a copy of a documentary film on
the President's trip to Poland. The Am-
bassador received the film on behalf of
Henryk Jablonski, Chairman of the Coun-
cil of State.
10 The President and the First Lady hosted a
reception in the East Room at the White
House for State and national newspaper
association officers and their wives.
12 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
at the White House immediately upon his
return to Washington from 4 days of meet-
ings in Paris with Special Adviser Le Duc
Tho and Minister Xuan Thuy of the North
Vietnamese delegation to the Paris peace
talks.
October
13 Henry A. Kissinger and Maj. Gen. Alexan-
der M. Haig, Jr., breakfasted with the
President and Secretary of State William P.
Rogers for a discussion of their meetings
in Paris with North Vietnamese representa-
tives.
13 The President met with the Pay Board in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
13 Representative Joe D. Waggonner, Jr., who
will serve as the President's representative
to the Bucharest Trade Fair October 15-18,
met with the President at the White House.
13 The International Executive Board of the
Utility Workers of America, AFL-CIO,
met with the President at the White House.
13 Mrs. George Herman (Babe) Ruth, Bobby
Thomson, and Ralph Branca called on the
President at the White House.
14 The President met at the White House
with a delegation of physicians from the
People's Republic of China. They were be-
ginning a 3-week tour of the United
States, hosted by the Institute of Medicine
of the National Academy of Sciences and
the American Medical Association.
14 Timofey B. Guzhenko, Minister, Ministry
of the Maritime Fleet of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, met with the
President at the White House after sign-
ing, with Secretary of Commerce Peter G.
Peterson, a major maritime agreement be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union.
16 Gen. Creighton W. Abrams met with the
President at the White House after being
sworn in as Army Chief of Staff.
17 Mrs. Jeanne Squire, president, and Mrs.
Lucille Shriver, director, National Federa-
tion of Business and Professional Women's
Clubs, met with the President at the White
House.
17 Dr. Carl A. Laughlin, president of the
American Dental Association, called on
the President at the White House.
B-18
