[350] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
the next 4 years a period of new respect
for law, order, and justice in America, a
time of new hope in a land free of fear
and a world at peace.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:07 p.m. from
Camp David, Md. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio. Time for the broad-
cast was purchased by the Committee for the
Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
351 Remarks to a Meeting of the National League
of Families of American Prisoners and Missing
in Southeast Asia. October 16, 1972
Mrs. Hanson, and ladies and gentlemen:
I learned that Dr. Kissinger was sched-
uled to be your speaker this morning; I
found that I had some time in my sched-
ule and I decided to substitute for two
very important reasons: One, of all the
many groups I speak to and that I have
spoken to, big or small, across America,
there isn't one that inspires me more than
you do. Two, I am here to thank you for
your support and to urge you for your
continued support.
I am not speaking of an election cam-
paign, but I am speaking of support for a
cause bigger than an election, a cause of
an honorable peace, one that will con-
tribute to peace in the world. And an
honorable peace in this terribly difficult
war in Vietnam will contribute to that
kind of a peace that we all seek.
Since we last met-it is hard to realize
it was a year ago-some very intensive
negotiations have been underway. I shall
not and cannot comment on those nego-
tiations. One, I would not want to raise
false hopes, and two, any comment when
negotiations are taking place could jeop-
ardize their success, and I know that none
of you would want any chance for success-
ful negotiations to be jeopardized.
However, I do want to tell this group
some conditions that I have laid down
that we will insist upon in those negotia-
tions in seeking an honorable peace in
Vietnam.
First, we shall not agree to any settle-
ment which imposes a Communist gov-
ernment upon the people of South
Vietnam.
And second, we shall, under no circum-
stances, abandon our POW's and our
MIA's, wherever they are.
When I use the word "abandon," I
speak quite deliberately. That means that
we cannot leave their fate to the good will
of the enemy. We must have some strength
in ourselves. And in addition to that, we
shall not betray our allies; we shall not
stain the honor of the United States.
These are the conditions that we have
laid down. They are reasonable conditions
because we seek an honorable and reason-
able peace, and we shall continue to nego-
tiate to achieve those objectives.
Now, one other point I wish to make
with regard to this terribly long war which
has been a subject for discussion over re-
cent weeks and months, and that is the
attitude that I have taken with regard
to amnesty for those who were draft
dodgers or deserters.
My position is clear. It is criticized by
986
