Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
do everything that we can, each in our in-
dividual ways, to see that America remains
competitive economically by not running,
as we had to after World War II, only
against the clock, but doing our best. And
our best will be good enough.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:22 p.m. in the
Ballroom of the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
He spoke from a prepared text. An advance
text of his remarks was released on the same
day.
The 3-day Conference was attended by 1,500
representatives of business, labor, the acad-
emic community, and government.
50 Statement on Transmitting a Special Message to the
Congress Outlining the 1972 Environmental
Program. February 8, 1972
EACH of us, all across this great land, has
a stake in maintaining and improving
environmental quality: clean air and
clean water, the wise use of our land, the
protection of wildlife and natural beauty,
parks for all to enjoy.
These are part of the birthright of every
American. To guarantee that birthright,
we must act, and act decisively. It is liter-
ally now or never.
During the past 3 years, we have made
a good start. We have passed new laws to
protect the environment, and we have
mobilized the power of public concern.
But there is much yet to be done.
Eighteen of the major environmental
proposals which I put forward a year ago
have still not received final action by the
Congress. I repeat today my urgent re-
quest for Congressional action on this
51 Special Message to the
Environmental Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
From the very first, the American spirit
has been one of self-reliance and confi-
dent action. Always we have been a peo-
ple to say with Henley "I am the master
much needed legislation, and I am also
presenting a number of new proposals.
The environmental agenda now before
the Congress includes laws to deal with
water pollution, pesticide hazards, ocean
dumping, excessive noise, careless land de-
velopment, and many other environ-
mental problems. These problems will not
stand still for politics or for partisanship.
They demand to be met now. By meeting
them now, we can make 1972 the best
year ever for environmental progress.
The time has come for man to make
his peace with nature. Let us renew our
commitment. Let us redouble our effort.
The quality of our life on this good land
is a cause to unite all Americans.
NOTE: The President read the statement in the
Family Theater for sound and film recording.
Congress Outlining the 1972
February 8, 1972
of my fate . . . the captain of my soul”—
a people sure that man commands his own
destiny. What has dawned dramatically
upon us in recent years, though, is a new
recognition that to a significant extent
87-234-74-15
173
