Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 17 [64]
hibition Hall hosted by the Shanghai Munic-
ipal Revolutionary Committee. Premier Chou
and Committee Chairman Chang Ch'un-ch'iao
then accompanied the President and Mrs.
Nixon to a cultural program of acrobatics in the
Exhibition Hall.
Monday, February 28
Premier Chou visited with the President for
an hour at the Ching Kiang guest house and
then accompanied the Presidential party to the
airport for official farewells before the takeoff
for the return flight at 10 a.m.
64
Crossing the International Date Line, the
Spirit of '76 arrived at Elmendorf Air Force
Base, Anchorage, Alaska, at midnight on Sun-
day, February 27, Alaska time. The President
and the First Lady spent the night at the resi-
dence of the Commanding General and left for
the final leg of the flight to Washington at
9:40 a.m. on Monday, February 28, Alaska
time.
The official party arrived at Andrews Air
Force Base near Washington at 9:15 p.m., e.s.t.
Remarks on Departure From the White House for a
State Visit to the People's Republic of China.
February 17, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mem-
bers of the Congress, and members of the
Cabinet:
I want to express my very deep appre-
ciation to all of you who have come here
to send us off on this historic mission, and
I particularly want to express appreciation
to the bipartisan leadership of the House
and Senate who are here.
Their presence and the messages that
have poured in from all over the country
to the White House over the past few
days, wishing us well on this trip, I think,
underline the statement that I made on
last year, when I announced the
July 15,
visit.
That statement was, as you will recall,
that this would be a journey for peace.
We, of course, are under no illusions that
20 years of hostility between the People's
Republic of China and the United States
of America are going to be swept away by
one week of talks that we will have there.
But as Premier Chou En-lai said in a
toast that he proposed to Dr. Kissinger
and the members of the advance group in
October, the American people are a great
people. The Chinese people are a great
people. The fact that they are separated
by a vast ocean and great differences in
philosophy should not prevent them from
finding common ground.
As we look to the future, we must
recognize that the Government of the
People's Republic of China and the Gov-
ernment of the United States have had
great differences. We will have differences
in the future. But what we must do is to
find a way to see that we can have differ-
ences without being enemies in war. If we
can make progress toward that goal on
this trip, the world will be a much safer
world and the chance particularly for all
of those young
children over there to grow
up in a world of peace will be infinitely
greater.
I would simply say in conclusion that if
there is a postscript that I hope might be
written with regard to this trip, it would
be the words on the plaque which was left
on the moon by our first astronauts when
they landed there: "We came in peace
for all mankind.”
Thank you and goodby.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House. He spoke
367
