Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 4 [40]
process. The scope of Federal assistance,
however, should be appropriately limited,
since I believe that a development largely
local in function and benefits should have
substantial local financing as well.
FOLLOWING THROUGH: EDUCATION AND
TRANSPORTATION
New communities, new parks, new focal
points for downtown business-all will
help Washington carry through the
ARBC's "Horizons '76" theme of honor-
ing our founding principles by forging a
better future with them. So too will two
other ongoing District efforts, for which
congressional assistance requested during
the last session is still much needed: our
public colleges and our METRO subway
system.
Washington Technical Institute is pro-
ceeding with plans for buildings at its new
permanent location on the north side of
the former Bureau of Standards site in
Northwest Washington. Federal City Col-
lege remains in scattered lease space
throughout the city despite explosive en-
rollment growth in the past 4 years; it
hopes to occupy a campus of its own in
and around the old District Library build-
ing north of Mount Vernon Square, as
well as satellite locations elsewhere. The
Congress can help to expedite these
campus development efforts by enacting
the D.C. Capital Financing Act, which
makes special provision for funding col-
lege construction through direct Federal
grants rather than through Treasury loans
as at present.
my
In D.C. message urging this action
last April, I noted that WTI and the new
International Center which is to share
the Bureau of Standards site will in the
future symbolize "side by side the Capital
City's dedication to human development
and to international understanding." Ac-
tion by the Congress late in 1971 cleared
the for actual sale to foreign govern-
way
ments of lots at the International Center
to begin last week. By 1976 the cluster of
new chanceries there will be a pride to
Americans and foreign guests alike. Let us
now make sure that the District's public
colleges will also be a showplace in the
Bicentennial year. Ample and balanced
opportunities in higher education are es-
sential, if we are to convince millions of
1976 student visitors that the District
takes care of its own.
METRO, and all of the other elements
which with it will comprise a balanced
modern transportation system for greater
Washington, are central to Bicentennial
plans for the District. We need the pride
of achievement in areawide cooperation
which the system will give all communities
taking part. We need its people-moving
capacity to cope with visitor traffic which
may average up to 100,000 people daily
throughout the anniversary year. I am
today renewing the commitment of all the
agencies and resources of the Federal Gov-
ernment toward maximum progress on
the entire transportation system-subway,
freeways, bridges, parking, and support
facilities-before 1976. The action of the
Congress in December to support con-
tinued METRO funding was enormously
heartening to the people of the Capital
region; it gave, in fact, a glimmer of hope
to beleaguered commuters everywhere.
The grim Thanksgiving prospect of a
great many excavated streets to fill back in
has now become the far brighter prospect
of at least 24 miles of operating subway-
the most modern anywhere-by 1976.
Urgently needed now is prompt approval
by the Congress of Federal guarantees for
151
