Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [327]
National Security Council, we found that
in terms of the balance of power between
the United States and the Soviet Union,
that that enormous lead that the United
States had had at the end of the Eisen-
hower era had evaporated, and that now,
in terms of nuclear capability, the two
great super powers were virtually even.
The world had changed, and unless
something was done to exchange a period
of confrontation and move from that to
one of negotiation, and then possibly
to cooperation, we were certainly going
down the road to an inevitable clash
which could lead again to a world dis-
aster. That was the world that we found.
We worked on those problems. We
have worked on them long and hard. We
have not had total success, but we have
had significant success. You all know that
as far as the war in Vietnam is concerned
that we not only have brought home over a
half-million, we have not only reduced
our casualties, but we have also now
ended the American ground combat role.
We have prepared the South Vietnamese
so that they have demonstrated the abil-
ity to stop a major invasion of the Com-
munists from the North, and we have
done this without staining the honor of
the United States of America. We have
maintained the respect for the United
States of America.
It would have been very easy to have
moved in another direction, very easy
simply at the beginning of the term in
January of 1969 to have said: We didn't
send these men there, the two previous
administrations sent them there, get them
home, blame it on the previous admin-
istrations and be a big hero. But we also
knew that if the United States of America
at that particular time had taken that
step, that it might have ended that war,
but it would have planted the seeds for
others, because it would encourage that
kind of aggression not only there but in
the area of Indonesia, the other areas that
are so important to freedom and so im-
portant to peace and progress in the
Pacific and that part of the world.
So we made those decisions and we
have had that degree of success, and we
will continue until we achieve our goal,
which will be ending the war, but end-
ing it in a way that the United States
maintains the respect of its friends around
the world and, for that matter, of its
adversaries.
But looking beyond that, it would have
been very easy at the beginning of this
term simply to look at the war we in-
herited, to realize that if we could deal
with that, that would be an accomplish-
ment in itself which the American people
would appreciate.
But we did not stop there. We saw these
other problems. We realized that we were
living in a period—and this is the point
that all of us must realize-we were living
in a period when the time when the
United States might be able to exert an
influence for lasting peace in the world
might never come again. It could pass us
by. And so we moved. We made the initi-
ative toward the People's Republic of
China. We made the initiative toward
the Soviet Union.
Let me emphasize again, our philoso-
phies with both governments are totally
different. As far as the leaders are con-
cerned, we have not proceeded on the
basis of any mushy sentimentality that
friendship between leaders is going to
bring friendship among people with dif-
ferent philosophies and governments with
different philosophies. But we did pro-
ceed on this assumption: that we live in
927
