Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 9 [7]
In addition to New Hampshire, I shall
also permit my name to be entered in the
other primaries. As I am sure you will un-
derstand, however, it will not be possible
for me to campaign actively and person-
ally in any of the primary elections. I feel
it is essential, particularly in this year
when events of such importance to the
world's future are taking place, that at
least until the Republican Convention the
President should refrain from public
partisan activities in order to conduct the
business of government with the minimum
intrusion of purely political activity.
On my behalf, therefore, please express
7
to the people of New Hampshire my warm
greetings, my gratitude for their past
courtesies, and my hope that together we
can work toward a national renewal that
will make the anniversary year of 1976 as
proud a milestone for America as was
1776.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Mr. Lane Dwinell, New Hampshire Committee
for Re-election of the President, The New
Hampshire Highway Hotel, Concord, New
Hampshire 03301]
NOTE: The letter, dated January 5, 1972, was
made available to the press on January 7.
Remarks on Mrs. Nixon's Return From Africa.
January 9, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Congressman Ford,
members of the Cabinet, and all of you
who have been so very kind to come to
the airport here today on this rainy night:
First, I want to thank you for wishing
me a happy birthday, and I know that it
was hard for you to come. But I think
perhaps the best birthday present, and the
greatest sacrifice, was made by Mrs.
Nixon: She flew 4,000 miles for my birth-
day party tonight.
Now I am in a bit of an awkward posi-
tion, because I have to welcome her back
officially, and I also have to welcome her
back personally. I asked our Chief of Pro-
tocol, Ambassador Mosbacher, how I
should address her, and so he wrote me a
memorandum. He said, "You could call
her Mrs. Nixon, or you could call her
Madam Ambassador." But I guess I will
just call her "Pat." Welcome home, Pat.
We are glad you are here.
Now, if I could just spend a moment to
tell you how this trip came about, and why
I think the choice that was made was a
good one. My very dear and old friend,
President Tolbert of Liberia, wrote me a
personal note inviting me to his inaugura-
tion. We have very much in common. We
both served as Vice Presidents during the
same period of time, and he became Presi-
dent of his country, as I have had the
honor of becoming President of the United
States. And he is the President of the old-
est republic in Africa and, of course, the
United States is the oldest republic in the
American Continent.
So I wanted to go, but I could not be-
cause of some of the demands of the sched-
ule here at that time. So I wrote him back
a personal note and said that while I
could not come, I would try to send a very
good substitute. Now, since the trip began,
I have been reading the newspapers and,
Mr. Vice President, also watching televi-
sion, and as I watched the television and
read the newspapers, of the welcomes that
Mrs. Nixon received in Liberia and Ghana
25
