Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 28 [331]
both in my conversations with Premier
Chou En-lai and my conversations with
Mr. Brezhnev, Kosygin, Podgorny, and
their colleagues, that this was one area
where there was no question of the desire
to work together, to cooperate. It, of
course, will not be easy.
Many in this room have gone to the
Soviet Union. You know the differences
in language and the differences in back-
ground and so forth that are involved.
Very few of you have had the opportunity
to go to the People's Republic of China.
But we do know that both there and in the
Soviet Union there are people of ability.
There are Russian scientists and Russian
doctors who are able people. There are
Chinese scientists and Chinese doctors-
one-fourth of the people of the world,
after all, live there-they are able people.
The ability of those people there to co-
operate with doctors here and in other
free nations, this, of course, can have an
enormous effect.
Perhaps this fight against cancer,
against disease, can help to teach the world
that despite immense differences between
cultures and values and political systems,
nations must work together and can work
together to meet their common needs and
fight their common enemies.
Those who join hands against disease
help advance the day when nations may
no longer raise their hands against each
other.
I mentioned the laboratories at Fort
Detrick. It seems to me that this is one of
the great symbols of our progress toward
the use of our resources for peaceful
purposes. I am sure some of you have been
there. But as I think of it here this morn-
ing, I think of the past, the present, and
then what could take place in the future.
For years some of the most sophisticated
scientific facilities on the face of our planet
were there. They employed the best minds
that we could find in the scientific com-
munity, and they were used for research
on biological warfare, perfecting the in-
struments of death. It was a top secret
installation, totally isolated. As a matter
of fact, even though I had been a Con-
gressman and Senator, Vice President of
the United States, I had never seen it until
I went there after it had changed its
character.
Now it has been converted, as you know,
into a laboratory for research on cancer,
dedicated to the preservation, not the
destruction, of life.
I remember my visit. It was just one
year ago.ยน I remember saying on that day
that Fort Detrick should now be thrown
open, not only to scientists and doctors
from the United States but from all over
the world. Last month, as a part of our
new cooperation in medicine, the Russian
Minister of Health, a great heart surgeon
incidentally, came to the United States.
One of the places he visited was Fort
Detrick. That shows how the world has
changed in this last year. It shows it most,
it seems to me, effectively, because no one
could even think of the possibility of any-
one from the Soviet Union going to this
top secret installation in past years. But
there he stood, in a place that just a few
years earlier had been the symbol of a
closed world, a world of suspicion and
confrontation and a place where some of
the best minds of our Nation had prepared
for a possible war against his nation or
some other nation.
Now he stood there, this man from the
Soviet Union. This place has become a
symbol of an open world, a world of co-
1
ยน See 1971 volume, Item 334.
943
