Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
skilled personnel who have worked with
the school lunch program and other
special programs of the Department of
Agriculture. The time has come for mar-
shalling all of our resources in a compre-
hensive campaign to meet the nutrition
needs of older Americans.
PROVIDING BETTER TRANSPORTATION FOR
THE ELDERLY
For many older Americans, lack of mo-
bility means poor access to friends and
relatives, to government services and to
meaningful participation in the commu-
nity. Unless we meet the challenge of pro-
viding better transportation for older
persons, our efforts in other fields will not
be as effective as they should be. This is
why I told the delegates to the White
House Conference on Aging that I would,
by administrative action, require that Fed-
eral grants which provide services for
older persons also ensure that the trans-
portation needed to take advantage of
these services is available.
In addition, the Department of Trans-
portation is significantly increasing its pro-
gram for developing new ways to meet the
public transportation needs of older per-
sons. The approaches which are being
tested include special new transportation
services to take elderly citizens from hous-
ing projects and other residential areas to
hospitals, senior citizen centers, social serv-
ice agencies, employment opportunities
and the like; and demand-responsive serv-
ices whereby the elderly are picked up at
their doorsteps and taken to specific de-
sired destinations.
Once new ways have been developed
for meeting the transportation needs of the
elderly, we must also make them generally
available. One proposal which could
help significantly in this effort is the rec-
ommendation recently submitted to the
Congress by the Secretary of Transporta-
tion under which some of the funds now
in the Highway Trust Fund could be used
by States and localities to augment re-
sources in the mass transportation area.
I hope the Congress will give prompt
approval to this important plan. The flex-
ibility it provides would allow State and
local officials-who know best the trans-
portation needs of the elderly within their
own jurisdictions-to give special consid-
eration to meeting those needs. I am ask-
ing the Secretary of Transportation to de-
velop specific suggestions for assisting the
States and localities in these undertakings.
In addition, the Department of Trans-
portation is ready to give priority atten-
tion to community requests for helping
older Americans through capital grants
from the Urban Mass Transportation
Fund and is willing to commit significant
resources to this end. I urge the States and
localities to move immediately to take ad-
vantage of these resources.
MEETING THE HOUSING NEEDS OF
OLDER CITIZENS
This Administration has also worked
hard to respond to the very special housing
needs of older Americans. It is expected,
for example, that an all-time record in
producing subsidized and insured housing
and nursing homes for the elderly will be
achieved this year by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. In the
current fiscal year, nearly 66,000 units of
subsidized housing for the elderly will be
funded under HUD's housing assistance
programs-a figure which should rise to
over 82,000 in fiscal year 1973. In addi-
tion, accommodations for over 14,000
479
