Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
concept has been introduced into the
Model Cities program which gives locali-
ties more control over their own future.
HUD's own programs have been con-
siderably decentralized. The New Com-
munities Program has moved forward and
seven projects have received final ap-
proval. The Department's efforts to ex-
pand mortgage capital, to more than
double the level of subsidized housing, and
to encourage new and more efficient
building techniques through programs like
Operation Breakthrough have all con-
tributed to our record level of housing
starts. Still more can be done if the Con-
gress enacts the administration's Housing
Consolidation and Simplification Act, pro-
posed in 1970.
The Federal Government is only one of
many influences on development patterns
across our land. Nevertheless, its influence
is considerable. We must do all we can to
see that its influence is good.
IMPROVING TRANSPORTATION
Although the executive branch and the
Congress have been led by different parties
during the last 3 years, we have co-
operated with particular effectiveness in
the field of transportation. Together we
have shaped the Urban Mass Transporta-
tion Assistance Act of 1970-a 12-year,
$10 billion effort to expand and improve
our common carriers and thus make our
cities more livable. We have brought into
effect a 10-year, $3 billion ship construc-
tion program as well as increased research
efforts and a modified program of operat-
ing subsidies to revamp our merchant
marine. We have accelerated efforts to im-
prove air travel under the new Airport
and Airway Trust Fund and have been
working in fresh ways to save and improve
our railway passenger service. Great prog-
ress has also been made in promoting
transportation safety and we have moved
effectively against cargo thefts and
skyjacking.
I hope this strong record will be even
stronger by the time the 92nd Congress
adjourns. I hope that our Special Revenue
Sharing program for transportation will
by then be a reality-so that cities and
States can make better long-range plans
with greater freedom to achieve their own
proper balance among the many modes of
transportation. I hope, too, that our rec-
ommendations for revitalizing surface
freight transportation will by then be ac-
cepted, including measures both to
modernize railway equipment and opera-
tions and to update regulatory practices.
By encouraging competition, flexibility
and efficiency among freight carriers,
these steps could save the American people
billions of dollars in freight costs every
year, helping to curb inflation, expand
employment and improve our balance of
trade.
One of our most damaging and perplex-
ing economic problems is that of massive
and prolonged transportation strikes.
There is no reason why the public should
be the helpless victim of such strikes-but
this is frequently what happens. The dock
strike, for example, has been extremely
costly for the American people, par-
ticularly for the farmer for whom a whole
year's income can hinge on how promptly
he can move his goods. Last year's rail-
road strike also dealt a severe blow to our
economy.
Both of these emergencies could have
been met far more effectively if the Con-
gress had enacted my Emergency Public
Interest Protection Act, which I proposed
in February of 1970. By passing this legis-
65
