[297] Sept. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
ments to alleviate it.
Much progress has been made in recent
years. For example, the rate of death per
100 million vehicle miles driven has
declined from 5.5 in 1967 to 4.7 in 1971.
This is an annual decrease of 3.85 percent
and a five-year decrease of 14.55 percent.
Had the old rate continued, 65,000 per-
sons would have died in traffic accidents in
1971, 10,000 more than the actual num-
ber. We can also take some comfort that
traffic deaths have decreased in spite of
the fact that we now have more cars, more
drivers, more cyclists and more pedes-
trians on our roads.
But progress is no cause for com-
placency. We must work even harder to
make our highways and cars safer, to
educate drivers and pedestrians and to
clear our roads of drunken drivers, who
are the cause of approximately half the
traffic deaths each year.
The three volumes of these reports
taken together map our progress in this
important area, and I hope they will be
read closely by Members of the Congress.
Your continued support will be required
to back up our national commitment to
make our highways and vehicles safer for
all Americans.
The White House,
September 13, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The reports are entitled:
"Safety '71, A Report on Activities of the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administra-
tion and the Federal Highway Administration
Under the Highway Safety Act of 1966 and the
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act
of 1966" (Government Printing Office, 72 pp.).
"Safety '71, A Report on Activities Under
the Highway Safety Act" (Government Print-
ing Office, 77 pp. plus appendixes).
"Safety '71, A Report on Activities Under
the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety
Act" (Government Printing Office, 83 pp. plus
appendixes).
298 Memorandum About Age Discrimination in Federal
Employment. September 13, 1972
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
For many years, the Federal Govern-
ment has been fighting against discrimina-
tion in employment. On the basis of age,
creed, ethnic origin, sex or skin color, dis-
crimination is an intolerable wrong. As
discrimination is an affront to our society,
it cannot be countenanced in our
government.
In my message to the Congress earlier
this year transmitting this Administra-
tion's recommendations for action on be-
half of older Americans, I stressed the im-
portance of giving serious attention to the
problems of our older citizens. One such
problem is age discrimination. As the
largest employer in the Nation, the Gov-
ernment has a special responsibility to
take the lead in eradicating age discrimi-
nation from the world of employment.
It is appropriate, at this time, to re-
affirm our commitment to the long-stand-
ing policy of the Federal Government that
age, by itself, shall be no bar to a Federal
job which an individual is otherwise quali-
fied to perform. In doing so, I want to
emphasize that our older Americans
possess talents, experience, and skills
which the Government needs and which
868
