[396] Nov. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
The goal of all these proposals is to
make government responsive again to the
voice of the average citizen.
Under this approach, people can feel
that they are in control again, that they
can shape events, that they can make
things happen in their own lives and in
their own communities.
Under this approach, more decisions
will be made at the scene of the action-
and this means that more people can have
a piece of the action.
Thomas Jefferson said he believed in
local government not only because it was
a more effective government but also be-
cause it could give the individual that
feeling without which life is incomplete-
a sense of participation in events that
really count.
If this was true in Jefferson's time-
when the average Congressman repre-
sented only about 30,000 people-how
much more true it is in our time, when
the average Congressman represents
nearly half a million people.
Several years ago a poll of the Ameri-
can public revealed that only 27 percent
of those who lived in our cities said they
did so by choice. One lesson of that poll
was that the urban crisis-so often
regarded merely as a crisis of money-
has also been a crisis of morale.
This Administration has addressed both
of these crises. We have doubled Federal
assistance to States and localities-to
meet the crisis of money. But we have
also increased the sense of freedom and
control in our communities-to meet the
crisis of the spirit.
The result, as we approach our Na-
tion's 200th anniversary, is a growing
sense that the graph of urban history is
climbing again and the pendulum is
swinging in a new, more hopeful
direction.
This renewal of the spirit in the cities
of our Nation means that they have a
chance again to become in reality what
they have always been in our dreams:
shining centers of commerce and culture,
providing a fuller, richer life for all who
share in them.
This is the urban challenge-and this
is our urban opportunity.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
the Library at the White House. The address
was broadcast live on nationwide radio. Time
for the broadcast was purchased by the Com-
mittee for the Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
397 Address to the Nation: "Look to the Future."
November 2, 1972
Good evening:
I am speaking to you tonight from the
Library of the White House. This room,
like all the rooms in this great house,
is rich in history.
Often late at night I sit here thinking
of the crises other Presidents have
known—and of the trials that other gener-
ations of Americans have come through.
I think, too, of the Presidents who will
be sitting here a generation from now, and
how they will look back on these years.
And I think of what I want to accomplish
in these years. I would like to share some
of those thoughts with you this evening.
Above all, I want to complete the foun-
1084
