Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [14]
within each party, on some foreign policy
issues and on some domestic policy issues.
However, there are great national prob-
lems that are so vital that they transcend
partisanship. So let us have our debates.
Let us have our honest differences. But
let us join in keeping the national interest
first. Let us join in making sure that
legislation the Nation needs does not be-
come hostage to the political interests of
any party or any person.
There is ample precedent, in this elec-
tion year, for me to present you with a
huge list of new proposals, knowing full
well that there would not be any pos-
sibility of your passing them if you worked
night and day.
I shall not do that.
I have presented to the leaders of the
Congress today a message of 15,000 words
discussing in some detail where the Nation
stands and setting forth specific legislative
items on which I have asked the Congress
to act. Much of this is legislation which I
proposed in 1969, in 1970, and also in the
first session of this 92d Congress and on
which I feel it is essential that action be
completed this year.
I am not presenting proposals which
have attractive labels but no hope of pas-
sage. I am presenting only vital programs
which are within the capacity of this Con-
gress to enact, within the capacity of the
budget to finance, and which I believe
should be above partisanship-programs
which deal with urgent priorities for the
Nation, which should and must be the
subject of bipartisan action by this Con-
gress in the interests of the country in
1972.
When I took the oath of office on the
steps of this building just 3 years ago to-
day, the Nation was ending one of the most
tortured decades in its history.
The 1960's were a time of great progress
in many areas. But as we all know, they
were also times of great agony-the
agonies of war, of inflation, of rapidly
rising crime, of deteriorating cities, of
hopes raised and disappointed, and of
anger and frustration that led finally to
violence and to the worst civil disorder in
a century.
I recall these troubles not to point any
fingers of blame. The Nation was so torn
in those final years of the sixties that
many in both parties questioned whether
America could be governed at all.
The Nation has made significant prog-
ress in these first years of the seventies:
Our cities are no longer engulfed by
civil disorders.
Our colleges and universities have again
become places of learning instead of
battlegrounds.
A beginning has been made in preserv-
ing and protecting our environment.
The rate of increase in crime has been
slowed-and here in the District of
Columbia, the one city where the Federal
Government has direct jurisdiction, seri-
ous crime in 1971 was actually reduced
by 13 percent from the year before.
Most important, because of the begin-
nings that have been made, we can say
today that this year 1972 can be the year
in which America may make the greatest
progress in 25 years toward achieving our
goal of being at peace with all the nations
of the world.
As our involvement in the war in Viet-
nam comes to an end, we must now go on
to build a generation of peace.
To achieve that goal, we must first
face realistically the need to maintain
our defense.
In the past 3 years, we have reduced
the burden of arms. For the first time in
35
