[325] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
disposed than ever to be patient with how
congested and difficult it all too often is.
The speedy resolution of America's
chronic and worsening traffic jams is far
too urgent a matter to be stalled any
longer by legislative or bureaucratic log-
jams, and I will continue my own de-
termined efforts to keep it moving ahead.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Leandro, Calif.
The President and Mrs. Nixon boarded a
BART train at the San Leandro Station and
rode to the Lake Merritt Station where they
visited the BART Control Center and met with
employees.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on BART.
326 Statement About the Election Campaign and National
Security. September 27, 1972
IT HAS been suggested by some that
I ought to take off from the White House
and campaign virtually full time between
now and election day.
I want to win this election. I particu-
larly want to win California. I would wel-
come the opportunity to take the case for
this Administration directly to the Amer-
ican people. But my first responsibility is
to do my job as President of the United
States. I intend to meet that responsibil-
ity. I shall campaign only when I con-
clude it will not interfere with doing the
job the people elected me to do.
Vice President Agnew made the right
decision when he left the campaign to
come back to Washington yesterday so
that he could be ready, if necessary, to
break a tie on a critically important
foreign policy vote.
Proposals that would put the United
States in the position of having the sec-
ond strongest Navy, the second strongest
Air Force, the second strongest Army in
the world would massively increase the
danger of aggression around the world.
It would be a move toward war, not a
move toward peace.
If we reduce our Army, Navy, and Air
Force to the point that the only option
open to us, when a friend or ally of the
United States is threatened, is to launch
a nuclear war and bring massive nuclear
attack on the United States, our com-
mitments to small nations whose survival
did not directly affect the security of the
United States would not be worth the
paper they were written on.
The policy of massive nuclear retali-
ation during the Eisenhower years, when
we had a 15- to 20-to-1 superiority over
the Soviet Union, was a credible policy.
A policy which would leave the United
States with only a nuclear option at a
time when the Soviet Union and the
United States are approximately equal
in their nuclear capability would have no
credibility whatever where the survival
of small nations was involved.
NOTE: The statement was released in con-
nection with the President's visit to San Fran-
cisco to attend a "Victory '72" luncheon.
924
