[36] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
tension, because it offers little hope of
resolution and it only increases the uncer-
tainty in foreign markets. Instead, I urge
the adoption of a plan for settlement by
arbitration. As I explained to the Congress
12 days ago, I am asking that a three-
member arbitration board be appointed
by the Secretary of Labor to hear all the
issues and then issue a settlement that
would be binding for at least 18 months.
No strike or lockout would be permitted
from the day this legislation is enacted
until the expiration of the binding settle-
ment established by the board.
I strongly favor free collective bargain-
ing, but the time has come for decisive
action. I call upon the Congress to take
37
such action on both this emergency bill
and the Crippling Strikes Prevention Act.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 2, 1972.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message. Participants in
the news briefing were Laurence H. Silberman,
Under Secretary of Labor, and Clark Mac-
Gregor, Counsel to the President for Congres-
sional Relations.
On February 1, 1972, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Gov-
ernors Ronald Reagan of California and Daniel
J. Evans of Washington and Secretary of Labor
James D. Hodgson on the dock strike and the
proposed legislation, after the Governors had
met with the President.
Message to the Senate Transmitting Convention on the
Illicit Movement of Cultural Property. February 2, 1972
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to accession, I trans-
mit herewith the Convention on the
Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the
Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of
Ownership of Cultural Property.
The illicit movement of national art
treasures has become a matter of serious
concern in the world community. Many
countries have lost important cultural
property through illegal exportation. The
theft of art objects from museums,
churches and collections is increasing. Ris-
ing prices for antiquities stimulate looting
of archaeological sites, causing the de-
struction of irreplaceable resources for
scientific and cultural studies. In addition,
the appearance in the United States of im-
portant art treasures of suspicious origin
gives rise to problems in our relations with
other countries.
The Convention, adopted on Novem-
ber 14, 1970, by a vote of 77 to 1 with 8
abstentions at the Sixteenth General Con-
ference of the United Nations Educa-
tional, Scientific and Cultural Organiza-
tion, is a significant effort at multilateral
cooperation to help preserve the cultural
resources of mankind. Under the Conven-
tion, each state undertakes to protect its
own cultural heritage and agrees to co-
operate in a number of important but
limited respects to help protect the cul-
tural heritage of other states. Perhaps the
heart of the Convention from the stand-
point of the United States is Article 9,
which establishes an important new
framework for international cooperation.
Under this Article, the states parties un-
dertake to participate in a concerted
international effort to determine and to
carry out the necessary corrective meas-
ures in cases in which a state's cultural
142
