[407] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
there in the Congress of the United States,
and we will appreciate your support for
them.
I also want to thank Roy Acuff 1 for
entertaining you before we got here. He
said to me as I came on the stage, he
said, "I think you are going to do all
right in North Carolina," and he says,
"I can promise you Tennessee." So there
are two States we have, in any event.
Now to your candidate, our candidate
for Governor, Jim Holshouser. He is a
man I have known personally, have
worked with over many, many years. He
is one of those very well organized, dedi-
cated men who has all of the attributes
which would make him a fine chief execu-
tive of this State. I look forward to the
opportunity of working with him in those
next 4 years, when he is the Governor,
and when, I trust, I am still in Washing-
ton, D.C.
On this occasion, too, I want to speak
of another old friend. As a matter of fact,
the friendship goes back even further
than the one with Jim Holshouser, be-
cause at the time that we met, Jim Hols-
houser was perhaps too young to be in
politics. I remember 21 years ago when
I was a junior Senator from the State of
California, and some way or other, when
they allocated the office space, they put
my office between two Senators from
North Carolina. Clyde Hoey was on the
one side and Willis Smith was on the
other. They were fine men. They were
great Democrats. But I found that I
voted as they did because we were putting
America above party, those two Senators
from North Carolina.
A very young man-he was young to
1 Country and western entertainer and re-
cording artist.
me at that time-Jesse Helms, came in
one day to see me. He was the admin-
istrative assistant for Willis Smith. He
brought with him a young man in a wheel-
chair, a very promising athlete who had
been struck down by the polio epidemic of
that year, as you remember, 1951.
I met him. We had our picture taken.
I understand that Bucky Branham is still
in that wheelchair, but he still is one who,
with Jesse Helms, has that zest for life
and has not given up because of adversity.
Ever since that time I have watched
Jesse Helms. I have known his intelli-
gence, his compassion, his dedication. I
will simply state my position in a word: I
know your interest, of course, always in
the top of the ticket, but remember, to do
the job we need Members of the Senate,
Members of the House, who will support
what we are trying to do at the top of the
ticket.
In that connection, North Carolina
needs Jesse Helms in the United States
Senate. The United States-the Nation
needs Jesse Helms in the United States
Senate. I need him and I will deeply
appreciate your support for this fine man
in the United States Senate.
I have been quite interested, too, in
some of the signs around here. I see one
over there, "Spiro Is Our Hero." As we
enter the closing days of this campaign, I
would like to say a word about my run-
ning mate. I have often indicated my
admiration for him and my respect, but I
have noted that in recent days that the
organized attempts to make him blow his
cool, perhaps attempts to disrupt meet-
ings on a scale unprecedented in American
politics, have even gotten more, but let
ine say the test of a man is not when
things go easy, but when they are trying
to make it hard for you.
1116
