Appendix E
tails of his plans in private life in the near
future.
In responding to Frank Shakespeare's deci-
sion, President Nixon expressed warm apprecia-
tion for the outstanding job he has done
throughout the first term in helping to com-
municate United States policies and the
American way of life to the world.
To succeed Mr. Shakespeare as Director of
USIA, the President intends to nominate James
Keogh. Mr. Keogh is well known to many of
you, I think, from his key role here on the
White House Staff as chief of writing and
research and Special Assistant to the President
during the first 2 years of this Administration.
Prior to 1969, Mr. Keogh had had a dis-
tinguished career in journalism, including long
service with the Omaha World Herald in his
home State of Nebraska, and later almost 20
years with Time magazine where he was execu-
tive editor. In 1968 he left that post as execu-
tive editor with Time to work for the President
in the 1968 campaign.
Also, I am announcing this morning, on
behalf of the President the fact that William H.
Brown will continue as Chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, a posi-
tion to which he was designated by the Presi-
dent at the time he was sworn in as a member
of the Commission in 1969. The EEOC, as
you know, has recently received new powers to
combat job discrimination of all types and
has broadened its activities in this field during
the last 4 years. The President feels that
Chairman Brown has provided very effective
leadership in this effort and he expects that
leadership will continue in the new term.
Then, finally, I have one additional com-
ment to make today on a personnel change re-
lating to a news announcement that was made
earlier this morning at the Department of the
Interior by Secretary Morton. Secretary Morton
announced this morning that he is naming
Ronald H. Walker, who has been serving as
Special Assistant to the President on the
White House Staff, to become Director of the
National Park Service succeeding George
Hartzog whose resignation was announced last
week.
Ron Walker, I think many of you know him,
had the principal responsibility during the first
term of supervising all Presidential travel, both
foreign and domestic. In concurring with Secre-
tary Morton's request to bring Mr. Walker over
to Interior, where he previously served as As-
sistant to Secretary Hickel early in the Admin-
istration, the President had special thanks for
the excellent service which Ron has rendered
here at the White House.
The President attaches high importance to
improving and expanding America's parklands.
He is pleased that a man of Ron Walker's
youth, energy, and proven abilities will be play-
ing a key role in this effort during the period
ahead.
Announcing the President's Additional Selec-
tions of Personnel for the Second Term
December 14, 1972
We have this morning several announce-
ments to make regarding the various depart-
ments and changes which are being made in
various departments. This morning's announce-
ments relate to the Department of Labor, first.
The President has asked me to say that it
is with deep appreciation for his services as
Under Secretary that President Nixon accepts
the resignation of Laurence H. Silberman.
Larry Silberman has a number of options avail-
able to him both in public and private life and
will be announcing his plans in the near future.
Larry Silberman, of course, has been Under
Secretary of Labor for the last few years.
The President also accepts, with gratitude
for their contributions, the resignations of
Malcolm Lovell, Assistant Secretary of Labor
for Manpower; Richard Grunewald, Assistant
Secretary of Labor for Employment Standards;
Geoffrey Moore, Commissioner of Labor Sta-
tistics; and George Guenther, Assistant Secre-
tary for Occupational Safety and Health.
Finally, in relation to the Department of
Labor, I think most of you are aware that
Elizabeth Koontz has indicated her desire to
return to private life. The President accepts her
resignation with special regret and commends
the service she has given in the Department.
The President is also announcing today that
he has asked three officials of the Department
of Labor to stay during the next Administra-
tion in the Department. Those officials are:
E-17
