Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 13 [348]
the new American majority. Join it not as
region against region or party against
party or class against class, but join it in
order to build a better, freer America for
every person in this country.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in
the Hanover Room of the Regency Hyatt
House. He spoke without referring to notes.
The reception was attended by Southern
representatives of the Republican Party, State
Committees for the Re-Election of the Presi-
dent, and Democrats for Nixon.
348 Message to the Congress Transmitting the Cost of
Living Council's Quarterly Report on the Economic
Stabilization Program. October 13, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
Through the Economic Stabilization
Program, which was introduced as part of
the New Economic Policy of August 15,
1971, we have taken forceful steps to curb
the spiraling inflation that was eroding
the buying power of the American wage
earner-and that program is working.
This fourth quarterly report of the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Program describes the
solid gains which have been made in
revitalizing our economy and stemming
the erosion of the value of the dollar.
I invite your special attention to the
rise of more than 4 percent in real weekly
spendable earnings which the American
worker has enjoyed over the past year.
This is three times the average rate of
increase from 1960 to 1968.
pur-
To the average production worker, this
gain represents an annual growth in
chasing power of more than $200-the
equivalent of two extra weekly paychecks.
Clearly, the treadmill of inflation is be-
ing transformed into wheels of economic
progress.
Each American can take pride in the
encouraging achievements which we have
realized in the past year, for they have
been made possible only through the
determined efforts and the voluntary co-
operation of all our people.
As this report points out, problems re-
main-but if our stabilization program
continues to receive the wide public sup-
port it has received over its first year, and
which it enjoys today, they will be solved.
This Administration will continue to
exercise strong leadership in furthering
that progress-we are determined to con-
trol inflation. Ultimately, however, it will
be only through the determination, re-
sourcefulness and patriotic cooperation of
the American people that the victory of a
full new prosperity will be won.
The White House,
October 13, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Economic Stabilization Program
Quarterly Report, Covering the Period July 1
Through September 30, 1972" (Government
Printing Office, 74 pp.).
87-234-7466
981
