[248] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in future years to repair and reconstruct
Federal-aid highways and Federal roads
and trails damaged by natural disasters.
The highway repair money, however,
will not provide any direct, personal as-
sistance to the many individuals strug-
gling to repair or rebuild homes, farms,
and small businesses.
I am pleased, therefore, that the Senate
today has scheduled consideration of a
major element of my relief program, one
which would substantially improve the
terms of loans made to homeowners, farm-
ers, and small businessmen. Speedy action
is urgently needed on this part of my pro-
and I urge the House of Represent-
gram,
249
atives to follow up quickly.
Another pending element of my recom-
mendations is for supplemental appropria-
tions to provide the necessary funds for
the Federal Government's relief and re-
covery measures.
Again, I urge that the Congress place
the highest possible priority on approving
my entire package of disaster relief legis-
lation, so that tangible help can start
flowing at the earliest possible time to the
tens of thousands still in dire need weeks
after the disasters.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15950, approved Au-
gust 3, 1972, is Public Law 92-361 (86
Stat. 503).
Statement on Signing a Bill To Facilitate the Preservation
of Historic Structures Donated to State and Local
Governments. August 4, 1972
ALTHOUGH Jefferson reminded us that
"the earth belongs to the living, not to the
dead," the value of historical preservation
can no longer seriously be challenged. We
need to know where we have been if we
are to understand where we are-and
who we are.
Although it is true that historical pres-
ervation of buildings may seem to many to
have a low priority, we should not turn
our backs upon these quiet, stately, au-
thentic reminders of our heritage. As we
look upon these structures we hear the
voices of past heroes-strengthening our
resolve to create a future that will be
worthy of them.
And although the GSA surplus property
bill I am about to sign may appear to some
not to be significant, I do sign it with a
sense of deep significance. This is, in fact,
one of the key initiatives for historic
preservation that I presented to the Con-
gress in my 1971 message on the environ-
ment. The bill will give us the tools we
need to permit States and localities to
receive title to surplus Federal structures
of historic and architectural interest.
Until today, law has prevented the free
transfer of Federal surplus buildings to the
States or localities unless they were to be
used as museums or for other nonrevenue
producing activities. Many States and
cities simply could not afford to take title
and maintain these buildings under such
terms.
Under the new law, the States and lo-
calities will be able to use the Federal sur-
plus buildings as centers for urban com-
merce and tourism. They will be able to
preserve the historic buildings, to cherish
them, and to use them as active facilities
which will raise sufficient revenue to keep
762
