Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 8 [342]
of what American labor does in this
country. Very few are aware of the fact
that throughout the world, members of
American labor make it possible for sup-
port to be given to free trade union move-
ments in other nations in the world.
They helped in that period immedi-
ately after the war in helping to build a
free trade union movement in Western
Europe, where it could have gone one way
or the other except for that influence
which was exerted at that time.
And so a tribute should be paid to Peter
Fosco, to George Meany, and the others
who represent America's labor, who not
only do a job for American workers here
at home, but who stand up for America
abroad and stand up for a free trade union
movement all over the world.
I come now to a personal point. Any
President of the United States, whatever
his party may be, has problems, has crises
that he confronts during his term of office.
When he faces a difficult problem, he asks
for help from the American people, not
on a partisan basis, particularly when the
problem involved is one involving the
foreign policy of this country or its na-
tional defense.
Over these past 4 years, I have con-
fronted some problems that have been
rather difficult. I have noted that when-
ever the problem involved the defense of
the United States of America, and when-
ever there needed to be public support for
a policy that we determined was in the
best interests of the United States so that
the United States would have a defense
second to none, it was not necessary for
me to call the leaders, for example, like
Peter Fosco, of American labor. They
*George Meany was president of the AFL-
CIO.
called me and said, "We give you sup-
port."
Also, I recall in May of this year when
I had to make a very hard decision, one
that I felt was essential, essential to pro-
tect American fighting men, essential also
to help to bring to an end the long and
difficult war in Vietnam in an honorable
way, when I had to order the mining of
the harbors of Haiphong and order the
bombing of military installations in North
Vietnam. When I did that, let me say
again, that in attempting to enlist sup-
port for that very hard decision, it was
not necessary for me to call these men.
They called and offered their support. For
this I am most grateful.
But most of all tonight, on this special
occasion, let me leave this thought with
this distinguished audience: You come
from all over the United States. You rep-
resent 12 different organizations. You are
proud, justly proud, of your national back-
ground, as every American is proud of his
national background, whatever it may be.
But you know, as I know, that what
America needs and what it will always
have when we have men like Peter Fosco,
who came here 50 years ago with nothing
and worked his way to the top, what we
need is a country in which a man or a
woman has an equal chance at that start-
ing line and an equal chance to go to the
top.
Let me say, as one who came not from
an Italian background, but from a not
very affluent background, that I always
feel very grateful that I was born in Amer-
ica. But also, I always recall that in the
term I have been President the moments
that perhaps have touched me the most
have been those when I have attended
citizenship ceremonies-one in Chicago,
one in New York, one in Washington-
971
