Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [494]
Chafee can especially play in the United
States Senate.
I met this morning, before I took off on
a trip that took me to Chicago and then
Oklahoma and finally here in Rhode
Island, with a very distinguished scientist,
the Russian minister of science. We dis-
cussed some of the negotiations we had
had in Moscow in May when we made,
as you recall, an historic and very im-
portant agreement limiting nuclear arms
between these great powers.
We discussed also the fact that other
negotiations are going to take place, very
important ones, late in November, in
which we will continue to try to limit
nuclear arms between our two nations and
thereby reduce the burden of arms and
also increase the chances for peace.
As I talked to him I thought of this
visit. As I talked to him I realized, and
I want you to realize, that if we are going
to be successful in negotiating with the
Soviet Union and if we are going to have
the kind of success that will have that
limitation of arms that we all want, and
progress toward peace, it is vitally im-
portant that the President of the United
States not be sent to the conference table
as the head of the second strongest nation
in this world.
Let me tell you why that is important.
Not for any jingoistic reason-because
when the United States has the second
strongest navy, as our opponents advo-
cate, when the United States has the
second strongest air force, as they advo-
cate, and the second strongest army, it
means that any incentive that the Soviets
or any other nation would have to nego-
tiate with us would not be there.
What we must do is to reduce our arms
only when it is mutual. That is the way
to build a real peace and not a temporary
peace. John Chafee knows how to keep
America strong. He knows that the most
important element of America's peace-
time strength is to have the strongest
navy in the world. He built that kind of
navy when he was Secretary of the Navy.
We need his votes in the United States
Senate and his leadership to continue to
have that strong navy that John Chafee
has contributed so much to as Secretary
of the Navy and will, also, in the years
ahead.
I want to tell you, my friends, too, that
as I look at this crowd, and particularly
as I had the opportunity to meet so many
of the young people as we walked along
the fence here, I realized that all of your
hopes lie in what happens in these next
4 years and thereafter. As far as those
years are concerned, let me simply sum-
marize by saying my hopes, I think, are
yours. They are these:
I want a world of peace. I want a peace
that will last; not one just for an election
but one that will last for a generation or
more. I want something, too, that we
have not had since President Eisenhower
was President-that is real prosperity,
full employment without inflation and
without war. We can have it and we will
have it, with your help.
I want progress for America, for all
Americans; opportunity for Americans;
opportunity in which any American, re-
gardless of his background, can go to the
very top, where there will be ceiling un-
limited.
And I want respect for America. I want
the people of this country, and particu-
larly our young people, to realize that
we are very fortunate at this period in our
history that we, the United States of
S7-234-74- -74
1109
