Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
unacceptable demand that we guarantee
a Communist takeover.
Unilateral Initiatives for Peace. Both
the Communist side and other parties
have suggested a long series of measures
the U.S. should take to launch meaningful
negotiations. We have taken nearly all of
them. But each move on our part has only
brought fresh demands from the other
side.
-Thus, the bombing halt and the
agreement to expand the Paris Peace
Talks in 1968 were made on the as-
sumption that genuine negotiations
would take place at the talks. They
never have.
-Thus, the U.S. not only agreed to the
principle of withdrawal but actually
began withdrawals of American
troops. The response was that
more substantial withdrawals were
required.
-Thus, the U.S. continued with-
drawals and has now brought home
over three-quarters of our men. The
response was that we should remove
all our troops.
-Thus, we have agreed to remove all
U.S. forces as part of an overall set-
tlement. The response was that we
should do so unconditionally.
-Thus, we offered an immediate cease-
fire throughout Indochina which
would end all U.S. military activities
in the region. There has never been
any positive response to this proposal.
Public Initiatives for Peace. In addi-
tion to these various unilateral measures,
we have publicly offered a series of in-
creasingly comprehensive negotiating pro-
posals for an overall solution to the war.
On May 14, 1969 I proposed that all
outside forces be removed from South
Vietnam and that the South Vietnamese
be allowed freely to choose their future
through internationally supervised elec-
tions.
On July 11, 1969 President Thieu of-
fered elections, with all parties including
the NLF free to participate and to sit on
a Mixed Electoral Commission.
On April 20, 1970 I spelled out the
principles for a fair political solution.
-It must reflect the will of the South
Vietnamese people and allow them
to determine their own future with-
out outside interference.
-It should reflect the existing relation-
ship of political forces within South
Vietnam.
-We will abide by the outcome of any
political process agreed upon.
On October 7, 1970 in the hope of
stimulating genuine negotiations, I pre-
sented a comprehensive proposal for an
overall settlement.
-An internationally supervised cease-
fire-in-place throughout Indochina.
-An Indochina Peace Conference.
-The withdrawal of all American
forces from South Vietnam on a
schedule to be worked out as part of
an overall settlement.
-A political settlement in South Viet-
nam based on the principles that I
had outlined on April 20.
-The immediate unconditional release
of all prisoners of war.
Secret Initiatives for Peace. We were
determined not to pass up any oppor-
tunity-public or private-to negotiate a
settlement. Early in this Administration,
after ten months of no progress in the
plenary sessions at Paris, I decided to es-
tablish a private and secret channel so
that both sides could talk frankly, free
from the pressures of public debate.
With the full knowledge and approval
275
