[58] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
different from the other meetings that we
have had at the highest level with other
governments. I have visited virtually all
of the other countries, just as I, of course,
have visited the Soviet Union.
But here it is essential to do an enor-
mous amount of homework just to come
up to the starting line. I don't want to
say that after having read as much as I
have, and as much as I will be reading
between now and the time we arrive, that
I will be an expert, but at least I will be
familiar with the men that we will be
meeting and the problems that may be
discussed.
Tuesday and Wednesday will be used
primarily to finish up on many of the
domestic matters that are, of course, the
subject of matters that I will be discuss-
ing with Secretary Connally and Mr.
Ehrlichman over this weekend, and also
for further briefings from members of the
NSC staff and the State Department on
the China trip.
The time of departure has now been
set. It will be 10 o'clock, Thursday
morning the 17th, from Andrews. We will
fly directly to Hawaii. We will spend
Thursday night and all day Friday in
Hawaii.
The following morning, Saturday
morning, on the 19th, the press plane will
go directly to Mainland China, stopping
at Shanghai first, and arriving in Peking.
The Chinese Government is arranging this
so that the members of the press can be
on the ground prior to the time that I will
be arriving.
On that same day, Saturday, the 19th,
the Presidential plane, the Spirit of '76,
will fly to Guam, and we will overnight in
Guam and then take off the next day,
Sunday, for Shanghai and Peking, arriv-
ing in Peking Sunday morning at approxi-
mately 10 or 10:30, eastern time, U.S.ยน
The date, of course, is the 21st there
and the 20th here. As you know, we cross
the International Date Line on the way.
A couple of other points that I know
have been raised in briefings and that I
can only cover generally:
With regard to agenda, both govern-
ments have decided that we will not make
any announcements on agenda items prior
to the meetings. The agenda will be cov-
ered by a joint communique that will be
issued at the conclusion of our talks and
consequently, questions on agenda, what
will be discussed and so forth, on the part
of both sides, will not be answered either
before we get there or during the course
of the meetings, unless the two sides de-
cide, while we are meeting, that an
agenda item can properly be discussed or
disclosed.
With regard to this itinerary itself, the
itinerary, generally as you know, has been
announced for three cities. With regard to
what we do in each city, it is being kept
flexible and no final decisions have been
made and none will be announced at this
time.
Mrs. Nixon's itinerary will be much
more public than mine. And she will have
an opportunity, which I hope many of you
also will have, those of you who are going,
to visit a number of institutions, places of
interest in Peking, Hangchow, and Shang-
hai. She, having, as you know, traveled to
perhaps more countries than any First
Lady, is looking forward to this with a
great deal of interest and, I think, as she
'The arrival in Peking was scheduled for
11:30 a.m., Monday, Peking time, which is
10:30 p.m., Sunday, e.s.t.
348
