Appendix E
Announcing Intention To Nominate a New
United States Permanent Representative on
the NATO Council
December 4, 1972
As we announced on Saturday, Donald
Rumsfeld, who is a Counsellor to the President
and Director of the Cost of Living Council, has
been requested by the President to take on a
major new assignment as we enter the second
term. The President this morning asked me to
announce his intention to nominate Mr. Rums-
feld to be the United States Permanent Repre-
sentative on the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization Council, succeeding Ambassador
David Kennedy, who has expressed his desire
to return to private life.
The position of Permanent Representative
carries with it the rank of Ambassador. As
most of you know, Mr. Rumsfeld has served
with distinction in the President's Cabinet since
early in the Administration. Before being asked
by President Nixon to resign from the U.S.
House of Representatives to become Director
of the Office of Economic Opportunity and
Assistant to the President in May of 1969, Don
Rumsfeld had represented Illinois' 13th Con-
gressional District for 6½ years.
Mr. Rumsfeld became Counsellor to the
President in late 1970 and took on his addi-
tional duties as the Director of the Cost of
Living Council on October 7, 1971. As Direc-
tor, he has guided the successful Phase 2 por-
tion of the President's economic stabilization
program for the past 14 months.
President Nixon, from the very beginning
of his Presidency, has attached the highest
priority to strengthening and revitalizing this
country's alliance with our Western European
partners in the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation. I think you all know that President
Nixon regards the NATO ambassadorship as
one of the most important diplomatic posts in
Europe, as evidenced by the fact that Ambas-
sador Kennedy has served in that post with
great distinction.
Ambassador Kennedy is a long-time personal
friend and associate of the President, and now,
as a further mark of the fact that the President
regards NATO as an extremely important
diplomatic post, he is now selecting a man who
has also been one of the President's closest
advisers and personal associates to fill the post
of Ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Council.
The President feels that Mr. Rumsfeld's ex-
tensive and varied background in American
domestic affairs will complement his ability as
a negotiator and spokesman for United States
interests in this new role, making him uniquely
qualified to represent this country on the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization Council at a time
when the United States and Europe are in-
creasingly interdependent economically and
socially, as well as militarily.
In accepting the resignation of Ambassador
Kennedy, another Chicagoan, as Don Rums-
feld is, and a long-time friend of the President's
who has held several Cabinet posts since the
beginning of the Administration, the President
expressed his regret at the Ambassador's de-
parture and his deep appreciation for Mr.
Kennedy's important contribution to both do-
mestic and foreign policy over the past 4 years
as Secretary of Treasury, Ambassador at Large,
and Ambassador to NATO.
The President asked the Ambassador to re-
main available to take on special assignments
from time to time and to be available to assist
further in the various negotiations on which
he has worked during his tenure in Brussels.
Ambassador Kennedy has agreed to do so.
Announcing Continuation in the Second Term
of Secretary of the Interior and Intention To
Nominate a New Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development
December 5, 1972
I have two announcements to make this
morning regarding the makeup of the Presi-
dent's Cabinet in the new Administration.
First, the President has asked me to an-
nounce that Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton
will continue to serve as Secretary of the In-
terior. The wide-ranging responsibilities en-
trusted to the Department of the Interior in
the 1970's, including conservation and manage-
ment of the Nation's public lands, and restor-
ing the country's natural beauty, requires strong
E-8
