[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Many important reforms are needed.
Secretary General Waldheim has indi-
cated that he is aware of the need for re-
form and for actions to strengthen the
United Nations. We fully support him in
his determination to come to grips with
the UN's problems.
MAJOR PROBLEMS OF THE
UNITED NATIONS
The United Nations now faces four
problems upon which progress must be
made if the organization is not to suffer,
perhaps grievously.
1. Preserving the World Peace. This is
the UN's fundamental purpose. Two
things are equally clear about its perform-
ance to date. It has been far short of satis-
factory-and it has been far better than
nothing.
By its mere existence, the UN serves as
a constant forum-in-being in which reso-
lutions of conflicts can be sought. It
thereby makes an essential and irreplace-
able contribution to the machinery of
peacekeeping.
The peoples of the world, however, ex-
pect more of the UN than merely to fur-
nish an institutional device for facilitating
negotiations between conflicting parties.
People expect the UN, as an institution, to
act as a force for peace. It is, therefore, a
matter of grave concern that the mem-
bers of the UN have too often and too con-
sistently prevented it from doing so.
That is why it was a severe blow to the
moral authority of the UN that it was un-
able even to moderate the India-Pakistan
conflict. The foremost function of the
Security Council should be to prevent the
use of military force by one UN member
against another. In this crisis, the Soviet
veto rendered the Security Council im-
potent, and thereby depreciated that body
and had the paradoxical effect of confirm-
ing the new conditions created by the re-
sort to military force.
It is a bleak truth that on that oc-
casion a call for a ceasefire and with-
drawal was vetoed by a great power whose
forces were not involved in the dispute.
The veto had been used only once before
in the history of the UN in that way-that
time also by the Soviet Union. That use
of UN machinery is not consistent with
the obligations of a great power.
Clearly, the UN depends upon the co-
operation of its member states-particu-
larly the permanent members of the
Security Council-to realize its potential
for keeping the peace. Clearly, that fact
limits the UN's peacekeeping ability. It
need not, however, lead to paralysis as it
did in the India-Pakistan crisis.
Precisely because the major powers
carry the prime responsibility for world
peace, they also carry the responsibility
for ensuring the creative and realistic use
of the world organization's potential for
contributing to peace.
There are four primary methods by
which the UN, acting as an institution,
can attempt to keep the peace. The first
is through recommendations or manda-
tory decisions of the Security Council. The
second is through resolutions embodying
the will of the General Assembly. The
third is through peacekeeping missions
sent into conflict-ridden areas. The fourth
is the voluntary resort by states in dispute
to resolution of their conflict either by an
ad hoc authority or by the International
Court of Justice.
The current situation with respect to all
four of these mechanisms is not encourag-
ing, as the India-Pakistan crisis made
clear. The Secretary General's offer of
326
