[395] Nov. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
395 Statement on Signing the Instrument of Ratification of
the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation.
November 1, 1972
IN RECENT weeks I have emphasized
the commitment of this Nation to taking
every step necessary to end the vicious
threat of terror both here and abroad, a
trend not limited to any one area of the
world or to any one complex of problems.
On September 25, Secretary of State
Rogers also expressed to the United
Nations the profound concern of the
American people over the growing
menace of international terrorism. On
that same day, I further emphasized our
deep feelings about this matter by es-
tablishing a Cabinet Committee to Com-
bat Terrorism.
I am particularly pleased therefore to
be able to sign the instrument of ratifi-
cation of an international convention
today which will help combat the menace
of terrorism around the world: the
Montreal Sabotage Convention. This con-
vention requires the extradition or prose-
cution of any persons who perpetrate at-
tacks of sabotage and violence against
international civil aviation.
A civilized society cannot tolerate
terrorism. Any action which makes a
diplomat, a government official, or an in-
nocent citizen a pawn in a politically moti-
vated dispute undermines the safety of
every other person. A peaceful, stable
world requires that all nations vigorously
join in condemning and prosecuting such
acts and in preventing their further
occurrence.
This convention and the bill I signed
last Tuesday, H.R. 15883, making
Federal crime for any person to harass,
assault, kidnap, or murder a foreign of-
ficial in the United States, are a part of
our on-going efforts to combat terrorism.
In this connection the Cabinet Com-
mittee to Combat Terrorism has already
taken steps to insure that stricter con-
trols are placed on visa applications and
visa extensions of possible terrorists. It
has suspended the regulations which al-
lowed one to transit the United States
without a visa. And it has set up a series of
working groups to insure government-
wide cooperation in the sharing of intelli-
gence and to provide for a coordinated
response to any terrorist attack.
The United Nations and the Interna-
tional Civil Aviation Organization now
have before them three additional pro-
posals which, if adopted, would further
strengthen the hands of all nations in
dealing with the scourge of terrorism. In
my view these measures should be acted
upon promptly.
First, a draft convention providing for
the prosecution or extradition of persons
who attack or kidnap foreign officials.
Second, a convention providing for the
suspension of air service to countries
which fail to punish or extradite hijackers
or saboteurs of civil aircraft.
Third, a new convention proposed by
the United States which would require
the prosecution or extradition of any
person who seriously injures, kidnaps, or
kills innocent civilians in a foreign state
for the purpose of blackmailing any state
or international organization.
The Montreal Sabotage Convention is
1080
