[188] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
For the summits of 1972 have not be-
longed just to one person or to one party
or to one branch of our Government alone.
Rather they are part of a great national
journey for peace. Every American can
claim a share in the credit for the success
of that journey so far, and every American
has a major stake in its success for the
future.
An unparalleled opportunity has been
placed in America's hands. Never has
there been a time when hope was more
justified or when complacency was more
dangerous. We have made a good begin-
ning. And because we have begun, history
now lays upon us a special obligation to
see it through. We can seize this moment
or we can lose it; we can make good this
opportunty to build a new structure of
peace in the world or we can let it slip
away. Together, therefore, let us seize the
moment so that our children and the
world's children can live free of the fears
and free of the hatreds that have been the
lot of mankind through the centuries.
Then the historians of some future age
will write of the year 1972, not that this
was the year America went up to the sum-
mit and then down to the depths of the
valley again, but that this was the year
when America helped to lead the world
up out of the lowlands of constant war,
and onto the high plateau of lasting peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 p.m. in the
House Chamber at the Capitol, after being
introduced by Carl Albert, Speaker of the
House of Representatives. The address was
broadcast live on radio and television.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
On June 2, 1972, the bipartisan leaders of
the Congress met with the President at the
White House for a review of his trip and the
agreements reached.
189 Telegram to the National Governors' Conference Meeting
in Houston, Texas, Urging State Action on No-Fault
Automobile Insurance. June 7, 1972
IT IS a pleasure to send my greetings and
my high regards to the Governors of our
States. Each of you is a full and vital
partner in our common effort to provide
better, more effective and more responsive
government for all our people.
I know the Governors share my abiding
interest in preserving and strengthening a
truly federal system in the United States
in which all levels of government-Fed-
eral, State and local—share in their proper
responsibilities.
This results in problems being solved on
the level of government which can be most
effective on each particular issue. Some
problems clearly require Federal remedies,
and we have moved to provide them.
Many other matters, however, can be han-
dled most effectively by State and local
governments, with Washington acting in
a supporting role.
On one such important matter, I be-
lieve that the States-and not the Federal
Government-can best respond to one of
the most pressing consumer needs in the
Nation today: the urgent question of re-
form for the present system of automobile
insurance. I oppose involving the Federal
Government in this insurance reform, and
I urge the States to act.
Despite ever-increasing premiums for
automobile insurance, the victims of ac-
666
