[331] Sept. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
operation and trust, at least in this par-
ticular area. It had become a meeting
ground where the best minds from every
nation can work together to save life
any-
where on earth.
We have a long way to go, but our goal
is clear. For me its symbol is Fort Detrick,
Maryland, welcoming the Soviet Minister
of Health. This is the kind of world we
want to leave to our children. We want it
to be a better world. We want it to be a
more peaceful world. Let us hope that it
may be a world in which the genius that
split the atom, the genius that took men to
the moon, is turned not to the conquest of
other peoples, but to cooperation in the
conquest of cancer and the other common
diseases which afflict mankind.
I would not want to leave an impression
from the remarks that I have made that in
this very intricate field of foreign policy
that we are going to expect instant co-
operation in all areas. As I emphasized a
few moments ago, the philosophical dif-
ferences, the fact that nations have differ-
ent interests, are there now, and they will
last for years to come.
But I do suggest here this morning that
a beginning is occurring. We now have a
dialogue with the leaders of one-fourth
of the people of this earth where we had
nothing but angry isolation on both sides
for over 20 years. From confrontation we
have moved to negotiation and then co-
operation with the leaders of the Soviet
Union, and particularly with some of them
in their scientific endeavors where previ-
ously we have not had that opportunity.
This indicates the kind of a world we can
build. It also indicates how much counts
on you.
I would simply conclude with this final
thought. When we think of arms control,
when we think of wars and the lives that
they take, one statistic brings home how
important your battle is, how important
you are as the frontline soldiers in this
battle. I understand that each year in the
United States more people die of cancer
than were killed in action in all of World
War II.
So, as you begin this conference, as you
work in this conference, as you have in
years past when you have met, let me say
it may not get the headlines of a great in-
ternational conference which deals with
the problems of resolving differences in
arms control, et cetera. But I know and
you know that there is no battle that is
more important than the one you are
waging, and our best wishes go with you
as well as the resources that the Govern-
ment can provide.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, before we fly
back to Washington, I just want to say
one thing with regard to the Nixon family
and its contribution to this particular
cause. This is the first chance I have had
since I signed this legislation-except for
the meeting that we had in the signing
ceremony in the White House which some
of you attended-this is the first chance I
have had to attend a meeting of this sort
where the National Cancer Institute and
other organizations are joined together.
I am very proud to say that as far as the
members of our family are concerned, that
my wife, Mrs. Nixon, my daughter Julie,
my daughter Tricia, in the past 3
months I have not looked back beyond
that, but I had the record checked-
944
