Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
·
providing fuel to ships or aircraft
en route to or from China (except
those bound to or from North
Korea, North Vietnam and Cuba)
were eliminated;
U.S. vessels or aircraft would be
permitted to carry Chinese cargoes
between non-Chinese ports, and
U.S.-owned foreign-flag carriers
could call at Chinese ports; and
• A list of items of a non-strategic
nature would be compiled for di-
rect export to the PRC.
---In the April 30 issue of Life maga-
zine, the author, Edgar Snow, re-
ported a conversation he had had
earlier with Chairman Mao Tse-tung
which confirmed private signals we
had already received of Chinese in-
terest in my visiting China.
-On May 7, 1971 we removed U.S.
controls on dollar transactions with
China (except those in previously
blocked accounts) and certain con-
trols on U.S. bunkering facilities and
flagships.
-On June 10, 1971 we announced the
end of the twenty-one year embargo
on trade with the PRC. We issued
a general export license for a long
list of nonstrategic items for China
and designated other items to be con-
sidered on a case-by-case basis. Re-
strictions on the import of Chinese
goods were simultaneously lifted.
The stage was thus set for Dr. Kis-
singer's secret visit to Peking. From
July 9 to July 11, Dr. Kissinger held very
extensive and important discussions with
Premier Chou En-lai which produced the
agreement that I would visit China before
May 1972.
From October 20 to 26, Dr. Kissinger
again visited Peking to reach agreement
on the major arrangements for my trip.
Further lengthy talks with Prime Minister
Chou En-lai and other Chinese officials
produced the basic framework for my
meetings with the leaders of the People's
Republic of China-including the Feb-
ruary 21, 1972 date, the duration and
itinerary, the broad agenda, and the ap-
proximate composition and facilities for
the accompanying party and representa-
tives of the media. The major elements
were announced at the end of November.
On December 13, 1971 the Chinese re-
leased two Americans whom they had
been holding prisoner, and commuted
the life sentence of a third American to
five more years. This welcome gesture
came after Dr. Kissinger transmitted my
personal concern during his two visits to
Peking. It was both a concrete result of
our efforts to establish a dialogue and a
hopeful sign for future progress in our
relations.
INTERNATIONAL IMPACT
No major step in international relations
is taken without some painful adjustments
and potential costs. Indeed, the tendency
is to focus on the risks that might flow
from a departure from familiar patterns
and to lose sight of its possible benefits. It
is precisely this tendency that inhibits
major initiatives and perpetuates estab-
lished policies which sustain the status
quo.
We undertook our initiatives toward the
People's Republic of China aware of the
problems as well as the opportunities.
Such a dramatic move was bound to stir
great changes in the world. The news of
my forthcoming trip had an expectedly
galvanic impact and set in motion new
currents in international relations.
217
