Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [325]
Federal levels, under administrations of
both political parties, has also been im-
portant; so has private sector participa-
tion, particularly that of California's own
industrial community, with contractors
like the Rohr Corporation applying aero-
space technology to the work of meeting
human needs here on earth.
The Federal role in BART underscores
the commitment I made in 1969 to treat
public transportation as one of the chief
domestic priorities of this Administration.
Through 1972, Federal funds for BART
have totaled $181 million-about 13 per-
cent of overall costs. I am pleased to be
able to announce today a further Federal
capital grant of an additional $38.1 mil-
lion to BART from the Urban Mass
Transportation Administration, to help
complete the remaining 47 miles of the
basic BART system.
Not only here in California but all
across the Nation, the urban transporta-
tion picture is brightening as we move
into the 1970's. Not only are some cities,
such as Washington, following San Fran-
cisco in the installation of fixed rail
systems, but others are meeting their trans-
portation needs through innovations such
as exclusive-use rights-of-way for buses.
I have sought to speed these develop-
ments by pushing for passage of the $10
billion Urban Mass Transportation As-
sistance Act of 1970 and by increasing the
Federal budget for mass transit from the
previous high of $175 million in one year
to $1 billion this year. The better trans-
portation balance which we are striving
for is indicated by the fact that in fiscal
year 1973, for the first time, Federal funds
for urban mass transit will surpass spend-
ing on urban highways.
My general revenue sharing program,
which I hope soon to sign into law, would
further increase the ability of cities and
States to deal with their own transporta-
tion problems in their own way. And one
other piece of legislation now nearing
passage would address this need even
more specifically: the Federal Aid High-
way Act of 1972, which recently passed
the Senate and is now under considera-
tion by the House.
I was most gratified-as were city of-
ficials across the country, and the millions
of citizens they serve-when in passing
this bill the Senate accepted my Admin-
istration's proposal that the Highway
Trust Fund be opened up to permit urban
areas to use monies from the fund for
public transportation if they so choose.
This provision would not in itself take a
cent away from highway needs—in fact,
it scrupulously plays no favorites among
the various alternative answers to urban
transportation problems. What it would
do is to give the people at the local level-
the people who know best-a freer hand
than they have had before in choosing
that combination of answers which best
suits their own particular needs.
I hope that this sensible provision, to-
gether with the Administration's proposal
to provide funds directly to metropolitan
transportation agencies for the first time,
will remain in the bill which both Houses
finally approve. Certain other features
of the present Senate and House bills are
much less desirable, but I hope that these
can be eliminated, the strong features re-
tained, and a sound bill sent to my
desk for signature before the Congress
adjourns.
Now that BART is demonstrating how
pleasant and convenient movement within
our urban centers can be, we should be less
923
