[188] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Recognizing that the quest for useful
knowledge transcends differences between
ideologies and social systems, we have
agreed to expand United States and So-
viet cooperation in many areas of science
and technology.
We have joined in plans for an exciting
new adventure, a new adventure in the
cooperative exploration of space, which
will begin-subject to Congressional ap-
proval of funding-with a joint orbital
mission of an Apollo vehicle and a Soviet
spacecraft in 1975.
By forming habits of cooperation and
strengthening institutional ties in areas
of peaceful enterprise, these four agree-
ments, to which I have referred, will create
on both sides a steadily growing vested
interest in the maintenance of good rela-
tions between our two countries.
Expanded United States-Soviet trade
will also yield advantages to both of our
nations. When the two largest economies
in the world start trading with each other
on a much larger scale, living standards
in both nations will rise, and the stake
which both have in peace will increase.
Progress in this area is proceeding on
schedule. At the summit, we established a
Joint Commercial Commission which will
complete the negotiations for a compre-
hensive trade agreement between the
United States and the U.S.S.R. And we
expect the final terms of this agreement
to be settled later this year.
Two further accords which were
reached last week have a much more
direct bearing on the search for peace
and security in the world.
One is the agreement between the
American and Soviet navies aimed at
significantly reducing the chances of dan-
gerous incidents between our ships and
aircraft at sea.
And second, and most important, there
is the treaty and the related executive
agreement which will limit, for the first
time, both offensive and defensive stra-
tegic nuclear weapons in the arsenals of
the United States and the Soviet Union.
Three-fifths of all the people alive in
the world today have spent their whole
lifetimes under the shadow of a nuclear
war which could be touched off by the
arms race among the great powers. Last
Friday in Moscow we witnessed the be-
ginning of the end of that era which began
in 1945. We took the first step toward a
new era of mutually agreed restraint and
arms limitation between the two principal
nuclear powers.
With this step we have enhanced the
security of both nations. We have begun
to check the wasteful and dangerous spiral
of nuclear arms which has dominated rela-
tions between our two countries for a
generation. We have begun to reduce the
level of fear by reducing the causes of
fear, for our two peoples and for all peo-
ples in the world.
The ABM Treaty will be submitted
promptly for the Senate's advice and con-
sent to ratification and the interim agree-
ment limiting certain offensive weapons
will be submitted to both Houses for con-
currence, because we can undertake
agreements as important as these only on
a basis of full partnership between the
executive and legislative branches of our
Government.
I ask from this Congress and I ask from
the Nation the fullest scrutiny of these
accords. I am confident such examination
will underscore the truth of what I told
the Soviet people on television just a few
nights ago that this is an agreement in
the interest of both nations. From the
standpoint of the United States, when we
662
