Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
narcotics law to the Vietnamese National
Assembly. During November the Govern-
ment of Australia sponsored a meeting of
regional narcotics officials to discuss and
develop regional approaches to the drug
problem in Asia.
These actions will contribute positively
to combating the drug problem in South-
east Asia, and, in particular, to reducing
the flow of heroin to American servicemen
in the area.
On February 26, 1971 the Attorney
General and the French Minister of the
Interior signed an agreement for the de-
tailed coordination of our two govern-
ments' attack on the illicit drug traffic.
The primary objective of this joint effort
is the discovery and destruction of heroin
conversion laboratories in southern
France, and the interception of the illicit
heroin traffic from France to North
America. The Canadian authorities have
also joined in this endeavor. Seizures and
destruction of illegal narcotics shipments
in the France-North America channel in-
creased during the past year in the wake
of this combined effort.
The Governments of the United States
and Mexico have been cooperating closely
in narcotics control since 1969. That effort
has resulted in the seizure by Mexican
authorities of hundreds of pounds of crude
opium, heroin, and cocaine and the de-
struction of over 12,000 fields of mari-
juana and opium poppy. Mexican officials
have also intercepted large quantities of
psychotropic substances intended for il-
legal sale in the United States.
At United States initiative, a United
Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control
was established in March to finance a
concerted worldwide action program. We
made the initial pledge to the fund of $2
million, which has been augmented by
pledges from several other countries in-
cluding substantial amounts from Canada,
Germany, and France. We are encourag-
ing more countries to contribute, and we
will seek additional U.S. contributions
from the Congress when required. The
fund will assist UN members to reduce
both the illegal demand for and supply
of dangerous drugs.
In March 1971, we also proposed
amendments to increase the effectiveness
of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs. Under the Convention's present
terms, parties are committed to restrict the
production, manufacture, export and im-
port of narcotic drugs so that they will be
used exclusively for legitimate medical
and scientific purposes. Compliance with
these undertakings, however, is essentially
voluntary. Our amendments are designed
to tighten compliance, and we are con-
ducting extensive diplomatic consultations
throughout the world to support this ob-
jective. An international conference will
be held in Geneva in March 1972 to con-
sider these and other proposals to amend
the Convention.
Cooperation in control of dangerous
drugs works both ways. While the sources
of our chief narcotics problem are foreign,
the United States is a source of illegal
psychotropic drugs-such as LSD and
other hallucinogens, the amphetamines,
barbiturates, and tranquilizers-which
afflict other nations. If we expect other
governments to help stop the flow of
heroin to our shores, we must act with
equal vigor to prevent equally dangerous
substances from going into their nations
from our own. Accordingly, following the
signature last year by the United States
and 22 other nations in Vienna of a Con-
vention on Psychotropic Substances, I sent
it to the Senate for its early advice and
337
