Richard Nixon, 1972
July 28 [241]
many other official and unofficial friends
in expressing our profound sorrow at his
death and our sympathy to his family.
NOTE: Senator Ellender, 81, died of a heart
attack at Bethesda Naval Hospital.
He served in the Louisiana State House of
Representatives 1924-36, in the United States
Senate from 1936, and as chairman of the
Committee on Appropriations and president
pro tempore of the Senate from 1971.
The President and Mrs. Nixon attended fu-
neral services for the Senator in Houma, La.,
on July 31.
241 Remarks on Signing a
Crop Insurance Act.
I JUST want to say to the Future Farmers
of America-and this is your meeting-
that on several occasions during the time
I have been in office over the past 3 years,
I have welcomed delegations from the Fu-
ture Farmers at the White House, usually
your leaders, either in my Oval Office or
in the Cabinet Room. This is a larger
group.
I did meet one of the larger groups,
a group about this size, I think it was in
1971.
Each time I have had the occasion to
extend greetings to you, say the things that
we usually say to young Americans and
particularly to young Americans who are
leaders, as you are, in your communities
across this country. But today, I told my
staff that I thought we ought to try to do
something different.
Bill Amending the Federal
July 28, 1972
Now, when you ask for something dif-
ferent, of course, you just can't make it
up, but we found there was something
that could be done today that was very
significant, very significant that tied in
directly to the Future Farmers of Amer-
ica, and this brings me to the occasion
that you will now witness, an occasion of
some historical importance, but an occa-
sion which is very important to you and
your future.
Generally, when bills are signed, they
are signed by the President in his office.
Often, however, a bill is considered to be
so important to the national interest that
it is signed in public before the television
cameras and the newspapermen and the
others, with Members of the House and
the Senate who have been instrumental
in getting the legislation through, in this
case, of course, Senator Dole and Con-
gressman Mathias and Congressman
Poage, who is the chairman of the Agri-
culture Committee in the House of
Representatives.
Now the Federal Crop Insurance Act is
one that would not normally be a bill that
would be signed in the presence of televi-
sion cameras, because it is one that has
almost unanimous support in the House
and the Senate. It is a very important
piece of legislation, but not being contro-
versial, it isn't one that really makes news.
But this year something different hap-
pened, and that brings me to you.
When this bill was up for consideration
on the floor of the Senate, Senator Dole,
reflecting on a letter he had received from
one of his constituents, told this story.
An application had been made for Fed-
eral crop insurance by a Kansas farmer
[Gary Atkinson]. The Kansas farmer com-
pletely complied with every requirement
of the law. He was a good risk, he was
entitled to the insurance, but he was
755
