Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
That spirit does not require us always to
agree with one another but it does require
us to approach our tasks, together, in a
spirit of reason and realism.
Clear words are the great servant of
reason. Intemperate words are the great
enemy of reason. The cute slogan, the glib
headline, the clever retort, the appeal to
passion-these are not the way to truth or
to good public policy.
To be dedicated to clear thinking, to
place the interests of all above the interests
of the few, to hold to ultimate values and
to curb momentary passions, to think
more about the next generation and less
about the next election-these are now
our special challenges.
ENDING THE WAR
The condition of a nation's spirit can-
not be measured with precision, but some
of the factors which influence that spirit
can. I believe the most dramatic single
measurement of the distance we have
traveled in the last 36 months is found in
the statistics concerning our involvement
in the war in Vietnam.
On January 20, 1969 our authorized
troop ceiling in Vietnam was 549,500. And
there was no withdrawal plan to bring
these men home. On seven occasions since
that time, I have announced withdrawal
decisions-involving a total of 480,500
troops. As a result, our troop ceiling will
be only 69,000 by May 1. This means that
in 3 years we will have cut our troop
strength in Vietnam by 87 percent. As we
proceed toward our goal of a South Viet-
nam fully able to defend itself, we will
reduce that level still further.
In this same period, expenditures con-
nected with the war have been cut dras-
tically. There has been a drop of well over
50 percent in American air activity in all
of Southeast Asia. Our ground combat
role has been ended. Most importantly,
there has been a reduction of 95 percent in
combat deaths.
Our aim is to cut the death and casualty
toll by 100 percent, to obtain the release
of those who are prisoners of war, and to
end the fighting altogether.
It is my hope that we can end this tragic
conflict through negotiation. If we can-
not, then we will end it through Vietnami-
zation. But end it we shall-in a way
which fulfills our commitment to the peo-
ple of South Vietnam and which gives
them the chance for which they have al-
ready sacrificed so much-the chance to
choose their own future.
THE LESSONS OF CHANGE
The American people have learned
many lessons in the wake of Vietnam-
some helpful and some dangerous. One
important lesson is that we can best serve
our own interests in the world by setting
realistic limits on what we try to accom-
plish unilaterally. For the peace of the
world will be more secure, and its progress
more rapid, as more nations come to share
more fully in the responsibilities for peace
and for progress.
At the same time, to conclude that the
United States should now withdraw from
all or most of its international responsibil-
ities would be to make a dangerous error.
There has been a tendency among some
to swing from one extreme to the other
in the wake of Vietnam, from wanting to
do too much in the world to wanting to do
too little. We must resist this temptation
to over-react. We must stop the swinging
pendulum before it moves to an opposite
position, and forge instead an attitude
43
