[123] Apr. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
ning. Under the agreement, the Interna-
tional Joint Commission will provide im-
portant leadership in this effort.
But it is also essential that governments
at all levels, in both of our countries, and
private industry as well, work within their
own constitutional frameworks to achieve
the objectives the agreement defines.
It is with very great pride and pleasure
that I have signed the Great Lakes Water
Quality Agreement between Canada and
the United States, for this agreement bears
witness to all the world of great concerns
which unite our two countries: our com-
mon appreciation for the natural heritage
which undergirds our national strengths,
our common recognition that problems
which cross international boundaries re-
quire international solutions, and our com-
mon confidence that our traditional rela-
tionship can grow to meet new demands.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. in the
Confederation Room, West Block, Parliament
Hill, Ottawa, in response to the remarks of
Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his remarks was released on
the same day.
The text of the Prime Minister's remarks was
made available by the Embassy of Canada in
Washington as follows:
President Nixon, Secretary Rogers, Premier
Davis, Minister Goldbloom, distinguished
guests:
The importance of what we have done this
morning cannot be described or measured by
conventional means, for this agreement does
not fall within the normal categories of inter-
national activity. It will not contribute
materially to the economies of either of our
countries; it makes neither of us more secure
in our relations with one another or the world
beyond; it does little to diminish or remove any
of the social problems which worry Americans
and Canadians alike. Yet while doing none of
these things it accomplishes much more. For it
marks our recognition of the fragility of our
planet and the delicacy of the biosphere on
which all life is dependent. This agreement
deals with the most vital of all issues-the
process of life itself. And in doing so it con-
tributes to the well-being of millions of North
Americans, for it promises to restore to a whole-
some condition an immense area which, through
greed and indifference, has been permitted to
deteriorate disgracefully.
[After delivering the above remarks in English,
the Prime Minister continued his remarks in
French. A translation follows:]
Any catalogue of the distinctive features of
this continent surely includes the farflung water
system we know as the Great Lakes. In them is
contained the world's largest reservoir of fresh
water. Out of them flows one of the world's
mightiest and most important rivers. The beauty
and the utility of these waters have proved at-
tractive to men for centuries. That attractive-
ness has led to extraordinary changes. The
birchbark canoes of the Indians and the
coureurs-de-bois have given way to giant ocean-
going vessels; the handful of explorers who
earlier stood in awe at the beauty of Niagara
Falls or the Thousand Islands have been re-
placed by millions of tourists; the first few
settlements and factories have burgeoned into
sprawling cities and giant industrial complexes.
In the process the lakes have suffered.
[The Prime Minister then resumed speaking in
English:]
We now have the opportunity and the re-
sponsibility to ease that suffering and to restore
to the Great Lakes a large measure of the
purity which once was theirs. That task is being
shared by those Provinces and States that bor-
der the lakes and whose governments have en-
couraged this agreement and contributed to its
success. The presence here this morning of the
Premier of Ontario [William C. Davis] and the
Minister of the Environment of Quebec [Victor
C. Goldbloom] as well as the members of the
IJC [International Joint Commission] is proof
of the solid foundation of support which our
acts enjoy. The tireless dedication of the
Canadian Minister of the Environment, Mr.
Jack Davis, is recognized in what we are doing,
as is the fine level of cooperation which he
enjoys with his American colleagues present this
542
