[79] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
and to do so without jeopardizing any of
our legitimate defense or foreign policy
interests.
SHORTCOMINGS OF PRESENT
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
Unfortunately, the system of classifi-
cation which has evolved in the United
States has failed to meet the standards of
an open and democratic society, allowing
too many papers to be classified for too
long a time. The controls which have
been imposed on classification authority
have proved unworkable, and classifica-
tion has frequently served to conceal
bureaucratic mistakes or to prevent em-
barrassment to officials and administra-
tions.
Once locked away in Government files,
these papers have accumulated in enor-
mous quantities and have become hidden
from public exposure for years, for
decades-even for generations. It is esti-
mated that the National Archives now
has 160 million pages of classified docu-
ments from World War II and over 300
million pages of classified documents for
the years 1946 through 1954.
The many abuses of the security system
can no longer be tolerated. Fundamental
to our way of life is the belief that when
information which properly belongs to
the public is systematically withheld by
those in power, the people soon become
ignorant of their own affairs, distrustful
of those who manage them, and eventu-
ally-incapable of determining their own
destinies.
Yet since the early days of the Repub-
lic, Americans have also recognized that
the Federal Government is obliged to pro-
tect certain information which might
otherwise jeopardize the security of the
country. That need has become particu-
larly acute in recent years as the United
States has assumed a powerful position in
world affairs, and as world peace has come
to depend in large part on how that posi-
tion is safeguarded. We are also moving
into an era of delicate negotiations in
which it will be especially important that
governments be able to communicate in
confidence.
Clearly, the two principles of an in-
formed public and of confidentiality
within the Government are irreconcila-
ble in their purest forms, and a balance
must be struck between them.
REVIEW ORDERED IN JANUARY 1971
In order to strike that balance in favor
of more complete public disclosure and in
keeping with my pledge to create an open
Administration, I directed on January 15,
1971, that a review be made of security
classification procedures now in effect. An
interagency committee was set up to study
the existing system, to make recommenda-
tions with respect to its operation, and to
propose steps that might be taken to pro-
vide speedier declassification. I later di-
rected that the scope of the review be
expanded to cover all aspects of informa-
tion security.
The Executive order I have signed
today is based upon the results of this
study, as well as on our own operational
experiences under current rules, on find-
ings of similar studies in the past growing
out of Congressional hearings, and on a
reexamination of the rationale under-
lying the Freedom of Information Act.
402
