Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
(6) The use of magnet schools or
educational parks to promote inte-
gration;
(7) Any other plan which is edu-
cationally sound and administratively
feasible. However, such a plan could
not require increased busing of stu-
dents in the sixth grade or below.
If a plan involved additional busing
of older children, then: (a) It could
not be ordered unless there was clear
and convincing evidence that no
other method would work; (b) in
no case could it be ordered on other
than a temporary basis; (c) it could
not pose a risk to health, or signifi-
cantly impinge on the educational
process; (d) the school district could
be granted a stay until the order had
been passed on by the court of
appeals.
-Beginning with the effective date of
the act, time limits would be placed
on desegregation orders. They would
be limited to 10 years' duration-or
5 years if they called for student
transportation-provided that dur-
ing that period the school authorities
had been in good-faith compliance.
New orders could then be entered
only if there had been new violations.
These rules would thus clearly define
what the Federal courts could and could
not require; however, the States and lo-
calities would remain free to carry out
voluntary school integration plans that
might go substantially beyond the Fed-
eral requirements.
This is an important distinction. Where
busing would provide educational ad-
vantages for the community's children,
and where the community wants to un-
dertake it, the community should—and
will-have that choice. What is objec-
87-234-74- -32
tionable is an arbitrary Federal require-
ment-whether administrative or judi-
cial-that the community must undertake
massive additional busing as a matter of
Federal law. The essence of a free society
is to restrict the range of what must be
done, and broaden the range of what may
be done.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY: BROADENING THE
SCOPE
If we were simply to place curbs on
busing and do nothing more, then we
would not have kept faith with the hopes,
the needs or the rights-of the neediest
of our children.
Even adding the many protections built
into the rights and remedies sections of
the Equal Educational Opportunities Act,
we would not by this alone provide what
their special needs require.
Busing helps some poor children; it
poses a hardship for others; but there are
many more, and in many areas the great
majority—in the heart of New York, and
in South Chicago, for example-whom it
could never reach.
If we were to treat busing as some sort
of magic panacea, and to concentrate our
efforts and resources on that as the prin-
cipal means of achieving quality educa-
tion for blacks and other minorities, then
in these areas of dense minority concen-
tration a whole generation could be lost.
If we hold massive busing to be, in any
event, an unacceptable remedy for the in-
equalities of educational opportunity that
exist, then we must do more to improve
the schools where poor families live.
Rather than require the spending of
scarce resources on ever-longer bus rides
for those who happen to live where bus-
ing is possible, we should encourage the
437
