Richard Nixon, 1972
June 29 [214]
ber of reporters that he thought it was
totally unrealistic for anyone to imagine a
Republican convention nominating a
Democrat like John Connally.
Can you tell us if you discussed that
statement with him and if you knew he
was going to make it?
Finally, if the answer to that question
is no, can you give us your reaction to it?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not discuss it
with Vice President Agnew. I almost said
"Vice President Connally." But I did not
discuss it with the Vice President. I would
say
in terms of political evaluation, he, of
course, is correct. A Republican conven-
tion or a Democratic convention tends to
nominate members of their own party to
their high offices.
Now, as far as Secretary Connally is
concerned, however, I think we can only
say that he is a man who has served his
country extremely well in national office,
as Governor of his State, and then as Sec-
retary of the Treasury. I certainly hope
that in the future he will serve this coun-
try in some capacity.
I am not going to go further, though,
on the Vice Presidency. I have expressed
my views with regard to Vice President
Agnew and I will at the proper time in-
form the delegates of my views.
PRESIDENTIAL PRESS CONFERENCES
[22.] Q. Mr. President, this is kind of
an in-house question, but I think it is of
interest.
THE PRESIDENT. You would not ask
an "out-house" question, would you?
[Laughter]
Q. I am not sure what an out-house
question is.
THE PRESIDENT. I know.
Q. Nevertheless, I think this is of inter-
est to our viewers and listeners and read-
ers, and that is that you seem to have
done
very well tonight, you are certainly
in command of this situation, and yet this
is the first time in a year that you have
been willing to meet with us in this kind
of forum.
What is your feeling about these types
of press conferences?
THE PRESIDENT. It is not that I am
afraid to do it. I have to determine the
best way of communication and also, and
this will sound self-serving and is intended
to be, I have to use the press conference—
I don't mean use the reporters, but use
the press conference—when I believe that
is the best way to communicate or inform
the people.
Now, for example, I had to make a deci-
sion-it may have been wrong-but I con-
cluded that in the very sensitive period
leading up to the Peking trip and the
period thereafter and in the even more
sensitive period, as it turned out to be,
leading up to the Moscow trip and the
period immediately thereafter, that the
press conference, even "no-commenting"
questions, was not a useful thing for the
President of the United States to engage
in.
I felt I was, of course, on television
enough in that period anyway, if that was
the problem. As you know, I have met the
press, not perhaps as often as some mem-
bers of the press would like, or maybe as
often as I would like, but I have met
them in other formats than the televised
conference.
The other point that I should make is
this: I know that many members of the
press have been discussing the press con-
ference and they feel that perhaps the
President, this President, is tempted to
downgrade the press or downgrade the
87-234-7449
717
