[396] Nov. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
1968 level. Federally assisted housing for
low and moderate income families has
increased more than fourfold since 1969.
Let's take another example-crime.
We have spent more than 22 times as
much on fighting crimes this year as 4
years ago, and 11 times as much on fight-
ing drug abuse. But what makes life better
for people is not larger numbers in the
crime budget, but smaller numbers in the
crime rates.
At last, those numbers have begun to
get smaller. Nearly half of our major
cities had fewer crimes in the first 6
months of this year than a year ago.
Nationwide, the rate of increase in crime
was only one percent in the first half of
1972, compared to 122 percent from 1960
through 1968. Riots no longer ravage our
cities as they did in the 1960's. And we
made this progress by arming our crime
fighters not just with more money but,
more importantly, with better,
stronger laws, by backing them up and
by helping to restore respect for the law
and for those who enforce it.
A third example is the environment.
For every $1 spent to fight pollution 4
years ago, we have budgeted $3.50 this
year. But in addition, we have completely
overhauled the Federal machinery and
the Federal strategy for making our peace
with nature.
As a result, today, for the first time, the
air in our cities is getting cleaner and not
dirtier. We are beginning to win the battle
to clean up our lakes and rivers. We have
turned 34,000 acres of unused Federal
property into local parklands under our
Legacy of Parks program-most of them
near large population centers. That is why
we describe our program as parks for the
people.
In each of these areas I have mentioned,
as in others, our primary goal and concern
has been how well we spend-and not
just how much we are spending. Our
goal has been better government-not
just bigger government.
One important way of getting better
government is to place more emphasis on
local control.
Just last month I signed into law the
first phase of revenue sharing, allocating
30 billion Federal dollars over the next
5 years for the State and local govern-
ments to use as they see fit.ยน
I signed this bill at Independence Hall
in Philadelphia. That was a most appro-
priate site. For general revenue sharing is
the first step in a comprehensive program
which I have described as "a new Ameri-
can revolution." It represents a new
Declaration of Independence for State
and local government. Now, instead of
power moving from the people to Wash-
ington, power will flow back from Wash-
ington to the people again.
Revenue sharing can be used for a
number of purposes. It can help, for ex-
ample, to hold down property taxes. It
can pay for more policemen to keep city
streets safe. It can build new schools, new
hospitals.
But whatever it does, it will be local
officials responding to local conditions
and to their own local citizens, who will
decide what should be done, what should
have priority, rather than having those
decisions made by some impersonal Fed-
eral bureaucrat.
Let me use another example to illus-
trate the advantages of local control.
Nothing could do more to lift the face
of our cities-and the spirit of our city
dwellers-than truly adequate systems of
1 See Item 354.
1082
