Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 3 [109]
109 Statement About Signing the Par Value
Modification Act. April 3, 1972
ON AUGUST 15, 1971, I launched a
major effort to restore the strength of the
American economy by clamping down on
inflation at home and by moving to adjust
the free world's monetary and trading
systems to the realities of competition in
the 1970's.
By that time, the international arrange-
ments set in the post World War II years
had become outmoded, leading to recur-
ring international monetary crises and a
chronic U.S. imbalance of payments.
The Smithsonian Agreement of De-
cember 18, 1971 ยน-in which we agreed to
propose a change in the par value of the
dollar to the Congress as part of a realign-
ment in which other countries increased
the values of their currencies-was a sig-
nificant step forward in our overall effort
for a stronger and more competitive U.S.
economy.
That realignment makes American
products more attractive in foreign mar-
kets and at home, expands export oppor-
tunities for American industrial and agri-
cultural products, and creates more jobs
for American workers in factories, and
on farms and in export-supporting busi-
nesses.
The legislation I sign today, S. 3160,
the Par Value Modification Act, is neces-
sary for fulfillment of our part of that his-
toric agreement-an agreement that is
vital to the economic future of all Amer-
icans. I am gratified that this important
legislation received overwhelming support
in the Congress. It authorizes and directs
a change in the par value of the dollar
1 ยน See 1971 volume, Item 401.
from $35 to $38 per ounce of gold. The
change will take effect upon notification
to the International Monetary Fund by
the Secretary of the Treasury.
The legislation also requires that steps
be taken to fulfill our obligations to main-
tain the gold value of U.S. subscriptions
to various international financial institu-
tions such as the International Mone-
tary Fund.
We will soon submit a request to the
Congress for the appropriations necessary
to enable us to meet this legislated
obligation.
This dollar adjustment is a basic point
of departure in working toward a new
international economic stability. This ac-
tion cannot-and does not-stand alone.
The strength and competitiveness of our
economy also depends on our success in
dealing with inflation at home. We are
making progress in that struggle, with the
rise in the Consumer Price Index in the
6 months ending in February declining to
a 3.3 percent annual rate-down from the
4.1 percent rate of the preceding 6
months.
We pledge a strong continuation of the
efforts, also launched last summer, to as-
sure the American workman, farmer, and
businessman fair access to foreign mar-
kets an access which was limited in the
1960's when a resurgent Europe and
Japan, along with a number of other na-
tions, offered increasingly tough competi-
tion.
A measure of success has already been
achieved in this key area with the con-
clusion of agreements of value with
Japan and with the European Commu-
513
