Richard Nixon, 1972
May 20 [163]
After a reception for the diplomatic corps
at the Saadabad Palace, the President and
the First Lady were guests of honor at a
state dinner at the Niavaran Palace.
Wednesday, May 31
The President went to the tomb of the
Shah's father, 20 miles from Tehran, to lay
a wreath. He returned to the Saadabad
Palace for further discussions with the Shah.
A joint communique was issued.
After tea with the Empress, Mrs. Nixon
visited the Pahlavi Welfare Center and a
children's library.
The President and Mrs. Nixon then
hosted a luncheon honoring Their Imperial
Majesties at the Saadabad Palace before
departing for Warsaw.
They were greeted at Okecie Interna-
tional Airport at Warsaw by Henryk
Jablonski, Chairman of the Council of State,
and Prime Minister Jaroszewicz.
Driving from the airport, the President
stopped to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the
Unknown Soldier.
He then met with Eduard Gierek, First
Secretary, Polish United Workers' Party,
at the Parliament.
Earlier, Secretary of State Rogers signed
the Consular Convention between the
United States and Poland.
In the evening, the President and Mrs.
Nixon attended a state dinner at the Palace
of the Council of Ministers.
Thursday, June 1
The President called on President
Jablonski.
The President met for further talks with
Mr. Gierek, and they issued a joint com-
munique.
Mrs. Nixon went to the Lazienski Palace
and a Chopin concert in the park near the
Chopin Monument.
The President and Mrs. Nixon then
hosted a luncheon at the Wilanow Palace
in honor of Polish leaders.
Returning to the United States aboard
the Spirit of '76, the President and Mrs.
Nixon landed at Andrews Air Force Base,
Md., then went by helicopter to the Capitol
Grounds, and the President addressed a
joint session of the Congress to report on
his trip.
163 Remarks on Departure From Andrews Air Force
Base for Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran, and
Poland. May 20, 1972
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabi-
net, Members of the Congress, and ladies
and gentlemen:
We really do appreciate your coming
to the airport today on this rainy day to
wish us Godspeed on this trip. In just a
few minutes we will be boarding the plane,
the Spirit of '76, on a trip that will take
us first to Austria, then to the Soviet
Union, then to Iran, and finally to Poland
before returning here on the first of June.
I know that as we visit these four coun-
tries that I can say to the people of all of
these countries that I bring with me the
best wishes, the friendship of all the people
of the United States for the people of these
countries because we Americans feel
friendship for the Austrian people, for the
Russian people, for the people of Iran,
and for the Polish people.
As you know, the visit that we will be
making to the Soviet Union is the first
state visit that a President of the United
States has ever made to that country. It is
a visit that will be different from those that
have occurred on previous occasions be-
tween American Presidents and the lead-
ers of the Soviet Union. The others were
important, but they did not deal primarily
with substance. That is why we often hear
613
