Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 26 [321]
Budget concerning proposed funding of
such programs; and
(5) Report to the President, from time
to time, concerning the foregoing.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was made available
to the press.
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of the establishment of the
Cabinet Committee.
320 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
the Coal Mine Health Program. September 26, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to you the sec-
ond annual report on health matters cov-
ered by the Federal Coal Mine Health
and Safety Act of 1969, Public Law 91-
173.
The report covers the implementation
of the health program carried out by the
National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health of the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. The re-
port provides a compendium of coal mine
health research, medical examinations of
coal miners, and other activities of 1971.
It is encouraging to note that, in 1971,
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare completed the first round of
medical examinations of coal workers re-
quired in the act. Many of the X-rays
taken in the examination have been com-
pletely processed and those miners with
abnormal chest conditions have been noti-
fied of these conditions and of their rights
under the act.
A comprehensive research program,
which has as its basic objective the deter-
mination of the development and progres-
sion of coal workers' pneumoconiosis,
continued in 1971 along the lines estab-
lished in 1970. Significant progress was
made in 1971 toward the attainment of
this goal.
I commend this report to your attention.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 26, 1972.
NOTE: The 155-page report, entitled "Health
Program of the Federal Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act of 1969; 1971 Annual Report," was
prepared by the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.
321 Remarks at the Dedication of the American Museum of
Immigration on Liberty Island in New York Harbor.
September 26, 1972
Secretary Morton, Governor Rockefeller,
Governor Cahill, Congressman Peyser, all
of the distinguished people who are here:
I appreciate this opportunity to par-
ticipate in the dedication of this museum.
In dedicating this museum, I wish par-
ticularly to pay tribute to all of those who
have helped to make this country what
it is.
[At this point, members of the audience chanted
"Four More Years" in response to several
demonstrators who were attempting to interrupt
913
