[375] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
nations with the power, but now only
the United States is left. We need it for
that reason.
And there is another reason, because
I say today we can be proud of what U.S.
foreign policy has tried to do in this
century. We have fought four wars. For
what? World War I, World War II,
Korea, Vietnam-we didn't go for con-
quest, we didn't go for glory, not an acre
of territory or anything else. We went to
help others defend their freedom. We
went to fight against aggression. The
United States, in other words--when the
United States has power, the people of
the United States are a peaceful people.
We are not going to use that power to
destroy freedom or break the peace, and
that is why I say that I am committed
to-I know that Louie Nunn is and Mar-
low Cook will be and Tim Lee Carter will
be-let's keep the United States in the
position where our power is second to
none so that we can help keep the peace
in the world. That is why I am so strong
on national defense.
Let me relate now this whole area of
peace to what it means in other fields. We
not only want peace. Obviously we want a
good living. We need jobs, employment,
homes, security, all of these that mean
the good life in this country with which
the people of our country enjoy the best
life of any nation in the world.
Did you realize that you have to go
clear back to President Eisenhower's Ad-
ministration in the years 1955 and 1956
to find any years in which the United
States has had full employment—that
means prosperity with full employment--
without war and without inflation?
Now I think that we can do it again.
That is our goal over these next 4 years.
What we want is full employment for the
people of this country without war and
without inflation.
Now let me tell you what we can do and
what we have done. First, in 4 years we
have cut the rate of inflation in half. Also,
we have moved the growth of this econ-
omy up until we have the highest rate of
growth of any industrial nation in the
world. We must continue to move it up
so that we can produce more peacetime
jobs, so that Americans can have full em-
ployment without war and without infla-
tion. I think we can achieve that goal.
Let's see also what this new world of
peace can mean to a State like Kentucky,
to this entire region. Mention has been
made of the farm programs. I am going
to make a major farm speech on radio at
12:05 tomorrow on all the major net-
works, if you would like to listen, in the
middle of the day.
I won't go into the details now, but let
me say that when you see the sales that we
have made, a billion dollar sale to Japan
this
year, a 3-year sale to the Soviet Union,
unprecedented, in feed grains, and the
beginnings of sales to the People's Repub-
lic of China, where, note again, one-
fourth of all the people in the world live,
you can see the future for American
agriculture.
Our exports are the highest in history.
They are going to be higher because the
markets of the world are opening up.
That
is what our peace initiatives mean to the
farmers, and I think the farmers of Ken-
tucky like that kind of an initiative, too.
There is another area that hits the
bread-and-butter issue. As our economy
grows, we are going to have an enormous
energy crisis in this country, and that
means we have to produce coal, we have
1040
