Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
and other predators can be accomplished
by methods other than poisons.
Certainly, predators can represent a
threat to sheep and some other domesti-
cated animals. But we must use more
selective methods of control that will pre-
serve ecological values while continuing to
protect livestock.
-I am today issuing an Executive
Order [11643] barring the use of poisons
for predator control on all public lands.
(Exceptions will be made only for emer-
gency situations.) I also propose legisla-
tion to shift the emphasis of the current
direct Federal predator control program
to one of research and technical and fi-
nancial assistance to the States to help
them control predator populations by
means other than poisons.
ENDANGERED SPECIES
It has only been in recent years that
efforts have been undertaken to list and
protect those species of animals whose
continued existence is in jeopardy. Start-
ing with our national symbol, the bald
eagle, we have expanded our concern
over the extinction of these animals to
include the present list of over 100. We
have already found, however, that even
the most recent act to protect endangered
species, which dates only from 1969,
simply does not provide the kind of man-
agement tools needed to act early enough
to save a vanishing species. In particular,
existing laws do not generally allow the
Federal Government to control shooting,
trapping, or other taking of endangered
species.
-I propose legislation to provide for
early identification and protection of en-
dangered species. My new proposal would
make the taking of endangered species a
Federal offense for the first time, and
would permit protective measures to be
undertaken before a species is so depleted
that regeneration is difficult or impossible.
MIGRATORY SPECIES
The protection of migratory species,
besides preserving wildlife values, ex-
emplifies cooperative environmental ef-
fort among the United States, Canada,
and Mexico. By treaties entered into
among these three countries, migratory
species are protected. New species may be
added by common agreement between
the United States and Mexico.
-I have authorized the Secretary of
State, in conjunction with the Secretary of
the Interior, to seek the agreement of the
Mexican Government to add 33 new
families of birds to the protected list.
Included in the proposal are eagles,
hawks, falcons, owls, and many of the most
attractive species of wading birds. I am
hopeful that treaty protection can be ac-
corded them in the near future.
BIG CYPRESS NATIONAL FRESH WATER
RESERVE
After careful review of the environ-
mental significance of the Big Cypress
Swamp in Florida, particularly of the need
for water from this source to maintain the
unique ecology of Everglades National
Park, I directed the Secretary of the In-
terior to prepare legislation to create
the Big Cypress National Fresh Water
Reserve. This legislation, which has now
been submitted to the Congress, will em-
183
