Richard Nixon, 1972
July 10 [225]
tinue exploring new ways of offering in-
expensive transportation to and from this
country.
Corporations with interests abroad, pri-
vate organizations with foreign ties can
encourage the participation of their for-
eign colleagues in the Bicentennial.
Cities which have sister communities in
other countries can intensify contacts with
them.
Families which have relatives abroad
or which speak a second language, or any
family that wishes to do so, can make spe-
cial hospitality plans for foreign visitors.
And volunteers young and old can serve
as guides, as interpreters, as hosts and
hostesses, to help greet a flood of Bicenten-
nial guests which may be double the nearly
14 million people who visited the United
States last year.
State and local governments, the Con-
gress, and the Federal executive branch
can assist the national and State bicen-
tennial commissions in every way possible.
In issuing this invitation to the world,
the American people will also be issuing a
challenge to themselves.
This is the time to open our hearts and
our homes and our communities to those
who come to America for the first time.
This is the time not only for reaching out-
ward, but for reaching inward, for discov-
ering and appreciating parts of our own
land and people and heritage which we
may not have known before.
This is the time to put our best foot
forward in every aspect of our national
life-to prove what America is and can be.
My deepest hope for the Bicentennial
Era is this: that all America and all the
world can earn the name which Mrs.
Nixon and I have chosen for our house
here at San Clemente-"La Casa Paci-
fica," the House of Peace-and that the
American people can open their arms to
the people of the world with the tradi-
tional Latin welcome, "Estan ustedes en
su casa," you are in your own house. Let
America be known throughout the world
as the "Land of the Open Door."
Reaching out in this way, we can prove
once again that the Spirit of '76 is a spirit
of openness, of brotherhood, and of peace.
We can share with all mankind the
eternal message of the Fourth of July-
the message of liberty, of opportunity, and
of human dignity.
I hope that each one of you will join
me in extending, and in wholeheartedly
supporting, America's Bicentennial invi-
tation to the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 a.m. from
the Western White House, San Clemente, Calif.
His address was broadcast live on nationwide
radio.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
225 Statement on Signing the Ports and Waterways Safety Act
of 1972. July 10, 1972
IN MANY respects, petroleum is the life-
blood of modern-day America. However,
the increasing use of waterways for trans-
porting oil poses grave environmental
hazards, setting the scene for ecological
tragedies like the tanker collision which
dumped over a half million gallons of oil
into San Francisco Bay early last year. We
must-and can-prevent such incidents
from recurring.
729
