[372] Oct. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
learning and helped plant the seeds of
hope and enthusiasm in our hearts. I
think, for example, of a wonderful teacher
I had in the fifth grade. In those days you
had only one teacher for the whole class-
she had to handle all subjects. Miss
Burum did that, and she did it very well,
but her favorite subject was geography.
I can still remember how she communi-
cated her enthusiasm, her love of learning,
her fascination with geography and with
the different countries of the world to her
pupils. And although she will probably
never appear in the history books, you
might say that in a way Miss Burum was
one of the people responsible for my trips
to Russia and to the People's Republic of
China and for the new beginnings for
peace that those trips have helped to
usher in.
I mention this because I think it illus-
trates an important point about educa-
tion today. We can spend all of the money
we want. We can buy all the books, build
all the classrooms, fancy new schools. We
can do all that, but at the heart of any
good school system, we must have tal-
ented, dedicated teachers. They are the
indispensable ingredient that brings the
whole combination to life. To have teach-
ers like that, parents and students must
give teachers the respect that is their due,
and the standing in the community they
deserve.
It was Henry Adams who wrote, "A
teacher affects eternity; he can never tell
where his influence stops."
The same thing is true of our educa-
tion system in general. The kind of school-
ing we provide for our young people today
will play a major role in determining the
kind of country we will have well into the
next century.
And so I pledge to you this afternoon
that I will continue to work to make the
Federal Government's role in education a
positive, productive one, and to give to
the people and their locally elected repre-
sentatives the means with which they can
play a larger role in improving education.
By seeking this basic goal together, we
can build a system that brings a quality
education and full opportunity to all
Americans.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
the Library at the White House. The address
was broadcast live on nationwide radio. Time
for the broadcast was purchased by the Com-
mittee for the Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
373 Remarks at Huntington, West Virginia.
October 26, 1972
THANK YOU very much. Mrs. Nixon
and I want to tell you how very much
we appreciate your wonderful welcome. I
was just talking to Governor Moore and
he was telling me that you only learned at
12 o'clock that we were going to be able
to stop here before going over to Ashland,
and what a marvelous crowd you have—
I understand from West Virginia, Ohio,
and Kentucky. Right. Three States.
There isn't room on these steps, inci-
dentally, for everybody, but I am going
to have a word to say in a moment about
that. But I want you to be sure to see
1030
