[421] Nov. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
After discussions with them, I found
that each would prefer at this time not to
take a full-time Cabinet or Government
position. However, I am glad to say that
each has agreed to continue to serve on
the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board,
and each has agreed to undertake special
part-time assignments-Governor Con-
nally in the field of international economic
affairs where he has particular experience
and capability, and Governor Rockefeller
in the field of domestic affairs where he is
undertaking some very intensive and very
important research work in the develop-
ment of our urban policies.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:03 p.m. in the
helicopter hangar at Camp David, Md. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Subsequent White House announcements of
personnel changes in the executive branch for
President Nixon's second term are printed in
Appendix E.
On November 8, 1972, the President had
held meetings at the White House with mem-
bers of the Cabinet and of the White House
Staff to discuss the structuring of the executive
branch for his second term.
422 Statement About the Death of Neil H. McElroy.
December 1, 1972
WITH the death of Neil H. McElroy,
the United States has lost an outstand-
ing citizen, the American people have lost
a dedicated public servant, and I have
lost a valued friend and associate.
Neil McElroy served his country in
many ways. He was a highly successful
executive, an active civic and community
leader, a strong and resourceful Secretary
of Defense in the Eisenhower Administra-
tion, and-most recently-a very effective
chairman for the President's Commission
on School Finance.
To all of his undertakings, he brought
the gifts of high character and keen in-
telligence. Mrs. Nixon and I are deeply
grateful for his life and deeply saddened
by his death. We extend our profound
sympathy to the members of his family.
NOTE: Mr. McElroy, 68, died of cancer at
Holmes Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio, on No-
vember 30, 1972. He joined The Procter &
Gamble Company in 1925 and served as chair-
man of the board 1959-71, and as chairman
of the executive committee of the board 1971-
72. He was Secretary of Defense 1957-59, and
Chairman of the President's Commission on
School Finance 1970-72.
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Elliot L. Richardson represented the President
at funeral services in Cincinnati on December 3,
and delivered a letter from the President to the
McElroy family.
423 Message to the Crew of Apollo 17 Following Launch of
the Spacecraft. December 7, 1972
WITH the final mission of the Apollo
lunar exploration series man completes
another step in his quest for knowledge
of his universe and of himself. Those who
come after will stand on the shoulders of
the men of Apollo and their dedicated
1152
