[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
activities that provide useful community
service.
ORGANIZING FOR FUTURE ACTION
One of the important concerns of the
White House Conference on Aging was
the way in which the Government is or-
ganized to deal with the problems of older
Americans. It was because I share this
concern that I established my original
task force on aging, appointed the first
Special Assistant to the President on
Aging and the first Special Consultant to
the President on Aging, set up a new Cab-
inet-level Committee on Aging and called
the White House Conference.
In a similar manner, the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare has taken
steps to ensure that the voice of older
Americans speaks loud and clear within
that Department. He has informed me
that he will strengthen the Department's
Advisory Committee on Older Americans
and provide it with staff capability to sup-
port its increased responsibilities. The
Commissioner of Aging, in his capacity as
Chairman of the Advisory Committee,
will report directly to the Secretary.
Another important organizational con-
cern involves Government research activi-
ties which concern the process and prob-
lems of aging. It is important that the
same scientific resources which have
helped more people live longer lives now
be applied to the challenge of making
those lives full and rewarding for more
Americans. Only through a wise invest-
ment in research now, can we be sure that
our medical triumphs of the past will not
lead to social tragedies in the future.
What we need is a comprehensive, co-
ordinated research program, one which
includes disciplines ranging from bio-
medical research to transportation systems
analysis, from psychology and sociology to
management science and economics. To
coordinate the development of such a pro-
gram, a new Technical Advisory Commit-
tee for Aging Research will be created in
the office of the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare.
A GENERATION NO LONGER FORGOTTEN
We all grow old; the younger genera-
tion today will be the older generation
tomorrow. As we address the needs of
older Americans, therefore, we are truly
acting in the best interest of all Americans.
The actions and proposals which have
been outlined in this message are designed
to address those needs and meet those
interests.
When I spoke about the problems of the
elderly back in 1968, I described our older
citizens as "an entire generation of for-
gotten Americans." But since that time, as
this message clearly demonstrates, that sit-
uation has sharply changed. Today, it can
truly be said that at all levels of Govern-
ment and in all parts of the country, "the
aging have come of age." Much work still
remains, to be sure, but we can conclude
with assurance that the aging are forgot-
ten no longer.
Just before the First World War, one
of the brilliant young writers of that day
penned a line which has since become a
hallmark of the period: "It is the glory of
the present age," he wrote, "that in it one
can be young."
Since that time, the generation of which
he wrote has come through a troubled and
challenging time-through two World
Wars and a Great Depression, through
484
