Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 16 [258]
social services for public assistance recipi-
ents, although such a limitation was passed
by the Senate. Because this is currently an
open-ended program, this Congressional
inaction could require a later supple-
mental reaching as high as $3.5 billion. By
increasing the face amount of the bill on
the one hand and failing to place a limi-
tation on payments for social services
on the other, the Congress has produced
a budget overrun that could exceed
$5 billion.
Inherent in this kind of spending, but
not publicly specified by its sponsors, is a
cut in purchasing power for
for every
Ameri-
can family. No program has a higher
priority than continued expansion of the
purchasing power of all the people.
As I said in my special message of
July 26: "I do not propose to sit by and
silently watch individual family budgets
destroyed by rising prices and rising
taxes-the inevitable end to spending of
this magnitude." Our mounting economic
resurgence is at stake and I mean to pro-
tect it.
We have cut inflation in half, but spend-
ing such as this bill would require would
clearly undermine that progress.
We have reduced Federal income taxes
by 26 percent for a family of four making
$10,000 a year but spending such as this
would undermine that progress.
We have achieved conditions in which
the purchasing power of the average pro-
duction worker with three dependents has
gained four percent in one year, the best
increase since 1964, but spending such as
this would undermine that progress.
What the Congress has done is to take
my ample and carefully considered 1973
budget proposals and balloon them to
fiscally dangerous dimensions.
This Administration is second to none
in its concern for America's health, edu-
cation and manpower program needs.
From the very beginning we have con-
sistently proposed and supported desirable
programs in both the health research and
health service areas, and we will continue
to do so. For example, we proposed-and
in November of 1971 I signed into law-
the most comprehensive health manpower
legislation in the Nation's history. This
Administration launched the first separate
Federal effort to combat sickle cell anemia.
We have nearly doubled the Federal com-
mitment to finding a cure for cancer. We
have also proposed fundamental reform of
education and manpower training pro-
grams coupled with recommendations for
major fund allocations for education reve-
nue sharing, emergency school assistance
and public service jobs.
The failure of the Congress to use bal-
ance and restraint in the framing of H.R.
15417 has turned it into a big-spending
measure that impairs the Nation's eco-
nomic health.
The budget request that I submitted to
the Congress proposed an increase of $2.1
billion for the HEW programs contained
in this bill. That addition permits substan-
tial expansion over the fiscal year 1972
level while recognizing competing prior-
ities in other areas and the necessary dis-
cipline of keeping total Federal spending
within the limit of full employment
revenues.
The Congress would add to my pro-
posals $1.8 billion in new spending au-
thority. Increases of this magnitude are
clearly excessive and must be revised.
Aside from increasing the face amount
of this bill to unacceptable levels, the Con-
gress, as I have previously noted, threatens
777
