[77] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
thousands to deal effectively in matters of
health and safety, and through its blood
donor program, saved the lives of untold
numbers. These contributions are prac-
tical manifestations of the very best in the
human spirit.
As President of the United States and
Honorary Chairman of the American Na-
tional Red Cross, I extend my warm per-
sonal support to its varied activities on
behalf of mankind in need.
I know that all of you will join me in
this support, and that you will take an
affirmative lead in seeing that every Fed-
eral employee and every member of the
Armed Services is made aware again of the
many ways in which they can help the
Red Cross stand fully equipped to help
them. It is essential to the Nation that the
Red Cross continue to receive that wide
public support, both in funds and in man-
power, that permits it to wage its creative
attack.
Let us all respond generously.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum, dated March 1,
1972, was released on March 4 at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
On February 16, the President signed
Proclamation 4110, designating March as Red
Cross Month.
78 Remarks at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Congressional
Banquet. March 7, 1972
Commander Vicites, all of the distin-
guished guests and all of the very honored
winners of the Voice of Democracy Con-
test who are here tonight, and my friends,
and I can say also my comrades, of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars:
I am honored to be here for two very
important reasons: first with regard to
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the
second with regard to the honored guests
tonight.
Your Commander has spoken very gen-
erously of my participation over many
years, not only as a member but also as a
speaker on many occasions before various
meetings of the Veterans of Foreign Wars,
including, of course, several conventions
and several dinners of this type. I would
like to say a word to those who are mem-
bers of the Veterans of Foreign Wars,
those who are leaders from all over the
United States.
I want to tell you something about what
your support has meant to the man, who-
ever that man is, who happens to be Pres-
ident of the United States. The man who
is President of the United States has to
make many difficult decisions. Some of
them are decisions that have to do with
domestic affairs in which there is legiti-
mate controversy and in which men and
women of good will can have very vigor-
ous differences of opinion.
Others are matters that affect the secu-
rity of the Nation in which there are also
differences of opinion. But also, there are
some issues in which whoever happens to
be President of the United States must
have assistance far beyond his party; he
must have assistance from the Nation,
from people of both parties, from men and
women who put the country first and the
party second.
Over the past 3 years there have been
numbers of occasions when I have had to
make some decisions in the field of foreign
398
