Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 24 [103]
questions about the personal conduct of an
Ambassador when he travels to his post. I
see that some Members of the House and
Senate are raising such questions about
that. I would say that people in glass
houses shouldn't throw stones. [Laughter]
GEORGE MEANY
[18.] Q. Do you plan to have any more
breakfasts with George Meany, or do you
consider that a political question?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at $30 a dozen
for eggs.
Seriously, Paul Healy [New York Daily
News], I do want to say that I respect Mr.
Meany not only as a powerful labor union
leader but as a patriotic American who,
at a time that many of his weak-spined
business colleagues were ready to throw
in the sponge with regard to the security
of the United States and what was best for
this country in dealing with its adversaries
abroad, stood firm.
On the other hand, in this particular
area, I think Mr. Meany, I respectfully
say, has overstepped. In the latter part of
the 19th century this country determined
that no business leader could take the at-
titude of "The public be damned." And
in the latter part of the 20th century that
applies to both business leaders and labor
leaders.
Mr. Meany, in his case, I am sure,
thinks he is acting in the best interest of his
members, but I would respectfully suggest
that I believe that a great number of his
members, possibly a majority, realize that
the wage increases that are eaten up by
price increases are no wage increases at
all. They will also remember, as they look
at their income, that in the past 6 months
since Phase 2 began we have had an in-
crease in real wages, something that we
have not had for 5 years before that time
in any significant degree, and while we
have had this one month of bad figures-
and believe me, I am not satisfied with
bad figures; I want these food prices
down-nevertheless, our wage-price con-
trols are working. We are going to reach
our goal, in my opinion, or are going to
come very close to it, cutting the rate of
inflation in half.
Even though Mr. Meany is not with us,
I think what we do will be in the best
interest of his members, and I hope in the
end that maybe he will invite me to
breakfast.
VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW
[19.] Q. With respect to Mr. Agnew,
do you still not feel like breaking up the
winning combination?
THE PRESIDENT. I covered that ques-
tion in a rather lengthy discussion with
Mr. Rather [Dan Rather, CBS News], sit-
ting right in this room, a few months ago.
My views are the same now as they were
then.
THE MOSCOW TRIP AND SALT
[20.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
ask one question on the forthcoming Mos-
cow trip, even though it is down the road.
Are you still hopeful of having a strategic
arms limitation agreement not only to dis-
cuss,
but hopefully to sign?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Semple [Robert B.
Semple, Jr., New York Times], I realize
that there are many of you here, I hope,
who will be able to go on that trip, who
went to the P.R.C., and many who did not
go to the P.R.C. can also go.
See Item 1.
497
