[207] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
very close call, but I think my statement
tomorrow will address that question.
I have an idea which way I am going
to go but I promised to talk to one more
Senator before I make the final step and
I will not tell you today until I talk to
him.
Q. Will that be the Senator from
Tennessee?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
Miss McClendon [Sarah McClendon,
Sarah McClendon News Service], you
have touched upon a rather raw nerve
there, because Nashville is a case which
803 might cover. I say "might." We can't
even be sure it would.
So consequently, the Senators from
Tennessee strongly advocate signing this,
even though it won't handle Detroit, be-
cause they say, "We are interested in
Detroit, but we are a lot more interested
in Tennessee." But I have to be interested
in the whole country.
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS
[10.] Miss Angelo [Bonnie Angelo,
Time-Life].
Q. Mr. Mitchell has declined to make
public the source of about $10 million of
contributions to your reelection fund. I
know that this is in the letter of the law,
but I wonder in the spirit of the law, of
more openness, what you think about that
and might you make them public?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Ziegler has, I
think, responded to that, and Mr. Mitchell
and Mr. Stans. I think it is Mr. Stans
who has declined to do that. I support
the position that Mr. Stans has taken.
When we talk about the spirit of the
Maurice H. Stans was chairman of the
Finance Committee to Re-Elect the President.
law and the letter of the law, my evalua-
tion is that it is the responsibility of all
individuals, a high moral responsibility to
obey the law and to obey it totally.
Now, if the Congress wanted this law
to apply to contributions before the date
in April that it said the law should take
effect, it could have made it apply. The
Congress did not apply it before that
date and under the circumstances Mr.
Stans has said we will comply with the
law as the Congress has written it, and I
support his decision.
FEDERAL TROOPS AT MIAMI CONVENTIONS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, it has been
decided that Federal troops will be de-
ployed to the Miami Beach area for both
Presidential conventions. First, were you
a part of that decision, and secondly,
what is your reaction to this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was not a part
of the decision, actually. I think that was
probably done consistent with our policy
of accepting, when requests are made, the
advice of the local officials as to the need
for Federal troops. I would hope they
would not be needed, but apparently the
city of Miami Beach, the State officials in
Florida, felt that they might not have
adequate personnel to handle what might
be conduct that would be quite explosive.
I will just make a guess at this point. I
don't think that-at least speaking as to
what goes on outside the convention halls
is concerned-I don't think that we are
going to have those great demonstrations
and the violence and so forth that every-
body has been predicting. I don't believe
we are going to have another Chicago
situation such as we had in 1968.
I believe that many of the younger
people who have engaged in such activi-
698
