[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I know, incidentally,
Mr. Rather, that that question is raised
because there have been reports to the
effect, because when Dr. Kissinger was
there I didn't want you to raise the ques-
tion without pointing up that I knew there
was good reason to-that when Dr. Kis-
singer was there, that he had made some
deal with Mr. Chou En-lai that if we had
the meeting in China, that we would with-
draw some forces before I got there. Let
me just set the record straight.
He has said, and I have said it, I can
say it, too—and I have read every word
of the transcript of those long, long ses-
sions he had with Mr. Chou En-lai, as I
am sure Chou En-lai has read them—
there were no conditions on our side and
no conditions on their side.
This will be tough, hard bargaining be-
tween people who have very great differ-
ences, but people who have one thing in
common, and that is that we had better
talk about differences or we may end up
fighting about them.
Let me just point up one other thing,
too, in that respect. We have been talking
about Vietnam. I think many of our view-
ers may not realize that in the two terribly
difficult wars, little wars they call them,
that the United States has been engaged
in, in the last 20 years, both of them are
wars in the rimland of Asia. Both of them
are wars in which the Chinese were in-
volved: directly in Korea, where, as you
know, there were thousands of Chinese
volunteers involved in fighting Americans;
and indirectly in South Vietnam where
the Chinese militarily, insofar as supplies
are concerned, are supporting the North
Vietnamese.
So, as you look at the past history where
the United States in 20 years has had to
fight in two wars, where the People's Re-
public of China was involved on the other
side, and you look at the possibilities of
the future when the People's Republic,
which is now a weak nuclear power, com-
pared to us, would be a very substantial
nuclear power 15 or 20 years from now,
it is imperative that we find a way to settle
our differences better than we have had in
the past.
That is why the communication must
come. And anyone who sits in this office
at this time cannot just think of the next
year, the next 2 years, the problems-and
there are many problems that are caused
by this move toward China, problems with
our friends, and it causes them concern-
but no one can sit in this office and allow
hanging over the world and hanging over
the United States for the future this great
danger of the most populous nation in the
world becoming a major nuclear power
and outside the world community, with no
contact with the United States of America.
That is why I made the decision to go
to China, and this trip, of course, will have
as its major purpose setting up that long
dialogue which may avert what would
otherwise be an inevitable clash.
CUBA
[11.] MR. RATHER. Why is it vital or
necessary, I think you used the word, to
reestablish a diplomatic dialogue with
Communist China, and continue to
ignore a Communist country in our own
backyard, Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. The situation is quite
different. Our policy toward Cuba, Mr.
Rather, is directly related to what Cuba's
policy is toward us. Cuba is a Communist
country. What Cuba has in terms of its in-
ΙΟ
