[390] Oct. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
National Health Service Corps which has
been working for the last 2 years to meet
the needs of areas with critical health
manpower shortages. In order to improve
recruitment for this program, the bill also
authorizes a program of scholarships for
students in the health professions. This
legislation addresses a need which has
concerned me for a long time, and I am
pleased to sign it into law.
Another important initiative in the
health field is H.R. 15475, a bill which
establishes a National Advisory Commis-
sion on Multiple Sclerosis to help deter-
mine the most effective means for finding
the causes and cures for this disease. It
represents a promising step in our battle
against a terrible and elusive enemy, and
I am happy to give it my approval.
OTHER FORWARD STEPS
Among the many other bills receiving
my approval are S. 2318, which will up-
date and expand compensation benefits
for longshoremen and harbor workers;
S. 3843, which helps restore and replace
essential railway facilities and equipment
which were damaged during Hurricane
Agnes and other natural disasters this past
June; H.R. 8273, which liberalizes the
Immigration and Nationality Act; and
H.R. 15461, which implements the
boundary treaty which our Government
signed with Mexico in 1970. Another sig-
nificant forward step is the creation, by
H.R. 10751, of the Pennsylvania Avenue
Development Corporation, a
Corporation, a measure
which I discussed in a separate statement
last week.
One of the purposes of another of these
bills, H.R. 4678, is to prohibit the impor-
tation into the United States of precious
pre-Columbian art treasures illegally re-
moved from their countries of origin-
our close friends and neighbors of Central
America. It is with special pleasure that
I sign this legislation.
I am also very happy to sign H.R.
14911, which will allow prisoners of war
and those who are missing in action to
accumulate military leave time at the
normal rate without limitation, so that
they or their survivors can be more gen-
erously reimbursed when they are re-
turned from prisoner-of-war or missing
status. This same bill also carries out an-
other Administration recommendation by
authorizing a second Deputy Secretary of
Defense to be appointed by the President.
NOTE: The list of bills referred to in the
statement also included the following:
H.J. Res. 733, granting the consent of Con-
gress to certain boundary agreements be-
tween the States of Maryland and Virginia
H.J. Res. 912, granting the consent of Con-
gress to an agreement between the States
of North Carolina and Virginia establish-
ing their lateral seaward boundary
H.R. 1467, amending the Internal Revenue
Code of 1954 with respect to personal
exemptions for American Samoans
H.R. 3786, providing for the free entry of a
four octave carillon for the use of Mar-
quette University in Wisconsin
H.R. 7093, providing for the disposition of
judgment funds of the Osage Tribe of
Indians of Oklahoma
H.R. 10556, authorizing the Secretary of
the Interior to sell reserved mineral inter-
ests of the United States in certain land
in Georgia to Thomas A. Buiso
H.R. 10638, providing for the relief of John
P. Woodson, his heirs, successors in inter-
est or assigns
H.R. 11563, waiving employee deductions
for Federal Employees' Group Life Insur-
ance purposes during a period of erro-
neous removal or suspension
H.R. 11773, relating to exclusion of D.C.
Metropolitan Police Department person-
nel records from public inspection
H.R. 12807, establishing Federal policy for
1072
