[377] Oct. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
triple the Federal effort to eliminate hun-
ger in America, as well as maintain-
ing generous food assistance programs
abroad.
All of us owe a great debt of gratitude
to those Americans for whom agriculture
is a proud way of life.
Sometimes there is a tendency to think
of farmers as an isolated special interest
group. For example, it was suggested that
I should address this talk today exclusively
to farm people, and that it should be
broadcast very early in the morning when
most of the radio audience would be
farmers.
But I wanted instead to talk with all
Americans on this subject and to make
the point that in this election campaign
the farm issues and the national issues are
one and the same, because farm people
want what is best for America.
They want to keep our country strong,
for they know that America's power is the
guardian of peace in the world.
They want to end our involvement in
Vietnam through peace with honor, not
through surrender.
They want responsible government
spending that can lead to tax relief and
prevent renewed inflation-because infla-
tion hits farmers doubly hard. It raises
their costs on the one hand, and it erodes
their buying power on the other.
Farm people want to preserve the
moral and spiritual values, the religious
faith, the patriotism which have always
been so unshakeably strong on the farms
and in the rural communities of Amer-
ica's heartland.
I am committed to achieving all these
things. But I want to dwell now on
one additional commitment-something
which farmers, like the rest of us, want
and deserve, but which for too many years
they have not been receiving-and that is
a full, fair share in our Nation's prosperity.
When city people shop at the super-
market or sit down to a good meal, it is
easy for them to take their food for
granted and to forget the men and women
whose hard work and sacrifice produced
it.
But when you realize that the farmer's
workweek runs almost double what most
Americans are used to, when you realize
that high risks and heavy production
costs keep his profit margins paper thin,
when you realize that he must often go
deep into debt to maintain the $100,000
worth of capital assets required for fam-
ily farming, then it is clear that farm
people deserve a better reward than an
average income which today is only 80
percent of the average for nonfarm
people.
Helping farmers to do better has been
one of the major commitments of my
Administration.
When we took office, farm prices were
stagnating, farm exports were down, in-
flation was eating heavily into farm in-
come, family farms were disappearing at
a rapid rate, and, worst of all, it seemed
that Federal farm policy under the previ-
ous Administration had been part of the
problem rather than part of the solution.
We set out immediately to turn that
situation around. Four harvests have come
in since then, and with each harvest has
come evidence of solid progress for the
American farmer.
Net farm income-what is left after
the bills are paid-will average 24 per-
cent higher for the 4 years of this Ad-
ministration than the average for the last
Administration. Net farm income this year
will finally break the alltime record set
25 years ago.
1046
