[400] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
And we support the candidates, as well.
But when, out of this one State, you
have two men in the leadership-Les
Arends, of course, the Whip of the House;
John Anderson, who is the chairman of
the [House Republican] Conference-it is
truly a great delegation, and I express my
appreciation in their home State for what
they have done for Illinois, what they have
done for their districts, and what they are
doing for the Nation.
Now, at the State level I have so many
old friends-Bill Scott, for example;
Bernie Carey,2 all the rest. They have my
support. But could I say a very personal
word about the man that I stood by 4
years ago and by whom I am proud to
stand again, your Governor, Governor
Dick Ogilvie.
As you know, at Independence Hall
just a few days ago I signed an historic
act, one which changes the flow of money
and power to Washington back to the
people, to the States and the cities of this
country. Thirty billion dollars is going to
go back into State government, into city
government, and local government over
the next 5 years.
Now, it isn't just enough to have that
money go back. What is needed is to have
leaders in the States, leaders in local
governments, who will spend that money
well for the people of this country, who
will use it, for example, to reduce the
burden of taxes rather than to increase it,
which they could not have done until
they received this revenue sharing.
I can tell you, I know every one of the
50 Governors in this Nation, Democrat
and Republican. Without regard to
2 William J. Scott was the Republican candi-
date for attorney general, and Bernard C. Carey
was the Republican candidate for State's at-
torney for Cook County, Ill.
partisanship, there are many who are very
able men, but in the very top ranks of
those that I would want to entrust my
money to, to spend it well, to use it well
for the people of a State, Dick Ogilvie
ranks high. He deserves your support.
Now, having mentioned the other
candidates, I would like to say a word for
myself, if you don't mind, too.
I have been before the voters of Illinois
now on five occasions: in 1952 and 1956,
as a candidate for Vice President, and
then in 1960 and 1968, and now in 1972,
as a candidate for President.
I want to speak to you today about why
I need your support. I am not going to
ask for it in terms of Republicans versus
Democrats, because this year we have an
election, and what is important is not our
party label, but what is important is what
is going to happen to America.
I ask you as Democrats, as independ-
ents, and as Republicans to consider what
you want for America. That is why we
need a new American majority, to give us
an overwhelming vote on November 7,
and we would like to have it here in Illi-
nois as well as in other States.
I could discuss at length many of the
issues, the fact that we have moved to-
ward prosperity without war and without
inflation, a goal that we have not had in
this country since President Eisenhower
occupied the White House. I could speak
to you of the progress that we have made
in the fields like revenue sharing, in which
power is returning from Washington to
the people and to the States.
I could speak to you of what we have
done in the field of the environment and
health and education and all the many
other areas in which we have worked.
And I am very proud that during these
past 4 years instead of running down the
1096
