Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
thus giving us additional authority to
guarantee a decent environment for those
who live in long-term care facilities.
Every State providing nursing home
care under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs has now installed systems for
surveying and certifying nursing homes.
In the area of fire-safety and other safety
guidelines, a coordinated set of standards
for homes providing care under these pro-
grams is being put into effect.
Medicaid compliance activities have
also been stepped up. Onsite Federal re-
views of State Medicaid certification pro-
cedures have been carried out. Deficiencies
in those procedures were found in 39
States. These deficiencies were publicly
announced by the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare on November 30,
1971, along with a timetable for correct-
ing them. Since that time, 38 of the 39
States have made the necessary correc-
tions. We have determined that every
facility receiving Medicaid funds must
have been inspected and correctly certified
by July 1, 1972.
While we prefer to upgrade substand-
ard homes rather than shut them down,
we will not hesitate to cut off
money when
that is necessary. As of February 11, 1972,
in fact, 13 extended care facilities had
been decertified for participation in Medi-
care. In such cases, as I have often pledged
before, we are firmly committed to seeing
that adequate alternative arrangements
are made for those who are displaced.
In fiscal year 1971, the Federal Govern-
ment contributed $1.2 billion to the cost of
nursing home care. We should also remem-
ber, however, that more than 40 percent
of the annual expenditure for nursing
homes is borne by private sources. In addi-
tion to seeing that Federal tax dollars are
properly spent in this area, it is also im-
portant that private individuals are pro-
tected when they purchase nursing home
services. I have asked the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare to de-
velop proposals to deal with this dimen-
sion of the nursing home challenge.
SPECIAL SERVICES TO FOSTER
INDEPENDENCE
Improving the income position of older
Americans and upgrading
upgrading nursing
homes-these are two concerns which
have been of highest priority for this Ad-
ministration in the past and which will
continue to be central in the future. As
we work to develop a truly comprehensive
strategy, however, other agenda items
have also been emerging as areas of special
emphasis, particularly those involving
public and private services which can help
older persons live dignified, independent
lives in their own homes for as long as
possible.
INCREASED RESOURCES FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION ON AGING
Since the passage of the Older Ameri-
cans Act in 1965, the Administration on
Aging has had the lead Federal role in
developing and coordinating such services.
While that office has accomplished many
significant things, the importance and
urgency of its mission have outstripped its
financial resources.
It was to help remedy this situation that
I announced at the White House Confer-
ence on Aging last December that I would
call for a five-fold increase in the budget
of the Administration on Aging-from
$21 million to $100 million. As I will dis-
cuss below in greater detail, I am now
requesting an additional $100 million for
475
