Appendix B
September
12 Walter J. Hickel, former Governor of
Alaska and former Secretary of the Interior,
met with the President at the White House.
12 The President and the First Lady hosted
a reception at the White House for members
of the Republican National Committee,
State Republican Chairmen, and Chairmen
of State Committees for the Re-Election of
the President.
14 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller met with the
President at the White House.
14 The President met at the White House with
a delegation of students from the Police
Athletic League of Philadelphia who pre-
sented scrolls signed by 400,000 Philadel-
phia students pledging respect for law and
authority, property, teachers, and the rights
of others. They were accompanied by Phila-
delphia Mayor Frank L. Rizzo who met
with the President following the presenta-
tion.
15 Entertainer Ray Charles met with the
President at the White House.
15 Patrick E. Carr, of New Orleans, La., newly
elected national commander of the Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
16 Henry A. Kissinger met separately with the
President and Secretary of State William P.
Rogers to report on his trip to the Federal
Republic of Germany, the Soviet Union,
the United Kingdom, and France. Dr. Kis-
singer had met with German leaders in
Munich on September 9 and 10, en route
to Moscow for meetings on September 10-
14 with Soviet leaders to review the course
of Soviet-American relations since the May
summit. He had met with British officials
in London on September 14 and 15 and
then traveled to Paris where he met, on
September 15, with the North Vietnamese
representatives to the Paris peace talks
and later with French President Georges
Pompidou.
18 Terry Anne Meeuwsen, of De Pere, Wis.,
who was chosen to be Miss America of
1973, and Laurie Lea Schaefer, of Bexley,
Ohio, who was Miss America of 1972,
called on the President at the White House.
September
18 Jack O. Hicks, of La Rue, Ohio, newly
elected national commander of the Disabled
American Veterans, called on the President
at the White House.
18 In a ceremony in the Oval Office at the
White House, the President signed H.J.
Res. 55, Public Law 92-422, authorizing
a memorial in honor of the Seabees of the
United States Navy to be erected on public
grounds in the District of Columbia or its
environs.
19 Stefan Olszowski, Polish Minister of Foreign
Affairs, met with the President at the White
House. He was accompanied by Witold
Trampczynski, Polish Ambassador to the
United States.
19 William P. Rogers, Secretary of State, and
George H. Bush, U.S. Representative to
the United Nations, met with the President
at the White House for consultation prior
to the opening of the 27th session of the
United Nations General Assembly in New
York later the same day.
19 Marian Scully, of Timahoe, County Cork,
Ireland, called on the President at the
White House. Miss Scully had greeted the
President and Mrs. Nixon when they visited
Ireland in October 1970.
19 National officers of the Reserve Officers As-
sociation of the United States called on
the President at the White House.
19 The President approved a National Medi-
ation Board recommendation to extend the
reporting deadline from September 18 to
October 30, 1972, for the emergency board
created to investigate the dispute between
the Long Island Rail Road Company and
certain of its employees. The extension was
agreed to by both parties. The emergency
board was created by Executive Order
11679 of August 19, 1972.
23 During his visit to Texas, the President
met with Texas Republican leaders at the
San Antonio International Airport.
B-16
