Appendix E
Council on Economic Policy, as will the Chair-
man of the Council of Economic Advisers, the
Director of the Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy, and the Director of the Cost of
Living Council. So that, you might say, is the
primary membership, although, depending
upon the nature of problems that are being
addressed, other people might very well play
an important role. It just depends upon the
problem, which leads me to the second com-
ment, that is, the mode of operation of the
Council.
No doubt, there will be some meetings of
the Council as a whole, but I would regard it
more as a kind of working group and depend-
ing on the problem we are worrying about
and working on, we will put together a working
group that will develop policy and follow
through on that problem.
In a sense, you could say that the Council on
International Economic Policy on the one hand,
and the Cost of Living Council, on the other,
are examples of, you might say, continuing
working groups that worry about essential as-
pects of policy. So, that is an initial thought
about the mode of operation of the Council.
I might say that while I am the Chairman
of the Council, the President will always be
welcome and I know that he will want to come
and take part in many of our meetings. He has
expressed himself on many occasions before,
but in the many discussions I have had with
him, especially in the last 2 days, his inter-
est in this and involvement in it, domestically
and internationally, is very keen.
Third, in terms of personal arrangements-
people always are interested in them-I will, of
course, maintain my office as Secretary of the
Treasury and carry out these responsibilities.
I will also have an office in the White House
and a very small staff to help me in carrying
out the duties as Assistant to the President. My
staff will be limited to the number of people
that can get into the small amount of White
House space that I have been able to bargain
out of Mr. Haldeman. [Laughter] So, it will be
a very small personal staff in working as As-
sistant to the President and working out of a
White House office.
Well, those are some general comments. I
will be glad to take your questions.]
Announcing the President's Decisions on Key
White House Staff Positions for the Second
Term
December 2, 1972
I have been getting a number of questions
about key members of the White House Staff
and what their intentions are. So, I can give
you an up-date report on that this morning.
This will not be complete because the plan-
ning for the second term is still underway. Some
members of the White House Staff still are
discussing their intentions with the President
and others. The President has not made his
final decisions on the operational organiza-
tion of the White House Staff for the second
term in its totality yet, but I can give you this
basic rundown.
The President is pleased to announce that
John D. Ehrlichman, Henry A. Kissinger, H. R.
Haldeman, and William E. Timmons will con-
tinue in the second term as Assistants to the
President. These men I have referred to will be
remaining in basically the same positions that
they currently hold.
Also, the President has asked me to announce
this morning that Roy L. Ash, who has been
named by the President to be Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, will also
have the title of Assistant to the President. This
dual role parallels somewhat the new role
that we announced for Secretary Shultz
yesterday.
I think also that you are aware that Peter
Flanigan is another individual who holds the
position of Assistant to the President, in ad-
dition to his duties as Director of the Council
on International Economic Policy.
Also, Herbert G. Klein will continue as Di-
rector of Communications for the Executive
Branch in the second term.
I have also been asked to announce the
names of some of the other key members of the
President's staff who will hold essentially the
same areas of responsibility they have held in
the past. I should, however, note again that
the President is proceeding with the planning
for the organizational structure for the second
term, the organizational structure of the White
House Staff for the second term, and some of
E-6
