[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
strides toward eliminating this problem
among all age groups in America. Our
efforts to increase incomes have been cen-
tral to this endeavor, of course. But our
special food assistance programs have also
been substantially augmented.
If my budget proposals for fiscal year
1973 are accepted, overall spending for
food stamps will have increased nine-fold
since 1969. In the coming fiscal year, an
estimated 2 million elderly participants in
the Food Stamp Program will receive ben-
efits of $343.5 million, compared with
only $45.8 million in fiscal year 1969.
Virtually every county in the Nation now
offers either the Food Stamp or the Food
Distribution Program; in early 1969,
nearly 500 counties offered neither. In all,
2.5 million older Americans benefit from
at least one of these programs.
Food assistance is important to the el-
derly. They benefit not only from nutri-
tious food but also from the activity of
preparing meals and sharing mealtimes
with others. To maximize these benefits,
the Department of Agriculture in January
revised its regulations to improve the nu-
trition program and expand participation.
But more needs to be done. Many older
persons who are entitled to food stamps
or to surplus commodities are still not re-
ceiving them. Why is this the case? In
many instances, older Americans do not
realize they are eligible for participation.
The agencies which provide assistance are
often unaware of older persons who need
their services. Some older persons choose
not to participate--out of pride or out of
fear that accepting food assistance may
subject them to the arbitrary treatment
they associate with the present welfare
system. In some cases, older persons want
to participate but find that necessary
transportation is unavailable.
To overcome the barriers which keep
older Americans from full participation in
food assistance programs, we are launch-
ing this year a major outreach campaign
called Project FIND. This campaign will
be conducted through a senior citizen
awareness network made up of federally
operated or funded field offices and
out-reach workers. It is my hope that Fed-
erally-supported personnel will be aug-
mented in this effort by volunteers from
State [and] local government offices and
from the private sector. For ninety days,
all these workers will go out across our
country to find those who should be partic-
ipating in nutrition programs but who
are not yet involved.
Last night, I signed into law S. 1163
[Public Law 92-258], a new national
nutrition program for the elderly. This
program will provide prepared meals in
a group setting and delivered meals for
those who are confined to their homes. I
welcome this effort. Because of my strong
feeling that this area should be one of
priority action, I will submit to the Con-
gress--as I suggested above-an amend-
ment to my 1973 budget to provide an ad-
ditional $100 million for nutritional and
related services. My proposed amend-
ments to the Older Americans Act would
further strengthen this effort by ensur-
ing that the Food Stamp Program is
planned as part of a more comprehensive
service effort.
Other steps will also be taken in this
area. In some areas, for example, space
at federally-assisted housing projects will
be utilized for feeding older persons. The
support of State and local governments,
of civic and religious organizations and
of the food services industry will also be
solicited. Maximum use will be made of
existing technical resources, including
478
