[13] Jan. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Development Bank. Our contributions to
this Bank represent our most concrete
form of support for regional development
in Latin America. While the Congress did
approve partial financing for the Bank be-
fore the recess, it is urgent that the integ-
rity of this international agreement be
preserved through providing the needed
payments in full.
These Inter-American Bank contribu-
tions-together with our vital contribu-
tions to the International Development
Association, the World Bank, and the
Asian Development Bank-are the heart
of my announced policy of channeling
substantial resources for development
through these experienced and technically
proficient multilateral institutions. These
latter contributions also require prompt
legislative action, and I look to the Con-
gress to demonstrate to other nations that
the United States will continue its
long-standing cooperative approach to
international development through multi-
lateral financial mechanisms.
I also wish to make clear the approach
of this Administration to the role of pri-
vate investment in developing countries,
and in particular to one of the major prob-
lems affecting such private investment:
upholding accepted principles of inter-
national law in the face of expropriations
without adequate compensation.
A principal objective of foreign eco-
nomic assistance programs is to assist de-
veloping countries in attracting private
investment. A nation's ability to compete
for this scarce and vital development in-
gredient is improved by programs which
develop economic infrastructure, increase
literacy, and raise health standards. Pri-
vate investment, as a carrier of technology,
of trade opportunities, and of capital it-
self, in turn becomes a major factor in
promoting industrial and agricultural de-
velopment. Further, a significant flow of
private foreign capital stimulates the
mobilization and formation of domestic
capital within the recipient country.
A sort of symbiosis exists-with govern-
ment aid efforts not only speeding the flow
of, but actually depending for their success
upon, private capital both domestic and
foreign. And, of course, from the investor's
point of view, foreign private investment
must either yield financial benefits to him
over time, or cease to be available. Mutual
benefit is thus the sine qua non of success-
ful foreign private investment.
Unfortunately, for all concerned, these
virtually axiomatic views on the beneficial
role of and necessary conditions for pri-
vate capital have been challenged in
recent and important instances. United
States enterprises, and those of many other
nations, operating abroad under valid
contracts negotiated in good faith, and
within the established legal codes of cer-
tain foreign countries, have found their
contracts revoked and their assets seized
with inadequate compensation, or with no
compensation.
Such actions by other governments are
wasteful from a resource standpoint,
shortsighted considering their adverse
effects on the flow of private investment
funds from all sources, and unfair to the
legitimate interests of foreign private
investors.
The wisdom of any expropriation is
questionable, even when adequate com-
pensation is paid. The resources diverted
to compensate investments that are al-
ready producing employment and taxes
often could be used more productively
to finance new investment in the domestic
economy, particularly in areas of high so-
cial priority to which foreign capital does
32
