Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 17 [353]
I am also concerned, however, that we
attack pollution in a way that does not
ignore other very real threats to the qual-
ity of life, such as spiraling prices and in-
creasingly onerous taxes. Legislation
which would continue our efforts to raise
water quality, but which would do so
through extreme and needless overspend-
ing, does not serve the public interest.
There is a much better way to get this
job done.
For this reason, I am compelled to
withhold my approval from S. 2770, the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972-a bill whose laud-
able intent is outweighed by its uncon-
scionable $24 billion price tag. My
proposed legislation, as reflected in my
budget, provided sufficient funds to ful-
fill that same intent in a fiscally respon-
sible manner. Unfortunately the Congress
ignored our other vital national concerns
and broke the budget with this legislation.
Environmental protection has been one
of my highest priorities as President. The
record speaks for itself. With the Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality and the
Environmental Protection Agency, we
have established a strong new framework
for developing and administering force-
ful programs in this problem area. I have
proposed more than 25 far-reaching laws
to deal with threats to the environment;
most still await final action in the Con-
gress. Pending enactment of new legisla-
tion, our enforcement agencies have
cracked down on polluters under old laws
seldom enforced by previous administra-
tions.
The budget authority which I have
requested for pollution control and
abatement in fiscal year 1973 is more
than four times the amount requested in
1969. Federal grants for local sewage
treatment plant construction have in-
creased almost tenfold, from an annual
rate of $214 million appropriated up to
the time I took office, to $2 billion in my
budget for 1973. This dramatic growth
in the share of Federal Government re-
sources being devoted to the environment
exceeds, many times over, the rate of in-
crease for funds in most other major
government programs.
Every environmental spending increase
that I have proposed, however, has been
within the strict discipline of a respon-
sible fiscal policy-a policy which recog-
nizes as the highest national priority the
need to protect the working men and
women of America against tax increases
and renewed inflation. Specifically, the
water pollution control bill which I origi-
nally sent to the Congress last year was
fully consistent with the concept of a bal-
anced, full-employment budget. It would
have committed $6 billion in Federal
funds over a three-year period, enough to
continue and accelerate the momentum
toward that high standard of cleanliness
which all of us want in America's waters.
By contrast, the bill which has now
come to my desk would provide for the
commitment of a staggering, budget-
wrecking $24 billion. Every extra dollar
which S. 2770 contemplates spending
beyond the level of my budget proposals
would exact a price from the consumer
in the form of inflated living costs, or
from the taxpayer in the form of a new
Federal tax bite, or both.
Ironically, however, only a portion of
the $18 billion by which my bill was fat-
tened on Capitol Hill would actually go
to buy more pollution control than the
Administration bill would have done.
One backward-looking provision, for ex-
ample, would provide $750 million to
991
