[312] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
about how exciting it is to be a Customs
official and how somebody is a hero and he
is consequently rewarded by his city or by
his country, or the rest, I realize that most
of you know that that is the way it is in
the movies or on the TV. But you know
that for the most part in your work it is
long hours, sometimes it is very dull, some-
times it is very routine. You go through
car after car and there doesn't seem to be
any reason for doing it-and then one
time something happens. Very few of you
are really recognized for the work that
you are doing, but all of you are vitally im-
portant, and we are grateful for that.
When I speak of backing you up, let me
emphasize one thing. I met with a group
of 40 young lawyers from all over the
United States who have the responsibility
for conducting prosecutions by the Fed-
eral Government in this field. They told
me that one of their problems was that
when they found a heroin pusher and
when they brought him to trial and when
he was convicted, that in many cases a
lenient judge or a lenient probation offi-
cer would let him out, and then he went
right back to what he had been doing
before.
Now let us clearly understand: We
naturally want to have concern for those
that are found guilty of this kind of
activity. But the primary responsibility we
all have is concern for the victims of those
who are the pushers of heroin, this deadly
drug. And in that connection, let me say
that I have issued orders to the entire
Administration to do everything we can
at the national level to back up our law
enforcement people.
If you go out, if you risk your lives in
order to bring one of these people to
justice, then it is the responsibility of the
courts to see to it that justice is done to
them so that they cannot be let off too
soon to practice their nefarious traffic
again.
Let me just close with one thought that
may be of interest to you. Sometimes this
is very impersonal. I mean, we see it in
terms of statistics. You were telling me
how many pounds of heroin had been
picked up and how much marihuana, and
so forth and so on, how many cars you go
through. And I know that when you make
out those reports, it must be very, very
tiring and very boring at times.
If you think of it in terms of statistics,
it really isn't worthwhile; you really ought
to have some other job. But I would like
for each one of you to think of it in terms
of one individual boy or girl in this coun-
try who, as a result of what you have done,
does not become a heroin addict. And if
what you have done has helped make that
come true, it is all worthwhile.
In 1968, when I was a candidate for
President, I received a letter from my
home State of California. It was unsigned.
It was from a girl 19 years old, who lived
in San Diego. She said she was from a
very good family. She had become ad-
dicted to heroin, and then the deteriora-
tion that occurs inevitably in those cases
had happened to her.
The closing paragraph of her letter I
want to read to you so that we can all
understand what your job means, not in
statistics, but in human, personal terms.
She says, "Mr. Nixon, I think you are go-
ing to be elected. If you are, as President,
will you try to do something to see that
what happened to me does not happen to
other young people across this country."
That is your job. That is my job. Let's
think of those young people, let's see that
886
