Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 22 [361]
a military problem, but it has made itself
felt in our Armed Forces just as it has in
our civilian society.
To meet it, we have mounted an un-
precedented new effort to treat those
veterans who have drug problems. In
1971, we increased the number of spe-
cialized Veterans Administration treat-
ment centers for drug abuse sixfold. This
year
another 12 centers have been opened,
and many existing facilities have been
expanded.
More importantly, we have launched a
massive educational and training effort
to prevent drug abuse before the damage
is done. It is helping the Armed Forces
combat successfully a problem not of their
own making. Just as we are determined to
stamp out drug abuse in civilian society,
we are also pledged to provide whatever
is needed to stamp it out in our Armed
Forces.
But in facing the drug problem, we
must do so with perspective. We must
never lose sight of the fact that the vast
majority of Vietnam veterans have come
out of this war with a clean slate and a
record of honor.
As a private citizen and as President, I
have been to Vietnam seven times.
I have been to Danang with the Ma-
rines; I have been up in the highlands
with the Army; I have seen the Navy and
the Air Force playing their part in the war
effort.
And I can tell you from personal ob-
servation that we can all be proud of those
Americans who have served in Vietnam.
I have seen young officers and enlisted
men who have contributed hundreds of
thousands of dollars out of their own
pockets to build schools and community
centers, roads, orphanages for the people
of South Vietnam.
I have seen them spend hours of their
free time teaching and helping the people
of Vietnam, and particularly the children
of Vietnam.
It is fitting that at this time we honor
the 6 million young men and women who
stood by the flag and served their coun-
try during the period of the Vietnam war.
They deserve the opportunities which
we are providing, but, even more, they
deserve the respect which only you can
give.
They deserve it because they have
earned it.
And they stand today just as tall as
their fathers who fought at Normandy,
Iwo Jima, and Inchon.
To them, and to their parents, wives,
and loved ones, I promise that as long as
I am President, America will not turn
her back on those who served. We are
not going to make a mockery of their
sacrifice by surrendering to the enemy or
by offering amnesty to draft dodgers and
deserters. The 22 million who chose to
serve America in Vietnam have paid a
price for their choice. The few hundred
who chose to desert America must pay
a price for their choice.
There is something else that we owe to
the veterans of Vietnam. With America's
combat role ending, with the reductions
we have been able to make in our Armed
Forces elsewhere, thousands of young vet-
erans are coming home to begin civilian
life again.
These young men deserve not only a
welcome, they deserve a job. I am glad to
be able to report that as the economy con-
tinues to expand, the job picture for
American veterans is also improving. And
part of the reason is the concentrated
special effort being made by the Federal
Government.
1007
