Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 27 [377]
During the period 1961 to 1968, farm
people's per capita income after taxes
averaged about one-third lower than what
nonfarm people were making. But now
that gap has narrowed to one-fifth, and
we are going to keep working until there
is no gap at all.
We have also made progress in checking
the rapid decline in numbers of Ameri-
can farms. Farm units were disappear-
ing at the rate of 106,000 every year dur-
ing the 8 years before we took office. Since
then we have cut this annual loss by more
than half. This means more hope for the
future in rural America, with more people
able to keep on working their land as they
have a right to do.
A big share of the reason for this prog-
ress is the character of farm people them-
selves. These are people of courage, self-
reliance, and independent spirit. They just
don't know the word "quit." Today, as in
years past, they are the backbone of
America.
But another reason things are better is
that farm policies of this Administration
have responded to farmers' own desires
for change.
Four years ago, everyone was fed up
with rigid government farm programs
that kept farmers in a straitjacket. So we
looked for a way to give farmers more
freedom. We sought an expanding agri-
culture rather than a shrinking agricul-
ture, a voluntary farm program rather
than compulsory controls, a market-
oriented agriculture rather than a govern-
ment-dominated agriculture.
The Agriculture Act of 1970, which
passed with broad bipartisan support in
the Congress, has moved strongly in this
direction. The new program allows a
farmer to set aside a certain number of
acres to keep from creating price-
depressing surpluses, and then the farmer
is free to plant what he wants on his re-
maining acres for his own best market
advantage. More farmers are in these pro-
grams today than ever before.
An expanding agriculture requires ex-
panded international markets for our
farm products. When we took office, agri-
cultural exports were stagnating. And now
they are setting new records year after
year.
From the annual level of $5.7 billion
under the last Administration, farm ex-
ports in 1972 will pass $8 billion for the
first time. And we are going to keep them
growing toward our goal of $10 billion
of exports every year.
We have gained our first billion dollar
annual customer of farm products-
Japan.
We have opened new markets in Com-
munist countries by lifting the restrictive
ocean shipping regulations of the last
Administration. It was this action that
led to last winter's $150 million sale of
feed grains to the Soviet Union, and then
to the 3-year grain sales agreement which
we signed with the Soviets in July-the
biggest peacetime transaction of its kind
in history.
This sale holds enormous benefits for
all Americans. It will raise crop value for
American farmers by a billion dollars in
1972 alone. It will improve our Nation's
balance of payments by a billion dollars.
It will create at least 30,000 new Amer-
ican jobs. And it will save the taxpayers
some $200 million.
Equally important, it is a striking ex-
ample of the way our farm policy and our
foreign policy are working hand in hand
to strengthen the peaceful ties between
great powers which were adversaries only
a few years ago.
1047
