[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
operation fully with our allies, and to
develop coordinated Western positions.
Then, if the Berlin accord has already
been consummated, we will be prepared
to move to multilateral exploratory talks
with other prospective participants.
The conference as defined by the War-
saw Pact would address two subjects: a
joint declaration against the use or threat
of force, and an agreement to expand
cooperation in scientific, cultural, and eco-
nomic areas.
The mere atmosphere of detente, in our
view, is insufficient-not only because this
is not durable, but also because it is diffi-
cult to evaluate measures proposed in the
name of so vague an objective. Moreover,
general declarations open to major dis-
putes over interpretation are of illusory
benefit, and possibly even dangerous. It is
not enough to agree on cooperation in the
abstract. How will cooperation be imple-
mented in practice? Will it include freer
intercourse among the European peoples,
East and West? How would a conference
promote economic relations other than
through existing institutions and means?
Real progress, in short, requires pursu-
ing detente in ways that will make it real
and lasting, even though this may take
more time and more effort.
Mutual and Balanced Force Reduc-
tions (MBFR). NATO first proposed
mutual and balanced force reductions in
the summer of 1968. When I took office in
1969, I found the Alliance in need of fuller
preparation and analysis of the technical
and political complexities involved.
Before we negotiate, we have to be clear
about the rationale for mutual reductions.
Some see it as a response to domestic budg-
etary pressures in the U.S. for unilateral
reductions; some support it as a substitute
for a Conference on European Security;
others seek an accord on MBFR as a
demonstration of political detente.
None of these approaches helps us an-
swer the principal question: What kind
of MBFR agreement do we want? We are
dealing here with the heart of the security
problem in Europe; we therefore have no
responsible choice but to judge an agree-
ment by the criterion of undiminished
security. In this way, we truly contribute
to detente. There would be little value in
token reductions that have no military
significance, or in an MBFR agreement
that only magnifies insecurity. We must do
the hard work of finding formulas that
offer real and fair reductions.
Our analyses within the U.S. Govern-
ment, which we are now sharing with our
allies, are described in the Arms Control
chapter of this Report. The Alliance will
work through this preparation together.
There will be no bilateral negotiation on
MBFR between the U.S. and USSR.
Relations With Eastern Europe. The
joint statement after my meeting with
President Tito in Washington on Octo-
ber 30, 1971 declared our strong belief
that "a firm peace and true security are
indivisible and can be attained only in
Europe as a whole, and not in only one or
another part of it."
Through most of the postwar period,
relations between Eastern and Western
Europe were limited. Relationships with
Eastern Europe were inhibited by our con-
flicts with the USSR. This was unnatural.
The nations of Europe have long-standing
political, economic and cultural ties with
each other.
As the forces of change have begun to
loosen postwar political rigidities, new ex-
pectations and aspirations have arisen in
both Western and Eastern Europe. The
benefits of relaxation must extend to both.
230
