[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Japan continued to rely on American
nuclear power for strategic security.
It was, moreover, prevented by con-
stitutional, political, and psychologi-
cal factors, and by the attitudes of its
Asian neighbors, from projecting
military power beyond its own bor-
ders. Thus the Mutual Security
Treaty continued to serve Japan's
interests, as well as our own. Still it
was clear that changes would come
in our defense relationship as Japan
regained its strength and pride.
We faced, then, not a desire for change
but the dynamics of change. The question
was not whether to maintain the partner-
ship which had served us both so well. The
question was how to inject into our rela-
tionship the characteristics of equality and
reciprocity without which it could not be
sustained.
We began with Okinawa. In November
1969, I met with Prime Minister Sato and
we agreed on the broad principles which
should govern the reversion of Okinawa
to Japanese administration. The problems
were many and difficult. Our military in-
stallations on Okinawa were central to the
security shield which we helped provide to
the free nations of East Asia, including
Japan. The quarter-century of American
administration had created a web of
political and economic problems to re-
solve before reversion. But in 1971, our
negotiations resulted in a treaty which
terminated this last administrative vestige
of the Second World War. We retain our
military installations in Okinawa, but on
the same basis as those in the Japanese
home islands. Early this year, at Prime
Minister Sato's request I agreed to speed
the final reversion. Thus, our recogni-
tion of Japan's needs for political self-
up
assertion has enabled us to remove this
long-standing irritant in our friendship.
Japan now plays a major and steadily
increasing role in assisting other Asian
nations with their development needs.
After years of U.S. leadership in this field
we greatly welcome Japan's increasing
contribution-which reflects Japan's
realization that its own interests require it
to participate in shaping the environ-
ment of Asia. Japan has pledged one per-
cent of its gross national product to
assisting less developed countries. That
goal is already being approached, al-
though we would hope to see a greater
Japanese use of grants and concessional
loans rather than commercial credits. The
Japanese are playing a particularly promi-
nent role in the Asian Development Bank
and in the international groupings provid-
ing assistance to Indonesia and the
Philippines.
Japan is developing plans to strengthen
its conventional defense capabilities over
the next few years. This is a reflection of
heightened Japanese self-reliance and
readiness to assume greater responsibil-
ities. This welcome trend has been accom-
panied by a consolidation of our own
military facilities and a reduction of our
forces in both Japan and Okinawa.
There has, therefore, been steady prog-
ress in recent years in the assumption by
Japan of a role in world affairs more con-
sistent with its power. However, there has
been less progress in reshaping our bilat-
eral relations along more reciprocal lines.
Until this year, the Japanese still tended
to consider that their dependence upon us
limited independent political initiatives of
our own, while their political problems
commended some independence of ini-
tiative on their part. Similarly, in our
234
