Richard Nixon, 1972
July 27 [239]
policy decisions Vice President Agnew has
contributed to in your Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I only need a
couple of minutes. [Laughter]
Miss McClendon [Sarah McClendon,
Sarah McClendon News Service], as a
matter of fact, one of the considerations
that motivates a President when he selects
a Vice President for running again is:
How does he handle himself with the
tough decisions? Now, the Vice President
does not make decisions. I learned that,
and Vice President Agnew knows that.
Decisions with regard to his schedule,
yes, advice, et cetera, but not decisions.
The President only makes them.
But in the Cabinet Room, and some-
times in this office, we have had some
pretty hard ones-the May 8 decision
was a very tough decision; the Cambodian
decision was not easy; the November 3
decision, the speech that I made on that
occasion; the decision with regard to the
SALT agreements, which involved a fight
between the hawks and doves, was not an
easy one.
I don't mean to indicate that Vice
President Agnew just sat there as a "yes
man." He is very outspoken-very quiet
but very outspoken-and articulate. But
what has impressed me about him in those
meetings is that he is a man of poise, calm,
and judgment. When it gets down to the
final tough decision, he, from my evalua-
tion, is always cool and poised and is one
who therefore could be expected to make
decisions in the future in a calm, cool,
judicial way.
Now, that does not mean that all of
his decisions will be good because calm,
cool, judicial men make bad decisions just
as emotional men sometimes make good
decisions. But my point is that in his case,
in all of the mini-crises and major crises
we have had in the Administration, he
has been strong, courageous, and loyal.
Those are attributes that are interesting
to come by.
Let me say one other thing since you
are talking about the Vice Presidency. I
think we who have been Vice Presidents
ought to form a little club. It is the most
maligned office, you know. The reason is
that we tend not to look at the records of
Vice Presidents who have become Presi-
dent. Now that did not happen to me so
this is not a self-serving statement in this
case. I mean, became President as a result
of being Vice President.
But look at this century: two striking
examples. Around the turn of the century,
Theodore Roosevelt-and some of you
remember Mark Hanna, a great Mc-
Kinley man. McKinley was in marvelous
health and he was shot. Theodore Roo-
sevelt came into the Presidency, and
Mark Hanna, who did not care much for
Theodore Roosevelt, said, "Now we have
this fanatic in the White House," and
yet Theodore Roosevelt became a great
President.
Perhaps that is not the best analogy
because Theodore Roosevelt added, they
thought, a great deal to the ticket.
Let's look at Harry Truman a mo-
ment—and I must say I was in the group
at that time, being in the other party-
but here is Harry Truman succeeding the
towering figure of his time, Franklin
Roosevelt. I remember the editorials:
“Harry Truman, the man from Independ-
ence❞—the very question somebody asked
here a few moments ago, "Shouldn't we
have a better method of selecting Vice
Presidents?" They said, "How in the
world? Now we have this little man from
Missouri in the Presidency." Well let me
say, you all know that Harry Truman and
753
