Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 19 [306]
305 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United
States-Romanian Consular Convention.
September 19, 1972
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Consular
Convention between the United States of
America and the Socialist Republic of
Romania, signed at Bucharest on July 5,
1972.
The Convention was signed by Secretary
of State William P. Rogers, who was pay-
ing an official visit to Romania, and by
Foreign Minister Corneliu Manescu. It is
evidence of the continued improvement
and expansion of United States-Romanian
relations.
This new Convention, replacing one
concluded in 1881, will make possible
improved consular services in both coun-
tries. It will ensure unhindered commu-
nication between a citizen and his consul
and prompt visit by consuls to citizens who
are detained. Under the Convention,
American citizens in Romania will have a
fuller degree of consular assistance and
protection than ever before.
I hope that the Senate will act favorably
on the Consular Convention with Ro-
mania at an early date.
The White House,
September 19, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive V (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
306 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United
States-Hungarian Consular Convention.
September 19, 1972
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting for the Senate's
advice and consent to ratification the Con-
sular Convention between the United
States of America and the Hungarian Peo-
ple's Republic, signed at Budapest on
July 7, 1972.
Secretary of State William P. Rogers
signed the Convention for the United
States during his official visit to Hungary.
It is the first bilateral treaty concluded
between the Governments of the United
States and Hungary since World War II
and reflects the increasingly warm con-
tacts developing between Americans and
Hungarians as well as between their
Governments.
The Consular Convention, like others
recently negotiated with Poland and
Romania, will make possible improved
consular services, including guaranteed
communication between a citizen and his
consul and prompt notification in case of
detention.
I believe that this Convention will pro-
vide a cornerstone for the development
and maintenance of friendly relations with
Hungary, and I recommend that the Sen-
879
