[26] Jan. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
more effective.
We have proposed revision of the mini-
mum wage system to remove obstacles to
the employment of young and inexperi-
enced workers.
We expect that these measures, and
others, will contribute to a substantial
reduction of unemployment.
In addition to getting unemployment
down, a second major economic task be-
fore us is to develop and apply the price-
wage control system, which is still in its
formative stage, to the point where its
objective is achieved. The objective of the
controls is a state of affairs in which rea-
sonable price stability can be maintained
without controls. That state of affairs can
and will be reached. How long it will take,
no one can say. We will persevere until the
goal is reached, but we will not keep the
controls one day longer than necessary.
The success of the stabilization program
depends fundamentally upon the coopera-
tion of the American people. This means
not only compliance with the regulations.
It means also mutual understanding of the
difficulties that all of us-working people,
businessmen, consumers, farmers, Govern-
ment officials-encounter in this new and
complicated program. Our experience in
the past few months convinces me that we
shall have this necessary ingredient for
success.
We embarked last year on another great
task-to create an international economic
system in which we and others can reap
the benefits of the exchange of goods and
services without danger to our domestic
economies. Despite all the troubles in this
field in recent years both the American
people and our trading partners are en-
joying on a larger scale than ever before
what is the object of the whole interna-
tional economic exercise-consumption of
foreign goods that are better or cheaper
or more interesting than domestic goods,
as well as foreign travel and profitable
investment abroad.
We don't want to reduce these benefits.
We want to expand them. To do that, we
in the United States must be able to pay
in the way that is best-chiefly by selling
abroad those things that we produce best
or more cheaply, including the products
of our agriculture and our other high-
technology industries. This is our objective
in the international discussions launched
by our acts of last year and continuing this
year.
These tasks, in which Government takes
the lead, are superimposed on the funda-
mental task of the American economy,
upon which the welfare of the people most
depends and which is basically performed
by the people and not by the Government.
That fundamental task is the efficient and
innovative production of the goods and
services that the American people want.
That is why I have emphasized the need
for greater productivity and a resurgence
of the competitive spirit.
The outstanding performance of the
American economy in this respect pro-
vides a background of strength which per-
mits the Government to face its economic
problems with confidence and to bring
about a new prosperity without inflation
and without war.
January 27, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's message, together with
the Annual Report of the Council of Economic
Advisers, is printed in the "Economic Report
of the President, Transmitted to the Congress
January 1972" (Government Printing Office,
1972, 304 pp.).
The President signed the Economic Report
in a ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
114
