[194] June 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are very proud to have him here to
be sworn in as the 62d Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States, Mr. George
Shultz.
[At this point, Chief Justice Burger adminis-
tered the oath of office to Secretary of the
Treasury Shultz. The President then resumed
speaking.]
Just for the Secretary of the Treasury's,
at least, protection from any attack that
might be made upon him, I think the
record must show that when he assumed
this position he took a $20,000 salary cut,
when he left the Cabinet, the position of
Secretary of Labor, to take the other Cabi-
net position of Director of the new Office
of Budget and Management. He now gets
a $20,000 salary increase, but that is not
in violation of the law. [Laughter]
I have known, of course, both of the
two outstanding members of the Cabinet,
the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Attorney General, for a number of years,
but the new Director of the Office of
Budget and Management is a man I have
known longer than either of those two.
Going back to the early days in California
when I first met him, in the year 1949, I
have respected him as an outstanding
lawyer, as an outstanding State legislator,
as an outstanding servant of the State
of California as its director of the
budget, and then as the director of the
budget under George Shultz here in
Washington after serving a very splendid
term as Chairman of the Federal Trade
Commission.
To add any adjectives with regard to
his record would be certainly gilding the
lily a bit. I will simply say this: He is a
man who has demonstrated extraordinary
intellectual capacity. He has, certainly,
managerial ability, and beyond that, he
has that total integrity and fearlessness in
carrying out the duties of an office that
we need in a public servant. We are very
proud to have Caspar Weinberger as the
new Director of the Office of Budget and
Management.
[At this point, Chief Justice Burger adminis-
tered the oath of office to Director of the
Office of Management and Budget Weinberger.
The President then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, if you will bear
with us for just a moment, for purposes of
a photograph, we would like all of the
three new members of the Cabinet and
their wives, and Mrs. Nixon, please, to
step up for a photograph that all of you
might enjoy having.
I understand that many Members of
Congress have to get back up to the Hill,
and that others may have to leave, but
for all of those who have the time, we
would like very much now to receive you
in the Blue Room so that you can con-
gratulate the new appointees, and also
for coffee and tea and, I understand, some
cakes that are available in the State Din-
ing Room.
Incidentally, the cakes were baked
freshly this morning. I wanted to make
sure, because I realize that this is the first
anniversary of the Rose Garden wedding.
This is not the wedding cake from last
year. [Laughter]
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:23 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
672
