Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
persons now spend over $60 billion for
goods and services every year-and they
will be able to spend billions more if my
proposals for increasing their income are
enacted. Our economy should be respon-
sive to the needs of older Americans; they
have a high stake in advancing consumer
protection.
Through organizational changes, ad-
ministrative actions and legislative recom-
mendations, this Administration has been
working to provide needed protection for
the American consumer in general-and
for the older consumer in particular. The
several pieces of consumer legislation
which I have submitted to the Congress
are designed to reduce dangers which are
especially acute for older consumers—
and I again urge their enactment.
In addition, I am asking my Special
Assistant for Consumer Affairs, in co-
operation with the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development, to develop a
program for helping to enforce the Inter-
state Land Sales Full Disclosure Act by
fostering greater awareness among older
citizens of their legal rights under this
legislation.
Recognizing that the complexity of to-
day's marketplace demands great sophisti-
cation by the individual consumer, our
primary and secondary schools have
stepped up their programs for consumer
education. Unfortunately, many older
Americans have never had the opportunity
to benefit from such programs. The Office
of Consumer Affairs is therefore develop-
ing guidelines for adult consumer educa-
tion programs with particular emphasis on
the needs of the elderly. To carry out these
guidelines, I am asking my Special Assist-
ant for Consumer Affairs, working in co-
operation with the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, to develop a pro-
gram of technical assistance to help the
States create consumer education pro-
grams specifically designed for older
citizens.
A COMPREHENSIVE EFFORT FOR IMPROVING
INCOME
The key characteristic of my strategy for
protecting the income position of older
Americans is its comprehensiveness. For it
would help to augment and protect the
income older persons derive from social
security, adult assistance, Federal military,
veterans and civilian benefits, and private
pensions, while at the same time curbing
the cruel drain on those incomes from ris-
ing health costs, inflation, taxes and un-
wise consumer spending. I hope now that
the Congress will respond promptly and
favorably to these proposals. If it does,
then the purchasing power of the elderly
can be enhanced by billions of dollars a
year-an achievement which could do
more than anything else to transform the
quality of life for Americans over 65.
UPGRADING THE QUALITY OF NURSING
HOME CARE
Income related measures can help more
older Americans to help themselves; they
build on the strong desire for independ-
ence and self-reliance which characterizes
the older generation. We must recognize,
however, that some older Americans-
approximately five percent by recent esti-
mates cannot be primarily self-reliant.
These older men and women require the
assistance provided by skilled nursing
homes and other long-term care facilities.
For them, a dignified existence depends
upon the care and concern which are
afforded them in such settings.
473
