[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
negotiated by the parties without pre-
conditions, Israel continues to hold the
territories captured in the 1967 war.
The Arabs, on the other hand, want
advance assurance that all the captured
territories will be returned. They also seek
a just settlement of the grievances of the
Palestinians. Some Arab governments
have said that they are prepared to accept
Israel as it was between 1949 and 1967,
but that any enlargement of Israel beyond
that is intolerable and implies Israeli ex-
pansionist designs. Thus they resist any
changes in the pre-war borders. In the
meantime, the Arabs feel they cannot
allow the situation to become frozen; they
stress their determination to struggle as
long as Israel holds Arab lands.
This seemingly vicious circle is the ob-
jective difficulty which has stood in the
way of a settlement. Two approaches to
break this impasse have been tried.
-One way has been to attempt to gain
all the major mutual assurances re-
quired-peace for Israel, the terri-
tories for the Arabs-as the first stage
in a negotiation. This approach has
characterized most of the peace ef-
forts since 1967. Some outside party
or group-Ambassador Jarring, the
special representative of the UN
Secretary General; the Four Powers;
or the U.S. and USSR-has tried to
develop formulae containing suffi-
cient commitments by each side to
give the other hope of achieving what
it wants in a negotiation.
-A second route, tried for the first time
in 1971, is to begin a process of nego-
tiation without pre-arranged commit-
ments on the fundamental issues. The
hope would be that an interim agree-
ment, or the momentum of the bar-
gaining process itself, would create
conditions facilitating the more basic
settlement.
The Search for a Comprehensive Solu-
tion. From 1969 to early 1971, the quest
for peace in the Middle East was a search
for a formula for a comprehensive political
solution. The agreed and accepted frame-
work was, and remains, UN Security
Council Resolution 242 of November 22,
1967. The effort went through two dis-
tinct phases.
In 1969 the United States first under-
took to engage other powers in the nego-
tiating effort. We did not feel that the
U.S. alone should assume exclusive re-
sponsibility for making and keeping peace
in the Middle East. First responsibility,
of course, lay with the parties to the con-
flict. But it was also true that the Soviet
Union and other powers with interests in
the region would have to accept some
responsibility, or else no structure of peace
would last. We therefore conducted talks
bilaterally with the USSR, and at the UN
together with the USSR, Britain, and
France, searching for a formula which all
sides could accept as a starting point for
negotiation. The Soviets turned that ef-
fort aside at the end of 1969. Tensions in
the area increased sharply in the spring
of 1970, with frequent and serious military
clashes between Israel and Egypt and
stepped-up activity by
by Palestinian
guerrillas.
In the second phase, in response to that
renewed tension and to the Soviet Union's
apparent loss of interest in further co-
operative effort, the U.S. decided by June
1970 that it had no responsible choice but
to try on its own to break the spiral of
violence. We could not stand by and watch
the situation deteriorate into war. We
therefore took a major initiative. We in-
vited Israel and the Arabs to "stop shoot-
292
