[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
to support the transition to self-reli-
ance in Asia. I am convinced that the
Congress and the American people
will continue to prefer this course
over a retreat from Asian problems-
and from our responsibility to help
provide Asians with the vital re-
sources needed to meet them.
There are tangible grounds for hope.
The South Vietnamese, with our support,
have demonstrated their ability to assume
a rapidly growing share of the combat
burden. The record also is encouraging
elsewhere.
-We were heartened at the decision
of Australia, New Zealand, and the
United Kingdom, in April, to join
Malaysia and Singapore in a new
Five Power arrangement for coopera-
tion in the defense of Malaysia and
Singapore. It facilitates continuing
stability in that area, and symbolizes
the feasibility of a broad regional ap-
proach among concerned nations.
-Korea's remarkable economic
growth-averaging over 10 percent
annually in recent years-and the in-
creased strength and competence of
its armed forces suggested that ad-
justments in U.S. deployments were
feasible. We reached joint agreement
in early 1971 on a program to mod-
ernize the Korean armed forces as
our own forces in Korea were re-
duced by one-third. The Koreans, on
their part, have undertaken to in-
crease their own self-sufficiency in
defense. At the same time, the Re-
public of Korea is maintaining a sig-
nificant contribution to the allied ef-
fort in South Vietnam. Last August,
South Korea took the initiative to
begin discussions with North Korea
on ways to alleviate the plight of
families separated by war two decades
ago. This is a hopeful sign that ten-
sions on the Korean Peninsula may
be reduced.
-In cooperation with Thailand, we
have focused on economic and mili-
tary assistance to support Thai efforts
to meet their security needs without
sacrificing the nation's economic
growth. We have reaffirmed our in-
tention to continue our aid and main-
tain our SEATO security commit-
ment. For its part, Thailand has
demonstrated determination to deal
with its externally-aided insurgency.
Our close consultations on ways to
achieve shared objectives in Indo-
china remain an important factor in
the Nixon Doctrine's
Doctrine's success in
Southeast Asia.
American military retrenchment in Asia
has not been-and cannot be an end in
itself. New doctrines and new ways of re-
lating joint efforts serve the basic purpose
of bringing our posture into harmony
with a transitional era. It is perhaps in-
evitable that the most widely noted result
of the Nixon Doctrine has been the reduc-
tion, by nearly 460,000 men, in our
military presence in Asia. This Adminis-
tration and all Americans can take satis-
faction in the fact that it has been possible
to reduce our deployments without jeo-
pardizing our tangible national interests
or broad strategic objectives.
THE ROAD AHEAD
In the years to come we must continue
to tailor our policies to a new pattern of
leadership in a changing Asia. The policies.
of the four major powers concerned with
Asia will profoundly influence its future
structure; the individual and collective
258
