Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
the international economy. To facilitate
the realignment, we agreed that as soon as
the related trade measures were available
for Congressional scrutiny, we would pro-
pose legislation to devalue the dollar in
terms of gold. The U.S. also agreed to re-
move the import surcharge and the "buy
American" provisions of the Job Develop-
ment Credit. I announced implementa-
tion of this decision at my meeting in
Bermuda with Prime Minister Heath.
The Smithsonian agreement--unlike
the arrangements decided on at Bretton
Woods, when the United States was the
predominant nation-was fashioned by
relatively coequal economic powers. It was
the first time in history that nations had
negotiated a multilateral realignment of
exchange rates. Significantly, the partici-
pating nations also agreed that discussions
should be undertaken promptly to con-
sider reform in the international mone-
tary system over the longer term.
The December realignment decreases
the price in foreign currencies of American
exports, making them more competitive
in foreign markets. It raises the price of
foreign imports in our domestic market.
This will help us to improve substantially
our balance of trade and payments posi-
tion, although we should not expect an
immediate turn-around. It will help stim-
ulate domestic employment, especially in
the export sector.
We and our partners also established
the concept of wider bands-allowing ex-
change rates to fluctuate over a wider
range around the newly established rates.
This, plus the more realistic exchange
rates, should dampen future speculation
caused by the expectation of major
changes in currency values.
Future Reforms. This realignment must
be only the first step toward more funda-
mental reform. We must see to it that the
rigidities and imbalances of the old sys-
tem give way to a greater adaptability and
resilience to ensure lasting stability. We
must develop reasonable rules of the road,
adhered to by all, and recognize that co-
operative multilateral management must
remove the disproportionate burden of re-
sponsibility for the system from this coun-
try's shoulders.
I believe recent developments have re-
inforced an old truth: changes in ex-
change rates are demonstrably matters of
concern to many nations. The failure of
countries to make appropriate adjust-
ments, thereby perpetuating imbalances,
is also of international concern. The need
and disciplines for adjustments should
bear on surplus countries and deficit coun-
tries alike.
The amount of international liquidity
affects many nations. In 1969 the world
took a giant step toward improving the
international system by agreeing to create
Special Drawing Rights in the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund. Over $9 billion of
this international money has been created.
Experience with this asset will be invalu-
able in finding appropriate ways to dimin-
ish the role of gold and to avoid the ex-
cessive reliance on reserve currencies that
had become characteristic of the system.
In 1972 I expect progress toward the
development of arrangements with other
nations which ensure that the monetary
system is responsive to our common in-
terest and that it provides a more durable
framework for further expansion of trade
and investment.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
In 1971 we took strong measures to re-
verse our declining trade position, focused
243
