Richard Nixon, 1972
July 27 [239]
public ones, of course, and even more
important, the private ones-in great
detail. At a time that matters are being
discussed, it is not well for me to state
anything with regard to what is happen-
ing in the negotiations.
I will only say that we are negotiating
with the desire of ending this war as soon
as possible. The fastest way to end the war
and the best way to end it is through
negotiation. We would hope that public
figures in their comments will not do any-
thing to undercut the negotiations, that
Congress, in its actions, will not in effect
give a message to the enemy, "Don't
negotiate with the present Administra-
tion; wait for us; we will give you what
you want-South Vietnam."
SAM SITES ON DIKES AND DAMS
[3] Q. Mr. President, to follow up
the first question, if I may, there had been
reports that SAM sites have been put on
top of some of those dikes or dams. Does
your policy rule out the bombing of that
particular area where there are SAM
sites?
THE PRESIDENT. I have seen those re-
ports, Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago
Daily News]. As you know, the Secretary
of Defense has made some indirect com-
ment about it. The situation there is one
that we would lean against the taking out
of SAM sites on targets that would result
in civilian casualties of a substantial
amount.
However, I have not seen in recent days
any reports indicating that any such SAM
sites have been hit, and in view of the
pres-
ent debate, I think we are going to be
very careful with regard to hitting them.
We would do so only if we had to do so
in order to protect American fliers who
otherwise would be hit down by the
SAM's.
CANDIDATES' HEALTH HISTORY
[4] Q. Mr. President, do you think
that anyone with a history of mental ill-
ness should run for high office?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Miss Thomas
[Helen Thomas, United Press Interna-
tional], the question that you ask,
of course, is related to some of the con-
jecture with regard to the ticket on the
other side. Mr. Ziegler has correctly re-
ported to all of you ladies and gentlemen
of the press that I have given the strictest
instructions that there are to be no com-
ments directly, or, in the case of your
question, indirectly, on this subject. This
is a personal matter.
The question of the selection of a Vice
Presidential candidate is one which is a
matter for the Presidential candidate to
decide, with, of course, the advice and
consent of his convention. I am not going
to interject myself in that problem except
to say that since it is a personal matter, it
does give me an opportunity to say that
not now on this matter, nor in this cam-
paign in the future, are we going to cam-
paign on personalities or on party labels.
The issues that divide the opposite side
and this Administration are so wide-in
fact, it is the clearest choice in this cen-
tury-that we must campaign on issues.
There is an honest difference of opinion
on foreign policy, an honest difference of
opinion on domestic policy, and an honest
difference of opinion on most major de-
fense issues.
Under these circumstances, this is a
campaign which I think should be
waged-I would think all would, but this
one particularly should be waged-on the
747
