[347] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
enthusiastic crowd, not as big as today,
but big.
Afterwards, some members of the press
said, “Why did you go; you know you are
not going to carry Georgia?" I said, "I
am quite aware of that." But I went to all
50 States in 1960, and then in 1968 I
visited almost all of the States, and many,
many States in the South. As President of
the United States, I have visited every
one of the 50 States. And in the next 4
years I am planning, to the extent that
my schedule will permit, to visit every one
of the 50 States.
There is a reason for that. I do not be-
lieve in dividing this Nation-region
against region, young versus old, black
versus white, race versus race, religion ver-
sus religion. I believe this is one country. I
believe this is one Nation. And I believe
that while we are all proud of our back-
grounds-some are westerners, some are
southerners, some are northerners, some
are black, some are white, some are of
Italian background, some are of American
stock, as they call it but whatever we
may be and whatever our backgrounds
may be, we are Americans first, and that
is what we must always remember.
Now, it has been suggested that my
campaigning the South in 1960, and then
again in 1968, and now again in 1972,
means that we have, I have, a so-called
Southern strategy. It is not a Southern
strategy; it is an American strategy. That
is what it is, and that is what the South
believes in and that is what America
believes in.
I must admit, more than many recent
American Presidents I perhaps have a
closer affinity to the South because of my
education. I took my law at Duke Univer-
sity. It was a fine law school. I learned a
lot of law. I also met a lot of fine young
inen and women who came from the
South. I learned a lot about law and I
learned also a lot about this Nation's back-
ground, and the differences, and I learned
some of the things I had thought were
right when I got there might not be right.
I remember, since I was somewhat of
a student of history, that when I went to
Duke University in 1934, after a very good
college education at Whittier in Califor-
nia, I was utterly convinced that Ulysses
S. Grant was the best general produced
on either side in the Civil War. After
rooming for 2 years with Bill Perdue of
Macon, Georgia, I found, and was almost
convinced by Bill Perdue's constant ham-
mering on it, that Ulysses S. Grant would
be lucky to be about fourth behind Robert
E. Lee, Joseph Johnston, and Stonewall
Jackson.
Who was the better general or the best
general in the Civil War, fortunately, is
something that is not important now.
What is more important now is that we
find a way to make this one Nation, that
we find a way to work together, that we
find the way in this campaign and in this
election to be guided by our hopes and by
our ideals, and not by our fears and our
hates.
That is why I am campaigning in all
regions, among all races, among all reli-
gions, among all age groups. People don't
have to be for me for me to talk to them.
What I am trying to do is to appeal to all.
That is why we seek what I call a new
American majority. Let me talk about
that majority, if I can, in terms of the
South. Many southerners will be part of
that majority. They will be part of it for
reasons that their fathers and grand-
fathers could never have accepted.
There was a time in the South-and
this is still true among some, as it is in
976
