Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
and not attempt to open this dialogue,
recognizing how great the risks were.
But looking down that road, any man
sitting in this office, as President of the
United States, who failed to seize the
moment, the chance-the chance that was
offered to me, as a result of planning, I
must say, on our part, too-failed to seize
that moment, he would have to answer to
future generations.
Now, it may be too soon, if we are talk-
ing about in terms of the next election, for
people to give credit to the President, or to
blame him for the success or failure of
what happens on this movement to China,
but if 25 years from now, as a result of
what we have done now, we avert a con-
frontation with China, it will all be worth
it.
THE ECONOMY
[17.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, a
couple of questions on the economy, if I
may. It occurs to me that your, until re-
cently, Chairman of the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers, Dr. Paul McCracken,
said a few days ago that government con-
trols on the economy would be "neces-
sary long past this year," I believe was his
phrase. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Chairman Mc-
Cracken is reflecting the view that in some
areas controls may be necessary. I would
put it another way, without disagreeing
with Chairman McCracken. We will keep
controls on only as long as we need them,
and we are going to decontrol just as fast
as we can, as the inflation psychology runs
its course.
Let us take just one example. Take rent
controls. We found for example that in
certain areas of the country, a major city,
there was a very high number of vacancies.
Well, that area should be decontrolled
right now, because when you have a high
number of vacancies, you don't need con-
trol. The competition controls the rents.
So it is in certain other areas.
I do not believe in a controlled econ-
omy. I believe that we had to have these
controls in order to break an inflationary
psychology which had been fueled by war,
and which apparently was not going to be
broken unless we took the very hard action
that we did take. But having taken it, we
are now going to see it through. We want
to reach our goal, and we believe that we
will achieve our goal of keeping inflation
at the 2 to 3 percent level for the year
1972, which will be a major achieve-
ment. That is half of what it was last year.
MR. RATHER. I gather the answer to
the question then is "perhaps." The ques-
tion was whether controls may be neces-
sary beyond this year.
THE PRESIDENT. Perhaps, but I would
emphasize very strongly, because I would
not want to mislead you and all others
who have to comment on this, and then
to say that I have changed my mind, "per-
haps," except that if the program of con-
trols is successful, as successful as we would
hope that it would be, the amount of con-
trols that we have toward the end may be
far less than the statement by Chairman
McCracken implied.
I see the decontrol coming perhaps at
a faster pace, but we will keep them on if
they are necessary.
BLACKS IN AMERICA
[18.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, you
were quoted in a recent interview as say-
ing, and again I quote, "Black people are
different from white people." I don't un-
derstand what you mean by that. Exactly
what did you mean by that? How are
15
