[374] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
time and because it greatly broadened
eligibility requirements. The 1972 act also
provided benefits for the orphans of black
lung victims-a vital category of need
which had been overlooked in the original
law. It is heartening that such orphans
are now receiving their benefits.
As we have produced this record of
progress in matters affecting coal miners,
I have been guided in all my major deci-
sions by Senators and Governors who
represent mining areas.
I refer particularly to my host tonight,
Governor Moore; former Governor Louie
Nunn of Kentucky; and Kentucky's two
great Senators, John Sherman Cooper and
Marlow Cook; and Senator Robert Byrd
of West Virginia.
These are men I have known over the
years, men whose word I trust and men
whose understanding of programs affect-
ing coal miners is without parallel.
They not only share credit for the
progress we have made in the black lung
benefits program-in a very real sense
they are responsible for it, because I relied
heavily on their counsel in approving the
legislation from which the benefits are
now flowing.
When the 1972 black lung bill was
before me, I received conflicting advice.
Some advisers said I should not sign the
bill, for various technical reasons. Louie
Nunn and Arch Moore and Senators
Cooper, Cook, and Byrd, however,
strongly urged me to approve the legisla-
tion, arguing that the clear human needs
outweighed any technical objections.
As you know, I followed their advice.
These men have served their constitu-
ents well, and I urge their constituents to
support Governor Moore and Louie Nunn
on November 7. They are part of my
team, and I need them in office over the
next 4 years as we strive for even greater
progress for coal miners and their
families.
We are also moving forward in mine
safety.
One of my earliest recommendations
was for more effective Federal laws in the
area of coal mine health and safety. We
achieved this in the Federal Coal Mine
Health and Safety Act of 1969.
Since that law went onto the books,
major progress has been made in improv-
ing working conditions in the Nation's
coal mines and in the protection pro-
vided to those who work in them.
In the first 9 months of this year, for
example, the coal mine fatality rate
dropped by approximately 25 percent
from the rate for the same period of 1971.
That rate is still too high-even a single
mine death is one too many-but it
demonstrates clearly that we have suc-
ceeded in improving things and that we
are making progress.
NOTE: The statement was released at Hunting-
ton, W. Va.
375 Remarks in Ashland, Kentucky.
October 26, 1972
THANK YOU very much. I want all of
you to know what a very great experience
it is for my wife Pat and for me to return
to Kentucky. I want you to know that
when I think of those six visits, and others,
too, in which I have come to this State, I
never fail to marvel at the wonderfully
warm reception that we have received.
1034
