[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
tainty, and often to vastly unequal treat-
ment among regions, States and local
school districts. In the absence of statutory
guidelines, many lower court decisions
have gone far beyond what most people
would consider reasonable, and beyond
what the Supreme Court has said is nec-
essary, in the requirements they have im-
posed for the reorganization of school dis-
tricts and the transportation of school
pupils.
All too often, the result has been a
classic case of the remedy for one evil
creating another evil. In this case, a rem-
edy for the historic evil of racial discrimi-
nation has often created a new evil of
disrupting communities and imposing
hardship on children-both black and
white-who are themselves wholly inno-
cent of the wrongs that the plan seeks to
set right.
The 14th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion-under which the school desegrega-
tion cases have arisen-provides that
"The Congress shall have power to en-
force, by appropriate legislation, the pro-
visions of this article."
Until now, enforcement has been left
largely to the courts-which have oper-
ated within a limited range of available
remedies, and in the limited context of
case law rather than of statutory law. I
propose that the Congress now accept the
responsibility and use the authority given
to it under the 14th Amendment to clear
up the confusion which contradictory
court orders have created, and to establish
reasonable national standards.
The legislation I propose today would
accomplish this.
It would put an immediate stop to fur-
ther new busing orders by the Federal
courts.
It would enlist the wisdom, the re-
sources and the experience of the Con-
gress in the solution of the vexing problems
involved in fashioning school desegrega-
tion policies that are true to the Constitu-
tional requirements and fair to the people
and communities concerned.
It would establish uniform national cri-
teria, to ensure that the Federal courts
in all sections and all States would have
a common set of standards to guide them.
These measures would protect the right
of a community to maintain neighborhood
schools-while also establishing a shared
local and Federal responsibility to raise
the level of education in the neediest
neighborhoods, with special programs for
those disadvantaged children who need
special attention.
At the same time, these measures would
not roll back the Constitution, or undo the
great advances that have been made in
ending school segregation, or undermine
the continuing drive for equal rights.
Specifically, I propose that the Congress
enact two measures which together would
shift the focus from more transportation
to better education, and would curb bus-
ing while expanding educational oppor-
tunity. They are:
1. The Equal Educational Opportuni-
ties Act of 1972. This would:
-Require that no State or locality
could deny equal educational oppor-
tunity to any person on account of
race, color or national origin.
-Establish criteria for determining
what constitutes a denial of equal
opportunity.
-Establish priorities of remedies for
schools that are required to desegre-
gate, with busing to be required only
as a last resort, and then only under
strict limitations.
-Provide for the concentration of Fed-
430
