Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [366]
country-if we do have it, while I will
not be able to call each of you
individ-
ually, I am just telling you right now,
I know who did it. You did it, and thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:02 p.m. at the
Rockefeller estate at Pocantico Hills, West-
chester County. He spoke without referring to
notes. The reception was attended by North-
eastern representatives of the Republican Party,
State Committees for the Re-Election of the
President, and Democrats for Nixon.
366 Statement About the Designation of Nassau and
Suffolk Counties, New York, as a Standard
Metropolitan Statistical Area.
ONE of the basic strengths of America is
our people's concern with the identity and
quality of their local communities. While
we are truly one Nation, we have forged
our unity from local diversity. The unique
characteristics of our States and local
communities rightfully remain sources of
local pride and fame.
This Administration believes deeply in
the strengths and wisdoms which are
found on the local levels of America.
Many of our programs-such as the his-
toric revenue sharing law which I signed
last week-are aimed at promoting a
greater reliance on the judgment and
energy of people at the State and local
levels to help solve their own problems
and capitalize on their own strengths.
One way in which the Federal Govern-
ment helps local communities is through
the official designation of statistical re-
porting units called Standard Metro-
politan Statistical Areas. These make up
nearly 300 population groupings which
are given a high priority in the prepa-
ration of consolidated Federal reports on
their economic trends, population, and
other statistics.
Nassau and Suffolk Counties are now
part of the New York City SMSA. But,
when you examine their statistics, you
find that together these two great counties
October 23, 1972
have a combined population of more than
22 million people. If they were a city,
they would be the fourth largest in the
Nation. About 750,000 persons are em-
ployed in nonagricultural pursuits in the
two counties. And they have an obvious
community spirit.
While these two counties have close
economic and social ties to the city of
New York, they also have an independent
economic and social base which is larger
than that of all but a handful of the
Nation's largest metropolitan areas.
Moreover, there is no county even close
to either Nassau or Suffolk in size which
is not a central county of an SMSA.
In view of these circumstances, I am
pleased to announce that my Office of
Management and Budget will declare
Nassau and Suffolk Counties an SMSA
of their own-separate and independent
for statistical purposes from the New York
City SMSA.
Beginning next year, Federal statistics
on the Nassau-Suffolk metropolitan area
will begin to be pubished, and the Fed-
eral recognition of this dynamic two-
county area as a unique population and
economic center will become official.
NOTE: The statement was released at Union-
dale, N.Y.
1015
