Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 21 [66]
Mr. Prime Minister, I wish to thank
you for your very gracious and eloquent
remarks. At this very moment, through
the wonder of telecommunications, more
people are seeing and hearing what we
say than on any other such occasion in
the whole history of the world. Yet, what
we say here will not be long remembered.
What we do here can change the world.
As you said in your toast, the Chinese
people are a great people, the American
people are a great people. If our two peo-
ples are enemies the future of this world
we share together is dark indeed. But if
we can find common ground to work
together, the chance for world peace is
immeasurably increased.
In the spirit of frankness which I hope
will characterize our talks this week, let
us recognize at the outset these points:
We have at times in the past been ene-
mies. We have great differences today.
What brings us together is that we have
common interests which transcend those
differences. As we discuss our differences,
neither of us will compromise our princi-
ples. But while we cannot close the gulf
between us, we can try to bridge it so that
we may be able to talk across it.
So, let us, in these next 5 days, start a
long march together, not in lockstep, but
on different roads leading to the same
goal, the goal of building a world struc-
ture of peace and justice in which all may
stand together with equal dignity and in
which each nation, large or small, has a
right to determine its own form of govern-
ment, free of outside interference or domi-
nation. The world watches. The world
listens. The world waits to see what we
will do. What is the world? In a personal
sense, I think of my eldest daughter whose
birthday is today. As I think of her, I
think of all the children in the world, in
Asia, in Africa, in Europe, in the Ameri-
cas, most of whom were born since the
date of the foundation of the People's
Republic of China.
What legacy shall we leave our chil-
dren? Are they destined to die for the
hatreds which have plagued the old
world, or are they destined to live because
we had the vision to build a new world?
There is no reason for us to be enemies.
Neither of us seeks the territory of the
other; neither of us seeks domination
over the other; neither of us seeks to
stretch out our hands and rule the world.
Chairman Mao has written, "So many
deeds cry out to be done, and always
urgently. The world rolls on. Time passes.
Ten thousand years are too long. Seize the
day, seize the hour."
This is the hour, this is the day for our
two peoples to rise to the heights of great-
ness which can build a new and a better
world.
In that spirit, I ask all of you present to
join me in raising your glasses to Chair-
man Mao, to Prime Minister Chou, and
to the friendship of the Chinese and
American people which can lead to
friendship and peace for all people in the
world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:55 p.m. in the
Great Hall of the People. He spoke from a pre-
pared text in response to a toast proposed by
Premier Chou. The exchange of toasts was
broadcast live on television via satellite.
The Premier spoke in Chinese. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon, ladies and
gentlemen, comrades and friends:
First of all, I have the pleasure on behalf
of Chairman Mao Tse-tung and the Chinese
Government to extend our welcome to Mr.
President and Mrs. Nixon and to our other
American guests.
I also wish to take this opportunity to ex-
tend on behalf of the Chinese people cordial
369
