[274] Aug. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
entire Defense Department. They can all
be justifiably proud of the record:
-Draft calls have been reduced from
299,000 in 1968 to 50,000 in 1972-
one-sixth of the previous level.
-The proportion of enlistees who are
"true volunteers"—that is, who en-
list out of their own free will and not
because of pressure from the draft-
has increased from 59 percent to 75
percent in the last year alone.
-The quality of enlistees has remained
high, even improving slightly, while
the economic and racial profile of
the enlistees has not been signifi-
cantly changed.
-Our military readiness has not
suffered.
Some problems, however, remain to be
overcome, and doing so will require the
full support of the Department of De-
fense, the Congress, and the public. These
problems include:
-Avoiding potential manpower short-
ages which will occur unless legisla-
tion currently pending before the
Congress is passed, so as to bolster
vigorous Service efforts already un-
derway to improve manpower utili-
zation enlistments and retention;
-Providing sufficient numbers of doc-
tors and other highly trained special-
ists in critical skills;
-Maintaining Guard and Reserve
force manning, which will remain
below congressionally mandated
strength unless pending legislation is
passed.
I am confident that these problems can
and will be overcome-assuming prompt
action by the Congress on the necessary
pending legislation and assuming con-
tinued public and Service support. In
particular:
-The benefit and worth of a military
career must be more effectively com-
municated to the American people,
while all four Services continue to
improve their personnel manage-
ment and manpower utilization pro-
cedures. Military careerists deserve
the respect and the gratitude of the
public they serve.
-The Congress must assist through
timely passage of pending legisla-
tion-particularly the Uniformed
Services Special Pay Act of 1972,
which will provide needed bonus au-
thority to help fill projected shortages
in critical skills and other possible
shortages in the number of enlistees
available under a zero draft.
Given this kind of support, we will no
longer need conscription to fill manpower
requirements after July 1973. This means
that it will not be necessary to require
from the Congress an extension of induc-
tion authority of the Selective Service Act
past July of 1973; further authority to
conscript thereafter would rest with the
Congress.
In reaching this goal, we will finally-
28 years after the end of World War II-
have done what I said in 1968 that we
should do: that we should "show our
commitment to freedom by preparing to
assure our young people theirs."
NOTE: The statement was released at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
On the same day, the President met at the
Western White House with Secretary of De-
fense Melvin R. Laird and members of the
Youth Advisory Board of the Selective Service
System to discuss Secretary Laird's report on
progress being made toward an all-volunteer
armed force.
The White House released the transcript of
a news briefing by Secretary Laird on the meet-
ing and the report.
826
