Appendix E
turning to private life, and some, of course, will
be assuming new positions within the White
House. But as this process continues, with
individuals returning to private life or to other
departments, you will see that the White House
Staff and the Executive Office staff is moving
to lower numbers. At some point here when
this process is completed, I will be able to
state to you the extent that the White House
Staff has been reduced. I mentioned yesterday
that the President intended to reduce the White
House and Executive Office staff in the second
term.
Continuing with announcements that relate
to the White House Staff, first I would like
to say that Bill Gifford, who was Special As-
sistant to the President, and who concentrated
on the area of budget and management, is
leaving the White House Staff to join George
Shultz at the Treasury Department as an As-
sistant to the Secretary for Legislative Affairs.
Also, the President has asked me to express
his sincere personal regret in accepting the
resignation of John Nidecker of the White
House Staff. John has expressed a desire to
take another position in Government and the
President appreciates his willingness to re-
main in the Administration in another im-
portant post which will be announced at a
later time.
Q. What was his position?
MR. ZIEGLER. John Nidecker worked on the
Congressional liaison staff.
Also, today I have been asked to tell you
that four assistants in the office of Bill Tim-
mons, who is an Assistant to the President for
Legislative Affairs, will remain in their re-
sponsibilities. The four top assistants will be
staying as Special Assistants for Legislative
Affairs. They are: Richard Cook, Tom C.
Korologos, Wallace Johnson, and Max Frieders-
dorf. Dick Cook and Tom Korologos will con-
tinue to serve as principal deputies for the
House and the Senate respectively. We will
have biographical information in just a
moment.
Two other members of the White House
Staff are also taking new positions, and I would
like to give that information to you at this
time.
Dan Kingsley, who served as Special As-
sistant to the President in the area of person-
nel and recruiting, is leaving the White House
Staff and has joined the staff of the Inaugural
Committee. Frank Herringer, a Staff Assist-
ant who worked with Dan, and now with
Fred Malek, is being nominated to be Ad-
ministrator of the Urban Mass Transportation
Administration at the Department of Trans-
portation, so Frank will be leaving the White
House Staff to assume the position as Admin-
istrator of the Urban Mass Transportation
Administration at the Department of Transpor-
tation. Mr. Herringer will succeed Carlos Vil-
larreal, who has served as the Administrator
of the Urban Mass Transportation Adminis-
tration since March of 1969. We have already
announced previously that Carlos Villarreal
would be leaving that post and returning to
private life.
Frank Herringer has been a Staff Assistant
in the White House since October of 1971, and
as a deputy to Fred Malek he has been re-
sponsible for a wide range of personnel and
management-related matters involving a num-
ber of major Government departments, includ-
ing the Department of Transportation.
Announcing Further Decisions on Personnel
for the Second Term
December 20, 1972
The President has asked me to make some
additional announcements regarding the plan-
ning for the second term.
One of the most important new agencies
of the Federal Government which has been
created during this Administration is the En-
vironmental Protection Agency. The EPA is
beginning its third year of operation this month
and throughout its entire existence one man
has served
served as the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, William
Ruckelshaus.
The President has asked me to announce
that Bill Ruckelshaus will continue in this key
post as we begin the new term.
In reviewing the very active effective record
of the EPA during its short lifetime so far, the
President expressed his confidence that Mr.
E-22
