[409] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
As we went down the line and shook
hands with the wonderful young people
in the band and the other people, and
received the welcome that we did, I must
say that you made us feel very much at
home. But I would like to put it in another
way. We, I know in this State just like
in my home State of California, have a
great tradition, a background of Spanish-
speaking Americans, as well as people of
all other backgrounds, and so, conse-
quently, we pick up a little language here
and there, even though we may not be of
that particular background ourselves.
I remember, however, that when we,
in English, say we want to welcome some-
body someplace, we say, "Make yourself
at home." But those who speak Spanish
have a much warmer way of saying it.
They say, "Estan ustedes en su casa”—
you are in your own home-and that's the
way we feel today.
That allows me to say something that
in all the years I have been in the Oval
Office has meant more to me than almost
anything else in terms of telling me what
America really is. I remember one day
Manny was in and we were talking about
people of various backgrounds. Manny,
of course, is, as he should be, very proud
of his Spanish-speaking background. But
he said, "You know, Mr. President, we
shouldn't talk about hyphenated Ameri-
cans," and he is absolutely right.
So often, I know, we go around, you
hear people say "He is Italian," or "He
is a Pole," or "He is a Mexican," or "He
is black," or whatever the case might be.
Let me say every one of us is proud of
our background, whatever it is, but most
of all, we are proud to be Americans.
That is what we are, and I speak to you
in that vein today.
There were many reasons for coming to
New Mexico today-the sentiment, the
feeling, the fact that we have always had
such a wonderful welcome here. But I
wanted the opportunity as President of
the United States to pay a bipartisan
tribute to one of the great Americans of
our time.
My daughter was here just a few weeks
ago to participate in that tribute. I was
unable to come. He is unable to be with us
today, but Senator Clinton Anderson was
our neighbor when we were in Washing-
ton and when I served in the Senate and
later as Vice President. He was a Demo-
crat. I was a Republican. But Clinton
Anderson, during the years that I knew
him in the Senate, was an American first
and a partisan second-and a great Amer-
ican he was.
He was also like so many from this
great State of New Mexico, these great
Western States-independent. That is a
tradition of Senators from this part of the
country-independent. A team player,
but whenever he felt the interests of his
State or the interests of his Nation re-
quired him to take a different position
than the other people in the party did, he
would take it. And he was known for that.
As I think of Clinton Anderson, he was
a very big man, and it is going to take a
very big man to fill his shoes. I have been
thinking of whether there is a man who
can fill those shoes-and there is one. It
is Pete Domenici. He is the big man who
can fill those shoes. I have known him, of
course, when he has campaigned before.
One time he lost. But again, having lost
then, this time he is going to win, I know.
I know that is what is going to happen.
But let's look at Pete for a moment. He
is a Republican. But he is an American
first. Second, speaking of that independ-
ent tradition, I have talked to him quite
I 122
