Richard Nixon, 1972
[15]
Jan. 20
inequities-then we would have lost our
way.
But the fact that we have those concerns
is evidence that our ideals, deep down, are
still strong. Indeed, they remind us that
what is really best about America is its
compassion. They remind us that in the
final analysis, America is great not because
it is strong, not because it is rich, but be-
cause this is a good country.
Let us reject the narrow visions of those
who would tell us that we are evil because
we are not yet perfect, that we are corrupt
because we are not yet pure, that all the
sweat and toil and sacrifice that have gone
into the building of America were for
naught because the building is not yet
done.
Let us see that the path we are traveling
is wide, with room in it for all of us, and
that its direction is toward a better Nation
and a more peaceful world.
Never has it mattered more that we go
forward together.
Look at this Chamber. The leadership
of America is here today-the Supreme
Court, the Cabinet, the Senate, the House
of Representatives.
Together, we hold the future of the Na-
tion, and the conscience of the Nation in
our hands.
Because this year is an election
will be a time of great pressure.
year, it
If we yield to that pressure and fail to
deal seriously with the historic challenges
that we face, we will have failed the trust
of millions of Americans and shaken the
confidence they have a right to place in
us, in their Government.
Never has a Congress had a greater
opportunity to leave a legacy of a pro-
found and constructive reform for the
Nation than this Congress.
If we succeed in these tasks, there will
be credit enough for all-not only for
doing what is right, but doing it in the
right way, by rising above partisan inter-
est to serve the national interest.
us,
And if we fail, more than any one of
America will be the loser.
That is why my call upon the Congress
today is for a high statesmanship, so that
in the years to come Americans will look
back and say because it withstood the
intense pressures of a political year, and
achieved such great good for the Ameri-
can people and for the future of this Na-
tion, this was truly a great Congress.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:34 p.m. in
the House Chamber at the Capitol, after being
introduced by Carl Albert, Speaker of the
House of Representatives. The address was
broadcast live on radio and television.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
15 Annual Message to the Congress on the State
of the Union. January 20, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
It was just 3 years ago today that I took
the oath of office as President. I opened
my address that day by suggesting that
some moments in history stand out "as
moments of beginning," when "courses
are set that shape decades or centuries."
I went on to say that "this can be such a
moment."
Looking back 3 years later, I would
suggest that it was such a moment—a time
in which new courses were set on which
41
