Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 29 [388]
ours, and whose military forces are more
powerful than those of the United States.
History has taught us again and again
that war is caused not by the strength of
one nation alone, but by the weakness of
one nation in relation to another.
Last spring in Moscow I signed an
agreement for the limitation of offensive
and defensive nuclear weapons on the
part of the United States and the Soviet
Union. We would never have reached
that agreement if the United States had
unilaterally given up the ABM as some
had recommended, or if we had begun
stripping away our offensive missile forces.
If we were to take such action now, we
would destroy any chance for further arms
limitations in the second round of stra-
tegic nuclear arms limitation talks which
are to begin with the Sovet Union next
month. If we unilaterally reduced the
forces now supporting our NATO allies
in Western Europe, as has also been pro-
posed by our opponents, we would throw
away the prospect of mutual and balanced
reductions of Soviet forces in Eastern
Europe.
Strength and resolution command re-
spect. They are an incentive for negoti-
ation leading to peace. But weakness and
naive sentimentality breed contempt.
They are an open invitation to pressure
tactics and aggression leading to war.
That is why I say let us never send the
President of the United States to the con-
ference table as the head of the second
strongest nation in the world.
It may be argued that as long as we
have our nuclear weapons we have noth-
ing to worry about. Because the United
States relied heavily on a deterrent policy
of massive nuclear retaliation during the
1950's, this theory says, we can safely gut
our conventional forces today and go back
to the policy of massive nuclear retaliation
in the 1970's.
The flaw in that argument is that dur-
ing the Eisenhower years the United
States held a 15 to 1 or even a 20 to I
ratio of nuclear superiority over the Soviet
Union. Massive retaliation was credible
then, in the 1950's, and it was credible
during the Cuban missile crisis of 1962,
when our nuclear advantage was about
8 to 1. No enemy would dare to test such
overwhelming odds.
However, when I came into office in
January 1969, I found that this massive
nuclear superiority no longer existed. For
6
years
the Soviet Union had moved for-
ward with a massive buildup of their
nuclear forces, while the United States
was standing still. As a result, today the
United States and the Soviet Union are
equal in nuclear capability.
It has, therefore, become totally un-
realistic to believe that we could any
longer deter aggression against a small
nation, particularly one whose survival did
not directly affect our own survival, if our
only option were a nuclear retaliation
which would lead to nuclear suicide for
the United States.
The mutual destruction would be too
great, and both sides would know it. No
potential aggressor would respect Amer-
ica's security commitments to our friends
and allies under those conditions.
The Middle East is an example. In the
fall of 1970, when Syrian tanks poured
into Jordan, what might have become a
grave world crisis was quietly defused by
the movement of the United States 6th
Fleet into the eastern Mediterranean.
The possibility of a war which could have
threatened the existence of Israel and
dragged in the great powers was averted.
American naval superiority kept the
1067
