Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [52]
these activities must be supplemented by
continued improvement in many aspects
of environmental education to help all of
our citizens, both young and old, develop
a better awareness of man's relation to his
environment. In my first Environmental
Quality Report, I stressed the importance
of improving the Nation's "environmental
literacy." This goal remains as important
as ever, and our progress toward it must
continue.
ONE DESTINY
·
Our destiny is one: this the environ-
mental awakening has taught America in
these first years of the seventies. Let us
never forget, though, that it is not a des-
tiny of fear, but of promise. As I stated last
August in transmitting the Second Annual
Report of the Council on Environmental
Quality: "The work of environmental im-
provement is a task for all our people . .
The achievement of that goal will chal-
lenge the creativity of our science and
technology, the enterprise and adapta-
bility of our industry, the responsiveness
and sense of balance of our political
and legal institutions, and the resource-
fulness and the capacity of this country
to honor those human values upon which
the quality of our national life must ulti-
mately depend." We shall rise to the
challenge of solving our environmental
problems by enlisting the creative energy
of all of our citizens in a cause truly
worthy of the best that each can bring
to it.
While we share our environmental
problems with all the people of the world,
our industrial might, which has made us
the leader among nations in terms of
material well-being, also gives us the
responsibility of dealing with environmen-
tal problems first among the nations. We
can be proud that our solutions and our
performance will become the measure for
others climbing the ladder of aspirations
and difficulties; we can set our sights on
a standard that will lift their expectations
of what man can do.
The pursuit of environmental quality
will require courage and patience. Prob-
lems that have been building over many
years will not yield to facile solutions. But
I do not doubt that Americans have the
wit and the will to win-to fulfill our
brightest vision of what the future can be.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 8, 1972.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message. Participants in
the news briefing were Rogers C. B. Morton,
Secretary of the Interior, Russell E. Train,
Chairman, Council on Environmental Quality,
and William D. Ruckelshaus, Administrator,
Environmental Protection Agency.
52 Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of
the House Transmitting Proposals for 18 Additional
National Wilderness Areas.
PURSUANT to the Wilderness Act of
September 3, 1964, I am pleased today to
transmit proposals for 18 additions to the
National Wilderness Preservation System.
February 8, 1972
The proposed new wilderness areas,
which cover 1.3 million acres in all, are
enumerated in my Special Message on the
Environment of today's date. Two other
189
