Appendix B
March
7 The President met with the Troika-Sec-
retary of the Treasury John B. Connally,
Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council
of Economic Advisers, and Director
George P. Shultz of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget-at the White House.
8 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
Treaty on Extradition between the United
States of America and the Republic of
Argentina.
8 A portrait of the President painted by
Norman Rockwell was unveiled at the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery. Tricia Nixon Cox
represented her father at the ceremony.
10 George Meany, president, AFL-CIO,
breakfasted with the President in the Family
Dining Room at the White House. They
were joined by George P. Shultz, Director,
Office of Management and Budget, and
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs.
10 Members of the Cabinet Committee on
Education met with the President to discuss
the school busing situation. Also partici-
pating were several attorneys from outside
the government, for consultation on legal
and constitutional aspects.
13 The President and Mrs. Nixon have de-
cided that the pandas which are a gift
from the People's Republic of China to the
people of the United States will be housed
at the National Zoological Park in Wash-
ington, D.C.
13 Ronald S. Berman, Chairman, National
Endowment for the Humanities, met with
the President at the White House.
13 Grover E. Murray, president, and John R.
Bradford, dean of the College of Engi-
neering, Texas Technological University,
Lubbock, Tex., called on the President to
present an invitation to address the an-
nual convention of the American Associa-
tion of Engineers to be held at Texas Tech
in June. They were accompanied by Rep-
resentative George H. Mahon of Texas.
March
14 Nassir Assar, Secretary-General of the Cen-
tral Treaty Organization, paid a courtesy
call on the President at the White House.
14 Wes H. Bartlett, president of Kiwanis In-
ternational, called on the President at the
White House. He was accompanied by
Senator Jack Miller of Iowa.
14 Miss Debbie Wright, this year's "Maid of
Cotton," called on the President at the
White House. She was accompanied by
Representative George H. Mahon of Texas.
14 Luci Johnson Nugent and her son, Patrick
Lyndon, talked with the President in his
office during their visit at the White House
with Tricia Nixon Cox.
15 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
Universal Copyright Convention as revised
at Paris on July 24, 1971, together with
two related protocols.
16 In an announcement made simultaneously
in Moscow, the White House stated that
the President's official visit to the Soviet
Union would begin on May 22, 1972.
17 Members of the Citizens' Advisory Coun-
cil on the Status of Women met with the
President to present their report entitled
"Women in 1971" (Government Printing
Office, 61 pp.).
20 The President met with members of the
Cabinet Committee on International Nar-
cotics Control for a
for a report on their
activities.
21 Members of the General Advisory Com-
mittee on Arms Control and Disarmament,
chaired by John J. McCloy, met with the
President at the White House for a review
of United States negotiating positions in
the strategic arms limitation talks and a
presentation of the Committee's recom-
mendations before the resumption of the
talks in Helsinki on March 28. Ambassador
Gerard C. Smith, head of the United States
delegation to the talks, later met with the
President for discussions and instructions
prior to his return to the Helsinki
negotiations.
B-4
