[185] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
We think that the United States may bring
an important, positive contribution to the cause
of the European Security and Cooperation Con-
ference. We welcome with satisfaction the
United States expressed readiness to participate
in the many-sided, practical preparations for
this conference.
We have always held that recognition of
political and territorial realities resulting from
the victory over Nazi Third Reich and from
postwar developments are of crucial significance
for Europe's lasting peace and security, for
progress, détente, and mutual trust in inter-
national relations. At present, when the treaties
which Poland and the Soviet Union have con-
cluded with the Federal Republic of Germany
are becoming effective, this requirement is being
met. This is particularly important because it
closes the postwar chapter in European history,
and opens a new one. To our people it also
means that our national frontiers are univer-
sally recognized as final and are no longer dis-
puted by anyone. The accord on West Berlin,
furnishing conditions for eliminating a major
source of tension, will be put into effect parallel
with the treaties referred to.
General recognition of the German Demo-
cratic Republic and the Federal Republic of
Germany, admission of both German states to
the United Nations should be-we believe-
the next, important step along the newly en-
tered way toward a peaceful Europe.
Speaking of European affairs, dear to our
heart, we remember however, that world peace
is indivisible. We consider it indispensable to
186 Toast at a Luncheon in
Polish Leaders. June 1,
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman of the
Council of Ministers, all of our distin-
guished guests:
We feel somewhat embarrassed to be
the hosts in this great palace which is not
but
ours,
But this is an indication
yours.
of the great hospitality which our friends
from Poland have extended to us on this
visit.
extinguish all hotbeds of war and tension which
are a threat to world peace. In asserting this
we are backed by the tragic historical experi-
ence our nation has lived through-as probably
no other nation has--of the bitterness of being
partitioned and of the cruel horrors of destruc-
tive wars.
Mr. President, before coming here you have
had meetings and important talks with Secre-
tary General of CPSU CC Leonid Brezhnev
and other Soviet leaders. Poland welcomes with
gratification the historic outcome of these talks
and lends them her full support. We consider
that the treaties and agreements concluded in
Moscow are of fundamental importance to in-
ternational détente, to consolidation of peace
in the interest of all nations.
We congratulate you, Mr. President, and the
leaders of the Soviet Union on this success.
We see in the results of Soviet-American
talks a practical confirmation of the principle
of peaceful coexistence and an indication of
transition from an era of confrontation to an
era of negotiations.
In this spirit, too, we welcome your arrival
in Warsaw.
Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to raise a
toast:
-your health, Mr. President, and that of
Madame Nixon;
-to successful progress of your visit here;
-to the health of all American guests;
-to prosperity of the American people;
-to friendship between the Polish and
American peoples.
Warsaw Honoring
1972
We shall take away many memories of
this visit: the memories of the warm
reception of the people of Warsaw, the
memories of our very constructive talks, of
the agreements which we reached. But
most important, we shall take away the
memories of the people at this table, the
leaders of this country whom we have
had the privilege to talk to face to face,
656
