[239] July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
CANDIDATES' FINANCIAL AND MEDICAL
RECORDS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, given the con-
tinuing demand for revealing the financial
backgrounds of candidates and officehold-
ers, what is your reaction to the sugges-
tion that medical records of candidates
and officeholders be revealed and, as a
corollary to that, which you will under-
stand, have you ever felt yourself in more
danger of being overconfident? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Is that something to
do with medical records?
Q. There is a bridge, but it is not direct.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that
for me to answer that question is really
so self-serving that I hesitate to do so. My
medical records, of course, like my finan-
cial records, are now already on the books,
open to the press.
You will recall in 1968, the question
was raised about my medical history, and
Mr. Ziegler, at that time, put out the
medical history, including the examina-
tions, some of the examinations, what the
yearly examinations that we all have were,
going back to the time that I came to
Washington in 1946.
So, as far as my financial records are
concerned, they also have been made pub-
lic, and then every year my medical rec-
ord is made public by Dr. Tkach in
briefings which seem to create some inter-
est among the press. I don't know why.
I would also suggest that in my case,
too, it was somewhat of a self-serving rec-
ord, because Dr. Tkach was pointing out
to me a few days ago that according to his
computation, and I will not vouch for
these figures, that probably I have set a
record: I have been in this office now 32
Maj. Gen. Walter R. Tkach, USAF, Physi-
cian to the President.
years and have never missed an appoint-
ment because of health.
Considering what I have been through,
I mean some fairly stern crises I would
say and rather extensive travel, I don't
think anybody would question the state
of my health.
I think that in answer to your question,
that that is a matter that will inevitably
be a subject that will be raised and in
which the candidates will have, each of
them, to make his own determination. I
made mine. I don't suggest that others
should do likewise.
Now as far as overconfident-about
what, my health?
ELECTION PREDICTIONS
[8.] Q. No, sir, in terms of the circum-
stances and the situation, given your posi-
tion today as an incumbent President
running for reelection, you are the favor-
ite. Events in the past 2 or 3 weeks, let
alone the last 2 or 3 days, have enhanced
that. That is what I was talking about.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I recall his-
torically an incident, and you were cover-
ing us at that time. We both go back 25
years I remember. I recall in 1952 when
another Vice Presidential candidate was
urged to get off the ticket, and there were
many who thought that the fact that he
was urged to get off it, whether he stayed
on or got off, that it was going to sink
the Presidential candidate. It did not.
So, I would say that that incident cer-
tainly would not enter into my predictions
at this time. As far as making a prediction
is concerned, I will give it more thought
and will be glad to respond to it when I
have what I call a political press confer-
which I will have immediately after
the Republican Convention, at the West-
ence,
750
