Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
are we going to finance it?
That is a problem, to a lesser extent,
with the Soviet Union, but also a problem
with them.
I would say then these new relation-
ships we have developed and are develop-
ing with the People's Republic of China
and with the Soviet Union will certainly
lead to more trade in the years ahead-
trade in nonstrategic items, of course, so
long as those countries are engaged in
supporting activities such as those in
Vietnam.
Q. Mr. President, leave it to John. He
will work it out. [Laughter]
TACTICS IN VIETNAM
[8.] Q. Mr. President, one thing that
is bothering me is, what is the basis for the
criticism of our bombing Haiphong and
Hanoi? Were the United States in war, do
you not think that they would immediately
bomb Washington and San Francisco and
New York, and isn't the quickest way to
stop this war to stop the supplies that are
going to North Vietnam from their
friends?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States has
shown restraint such as a great power has
never shown in history in its handling of
the war in Vietnam. At the present time,
however, now that we have gone the extra
mile in offering a peace settlement and
peace terms, a cease-fire, an exchange of
prisoners of war-and Mr. Ross Perot 2
"H. Ross Perot, a Texas businessman,
headed United We Stand, a private organiza-
tion formed to call attention to the plight of
American prisoners of war. In 1969, as part
of efforts to improve the treatment of the
POW's, he attempted unsuccessfully to deliver
Christmas packages to American prisoners in
North Vietnam.
87-234-74 40
can tell you about some of the things we
have gone through there and the barba-
rism with which our prisoners of war are
treated. We have offered a total with-
drawal of all our forces within 6 months.
President Thieu has offered to resign a
month before a new election that would
be internationally supervised in which the
Communists would participate in the elec-
tion, participate in the supervisory body.
Having offered all that, and then faced
with this invasion, certainly the least the
United States can do and that is all
that I have ordered-is to use our air and
sea power to hit military targets in North
Vietnam. That is what we have done and
that is what we are going to continue to
do until they stop their invasion of South
Vietnam.
GOLD PRICES AND PRODUCTIVITY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, most of us who
have observed the moves that you have
made in freeing the gold and expecting
the rest of the world to let their curren-
cies float are pleased. At least the ones
that I know.
The greatness of the country is built
on the willingness of its people to work.
The success of this country is built on that.
When Japan can settle a strike in 2 days,
a shipping strike, and we take 6 months,
why can't we do this a little more effi-
ciently and quickly? When we take people
away from their jobs and do not have
them produce, we are losing the produc-
tive value of these people, and if we don't
do this, will we not face a further devalua-
tion in the ensuing months ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. I think most of you
could hear the question. It relates to what
I think is the totally correct policy of the
Secretary of the Treasury in which we
565
