[368] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
you.
Can I say that to do the job that we
need to do in Washington we need their
help. I also have a special reason about
Joe Boyd, particularly. I would like to
say
that I lived in this county and I have
some special connections with it. I wrote
my 1968 acceptance speech at Montauk
Point, so I have a special feeling for it.
Also, my daughter, my daughter Tricia,
now Tricia Cox, and her husband, have
as their voting residence Suffolk County,
and they would like to have this fine
young man, Joe Boyd, as their Congress-
man. So, how about voting-giving him
one in this respect?
Let me say one final thing: At the great
rally we had in Nassau and along the
streets of Westchester County we heard
many people shouting "Four More
Years." I want to tell you in a word what
I want for those next 4 years. We have
made great progress, great progress par-
ticularly in this last year toward a goal
that all Americans want, and that is
peace
in the whole world.
Our trips to Peking and Moscow, the
winding down of the war in Vietnam,
mean that we can look forward in the next
4 years to, it seems to me, achieving a goal
that we have not had in this whole cen-
tury, the basis for that goal at least—a full
generation of peace for all Americans. It
will not be easy, but we are dedicated to
that goal. We realize that this is a dan-
gerous world because there are differences
between governments. The Communist
Government of the People's Republic of
China, the Communist Government of the
Soviet Union, and the Government of the
United States have very great differences
in interests and differences in philos-
ophies. But with the nuclear danger that
hangs over the world, I am determined
that we must build a world order in which
differences between governments do not
make it impossible for people to be
friends.
We must continue to have a strong
United States to do that. That is why I
will oppose any rash cuts in our budget
which would make the United States
the second strongest nation in the world.
I am for that not out of any sense of sim-
ply false pride or national ego, because I
know that the United States and its
people are dedicated to peace and not to
conquest, and power in our hands means
power for peace.
We also want prosperity, something
we have not had since 1955 when Presi-
dent Eisenhower was President, without
war and without inflation, and we can
have it with your help. We want an era
of progress, progress for all Americans,
opportunity unlimited by quotas or any
other device of that sort, and opportunity
for everybody, regardless of his back-
ground. Above all, let me tell you some-
thing else. This is a year which is an
exciting one. For the first time young
people between 18 and 21 will have the
chance to vote. It will be their first vote.
I want them to be able to look back and
think that it was one of their best.
In that connection, let me say, when I
hear "Four More Years" this is my goal
and I hope it is yours: Let's make the
next 4 years the best 4 years in America's
history.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:13 p.m. at
a rally at MacArthur Field, Long Island, at
the conclusion of his visit to Westchester, Nas-
sau, and Suffolk Counties. He spoke without
referring to notes.
1022
