Richard Nixon, 1972
July 12 [226]
gling to rebuild their lives in the wake of
Tropical Storm Agnes. More than 80
persons perished in the floods that it
brought. More than 128,000 homes and
businesses have been damaged or de-
stroyed. In terms of the property damage
and of the sweeping extent of the terri-
tory affected, this has been the worst nat-
ural disaster in the whole of America's
history.
Confronted with so massive a disaster
emergency, our response as a Nation
must also be massive. Conscience com-
mands it; humanity impels it.
From the earliest days of our Nation,
whenever a disaster or hardship struck,
Americans have pulled together, neigh-
bors helping neighbors. That spirit en-
abled countless thousands to overcome
seemingly hopeless obstacles in the past—
and it is still a source of strength for
America today.
I know, because I saw repeated evi-
dence of that same spirit of neighbor-
liness and sharing when I visited the dis-
aster area in Pennsylvania to inspect the
damage firsthand. The destruction and
loss were immense, almost overpowering.
But even more moving were the spirit,
the optimism, the determination of the
disaster victims themselves, and that of
the government and volunteer workers
who were striving side by side with them.
to undo the damage nature had wrought.
The progress that has been made to
date is impressive. Temporary shelter,
feeding, and medical treatment have been
provided to more than 350,000 people.
Debris removal and restoration of pub-
lic facilities are underway.
An estimated 70,000 workers who are
unemployed as a result of the disaster will
be receiving temporary unemployment
insurance benefits under regular and dis-
aster assistance programs, and direct Fed-
eral payments will create over 50,000
man-years of jobs for workers in affected
areas.
All of this is impressive, in the best tra-
dition of American disaster relief work.
But, when so extraordinary a disaster
strikes, only extraordinary measures-
something beyond the normal effort-will
suffice.
That is why I am today announcing
massive new measures to supplement those
which have already been taken. When a
friend or relative is stricken hard by an ac-
cident or illness, we rally to him. When
this large a part of the Nation is stricken
by disaster, it is a family affair for all of
us, for every American. So, when the Con-
gress reconvenes, I will submit a special
request for additional emergency funds
totaling more than one billion seven hun-
dred million dollars-the largest single
amount ever allocated to recovery efforts
in this country.
If the Congress approves these funds,
they will be channeled into every aspect
of long- and short-term disaster assistance.
They will help clear away existing dam-
age. They will help communities begin
to build anew. They will restore regular
services and facilities in the affected States
of New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland,
West Virginia, Virginia, and Florida.
Never before has so thorough and so
all-embracing a recovery effort been
launched and never was it more uniquely
necessary.
But when we talk about the suffering
of States, counties, and communities, we
are really talking about the suffering of
individual people. Almost invariably, the
hardest hit victims of any natural disaster
731
