Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [368]
than military power and economic
strength. It meant a great ideal.
I want to say to all of this great
audience, and particularly to the young
ones who are here: Be proud of your
country. If you ever go abroad and travel
as I have and as Mrs. Nixon and I have
together, when you come back you will
say, we are the most fortunate people in
the world to live in the United States of
America.
I do not contend that the United States
is perfect. The American revolution will
never end. It is a continuing revolution,
and the glory of it is that peacefully we
can change the things we do not like, but
stay to the good values. Remember that it
was not just military and material might
that built America. It was our spiritual
and moral strength, and never let this
Nation lose that spiritual and moral
strength that has made us what we are.
To all of this great audience-and as
I look at this audience, let me say, I have
never had so many people behind me—
my friends, here in the State of New York,
in the county of Nassau, may I leave this
final thought with you? I know what you
want for the next 4 years. I will tell you
what I want. I want the next 4 years to
be the best 4 years of your lives.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 p.m. at
a rally in the Nassau Veterans Memorial
Coliseum. He spoke without referring to notes.
368 Remarks at Islip, New York.
October 23, 1972
Thank you very much:
Governor Rockefeller, Congressman
[James R.] Grover, my wife and I want
to express our very grateful appreciation
to our wonderful friends here from Suf-
folk County who are completing one of the
finest campaign days we have had in 25
years. We thank you very much.
As I went along the fence greeting a
few of you, I was thinking back to an ap-
pearance in Suffolk in the year 1960.
Some of you may remember. But I recall
there was a heavy rain that day, and it
was a marvelous rally nevertheless.
There was something about this county
that struck me then. It had a special
spirit. The people would come out, rain
or snow for that matter, and, even more
important, they voted.
I am aware of the fact that in the year
1968 the county with the biggest majority
for our ticket, 90,000, was Suffolk County,
New York. Now, at the present time I live
in Orange County, California. Orange
County is trying to have a majority of
100,000, and I have been promised by the
county chairman here that you are going
to beat them, beat Orange County, and I
wish you well.
May I say, too, that I am proud to be
here with the two Congressmen-I mean
one present Congressman and one to be,
my
friend Jim Grover and Joe Boyd,¹ who
belongs in the United States Congress.
Come up here and take a bow so they can
see you. Come on. Here he is. Jim, you
are a cinch, but take a bow too. We need
1 Joseph H. Boyd, Jr., was the Republican
candidate for Congress from the First District
of New York.
1021
