Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [270]
some elections, but I have never lost San
Diego, and I am not going to start now.
Now, if I could turn to one other thing
that San Diego means to me. It has a spe-
cial place in my heart, because after I
served overseas in World War II, I came
home to San Diego, and there is where I
met Pat after having been overseas. So I
will always have that memory of when
we met after that period of time.
San Diego is a very special place to us.
It is special for another reason. In 1968
after having been nominated in Miami,
we came to San Diego first off, and so it
was lucky then, because after coming to
San Diego right after Miami, we won in
November.
Now there is one difference. This crowd
is twice as large as we had in 1968. We are
going to win twice as big in 1972.
I don't mean by that that we are going
to be complacent about it. We are going
to work hard and we are going to work
hard for reasons that I will describe very
briefly, reasons that are terribly important
to all of you, and terribly important to the
future of America.
Let me describe my day very briefly to
you. As I left Miami, I was at Homestead
Air Force Base and there were 500 GI's
out there. They had come down from
Fort Bragg. They were fine young Ameri-
cans. They had come down there to handle
some of the problems that might arise.
They weren't all that difficult. We really
didn't even need them.
But I went over and shook hands with
some of them and I could see that they
were proud to wear the uniform of the
United States. Oh, they were like all GI's;
they were counting their days to when
they are going to get out-some of them.
Some of them are going to stay in, in the
volunteer army.
But it made me feel that whoever is
President of this country has got to be
proud of the young men who instead of
deserting their country, serve their coun-
try. And let us remember that.
Then, after that, I flew to Chicago and
I talked to a crowd of 5,000, a packed
house in Chicago, of Legionnaires, the
American Legion. There were a few from
World War I, a number from World War
II, some from Korea, and the Legion now
has 500,000 members from Vietnam.
And the thought that ran through my
mind as I talked to the American Legion
was this: That is four wars in this cen-
tury. Every generation has had a war. We
have never had a generation of young
Americans who have grown up without a
war. That is why I have been talking
about a generation of peace.
We want not only to end the war in
which we are involved, and end it in a
way that will discourage other wars, in
an honorable way, but we want to build
a lasting peace. And we have got to build
that not simply by being for peace, but
doing something about it, doing some-
thing not simply by negotiating, but nego-
tiating in a way that we are respected. And
that comes down to the very significant
point that I wish to make with regard to
the other stop that I made.
It was in Detroit, Michigan. Not really
in Detroit, in one of the suburbs, a little
town called Utica. Well, it is not so small.
It is a little bigger than Whittier, I think,
as a matter of fact. I dedicated the
Dwight Eisenhower High School.
There were 2,500 inside and about
8,000 or so outside. Most of them were
young people. Oh, there were junior high
school students and high school students
and their parents and, of course, many of
their teachers, as well.
87-234-74-55
813
