[400] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
have the President ever represent the sec-
ond strongest nation in this world.
Let us also be sure that when the Presi-
dent of the United States goes abroad
over these next 4 years, he speaks on the
basis of pragmatism and reality and not
on naive sentimentality that has always
led us into war, or worse, in times past.
And let us also remember this thing:
When we speak of peace, we want it;
when we speak of ending a war, we want
it; but let us remember we have ended
wars before. The important thing is to
end a war in a way that will build a last-
ing peace, and that is why I say, rather
than peace with surrender, let's have
peace with honor for the United States
of America.
As I reported last night on television,
we have made a very significant break-
through in achieving that goal in our
negotiations with the North Vietnamese.
We have already reached basic agree-
ment on the three major conditions that
I laid down in the speech that I made to
the Nation on May 8 when I ordered the
bombing and the mining of Haiphong
and North Vietnam, and those three
agreements that we have already reached
basic agreement on are these:
One, a return of all of our prisoners of
war and an accounting for the MIA's;
two, a cease-fire throughout not just Viet-
nam, but throughout all of Indochina,
Cambodia, and Laos; and three, the right
of the people of South Vietnam to deter-
mine their own future without having a
Communist government or a coalition
government imposed upon them against
their will.
There are some details of the agree-
ment that are still to be negotiated. I am
confident they will be negotiated. I am
confident that we will make an agree-
ment. Let me address myself, however, to
a question that one member of my staff
raised this morning, to the effect that,
"Why are details important? Why not
just make an agreement and sign it, be-
cause that would be really great just
before the election?"
Let me tell you something. Rather than
having simply an agreement before an
election, we want to have a peace for the
next generation, and that is what we are
working for. I can assure you that as far
as an election is concerned, it will not
delay an agreement. I can assure you,
however, it will not hasten it. The main
thing is, we are going to have one, and it
is going to be the right kind. I think the
American people want the right kind of
an agreement-peace with honor and not
surrender. That is what we are standing
for and that is what we will achieve.
Looking far to the future, we think of
the younger people here and the older
people, people who are black and who
are white, people who are rich and poor,
people who are employers and employees.
We think of those that are respectful when
they come to a meeting and all those that
are disrespectful. All of them have their
right to be heard, and so have I. But in
that respect, I would simply say this word
to all of you who are here: These next
4 years are years in which America has
an opportunity such as I have not seen
in my lifetime or that America has not
witnessed in this century.
We can build a world of peace, real
peace; something we have not had in a
generation, and for a generation in this
whole century. We can have prosperity
without war and without inflation. We
can have increased opportunities for all
1098
