[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the international development process
should be a source of pride to Americans.
It pioneered many of the innovations in
foreign assistance which are accepted as
having been critical to the success of de-
velopment in certain nations. It has
trained and brought together a large num-
ber of individuals extremely skilled in
solving the problems of the developing
countries. It has been looked to by many
nations not only to provide them with aid
but also to help them determine their
development priorities. It compiled infor-
mation and technical data on which other
nations and the international develop-
ment institutions relied heavily.
But today's changed setting requires a
new approach.
-Because multilateral institutions en-
able us to contribute to development
on a broad scale, our bilateral aid can
and should be focused on countries
in which we have a special interest
and on problems where it can do the
most good.
---Because developing nations them-
selves are increasingly able to set their
development priorities and plans,
and to determine their most urgent
assistance needs, the U.S. should
play a less direct role in this phase of
development, and decrease the num-
ber of personnel stationed abroad for
this purpose.
-Because a number of other donors,
along with the multilateral institu-
tions, now provide substantial sums
of aid, our bilateral assistance should
be coordinated with theirs. And the
multilateral institutions should take
the lead in providing information
and data to all donor nations, and in
integrating their assistance.
Based on this approach, I proposed a
set of reforms including the creation of
two new development institutions: one to
provide capital development loans and
the other to provide technical assistance.
I hope that in 1972 the Congress will give
closer consideration to these proposals and
the approach of which they are a part. I
regard them as the basis for discussion
with the Congress aimed at formulating a
program which effectively pursues this
country's national and international in-
terests and merits the bipartisan support
foreign assistance has enjoyed in the past.
In an effort to improve our program
based on this approach, major changes
have been effected:
-AID has separated the administra-
tion of its economic security assist-
ance programs from that of its
development assistance programs.
---AID's technical assistance program is
concentrating on major development
priorities, including food production,
education and health, with emphasis
on the application of innovative
techniques to solve crucial problems
common to many lower income
countries.
-AID is strengthening its population
and humanitarian assistance pro-
grams to provide immediate help in
disasters and to improve its capacity
to deal with the vital problems of
hunger and population.
-AID has launched a systematic
effort to engage American private or-
ganizations more effectively in the
application of technical and scientific
capabilities to help the developing
countries.
-AID, by concentrating its activities
in major priority areas, has been able
to reduce its staff by approximately
30 percent since 1969 and the num-
250
