Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 31 [394]
these, there are millions of ordinary citi-
zens in their seventies and eighties who
are making extraordinary contributions to
their communities.
Senator Green of Rhode Island used to
contend: "Most people say that as you
get old you have to give up things. I think
you get old because you give up things."
I believe that millions of older Amer-
icans can make great contributions to our
Nation's progress if only they have the
chance. This really is the point of our
Government programs and policies-to
help older Americans play a full, con-
tinuing role in the great adventures of
America.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m. from
Camp David, Md. The address was broad-
cast live on nationwide radio. Time for the
broadcast was purchased by the Committee for
the Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
394 Statement Announcing Transfer of 18 Parcels of Land
Under the Legacy of Parks Program.
October 31, 1972
TODAY I am pleased to announce that
under our rapidly expanding Legacy of
Parks program, the Federal Government
will soon transfer 18 parcels of land to
State and local governments for park and
recreational use.
These transfers mark a significant mile-
stone in the Legacy of Parks program, for
when they are completed, we will have
created new parklands in all 50 States,
the District of Columbia, and Puerto
Rico.
These 18 properties total just over 8,000
acres and are located in 14 States and the
District of Columbia. They will bring
the grand totals for the Legacy of Parks
program to 218 transfers to local govern-
ments covering over 34,000 acres of land.
The Legacy of Parks program was in-
augurated 19 months ago by my Executive
Order 11508. In that order, I established
a Property Review Board and directed it
to identify property which was under-
utilized and could be converted to higher
and better use.
The success of this program has been
extremely gratifying to me. It proves that
with sound and thoughtful programs, we
can make major improvements in our
natural environment. I am particularly
pleased that many of the new parks and
recreational areas created by this program
are located near urban areas, for this
means that just as we are bringing govern-
ment closer to the people, we are also
bringing a better quality of life closer
to our people.
NOTE: A White House announcement con-
taining additional information on the transfer
of the 18 parcels of land under the Legacy
of Parks program was released on the same
day and is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1607).
1079
