Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 1 [32]
that in terms that make the others feel
inferior. We shouldn't stand here and ex-
pect that they should say thank you. Be-
cause it was right to do so, we thought.
We thought it then, we think it now. That
is our way. That is our way to show our
dedication to what the Nation has stood
for from the beginning: liberty and jus-
tice for all, not just in America, but
throughout the world.
Mention has been made of the fact that
I shall be traveling on two long journeys
with Mrs. Nixon, one to Peking and one
to Moscow. And all of the people in this
room are aware of the fact that while
these journeys have never before been
undertaken by a President of the United
States, this does not mean that we are
going to find that instant peace will follow
from them.
We have to realize that we have great
differences, differences between our Gov-
ernment and that of the Government of
Mainland China, the People's Republic of
China, differences between our Govern-
ment and the Government of the Soviet
Union. And it is naive to think, or even
to suggest, that those differences will evap-
orate if we just get to know each other
better. I wish it were so, but it is not so;
it has never been so.
In fact, the differences that we have
with those great powers, their govern-
ments that is, is not because we do not
know them or they know us, but because
we do know them and they know us. The
philosophic gulf is enormous. It will
continue.
But there is, on the other hand, another
factor, a very pragmatic one, which brings
us together. We all realize that because
of the new sources of power that have
been unleashed in the world that we all
must learn either to live together or we
shall die together.
That is putting it in its most negative
and harsh terms. I could perhaps put it
in other terms.
I recall the many visits I have made to
countries around the world and what im-
pressed me the most: the great leaders, the
historical monuments, all those things
that impress a visitor from abroad. And
then when Mrs. Nixon came back from
Africa, it came to me again what im-
pressed me, and what, of course, had im-
pressed her on her visits.
She told me about the leaders, impres-
sive men and women working in these
countries for liberty and justice for all in
their way-far from it in many instances,
but trying.
But what impressed her the most were
the children-children, eyes wide with
wonder and hope, love, very little hate.
Oh, differences, of course, because chil-
dren have their differences as we know.
But those children-they happened to be
black-the children that I have seen,
Chinese children, Russian children, by the
hundreds of thousands in capitals around
the world, make us all realize that that is
what it is all about.
In this country, before we can help to
bring peace to the world, we, of course,
must have peace among ourselves, and
Mayor Washington has so eloquently ad-
dressed himself to that subject. And as we
have peace among ourselves, then perhaps
we can play a role, imperfect though it
may be, at this historic moment in the
history of nations, to bring a period of
peace between great nations that are
very different, not just racially but,
more important and more deeply,
philosophically.
125
