[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
accomplishments of 1971 were break-
throughs.
EUROPEAN UNITY AND ATLANTIC
PARTNERSHIP
When Great Britain, Ireland, Norway,
and Denmark signed the treaty enlarging
the European Community on January 22,
I issued a strong statement welcoming it
and emphatically reaffirming our tradi-
tional support for the advancement of
European unity. In two previous Foreign
Policy Reports, I expressed this support in
similarly categorical terms-but I also
pointed to the problems which European
integration implied for the United States
and for our political and economic rela-
tions with our allies across the Atlantic.
The events of the past year have now
brought these problems dramatically to
the fore.
In the 1940's and into the 1950's, West-
ern Europe was prostrate-politically,
economically, and militarily. The United
States, preeminent in the world, had only
just emerged from its isolationist tradi-
tion. In this environment, our allies shifted
the responsibility for major decisions to
us. In their eyes, the overriding purpose
of the new arrangements-for defense,
economic policy, and foreign policy--was
to link us to Europe in tangible ways on a
long term peacetime basis. They therefore
deferred to our prescriptions and wel-
comed our lead-even on formulas for
European integration.
Both to us and to them the advantages
of European unification were unambig-
uous. It would help dispel the internecine
hatreds of the recent past; it would maxi-
mize the effectiveness of U.S. assistance;
it would hasten Western Europe's political
and economic recovery and thereby en-
hance its security. These were common
interests, and no inconsistency was seen
between European unity and broader
Atlantic unity. Cooperation came so easily
that it was widely assumed for years in the
United States that a strong and united
Europe would readily take up a large part
of the American burden, while still accept-
ing American leadership.
But a self-respecting nation or group of
nations will take up a burden only if it sees
it as its own burden. By the 1960's Europe
was in a position to do more for itself and
for the Alliance. Nevertheless, old habits
on both sides of the Atlantic persisted and
inhibited the development of a more
balanced relationship.
--Their economies thriving, their social
cohesion and institutions restored,
our allies were acting more and more
self-confidently and independently
on the world stage. The United
States continued to lead in tutelary
fashion, however, looking for allied
endorsement of U.S. prescriptions.
Our allies fluctuated between taking
the U.S. commitment to Europe for
granted, and panicking at the
thought of U.S. withdrawal. We
would not withdraw from Europe.
But the Atlantic community was
their community, too: all allies had
to feel a stake in and responsibility
for the achievement of common
purposes.
As Prime Minister Heath has stated,
four new members will now be joining
with others in Europe "to work out the
common European policies. . . govern-
ing our dealings with the rest of the world,
our trade, our finance and eventually our
defense." A Western European summit
meeting may be held in the coming year,
giving further impetus and direction to the
222
