Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 18 [260]
259 Message to the Senate Transmitting a United
States-Japanese Convention on Migratory Birds.
August 18, 1972
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Convention Be-
tween the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
Japan for the Protection of Migratory
Birds and Birds in Danger of Extinction,
and their Environment, signed at Tokyo
on March 4, 1972. I transmit also, for the
information of the Senate, the report from
the Department of State regarding the
Convention.
This Convention, which marks the
culmination of several years of intensive
study and consultations between experts
of both countries, is designed to provide
for the protection of species of birds which
are common to both countries or which
migrate between them. Recognizing the
importance of the preservation of the en-
vironment of birds and recognizing that
island environments are particularly sus-
ceptible to disturbance, the Convention
provides that each country will develop
programs to preserve and enhance the
environment of the birds which are pro-
tected under the Convention.
I believe that the Convention estab-
lishes an effective basis for cooperation in
taking measures for the management and
protection of the birds included under the
Convention. I recommend that the Senate
give early and favorable consideration to
the Convention and give its advice and
consent to ratification.
The White House,
August 18, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive R (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
260 Statement Announcing Continuation of the Planned
Variations Program. August 18, 1972
I AM pleased to announce that the
Planned Variations demonstration of rev-
enue sharing principles, inaugurated one
year ago in 20 cities, has received a very
favorable response from participating
cities and that it will be continued for a
second year.
This test project indicates what local
communities can do to plan and imple-
ment local improvements when freed from
heavyhanded Federal regulation and
second-guessing.
In the past-and at present under most
existing Federal grant programs-local
governments have been given sums of
Federal money, told what specifically to
do with it, checked by Uncle Sam at every
step along the way, and sometimes scolded
if things on the local scene do not turn
out as bureaucrats in Washington have
imagined they would.
Instead of focusing these decisions in
Washington, one fundamental thrust of
my Administration has been to develop
power-to-the-local-people programs under
which local officials-who know the local
scene the best-are given funds and the
freedom to allocate those funds as local
779
