Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 8 [79]
BASIS FOR OPTIMISM
We cannot be assured of complete suc-
cess in this endeavor. In such a complex
field, rules can never be airtight and we
must rely upon the good judgment of
individuals throughout the Government.
Yet I believe that our new approach does
provide a basis for considerable optimism.
The full force of my office has been com-
mitted to this endeavor. The rules have
been tightened with great care. In addi-
tion, in a critically important shift, we
have reversed the burden of proof: For
the first time, we are placing that bur-
den—and even the threat of administra-
tive sanction-upon those who wish to
preserve the secrecy of documents, rather
than upon those who wish to declassify
them after a reasonable time.
The new system will become effective
on June 1, 1972. Among its most signifi-
cant features are these:
-The rules for classifying documents
are more restrictive.
-The number of departments and
people who can originally classify infor-
mation has been substantially reduced.
-Timetables ranging from 6 to 10
years have been set for the automatic
declassification of documents. Exceptions
will be allowed only for such information
as falls within four specifically defined
categories.
-Any document exempted from auto-
matic declassification will be subject to
mandatory review after a 10-year period.
Thus, for the first time, a private citizen
is given a clear right to have national
security information reviewed on the basis
of specified criteria to determine if con-
tinued classification is warranted, so long
as the document can be adequately identi-
fied and obtained by the Government with
a reasonable amount of effort.
-If information is still classified 30
years after origination, it will then be
automatically declassified unless the head
of the originating department determines
in writing that its continued protection is
still necessary and he sets a time for
declassification.
-Sanctions may be imposed upon those
who abuse the system.
-And a continuing monitoring process
will be set up under the National Security
Council and an Interagency Classification
Review Committee, whose Chairman is to
be appointed by the President.
These rules are explained in greater
detail below.
ELEMENTS OF THE NEW SYSTEM
1. Tighter Rules for Classification.
Under the new order, materials can be
classified Top Secret, Secret, or Con-
fidential only if their unauthorized dis-
closure "could reasonably be expected" to
cause, respectively, exceptionally grave
damage, serious damage, or damage to
the national security. Heretofore, material
could be classified if the originator had
any expectation of such damage however
remote. This new test is intended to re-
duce the amount of protected informa-
tion. In addition, the order explicitly
directs that the "Top Secret" stamp must
be used with "utmost restraint" while
"Secret" shall be used "sparingly."
2. Reduction in Classification Authority.
The new order also substantially re-
duces the number of agencies in the Gov-
ernment authorized to classify informa-
tion and material. Under current rules, 24
403
