[21] Jan. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
china, including North Vietnam, to help
all these peoples recover from the ravages
of a generation of war.
We will pursue any approach that will
speed negotiations.
We are ready to negotiate the plan I
have outlined tonight and conclude a
comprehensive agreement on all military
and political issues. Because some parts
of this agreement could prove more diffi-
cult to negotiate than others, we would
be willing to begin implementing certain
military aspects while negotiations con-
tinue on the implementation of other
issues, just as we suggested in our private
proposal in October.
Or, as we proposed last May, we remain
willing to settle only the military issues
and leave the political issues to the Viet-
namese alone. Under this approach, we
would withdraw all U.S. and allied forces
within 6 months in exchange for an Indo-
china cease-fire and the release of all
prisoners.
The choice is up to the enemy.
This is a settlement offer which is fair
to North Vietnam and fair to South Viet-
nam. It deserves the light of public scru-
tiny by these nations and by other nations
throughout the world. And it deserves the
united support of the American people.
We made the substance of this generous
offer privately over 3 months ago. It has
not been rejected, but it has been ignored.
I reiterate that peace offer tonight. It can
no longer be ignored.
The only thing this plan does not do is
to join our enemy to overthrow our ally,
which the United States of America will
never do. If the enemy wants peace, it will
have to recognize the important difference
between settlement and surrender.
This has been a long and agonizing
struggle. But it is difficult to see how any-
one, regardless of his past position on the
war, could now say that we have not gone
the extra mile in offering a settlement that
is fair, fair to everybody concerned.
By the steadiness of our withdrawal of
troops, America has proved its resolution
to end our involvement in the war; by
our readiness to act in the spirit of concil-
iation, America has proved its desire to be
involved in the building of a permanent
peace throughout Indochina.
We are ready to negotiate peace
immediately.
If the enemy rejects our offer to nego-
tiate, we shall continue our program of
ending American involvement in the war
by withdrawing our remaining forces as
the South Vietnamese develop the capa-
bility to defend themselves.
If the enemy's answer to our peace offer
is to step up their military attacks, I shall
fully meet my responsibility as Com-
mander in Chief of our Armed Forces to
protect our remaining troops.
We do not prefer this course of action.
We want to end the war not only for
America but for all the people of Indo-
china. The plan I have proposed tonight
can accomplish that goal.
Some of our citizens have become ac-
customed to thinking that whatever our
Government says must be false, and what-
ever our enemies say must be true, as far
as this war is concerned. Well, the record
I have revealed tonight proves the con-
trary. We can now demonstrate publicly
what we have long been demonstrating
privately--that America has taken the ini-
tiative not only to end our participation
in this war, but to end the war itself for
all concerned.
This has been the longest, the most
104
