Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
portunity Act, under which we would up-
grade education in inferior schools, but
we specifically provide that busing would
not be required at all for children sixth
grade and below, and then for any other
cases above that, would be used not as the
first resort, but only as a last resort, and
then only temporarily.
It also provides, incidentally, when this
act is passed, that in those States that have
had imposed upon them busing orders
that went beyond what the new legislation
would require, those cases could be
reopened.
pres-
Now, where do you stand? At the
ent time, the Congress has had this request
for legislation for over 2 months. It has
not acted. The prospects for its acting do
not appear hopeful at the present time. In
my view, before the Congress goes home
for its election recess, the Congress owes it
to the American people to act, because
unless it does act, it means that tens of
thousands of students in scores of commu-
nities across this country are going to be
subjected to busing orders that will
pro-
vide inferior education for them, and that
should be avoided. So I believe that the
Congress should act to deal with the prob-
lem. If the Congress does not act, and
refuses to face up to the problem, then the
only resort that we have left is to proceed
with the constitutional amendment.
So under these circumstances, I realize
that the position that I have taken is sub-
ject to honest criticism, honest debate by
people who have considered the subject
just as I have tried to consider it, with
the interest of better education as well as
eliminating the dual school system, and
providing equality of opportunity of edu-
cation for all concerned.
But I simply conclude my answer to
this question by saying that in this coun-
try if you were to provide for-I am talk-
ing now about the most extreme advocates
of busing-if you were to provide for bus-
ing students in the major metropolitan
centers like New York and Chicago and
Detroit and Los Angeles, in plans that go
further than even the most liberal plans
have ever provided, it would still leave
the great majority of black children in
inferior schools in central cities who would
never get the benefit of a so-called better
education.
So I say that the better answer is to
upgrade the education for those children
who would otherwise be a lost generation,
but let's do not impair the education for
all other children as a result of busing
orders. That is the way I think we should
approach it.
FELIX MCKNIGHT (managing editor,
Dallas Times Herald). Mr. President,
your days and nights are very long, and
we are very grateful for your services. As
a newspaperman, I would like to exercise
my prerogative and say thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: Secretary Connally introduced the Presi-
dent at 9:14 p.m. on the lawn of the Picosa
Ranch as follows:
My friends, may I have your attention for
a moment, please. Please go ahead with eating
your food, if you wish, but time is running,
and while we have you all here, there are a
few things that I would like to say for myself
and for Nellie.
First, I think I have known most of you, or
all of you, long enough to where you will com-
pletely and fully understand when I say how
perfectly delighted Nellie and I are to have you
on this ranch. Under this roof are many-not
all; I can't say all, because I think we have
a few members of the press here-but many of
the dearest friends that we have in this world.
[Laughter]
I am always an optimistic fellow, and at times
a little vain, perhaps, and I wouldn't want our
distinguished guest to leave you assuming I had
569
