[403] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
John Chafee has a keen, independent
mind of his own, but he stands together
with the rest of us in his commitment to
keep America strong and to keep Rhode
Island playing an important part in sus-
taining our naval strength. He knows too
that we are committed to achieving more
than peace alone. We are determined to
build not only a peaceful America, but a
prosperous America as well.
There is an economic resurgence across
America today, and I am confident we
can keep it up with your help.
On the job front, more than 2.3 million
new civilian jobs have been created in
the last year. This is the highest rate of
increase since 1956. Unemployment na-
tionally and here in Rhode Island is com-
ing down, and we are going to keep it
coming down. Rhode Islanders know that
John Chafee created 50,000 jobs while
serving as Governor; that's the kind of
progress we want in the future.
For 5 years, the average American's
purchasing power stagnated because of
inflation. We have changed that situation
here in Rhode Island and across the Na-
tion. We have cut the rate of inflation al-
most in half, and, in the last year, we
have driven up real wages-the real pur-
chasing power of the average working
American by 4.5 percent-the equivalent
of more than two extra weekly paychecks.
Higher taxes, the other threat to the
average family's pocketbook, has been an-
other of our prime targets. That is why I
have vetoed a long line of excessive spend-
ing measures passed by the Congress. They
all added up to breaking the budget and
driving up taxes. That is something I am
determined to prevent with every means
at my disposal.
As a result of tax reform already
achieved under this Administration, the
average family of four making $10,000
a year has had its Federal income taxes
drop by 26 percent since 1969.
A further major stride has been the
enactment of general revenue sharing.
The revenue sharing bill which I signed
2 weeks ago in Philadelphia will allow
many State and local governments to hold
the line on property taxes, a benefit that
should not be lost on Rhode Islanders
whose property taxes have soared more
than 60 percent over the past 10 years.
This legislation will make it easier for the
next Governor of Rhode Island to govern
wisely and well, without the constant
threat of increased taxes.
From personal acquaintance, I believe
that Herbert DeSimone would be the best
man for the Governor's job in Rhode Is-
land over the next 2 years. I have had the
opportunity to see him at work firsthand
an excellent Assistant Secretary of
Transportation, where he served as the
strong right hand of another outstanding
New Englander, John Volpe. I know that
Herb DeSimone has the administrative
skill, the leadership ability, and the strong
character it takes to make a successful
Governor.
Leadership that can set serious, attain-
able goals-leadership that knows how to
get things done that is what America
needs today on every level of government,
from the White House to the Governor's
office to the county courthouse. That is
the kind of leadership I pledge to give the
Nation as we work together toward an era
of peace and progress.
NOTE: The statement was released at Provi-
dence, R.I.
1106
