[409] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
and not peace through weakness. That is
what we stand for, and what Pete Dome-
nici and Manny Lujan and all the rest
stand for.
One other point that is related to this:
We are moving, fortunately, to something
that has been an ideal of mine, and I know
of Manny Lujan's and Pete Domenici's
and all of us here for many years, and
that is, we are going to have a volunteer
armed force starting in the middle of next
year. In order to make that volunteer
armed force work, however, it is necessary
not only that they be paid enough, and
they will be; it is necessary that those men
and women in uniform in peacetime have
the respect of their fellow countrymen.
In that respect, I simply want to say
that as the long war in Vietnam comes to
a conclusion, I, of course, think of those
22 million Americans who served there.
It was a hard choice for them, as it is for
any who have to go to war. But they chose
to serve their country when they had to
make that choice. Many gave their lives
for that choice. A few hundred, when they
were faced with that choice, chose to
desert their country, and they have to
pay
a penalty for their choice.
And so that there will be no misunder-
standing on the differences between the
two candidates in this respect, when the
war in Vietnam is over, there will be no
amnesty for draft dodgers or deserters,
because it would not be fair to those who
have served, and it is not the basis on
which we could develop the new volunteer
armed force, with the respect that we
want, for developing the strength that
America needs.
I have talked about this problem par-
ticularly because I know it is so close to
all of your minds. Let me say, having
reached the era of peace that we want, we
want to have also with it what we have
not had since President Eisenhower was
President, and that is prosperity without
war, without inflation. We are moving
toward it. We need your help to continue
in that direction. We want progress, but
we want the kind of progress-programs
for progress-that can be undertaken
without increasing the tax burden on the
American people. Your taxes are already
too high, and that is why you are not
hearing promises that are going to raise
your taxes from me on this occasion.
And above everything else, we want
opportunity for Americans, opportunity
for every American-those first Ameri-
cans that I had the opportunity to meet
over here a few minutes ago, those who
have come from other countries, those
who are proud Americans who are more
recently citizens-we want every Amer-
ican, whatever his background, every
child, to have a chance to go to the top,
ceiling unlimited. That is our ideal. We
are working toward it. We can and will
achieve it.
These are some of the goals we have
in mind and today I come here to our
friends in New Mexico and ask your sup-
port of those goals. It is on that basis,
then, that I present the case. Not Re-
publican versus Democrat, not one indi-
vidual against another, but I say to you
that when we talk about peace with
honor, when we talk about strength for
America, when we talk about opportunity
for all, when we talk about prosperity
without war, without inflation, when we
talk about holding the line on taxes, those
are issues that transcend partisan politics.
1126
