[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
in a piecemeal and haphazard fashion.
As a result, our Federal Government
today is too often a sluggish and unrespon-
sive institution, unable to deliver a dollar's
worth of service for a dollar's worth of
taxes.
My answer to this problem is to stream-
line the executive branch by reducing the
overall number of executive departments
and by creating four new departments in
which existing responsibilities would be
refocused in a coherent and comprehen-
sive way. The rationale which I have ad-
vanced calls for organizing these new
departments around the major purposes
of the government-by creating a Depart-
ment of Natural Resources, a Department
of Human Resources, a Department of
Community Development, and a Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs. I have revised
my original plan so that we would not
eliminate the Department of Agriculture
but rather restructure that Department so
it can focus more effectively on the needs
of farmers.
The Congress has recently reorganized
its own operations, and the Chief Justice
of the United States has led a major
effort to reform and restructure the ju-
dicial branch. The impulse for reorgani-
zation is strong and the need for reorgani-
zation is clear. I hope the Congress will
not let this opportunity for sweeping
reform of the executive branch slip away.
A NEW APPROACH TO THE DELIVERY OF
SOCIAL SERVICES
As a further step to put the machinery
of government in proper working order, I
will also propose new legislation to reform
and rationalize the way in which social
services are delivered to families and
individuals.
Today it often seems that our service
programs are unresponsive to the recipi-
ents' needs and wasteful of the taxpayers'
money. A major reason is their extreme
fragmentation. Rather than pulling many
services together, our present system sep-
arates them into narrow and rigid cate-
gories. The father of a family is helped by
one program, his daughter by another,
and his elderly parents by a third. An
individual goes to one place for nutritional
help, to another for health services, and
to still another for educational counseling.
A community finds that it cannot transfer
Federal funds from one program area to
another area in which needs are more
pressing.
Meanwhile, officials at all levels of gov-
ernment find themselves wasting enor-
mous amounts of time, energy, and the
taxpayers' money untangling Federal red
tape-time and energy and dollars which
could better be spent in meeting people's
needs.
We need a new approach to the delivery
of social services-one which is built
around people and not around programs.
We need an approach which treats a per-
son as a whole and which treats the family
as a unit. We need to break through rigid
categorical walls, to open up narrow
bureaucratic compartments, to consolidate
and coordinate related programs in a com-
prehensive approach to related problems.
The Allied Services Act which will soon
be submitted to the Congress offers one
set of tools for carrying out that new
approach in the programs of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
It would strengthen State and local plan-
ning and administrative capacities, allow
for the transfer of funds among various
HEW programs, and permit the waiver of
certain cumbersome Federal require-
54
