[287] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
security measures to protect those who
might be the targets of this kind of activ-
ity in the future. That might include
Americans of Israeli background, Ameri-
can citizens. It is more likely to be di-
rected, however, against Israeli citizens,
because what they want to do is get
leverage with the Israeli Government
with regard to people that are held by the
Israeli Government. However, we are not
taking any chances. We will do every-
thing we can to protect our own citizens,
whatever their background.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
I p.m. at the Golden Gate Pier, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.
Early in the morning on September 5, 1972,
288
eight Arab terrorists, members of the Black
September group, entered the dormitory which
housed the Israeli Olympic athletes, killed two
Israelis, and took nine others hostage. After
hours of negotiation with German officials,
the terrorists and their hostages were flown
in three helicopters to nearby Furstenfeld-
bruck airport where, shortly before midnight,
five of the terrorists, all of the hostages, and a
German policeman were killed during an ex-
change of gunfire.
On September 6, the President asked Secre-
tary of State William P. Rogers to meet with
Israeli Ambassador Yitzhak Rabin concern-
ing the assault on Israeli Olympic athletes, and
also to consult with other governments on an
urgent basis to determine what collective
measures by the international community could
be brought to bear on the problem of terrorism.
Message to Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel
About the Deaths of Israeli Athletes at the Olympic
Games in Munich, Germany. September 6, 1972
Dear Madame Prime Minister:
The heart of America goes out to you,
to the bereaved families and to the Israeli
people in the tragedy that has struck your
Olympic athletes. This tragic and sense-
less act is a perversion of all the hopes and
aspirations of mankind which the Olym-
pic games symbolize. In a larger sense, it
is a tragedy for all the peoples and nations
of the world. We mourn with you the
deaths of your innocent and brave ath-
letes, and we share with you the determi-
nation that the spirit of brotherhood and
peace they represented shall in the end
persevere.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
289 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on Location of New Federal Facilities in
Rural Areas. September 7, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the second an-
nual report on the location of new Fed-
eral facilities in areas of low population
density.
year
This report describes the second
efforts of all executive departments and
agencies with respect to the location of
new offices and other facilities in low
population density areas as required by
858
