[300] Sept. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
300
Message to the Senate Transmitting Convention
for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against
the Safety of Civil Aviation.
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a copy of the Conven-
tion for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts
Against the Safety of Civil Aviation,
signed at Montreal on September 23,
1971. The report of the Department of
State with respect to the Convention is
also transmitted for the information of
the Senate.
The problem of sabotage, armed ter-
rorist attacks, and other criminal acts
against aircraft and air travelers poses an
increasingly grave threat to civil aviation
around the world. Events have shown that
no country or area is exempt from the
human tragedy and immense costs which
result from such criminal acts.
At the International Conference on Air
Law at The Hague in December of 1970,
the Hijacking Convention was adopted. It
contains provisions to ensure that all hi-
jackers, wherever found, would be subject
to severe punishment. The United States
and 39 other countries have now ratified
that Convention. It is hoped that all
States will join in this major step to deter
the peril of air piracy.
The work of applying similar provisions
September 15, 1972
to other acts directed against the safety of
civil aviation was completed by the Dip-
lomatic Conference at Montreal in
September 1971. The Convention which
that Conference produced and which
I am transmitting today covers sabotage
and other criminal acts. Like the Hijack-
ing Convention, it requires States to ex-
tradite offenders or prosecute them where
they are found. It is designed to ensure the
prosecution of saboteurs and other ter-
rorists who attack aircraft, and it can help
serve to quell this increasingly serious
problem for civil aviation worldwide.
This Convention and the Hijacking
Convention are vitally important to
achieve safe and orderly air transporta-
tion for all people of the world. I hope all
States will become Parties to these Con-
ventions, and that they will be applied
universally. I recommend, therefore, that
the Senate give early and favorable con-
sideration to this Convention.
The White House,
September 15, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the
report of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive T (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
301 Remarks in Mitchellville, Maryland.
September 17, 1972
Father Donanzan and all of those who are
attending this wonderful picnic here so
very close to Washington and so very close
to the heart of America:
I want to say that it is a very great
privilege for me to have the opportunity
on this Sunday afternoon to come to an
event which tells us so much about the
870
