[121] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
we have in common with Canada and
why we feel especially close to Canadians.
My secretary, many years ago when I
was a young, practicing lawyer, was then
an American, but she was very proud that
she had been born in Canada. And as a
result, after my wife and I were married,
about 30 years ago-you wouldn't know
it, but it was that long ago-but in any
event, the year that we were married, we,
with another couple, drove on a vacation
to Canada. We were in Victoria and
British Columbia, and brought back many
pleasant memories of our first visit to
Canada. It was because my secretary rec-
ommended that we go there, and we had
no regrets.
Then I recall in the year 1942, just be-
fore World War II came along, as far as
our lives were concerned, and before going
overseas, we had saved a little money and
we had some time for a vacation, and we
took the train to Quebec, and I shall never
forget those 3 days that we had, and my
wife will never forget, in Quebec. The
Hotel Frontenac, that magnificent view
from the promenade down over the river.
But more, the warmth and friendship of
the people that we met on that occasion.
Then there have been other occasions
through the years. When we first came to
Congress in 1946, and the next year, 1947,
we had a few days off and we drove up
the
eastern part of the United States through
the beauty of New England in the sum-
mertime, and we learned to know Nova
Scotia and St. John, that side of Canada.
Then, during the years out of office, I,
of course, had the opportunity to visit
Ottawa on one occasion, Toronto on an-
other occasion, and Montreal.
But there was one particular occasion
that I think stays in my mind more than
all the others. I have been to Picton. Now,
most Americans will not know what
Picton is, but you Canadians will know.
Or maybe you don't.
But in the year 1957, the Secretary of
State and I-I was then Vice President
and he was Attorney General of the
United States-were invited by the pub-
lisher of the Rochester paper, Mr. Paul
Miller, to sail across Lake Erie, and to go
over to the Canadian side and see the
beauties of Canada. It was to be a wonder-
ful trip.
I didn't realize that even on Lake Erie
one could get seasick, but finally when I
saw Canadian soil, believe me, it was the
most welcome soil I ever stepped on.
But the incident which I would like to
leave on this occasion with our friends
from Canada was what happened in Pic-
ton that day. It was a Saturday night. We
had played golf earlier in the day. We
were still in sports clothes-in sports
jackets-and we decided to go to one of
the local pubs, just as we were.
We went in and sat down. We had no
Secret Service at that time with us, and
the waiter looked us all over, and some
way he seemed to think he recognized me,
but he wasn't sure.
We noted, or Secretary Rogers at least
noted he was then Attorney General and
is supposed to note such things-that the
waiter was talking to the bartender after
serving us. The bartender was looking over
and saying, "No, it can't be, it can't be."
After we had finished-he was a very
polite waiter-after we had finished and
were ready to leave, the waiter came up
and said, "Sir, if you don't mind, I have a
bet with the bartender, and you can help
534
