[382] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
defense capital goods were 22 percent
above the previous August. New plant and
equipment expenditures are expected to
rise about 10 percent this year, as com-
pared with 2 percent in 1971. And all the
indexes of business and consumer confi-
dence are high.
All this heartening economic growth
should be sending us this clear policy
message: Continue on course. This is not
a time to experiment with chancy eco-
nomic theories or to add vast expendi-
tures to the Federal budget and thereby
force a tax increase. Either of these paths
would upset the progress we are mak-
ing and risk reversing our economic
resurgence.
In Ohio, as in the Nation, we intend to
keep pressing forward toward achieving
what America has not had since President
Eisenhower was in office-full employ-
ment without war and without significant
inflation.
NOTE: The statement was released at Cleve-
land, Ohio, prior to an 85-mile Presidential
motorcade through eastern Ohio communities
between Cleveland and Youngstown.
383 Informal Remarks in North Royalton, Ohio.
October 28, 1972
COULD I have your attention for just
a moment please.
I wish that time would permit our
stopping a little longer in each one of these
wonderful towns that we have been
traveling through today, but we have 4
hours of motorcading and each town is
waiting.
I wanted to stop here for two reasons:
one, to express my appreciation to you,
to the mayor, to this marvelous band, and
to all of the people that have come out
and welcomed us so graciously.
Another reason-and I say this from
having talked to my good friend and great
supporter Bill Minshall, your Congress-
man, before, as we drove through Parma,
Ohio-I saw that the flags were at half-
mast. When I saw those flags at half-mast
I asked one of our Secret Service men, a
man who has given 30 years of his life to
Government service and has risked his
life many times, why the flags were at
half-mast.
He told me that what had happened
is that just 2 days ago a policeman, in the
line of duty, trying to apprehend a
criminal-who proved to be a criminal,
certainly, by his actions in killing the
policeman—was murdered. As a result,
the town, of course, was paying its respects
to that man of the law.
I just want to say this as I stand here
in the presence of the United States
Secret Service, people from the Sheriff's
Department, and people in the Police De-
partment: I just talked to a couple of the
men in your Police Department, the
Sheriff's Department. I said, "How do
you like your job?" They said, "We like
it fine."
Let me tell you, you can't pay these
men what it is really worth. You can't
pay a man enough who risks his life to
1060
