[363] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
1970 inflation increase of 7.4 percent per
annum has been trimmed to 4.4 percent.
The rate is still too high, but we are
making progress here as well as other
regions of the country.
We are also creating more new jobs
than at any time in more than 16 years.
Because so many people are entering the
labor market, unemployment is not going
down as fast as we would like, but we are
confident that it can be brought down to
a decent level. Here in the New York
area, I am pleased to note, the unem-
ployment rate is already below the na-
tional average.
In short, we are on the road to a new
prosperity without war and without in-
flation-something this country has not
enjoyed for more than 15 years.
All of this clear pocketbook progress
is threatened, however, by the recent Con-
gressional spending spree in which the
Federal budget was ballooned danger-
ously by big spenders oblivious to higher
prices and higher taxes.
Today I have some news for the big
spenders, bad news for them but good
news for the taxpayers and consumers.
I am going to use every weapon at my
command to hold spending in this fiscal
year as close as possible to $250 billion-
so that we will not have a new wave of
crippling inflation and there will be no
need for higher taxes.
Back on my desk in Washington, there
are more than 100 pieces of public
legislation which the Congress jammed
through at the same time it was rejecting
my spending ceiling. While at Camp
David this past weekend, I studied all of
these bills carefully. I found that many
of them will serve the public interest, but
I am also persuaded that some of them
call for spending far in excess of what we
can afford. These budget-breakers could
only be financed by higher prices or by
higher taxes, or both.
In the name of the taxpayers and the
consumers of America, I say the time
has come to stand up to the big spenders.
During the coming week there will be a
number of vetoes. If there are big spend-
ing bills which I must sign for policy
reasons, I also promise to exercise my full
legal powers to hold down these appro-
priations, or reduce others to make room
for the new programs.
By themselves, many of these legislative
measures are attractive. But we must seek
a reasonable balance between dreams and
reality. And in striking that balance, there
is no higher priority with me than pro-
tecting our people against higher prices
and higher taxes.
As I pointed out in my national radio
speech of October 7, the Congress looks
at these programs one at a time. It does
not have any means of calculating their
overall impact on the pocketbooks of our
people.
As President, however, I must con-
tinually look at the total impact of Con-
gressional action. And the total impact
of the 92d Congress, if left to stand,
would be higher prices or higher taxes,
or both.
Revenue sharing, which I launched at a
bill signing ceremony at Independence
Hall in Philadelphia last Friday, soon
will be putting money into States and local
communities, so that the burden of prop-
erty, sales, or income taxes can be re-
lieved or needed new schools, hospitals,
recreation and transportation facilities
can be built without additional local taxa-
tion-or additional police, drug control,
or job training programs can be started
without raising local taxes.
ΙΟΙΟ
