[359] Oct. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
actually be placed in the system and who
would have access to the data.
I believe there are serious drawbacks to
such a data system which would outweigh
potential benefits. The collection of data
and statistics on the supposition that some
day they may be useful is in itself a highly
dubious exercise. Data, taken out of the
context of the questions they were spe-
cifically designed to answer, can even con-
tribute to confusion or be misleading.
With this in mind, I believe the
centralized collection of environmental
data should be related to specific policies
and programs. H.R. 56 fails to provide
such a relationship and the question of
whether this basic deficiency can be over-
and a useful centralized system
come,
designed, is now under study by the Ad-
ministration. In the meantime, the En-
vironmental Protection Agency and other
agencies have consistently worked to
strengthen the acquisition and exchange
of such data and this effort will continue.
Title II of this legislation authorizes
the establishment of environmental
centers in every State to conduct research
in pollution, natural resource manage-
ment, and other local, State or regional
problems. The centers would also train
environmental professionals and carry out
a comprehensive education program.
Research is a vital part of our effort to
come to grips with the environmental
problems we face. This Administration
is currently spending literally hundreds
of millions of dollars through directed
research efforts sponsored by the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, the De-
partment of the Interior, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, the Department of Agriculture, and
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare-to name but a few. We will
continue these programs and institute
others where they are needed.
Academic talent and resources have a
vital role to play in the success of our en-
vironmental research programs. As mem-
bers of the academic community know,
grants for research are awarded on the
basis of not only the merits of the project,
but also the capabilities of the institution
to carry out its responsibilities. By cre-
ating research centers on a rigid State-by-
State basis, and requiring that each be
funded, the Congress is asking us to throw
away our priorities and to fund programs
regardless of their merits and in spite of
the limited capabilities of some institu-
tions. Equally important, this approach
also ignores the competence and available
capacity of already existing institutions
and laboratories to carry out this vital
research.
Further, I share the view of the Admin-
istrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency that environmental problems
are essentially national in scope, and
that most problems, even though they
may appear to be local in nature, really
affect many other States and localities as
well. To the extent there may be local
problems, our present project-by-project
approach in research can be used to
marshal the best scientific talents, wher-
ever they are located, to deal with such
problems. Thus, there is clearly no justifi-
cation for establishing up to 51 new envi-
ronmental centers specifically charged
with investigation of State and local envi-
ronmental problems.
Titles III and IV of the bill direct the
Secretary of Agriculture to purchase a
1004
