[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
ments provide that, within six months of
an agreement, there shall be:
-A complete withdrawal of all U.S.
and allied forces from
Vietnam;
South
-An exchange of all prisoners through-
out Indochina;
-A cease fire throughout Indochina;
-A new presidential election in South
Vietnam.
The proposal also calls for respect for
the Geneva Accords of 1954 and the Laos
agreements of 1962; settlement by the
Indochinese parties themselves of prob-
lems existing between them, including the
role of North Vietnamese forces; interna-
tional supervision, as necessary, of the
agreement; and an international guar-
antee which could involve an interna-
tional conference. I also reaffirmed our
willingness to undertake a reconstruction
program for Indochina, including North
Vietnam.
The provisions of our proposal regard-
ing the presidential election in Vietnam
deserve special attention.
-The election would be organized and
conducted by an independent body
representing all political forces in
South Vietnam, including the Na-
tional Liberation Front. This body
would begin its work the day an
agreement was signed.
-One month before the election, Presi-
dent Thieu and Vice President
Huong would resign. The Chairman
of the Senate would assume the ad-
ministrative responsibilities of the
government except for those pertain-
ing to the election, which would re-
main with the independent election
body.
-The election would be internation-
ally supervised.
-All U.S. troops would be out of South
Vietnam before the election. We
would remain completely neutral and
support no candidate in the election.
We would abide by its result, or the
outcome of any other political process
shaped by the South Vietnamese peo-
ple themselves.
Because some elements could prove
more difficult to negotiate than others, we
indicated our willingness to proceed with
the implementation of certain military
aspects while negotiations continue on
other issues. Thus, we are prepared to
begin troop withdrawals and prisoner ex-
changes immediately upon signature of an
agreement in principle, and to complete
that process within the specified six-month
period, provided final agreement has been
reached on the other aspects of an overall
settlement.
Alternatively we remain willing, as we
proposed secretly last May, to settle only
the military issues and leave the political
issues to be resolved separately. Under this
approach we would withdraw all U.S. and
allied forces within six months, in ex-
change for an Indochina-wide ceasefire
and the release of all prisoners.
The choice is up to Hanoi.
Our Peace Plan Is New, Comprehen-
sive, and Flexible. Since the last private
meeting in September we have essentially
met all of Hanoi's proposals on military
issues except the requirement that we
withdraw equipment and cease our aid
to South Vietnam. We and the South
Vietnamese have offered every reasonable
means of ensuring that the political proc-
ess will be fair to all parties, and that the
incumbent government will have no un-
due advantage. Past statements of princi-
ple have now been made specific. We have
designed our formulations to meet the
278
