[284] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I will look to the Commission on Indus-
trial Peace for recommendations in these
areas:
-how to improve the process of col-
lective bargaining by the men and
women at the bargaining table,
-how Government can be more help-
ful to the parties in the bargaining
process,
-how the interest of the public can be
reflected in the outcome as well as in
the process of collective bargaining.
It is vital that partisan politics play no
role in the work of this Commission. For
that reason, I shall wait until after elec-
tion day before asking leaders of labor and
business to serve. In the meantime, I am
directing the Secretary of Labor and the
Director of the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service to begin preliminary
staff work and consultations immediately.
On this Labor Day, I would like to dis-
cuss with you some of the decisions
you
will be facing this year decisions that will
affect your job, your paycheck, and
your
future.
Today, this Nation is operating under
a system that is rooted in the values that
built America:
-We believe that an able-bodied per-
son should earn what he gets and
keep most of what he earns. We must
stop increases in taxes before they
reach the point that the American
wage earner is working more for the
Government than he is for himself.
-We believe it is wrong for someone
on welfare to receive more than
someone who works.
-We believe that a person's ability and
ambition should determine his in-
come, and that his income should not
be redistributed by Government or
restricted by some quota system.
--We believe that when Government
tampers too much with the lives of
individuals, when it unnecessarily
butts into the free collective bargain-
ing process, it cripples the private
enterprise system on which the wel-
fare of the worker depends.
Because we have held fast to those
values, the American worker has a higher
standard of living and more freedom than
any worker in the world today.
Because we have held fast to those
values, the American people have been
able to be more compassionate and more
generous to the dependent and helpless
than any other people in the world.
Now, despite that record of success,
and despite the evidence all around us
that the new prosperity is reaching into
more homes than ever before, those
traditional values have come under
challenge.
That challenge to our values is serious,
and it cannot be ignored. The person
whose values are most directly threatened
is the American worker, and it is up to the
American worker to understand the na-
ture of the challenge and to move strongly
to turn it back.
We are faced this year with the choice
between the "work ethic" that built this
Nation's character and the new "welfare
ethic" that could cause that American
character to weaken.
Let's compare the two:
The work ethic tells us that there is
really no such thing as "something for
nothing," and that everything valuable in
life requires some striving and some sacri-
fice. The work ethic holds that it is wrong
to expect instant gratification of all our
desires, and it is right to expect hard work
to earn a just reward. Above all, the work
ethic puts responsibility in the hands of
850
