[338] Oct. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, if we don't get it now, we will go for
it as a matter of the highest priority in the
first session of the next Congress.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press).
Thank you, sir.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-eighth news
conference was held at 11:04 a.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House on Thursday, Octo-
ber 5, 1972. The President spoke without re-
ferring to notes.
339 Memorandum About Employment of Vietnam
Veterans. October 5, 1972
Memorandum to the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
As we continue to wind down this Na-
tion's participation in the Vietnam con-
flict, increasing numbers of our veterans
are returning home and entering the labor
market. They have done their part and
now need our help in making the transi-
tion back into the civilian economy.
Education and employment are their
most immediate priorities. As a respon-
sible employer, the Government must con-
tinue to use every means available to meet
the needs of those who have served their
country.
I am resolved that no returning veteran
will be turned away from lack of zeal on
our part. Many Federal officials have done
an exemplary job in employing veterans
whenever possible, even though employ-
ment opportunities have diminished. I
want you to ensure that all managers, su-
pervisors, and personnel officials in your
organization accept, as a personal chal-
lenge and obligation, the responsibility for
extending maximum job opportunities to
returning veterans.
Veterans preference granted by law pro-
vides opportunities for hiring returning
veterans. The Veterans Readjustment
Appointment which I authorized in
March, 1970,ยน provides an excellent ad-
ditional avenue. But we must pursue with
skill and determination every conceivable
approach including the splitting of full-
time jobs.
The Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission will continue to provide
leadership and guidance on employment
of the returning veterans within the Fed-
eral Government and the Secretary of
Labor will continue to direct our efforts on
their behalf. Those who have given so
much of themselves will not be forgotten.
RICHARD NIXON
By Executive Order 11521 of March 26,
1970.
340 Letter to Four Members of the Advisory Panel on
South Asian Relief Assistance. October 6, 1972
I DEEPLY appreciate the time and
thought that you and the other members
of the Advisory Panel on South Asian
Relief Assistance have devoted over the
past year to our emergency economic as-
sistance programs in South Asia. The per-
spective and insight which all of you
have brought to your continuing review
of these programs have been of great
value to us.
962
