[276] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
VIETNAM TROOP LEVELS
[4] Q. Mr. President, you announced
today another reduction in the force levels
in Vietnam,3 and it was unclear from the
announcement whether this is your last
announcement. Do you see this as the
residual force in Vietnam necessary as
bargaining leverage?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't imagine that
Mr. Ziegler didn't make everything per-
fectly clear. [Laughter] But I shall try to,
under those circumstances. The an-
nouncement of 27,500 [27,000] does not
indicate that 27,500 [27,000] is the force
that is going to remain in South Vietnam
indefinitely. We are going to look at the
situation again before the first of Decem-
ber, after the election, incidentally, be-
cause we are not going to play election
politics with this next withdrawal-or
this next announcement, I should say, be-
cause I am not suggesting that there will
be another withdrawal.
We will look at the situation, and the
three principles that I have always ap-
plied with regard to withdrawals will in
this case control it: the status of our POW
and MIA situation, the status with regard
to negotiations, and the status of enemy
activity. At that time we will determine
what the American force level should be.
It should be noted that the present force
level of 39,000, and the level that we will
reach of 27,500 [27,000] involves no
ground combat personnel. It involves only
advisory and training personnel and, of
* A statement announcing the withdrawal of
additional U.S. troops from Vietnam was read
by Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler at a news
briefing at the Western White House in San
Clemente, Calif., on August 29, 1972. The
statement is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1306).
course, air support personnel. It is en-
tirely a volunteer force.
I will add something that perhaps
everyone here is quite aware of: that as
far as any so-called residual force is con-
cerned, our offer is for a total withdrawal.
We want to withdraw all American forces,
but that offer is conditioned on what I
laid down on May 8, and one of those
conditions is the situation with regard to
our POW's and MIA's. As long as there
is one POW in North Vietnam, or one
missing in action, not accounted for, there
will be an American volunteer force in
South Vietnam.
1968 CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS AND
ACTIONS IN VIETNAM
[5] Q. Mr. President, how do you
reconcile your 1968 campaign promise to
end the war with the massive bombing
of North Vietnam that is now going on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in terms of what
I said in 1968, all you who were following
me will remember that I said that we
would seek an honorable end to the war.
We have come a long way in reaching
that. We have reduced our casualties by
98 percent; we have withdrawn over half
a million men from the forces that we
found that were there; we have com-
pletely finished the American ground com-
bat role.
Only volunteers will be serving in Viet-
nam in the future. What is left now sim-
ply is to complete the long-term involve-
ment of the United States in a way that
does not destroy respect, trust, and, if I
may use the term, honor for the United
States around the world. I think that we
have come-it seems to me made very
significant progress in this respect, and we
expect to make more.
830
