[180] May 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
that has occurred in those 19 years under
the enlightened leadership of Your
Majesty.
As we have come thus far from the air-
port, we have seen thousands of school-
children, and as we see them we think
they are the future of Iran; they are the
future of the world. We hope that the
talks we have had this past week will con-
tribute to a peaceful future for them, and
we know, Your Majesty, that the talks I
shall be privileged to have with you will
provide counsel and wisdom also for the
cause of peace and progress for all people,
to which you have dedicated your life, and
a cause in which we, all the people of the
United States, are honored to cooperate
with you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:43 p.m. at the
Shahyad (Memory of the Shah) Monument
commemorating the 2,500th anniversary of the
Persian Empire. He spoke without referring to
notes.
181 Toasts of the President and Mohammad Reza Pahlavi,
Shah of Iran, at a State Dinner in Tehran. May 30, 1972
Your Imperial Majesty and all of your
distinguished guests:
Let me first thank you on behalf of Mrs.
Nixon and all the members of our party
for the very generous remarks that you
have made and for the magnificent hos-
pitality which you have extended to us on
this occasion, and in speaking of that hos-
pitality, may we particularly thank you
for the welcome that we received as we
came into the capital city of your country
today. It will leave a memory in our hearts
that will last for all of our lives, and we
are most grateful for the welcome we re-
ceived from the people of Iran on this
historic occasion.
Since ancient times, this country has
been one that has been known for its
splendid hospitality, and we, of course,
tonight have had a good chance to see why
that reputation has become worldwide.
It is always a very great privilege to
visit here, but I feel especially privileged
to be here in this period in which you are
celebrating what you have referred to, the
2,500th year of your country's history. I
think of the fact that the United States of
America in just 4 years will be celebrating
its 200th anniversary, and then I com-
pare that 200 years with 25 centuries of
history, and I realize that as we compare
our two countries, we owe so much to you.
As you have spoken so generously of what
you may owe to us, we owe so much to you,
not only for 2,500 years, but for a history
that goes back even 6,000 years.
In this room, and in this company,
speaking from what was once known and
perhaps still is known as the New World,
it is only appropriate that we pay our
respects to and express our thanks to the
magnificent heritage of the Old World
that is now, through your efforts, a bridge
to the new.
On this particular occasion, as all of
you know, this is the first stop that we
have made since the trip that we have
taken to the Soviet Union. Your Majesty
has referred to that trip, and I think it is
only appropriate on this occasion for me
to speak of that trip, the visit we had there,
what it means to the world, and what it
means to all nations in the world.
Before doing so, I wish to say that I
644
