[168] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
but we must strive to make this Moscow
summit memorable for its substance.
Over 2 years of careful preparation
have proven our common seriousness of
purpose and brought us to this meeting
prepared to make concrete agreements.
Not so long ago, our attention centered
on our relative positions of strength. But
in a nuclear age, when there is no such.
thing as security in a preponderance of
strength, great powers have learned this
fact of life: Agreements based on exploit-
ing the presumed weaknesses of one party
only cause it to redouble its efforts to
catch up, but agreements based on mutual
respect and reciprocity have a far greater
chance of enduring.
Because we are both prepared to pro-
ceed on the basis of equality and mutual
respect, we meet at a moment when we
can make peaceful cooperation between
our two countries a reality.
To make the most of this opportunity,
we should recognize that while many of
our differences are fundamental and
profound, we have a powerful common
interest in peace and security.
We should recognize that great nuclear
powers have a solemn responsibility to
exercise restraint in any crisis, to take posi-
tive action to avert direct confrontation.
With great power goes great respon-
sibility. It is precisely when power is not
accompanied by responsibility that the
peace is threatened. Let our power-the
power of our two countries-always be
used to keep the peace, never to break it.
We should recognize further that it is
the responsibility of great powers to in-
fluence other nations in conflict or crisis
to moderate their behavior.
Let me outline briefly what I believe we
both want to see take place this week.
First, we want to complete work on the
matters that years of patient negotiations
have brought to the decision point. These
bilateral matters will serve as the point of
departure: Our two nations can work to-
gether in the exploration of space, the
conquest of disease, the improvement of
our environment.
Progress in economic cooperation will
benefit both our nations. The Soviet
Union and the United States are the two
largest economies in the world, and yet
they live presently in relative isolation.
The opportunity for a new commercial
relationship opens up a strong potential
for progress for both of our peoples.
The attention of the world is primarily
directed to the possibility of an initial limi-
tation of strategic arms. Here in Moscow,
for the first time, major nations-the two
most powerful nations in the world-
would put restrictions on a range of their
most significant weapons systems. An
agreement in this area could begin to turn
our two countries away from a wasteful
and dangerous arms race and toward
more production for peace.
With a positive attitude shown on these
bilateral matters, fresh impetus will be
given to the resolution of other issues in
other areas of the world.
A few minutes after I took the oath of
office as President of the United States,
I told my countrymen that the time had
come for us to move from a period of
confrontation to an era of negotiation.
This week in Moscow can prove that the
era of negotiation between the two most
powerful nations in the world has begun.
There is hard bargaining ahead, and
statesmen dealing with real differences
will have their share of obstacles.
We will have our different interests, our
different approaches; neither of us will be
reluctant to point them out. But the
620
