Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
reconciliation. Rivalries-personal, reli-
gious, ethnic, economic, ideological, and
otherwise-divide the Islamic world. The
Palestinian people, dispersed throughout
the Arab world, continue to press their
struggle for a homeland on the consciences
and policies of Arab governments, ex-
acerbating tensions within and among
Arab countries and with Israel. Stable and
moderate governments are threatened by
subversive movements, some aided and
supported from outside.
The competitive interests of the great
powers are a further source of tension,
adding to local instabilities and posing the
risk of wider and more dangerous conflict.
As I wrote in February 1970: "One of the
lessons of 1967 was that local events and
forces have a momentum of their own,
and that conscious and serious effort is
required for the major powers to resist
being caught up in them." There must be
understandings on the part of the great
powers, tacit or explicit, on the limits of
acceptable behavior.
In the Middle East, new relationships
with the world outside are developing.
There are temptations for some great
powers to exploit these relationships, to
increase their military involvement or to
obstruct peacemaking efforts in the quest
for unilateral political advantage in the
region. This only fuels local tensions, with
consequences transcending the issues in
the local dispute. But there are also op-
portunities for the great powers to con-
tribute cooperatively to the search for
Middle East peace, and thereby to further
the constructive trends in their own global
relations.
A secure peace in the Middle East re-
quires stable relations on both levels-
accommodation within the region and a
balance among the powers outside.
ARAB-ISRAELI SETTLEMENT
The greatest threat to peace and stabil-
ity in the Middle East remains the Arab-
Israeli conflict. Last year saw a new ap-
proach to beginning negotiations. This
negotiating process has not yet produced
results. But the United States undertook
its major diplomatic effort of the past
three years with no illusions about the
obstacles in the way of a settlement.
It is one of the ironies of history that
the 20th century has thrown together into
bitter conflict these two peoples who had
lived and worked peacefully side by side
in the Middle East for centuries. In the
last fifty years, and particularly since inde-
pendence, they have been locked in in-
cessant struggle. The Arabs saw the new
State of Israel as an unwanted intruder
in an Arab world and the plight of the
Palestinian refugees as an historic in-
justice; to the Israelis, refugees of a holo-
caust, survival was more than a cliche of
political rhetoric. To negotiate a peace
between these two peoples requires over-
coming an extraordinary legacy of mutual
fear and mistrust.
The Israelis seek concrete security. To
them this means more than an Arab offer
of formal peace; it means Arab willing-
ness to let Israel exist on terms which do
not leave it vulnerable to future reversals
of Arab policy. To Israel, security will re-
quire changes in its pre-1967 borders, as
well as such additional protection as de-
militarization and international guaran-
tees might provide. Israel points out—and
cites the recent war in South Asia as an
example that a formal state of peace
does not by itself assure security, and that
international guarantees are no substitute
for the physical conditions and means for
security. In the absence of a settlement
291
