Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
green spaces and natural retreats that we
tend to take for granted will not be avail-
able for future enjoyment unless we act
now to develop and protect them.
WILDERNESS AREAS
One of the first environmental goals I
set when I took office was to stimulate the
program to identify and recommend to
the Congress new wilderness areas. Al-
though this program was behind schedule
at that time, I am now able to report that
the September, 1974 statutory deadline
for reviews can and will be met.
The Wilderness Act of 1964 set aside 54
areas, consisting of about 9.1 million
million acres,
as the nucleus of our wilderness system.
Since then, 33 new areas totalling almost
1.2 million acres within National Forests,
National Parks, and National Wildlife
Refuges have been added to the system.
Thirty-one areas totalling about 3.6 mil-
lion acres, including 18 areas submitted
by this Administration, have been pro-
posed to the Congress but have yet to be
acted upon. One of the most significant
elements of this process has been the active
participation by the public in all of its
phases. At public wilderness hearings held
all across the country, fair consideration
has been given to all interests and points
of view, with constructive citizen involve-
ment in the decision-making process.
-I am today proposing 18 new wilder-
ness areas which, when approved, will add
another 1.3 million acres to the wilderness
system.
Eight of these proposals are within the
National Forests, four are within National
Park areas, and six are in National Wild-
life Refuges.
Of these areas, 1.2 million acres would
be in the following National Forests: Blue
Range National Forest, Arizona and New
Mexico; Agua Tibia and Emigrant Na-
tional Forests, California; Eagles Nest and
Weminuche National Forests, Colorado;
Mission Mountains National Forest, Mon-
tana; Aldo Leopold National Forest, New
Mexico; and Glacier National Forest,
Wyoming.
A total of 40,000 acres would be in our
National Park system in the following lo-
cations: Black Canyon of the Gunnison
National Monument, Colorado; Bryce
Canyon National Park, Utah; Chiricahua
National Monument, Arizona; Colorado
National Monument, Colorado.
Finally, a total of 87,000 acres would be
in areas administered by the Fish and
Wildlife Services of the Department of
the Interior in the following locations: St.
Marks, National Wildlife Refuge, Florida;
Wolf Island, National Wildlife Refuge,
Georgia; Moosehorn National Wildlife
Refuge, Maine; San Juan Islands, Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge, Washington; Cape
Romain, National Wildlife Refuge, South
Carolina; and Bosque del Apache, Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge, New Mexico.
The
year 1972 can bring some of the
greatest accomplishment in wilderness
preservation since passage of the Wilder-
ness Act in 1964. I urge prompt and sys-
tematic consideration by the Congress of
these 18 new proposals and of the 31 cur-
rently pending before it. Approval of all
49 additions would bring the system up to
a total of over 15 million acres.
pro-
Unfortunately, few of these wilderness
areas are within easy access of the most
populous areas of the United States. The
major purpose of my Legacy of Parks
gram is to bring recreation opportunities
closer to the people, and while wilderness
is only one such opportunity, it is a very
important one. A few of the areas pro-
185
