Richard Nixon, 1972
Dec. 15 [427]
local government; and
-to provide the President with a more
versatile domestic policy arm and
give State and local government a
direct role in the development of our
domestic policy initiatives.
As a further step toward increasing in-
tergovernmental involvement in the Fed-
eral domestic policy formulation process,
I shall also appoint Mr. Cole to the Ad-
visory Commission on Intergovernmental
Relations.
I expect this streamlining action within
the Executive Office of the President to
contribute significantly to our objective
of achieving a stronger and better bal-
anced Federal system in the United States
during the next 4 years.
426 Statement Following Lift-Off From the Moon of the
Apollo 17 Lunar Module. December 14, 1972
pur-
AS THE Challenger leaves the surface of
the Moon, we are conscious not of what
we leave behind, but of what lies before
us. The dreams that draw humanity for-
ward seem always to be redeemed if we
believe in them strongly enough and
sue them with diligence and courage.
Once we stood mystified by the stars;
today we reach out to them. We do this
not only because it is man's destiny to
dream the impossible, to dare the impos-
sible, and to do the impossible, but also
because in space, as on Earth, there are
new answers and new opportunities for
the improvement and the enlargement of
human existence.
This may be the last time in this cen-
427
tury that men will walk on the Moon. But
space exploration will continue, the bene-
fits of space exploration will continue, the
search for knowledge through the explo-
ration of space will continue, and there
will be new dreams to pursue based on
what we have learned. So let us neither
mistake the significance nor miss the
majesty of what we have witnessed. Few
events have ever marked so clearly the
passage of history from one epoch to an-
other. If we understand this about the
last flight of Apollo, then truly we shall
have touched a "many-splendored thing."
To Gene Cernan, Jack Schmitt, and
Ronald Evans, we say God speed you
safely back to this good Earth.
Statement on Receiving Necessary Ratifications of
the International Telecommunications Satellite
Organization's Definitive Agreements.
December 15, 1972
I NOTE with special satisfaction today
that the number of ratifications necessary
to bring the INTELSAT definitive agree-
ments into force has been fulfilled. This
marks an historic milestone in interna-
tional communications, with consequences
ranging far into the future. All of the
partner-members can take great satisfac-
tion from the progress of this unique
multinational venture for the peaceful
use of outer space.
With its volume of traffic constantly in-
1155
