[220] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
that older Americans need and deserve
increased benefits, permits me to sign this
measure. However, I note that the Con-
gress has extended the debt ceiling only
until October 31, thus setting the stage
for what could become a frantic, election-
eve scramble to attach a whole collection
of seemingly attractive, politically popu-
lar, but fiscally irresponsible, riders to the
debt ceiling bill at that time. Debt ceiling
bills are a tempting target for such
maneuvers, because the Government
quickly becomes unable to function if the
ceiling falls back below the actual level
of Government debt. I place the Congress
on notice now that if this occurs-if fis-
cally irresponsible riders are then attached
to that debt ceiling bill, for which it is not
possible to find offsetting cuts in other
programs-then I will not hesitate to ex-
ercise my right and responsibility to veto.
Beyond the shortcomings I have noted
in this measure, it should be noted that
the added benefits will not come without
cost. Even though it is not fully funded,
the measure still imposes considerable
additional tax burdens on all wage earn-
ers. However, the overriding and finally
determining factor in my decision to give
221
my approval to this act is my deep concern
for the well-being of our older Americans.
They both need and deserve a significant
increase in social security benefits.
With the signing of H.R. 15390, social
security benefits since this Administration
took office will have increased by a com-
pound total of 51 percent. It is now our
responsibility to see that these needed in-
creases in income for our senior citizens
are not eaten up by increases in the cost
of living. The Congress has a solemn re-
sponsibility to join me in fighting inflation,
adopting an unbreakable rule-that there
shall be no future increases in spending
above my budget without providing for
tax increases to pay for such spending in-
creases. Our older Americans deserve full
and fair consideration at the hands of
their Government, and I have made every
effort to see that they receive it. It is in
consideration of their just requirements,
and in spite of the fiscal irresponsibility
that the Congress has demonstrated in its
deficit funding of this legislation, that I
have signed H.R. 15390.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15390 is Public Law
92-336 (86 Stat. 406).
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Endowment for the Arts and
National Council on the Arts. July 1, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
It is with profound pleasure and pride
that I transmit to the Congress the Annual
Report of the National Council on the
Arts and the National Endowment for
the Arts for the Fiscal Year 1971.
The report mirrors the vitality of mu-
sicians, actors, dancers, painters, sculptors,
architects, writers, poets-extending our
cultural renaissance into all of our com-
munities. It reports and reflects the dedi-
cated work of the producers and planners,
the budgeters and the backstage hands,
even the special grace of such as the
724
