[398] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
cine. I think this is the wrong road for
America. It is the road that has been
taken by so many countries abroad to
their regret.
Rather than freeing the doctor so that
he can do more for his patients, our op-
ponents' plan would burden him with the
dead weight of more bureaucracy, more
forms, more redtape.
Rather than expanding the range of
choice for doctors and patients, it would
severely narrow their range of choice. It
would concentrate more responsibility in
Washington. It would dull the incentive
to experiment and innovate.
Some people automatically assume that
the plan that costs the most will help the
most. But we cannot simply buy our way
to better medicine. In this case the plan
that costs the most is the plan that would
actually do the most to hurt the quality
of our health care.
Our plan would build on the strengths
of our present health insurance industry.
Our opponents' plan would eliminate that
industry entirely.
Our plan would reform and improve
our present health care system. Our op-
ponents' plan would tear that system
apart. This is one of the clearest choices
in this campaign.
Building on the strengths of our present
system, we can make tremendous progress
in the years ahead. One development
which will speed our progress is a new
spirit of international cooperation.
When I was in Moscow last May, I
signed several historic agreements. Per-
haps the one that most people think of
first is the agreement to limit strategic
weapons. But it may well be, 20 or 40 or
100 years from now, that another achieve-
ment in Moscow will be remembered
with it-our agreement to cooperate in
the field of medicine. Let me give one
example.
Take cancer. More people died of can-
cer in the United States last year than
were killed in action in all of World War
II as far as the United States was
concerned.
Disease is an international menace. We
must fight it with an international alliance.
Who knows who will discover the cure
for cancer? It may be a woman now
studying at a university in Europe or a
boy who now sits in a South American
school. It could be an American or a
Russian or a Chinese. Or there may be
many partial cures from many sources.
But this we know: The cure for cancer--
or any other disease-will come faster if
we all work together to find it.
The barriers between nations may be
great. But when it comes to improving
health, our common interests are even
greater.
Several weeks after the Moscow sum-
mit, the Russian Minister of Health came
to the United States. One of the places
he visited was Fort Detrick, Maryland.
For years, Fort Detrick was one of the
most secret places in our country, dedi-
cated to research on biological warfare-
perfecting the instruments of death. But
last year we decided to convert it into a
laboratory for research on cancer-dedi-
cated to the preservation of life.
I visited Fort Detrick last year, on the
day I announced its conversion. I directed
that it now should be thrown open to
scientists from all over the world. It was
in that spirit that Fort Detrick welcomed
the Russian Minister of Health almost
one year later.
There he stood, in a place which once
1092
