Appendix E
these positions could vary in the second term,
but I can tell you at this time that remaining
on the White House [Staff] in the roles which
you are familiar with will be Leonard Garment,
Special Consultant to the President, John Dean,
Counsel to the President, Rose Mary Woods,
Personal Secretary to the President. Also Special
Assistants to the President Ray Price, Pat
Buchanan, and Bill Safire will serve in the
second term. Their roles will be changing some-
what, however, and as the President makes
final decisions on the operational structure of
the White House Staff we will be giving you
more specifics on that.
I can also tell you this morning that Donald
Rumsfeld, who has served in a number of top
posts during the first term, most recently those
of Counsellor to the President and Director of
the Cost of Living Council, will be taking on a
major new assignment in the next term at the
President's request. The details of Don Rums-
feld's new position will be announced very
soon.
I think it has also been general knowledge
in Washington for some time now that Charles
W. Colson, Special Counsel to the President,
has long planned to return to private life at
the end of the first term. However, the Presi-
dent has requested Mr. Colson to defer his
departure and remain on the White House Staff
during the transition period to assist in the
planning for the second term. So, Mr. Colson
will be staying on for 60 days or more.
Originally, Chuck wanted to leave at the
end of December, and the President asked him
to stay on for several months to assist in the
planning for the second term. The President,
of course, regrets the fact that Charles Colson
will be leaving, but he understands that this
was his plan. While he regrets Chuck is leaving
the Administration, he is on the other hand
pleased that Chuck will be in the Washington
area after his departure from the Administra-
tion and will continue to be available for
consultation.
I also believe that you know Harry Dent,
Special Counsel to the President, has likewise
intended to return to his law practice in South
Carolina at the conclusion of the first term.
The President has reluctantly accepted his wish
to do so. He, of course, wishes him well.
Bob Brown, who is also a Special Assistant
to the President, is another member of the staff
who has spoken many times to some of you
about his intention to return to his business in
North Carolina at the end of the first term. The
President has accepted Bob's resignation with
special regret.
In the case of both Harry Dent and Bob
Brown, the President expresses his appreciation
for all they have done as a part of the Ad-
ministration, and their willingness to serve the
President in whatever part-time capacity they
can after their departure and return to, in the
case of Harry Dent, South Carolina to his law
practice, and in the case of Bob Brown, to his
business in North Carolina.
I should emphasize to you at this point that
the President's planning for the makeup of his
personal staff in the second term is still going
forward. We will have further announcements
during the next couple of weeks regarding the
various members of the staff who will be mov
ing to new assignments, members of the staff
who will be staying and some who have de-
cided to leave the Administration after service
for 4 years or more, and also further informa-
tion on the operational structure when that is
set. But I did want to provide you the informa-
tion this morning on these key members of the
White House Staff and what their intentions are
and the decisions that have been made regard-
ing their role in the second term.
I should tell you finally that in talking the
other day to Robert Finch, who, as you know, is
Counsellor to the President, I think it has
already been announced by Bob that he intends
to return to California at the end of this year.
That has been a matter of record for some time.
I think for several years now Bob has expressed
his intention to leave Washington and return
to California at the end of the first term. Bob
mentioned to me that he will be holding a press
conference in Washington next Tuesday to
review his role and discuss his plans for Califor-
nia and also to discuss his future in California.
[In answer to a question following his remarks,
Mr. Ziegler stated that he would be remaining
as Press Secretary in the second term.]
E-7
