Richard Nixon, 1972
June 29 [214]
I immediately got hold of Mr. Dean,
Counsel to the President, and I said, "Send
it over to me." He said, "There are nine
opinions."
Now I try to read fast, but I couldn't
get through all nine opinions. But I did
get through the Chief Justice's.
As I understand it, the holding of the
Court must not be taken at this time to
rule out capital punishment in all kinds of
crimes. This has dealt apparently with
crimes at the State level and will apply to
35 States in which we do have the situa-
tion where capital punishment does apply.
It is my view that as far as cruel and
inhuman punishment is concerned, any
punishment is cruel and inhuman which
takes the life of a man, or woman, for
that matter.
On the other hand, the point that I
wish to emphasize is this: In the case of
kidnaping and in the case of hijacking,
Federal crimes, what we are trying to do
is to prevent the loss of life.
I recall the situation at the time of the
Lindbergh kidnaping. I recall that kid-
napings were sort of par for the course
then. Any wealthy family was a possible
subject for kidnaping.
Kidnaping has been substantially re-
duced. Now some experts will say that the
deterrent of the Lindbergh law was not
what did it. Something had to have that
effect. Therefore, I have said in the past
and I do not retreat from that now, I
believe that capital punishment is a nec-
essary deterrent for capital crimes of that
type as far as the Federal jurisdiction is
concerned-kidnaping and hijacking.
As far as the Court's decision is con-
cerned, except for three of the judges who
based their decision on the Eighth Amend-
ment, which rules out cruel and inhumane
punishment and as far as the Court's deci-
sion is concerned, I do not understand it
necessarily to apply to these Federal
crimes. I would hope that it would not.
I have expressed my views and I will
also say, of course, that we will carry out
whatever the Court finally determines to
be the law of the land. But I would hope
that the Court's decision does not go so
far as to rule out capital punishment for
kidnaping and hijacking.
GUN CONTROL
[17] Q. Mr. President, in light of the
attempted assassination of Governor
Wallace, have you changed your thinking
at all on the need for Federal laws con-
trolling the sale of handguns?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my thinking
has not changed. I have always felt there
should be a Federal law for the control of
handguns. As you will note, Mr. Klein-
dienst testified to that effect earlier today
and he did testify to that effect after check-
ing my own position on it.
The problem there is to write the law,
the legislation, in such a way that it is
precise and deals with that kind of hand-
gun which ought to be controlled. And I
am referring now to the Saturday night
specials. These are ones where you would
have Federal jurisdiction because many
of them come in from abroad and, being
imported from abroad, it would be par-
ticularly a matter for Federal control.
I believe, however, that the legislation,
if it is therefore precisely written—and
we have been cooperating with the Sen-
ate committee, particularly with Senator
Hruska, in attempting to work out the
715
