Richard Nixon, 1972
July 26 [238]
NOTE: The telephone call began at 11:52 a.m.
The President spoke from the Oval Office at
the White House.
His conversation with the Prime Minister
inaugurated communications satellite service
for Israel via its first ground station at Emeq
Ha'ela.
237 Letter to Prime Minister Golda Meir on the Inauguration
of Communications Satellite Service for Israel.
July 26, 1972
Dear Madame Prime Minister:
As your nation inaugurates its station
connecting Israel with the Intelsat sys-
tem, you have the best wishes of the
American people.
Clear and effective communication is
basic to building the generation of peace
we so earnestly seek, and to ensuring the
kind of sound relationships among nations
which will enable that peace to endure.
We are delighted that Israel is joining
the family of nations linked by this new
system, and happy to convey through our
238 Special Message to the
Government Spending.
To the Congress of the United States:
This is an urgent appeal for the Con-
gress to join with me to avoid higher
taxes, higher prices and a cut in purchas-
ing power for everyone in the Nation.
Just when we have succeeded in cut-
ting the rate of inflation in half, and just
when we have succeeded in making it
possible for America's workers to score
their largest real spendable income gains
in eight years, this tangible, pocketbook
progress may be wiped out by proposed
excessive spending.
Specifically, Federal spending for the
fiscal year 1973 (which began on July 1,
representative, Mr. Dean Burch, our
warmest greetings and hopes that this
important step may benefit your fellow
citizens and all mankind.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Her Excellency Golda Meir, Prime Minister
of Israel]
NOTE: The letter, dated July 20, 1972, was
delivered to the Prime Minister on July 26 by
Dean Burch, Chairman, Federal Communica-
tions Commission. The text of the letter was
made available to the press.
Congress on Federal
July 26, 1972
1972) already is estimated to be almost
$7 billion higher than was planned in my
budget.
That figure by itself is bad enough.
But even more spending beyond the
budget and beyond emergency flood
relief funds-appears to be on the way.
The inevitable result would be higher
taxes and more income-eating inflation
in the form of higher prices.
I am convinced the American people
do not want their family budgets wrecked
by higher taxes and higher prices, and I
will not stand by and permit such irre-
sponsible action to undermine the clear
741
