Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 30 [31]
has fought for, that he has talked for, and
that we are trying to work for. We haven't
done as well as we would like to do, but
we want your help, the help of everybody
in this audience, black or white, to see
that we reach that great goal, that every-
body can go to the top in America.
And now, just a personal word about
Bob Brown, if I may. We have something
in common. I was delighted to meet his
grandmother tonight. She really looks like
his mother, believe me, or his sister, for
that matter. But whatever the case might
be, we both were educated in North Caro-
lina. I spent 3 years there and Bob spent
most of his life there. So when we first
met, just a few years ago, we reminisced
about that State and about the things we
had learned together. And I was delighted
that he would come to us at the White
House and work in this cause, work
quietly, but very, very effectively for the
ideals that he believed in and that I
believed in.
And I simply want to say that I don't
think of any better tribute to Bob than
what you have done tonight. When I
checked a little before this meeting, I said,
"What are they doing, are they just giving
this for Bob Brown, a testimonial for
him?" I said, "Who is going to get the
money?" And I asked Mr. Mason, "Is this
house paid?" And he said, "Yes." And
that of course is good, too.
Paid for what? And then I thought
what a wonderful tribute to a man. Not
for himself-he isn't going to get anything
out of this except a picture, which I hope
they print in the paper, incidentally.
But when I think of the cause of sickle
cell anemia, when I think of the cause of
foster children, when I think of the cause
of the Mississippi project, I realize that
all of the 2,000 people in this room say,
"This is a nice dinner." It was nice be-
cause Bob Brown and Sally, his wife, are
honored, and his wonderful grandmother,
and Sammy Davis, with his magnificent
entertainment, along with the other stars
who are here.
But also it was a nice dinner and an
event we will never forget, because of what
you have contributed, by what you have
paid to come to this dinner. You will help
particularly young people, young people
that might otherwise never have had a
chance, young people that didn't have
enough nutrition, young people that didn't
have enough guidance, young people that
might have gotten off on the wrong track,
and you have helped them by what you
did tonight.
Let me say, speaking now, and I trust
that I speak for all of you, whatever our
backgrounds, whether we come from poor
families, as I did, as did Bob, or wealthy
families, whether we are black or white,
whatever our religion, let us be thankful
tonight that when it comes to the young
of America, whatever they are, when we
can all go forward together in helping
those young people have a chance to go to
the top if they have got it, it is a wonderful
cause and I am glad to be here with you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8:45 p.m. in the Main Ballroom of the Wash-
ington Hilton Hotel. He spoke without re-
ferring to notes.
Willie C. Mason was chairman of the dinner.
In addition to honoring Mr. Brown, the din-
ner was a benefit for the Sickle Cell Anemia
Fund, the Social Services Administration for
Foster Children of D.C., the Howard University
Mississippi Project, and the United Negro Col-
lege Fund.
123
