Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
housing facility occupied primarily by
older persons.
The Department of Housing and Ur-
ban Development administers two housing
programs under which such facilities can
be made available to older persons living
in the project and in the surrounding
neighborhood: the Section 236 Program
and the Public Housing Program. Both
of these programs provide specially de-
signed housing for lower income older
persons. The law under which these pro-
grams are administered contains language
which allows the financing of facilities
designed primarily for use by older
sons including "cafeteria or dining halls,
community rooms, workshops,
workshops, infir-
maries, . . . and other essential service
facilities."
per-
To increase the supply of well located
senior centers, I have instructed the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to encourage greater provision of
community space for senior centers within
subsidized housing projects for the elderly.
The Department will consider the com-
munity's overall need for these centers in
determining the appropriate scale of cen-
ters within such housing projects.
On other fronts, the Farmers Home
Administration in the Department of
Agriculture is taking steps to meet the
housing needs of elderly persons who live
in rural areas. Under the Section 502
program, for example, thousands of
elderly families have received millions of
dollars in loans for home ownership and
repair. The Section 515 program, which
provides favorable interest loans with re-
payment periods of up to 50 years to
stimulate the development of rental hous-
ing in rural areas, has also moved forward.
Rental units financed under this program
have tripled from 1969 to 1973.
EXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INVOLVEMENT
It is important that we give sufficient
attention to the the things our Nation
should be doing for older Americans. But
it is just as important that we remember
how much older Americans can do for
their Nation. For above all else, what our
older citizens want from their country is
a chance to be a part of it, a chance to be
involved, a chance to contribute.
I am determined that they will have
that chance. For as I told the White House
Conference, "we cannot be at our best if
we keep our most experienced players on
the bench." This Administration is deeply
committed to involving older citizens as
actively as possible in the life of our Na-
tion by enhancing their opportunities
both for voluntary service and for regular
employment.
IMPROVING VOLUNTARY SERVICE
PROGRAMS
Voluntary social action has long been
recognized as one of the great distinguish-
ing characteristics of America, a force
which has helped to unite and focus our
diverse people in the pursuit of common
goals. And even as the voluntary spirit
has helped our country move forward
more effectively, it has also provided those
who have volunteered for service with a
greater sense of fulfillment.
The voluntary spirit is particularly rele-
vant to the lives of older Americans. The
White House Conference on Aging, for
example, called attention to "ways in
which older Americans could fulfill them-
selves by giving service to one another and
to their communities." Delegates to the
Conference called for "a national
481
