[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
the greatest urgency stable controls on
armaments, we cannot ignore the fact
that others are going forward with major
increases in their own arms programs.
In the year ahead we will be working
to improve and protect, to diversify and
disperse our strategic forces in ways which
make them even less vulnerable to attack
and more effective in deterring war. I will
request a substantial budget increase to
preserve the sufficiency of our strategic
nuclear deterrent, including an allocation
of over $900 million to improve our sea-
based deterrent force. I recently directed
the Department of Defense to develop a
program to build additional missile
launching submarines, carrying a new and
far more effective missile. We will also
proceed with programs to reoutfit our
Polaris submarines with the Poseidon mis-
sile system, to replace older land-based
missiles with Minuteman III, and to de-
ploy the SAFEGUARD Antiballistic
Missile System.
At the same time, we must move to
maintain our strength at sea. The Navy's
budget was increased by $2 billion in the
current fiscal year, and I will ask for a
similar increase next year, with particular
emphasis on our shipbuilding programs.
Our military research and development
program must also be stepped up. Our
budget in this area was increased by $594
million in the current fiscal year and I will
recommend a further increase for next
year of $838 million. I will also propose a
substantial program to develop and pro-
cure more effective weapons systems for
our land and tactical air forces, and to
improve the National Guard and Re-
serves, providing more modern weapons
and better training.
In addition, we will expand our strong
program to attract volunteer career sol-
diers so that we can phase out the draft.
With the cooperation of the Congress, we
have been able to double the basic pay of
first time enlistees. Further substantial
military pay increases are planned. I will
also submit to the Congress an overall
reform of our military retirement and sur-
vivor benefit programs, raising the level
of protection for military families. In ad-
dition, we will expand efforts to improve
race relations, to equalize promotional op-
portunities, to control drug abuse, and
generally to improve the quality of life
in the Armed Forces.
As we take all of these steps, let us
remember that strong military defenses
are not the enemy of peace; they are the
guardians of peace. Our ability to build a
stable and tranquil world-to achieve an
arms control agreement, for example-
depends on our ability to negotiate from a
position of strength. We seek adequate
power not as an end in itself but as a
means for achieving our purpose. And
our purpose is peace.
In my Inaugural address 3 years ago
I called for cooperation to reduce the
burden of arms-and I am encouraged
by the progress we have been making
toward that goal. But I also added this
comment: ... to all those who would be
tempted by weakness, let us leave no
doubt that we will be as strong as we need
to be for as long as we need to be." Today
I repeat that reminder.
66
A REALISTIC PROGRAM OF FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE
Another important expression of Amer-
ica's interest and influence in the world is
46
