[176] May 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
strides toward peace and security. I be-
lieve that those strides have been sub-
stantial and that now we have well begun
the long journey which will lead us to a
new age in the relations between our two
countries. It is important to both of our
peoples that we continue those strides.
As our two countries learn to work to-
gether, our people will be able to get to
know one another better. Greater coopera-
tion can also mean a great deal in our
daily lives. As we learn to cooperate in
space, in health and the environment, in
science and technology, our cooperation
can help sick people get well. It can help
industries produce more consumer goods.
It can help all of us enjoy cleaner air and
water. It can increase our knowledge of
the world around us.
As we expand our trade, each of our
countries can buy more of the other's
goods and market more of our own. As
we gain experience with arms control, we
can bring closer the day when further
agreements can lessen the arms burden of
our two nations and lessen the threat of
war in the world.
Through all the pages of history,
through all the centuries, the world's peo-
ple have struggled to be free from fear,
whether fear of the elements or fear of
hunger or fear of their own rulers or
fear of their neighbors in other countries.
And yet, time and again, people have
vanquished the source of one fear only to
fall prey to another.
Let our goal now be a world free of
fear a world in which nation will no
longer prey upon nation, in which human
energies will be turned away from pro-
duction for war and toward more produc-
tion for peace, away from conquest and
toward invention, development, creation;
a world in which together we can estab-
lish that peace which is more than the
absence of war, which enables man to pur-
sue those higher goals that the spirit yearns
for.
Yesterday, I laid a wreath at the ceme-
tery which commemorates the brave peo-
ple who died during the siege of Leningrad
in World War II. At the cemetery, I saw
the picture of a 12-year-old girl. She was
a beautiful child. Her name was Tanya.
The pages of her diary tell the terrible
story of war. In the simple words of a
child, she wrote of the deaths of the
members of her family: Zhenya in Decem-
ber. Grannie in January. Leka then next.
Then Uncle Vasya. Then Uncle Lyosha.
Then Mama. And then the Savichevs.
And then finally, these words, the last
words in her diary: "All are dead. Only
Tanya is left."
As we work toward a more peaceful
world, let us think of Tanya and of the
other Tanyas and their brothers and sis-
ters everywhere. Let us do all that we can
to insure that no other children will have
to endure what Tanya did and that your
children and ours, all the children of the
world can live their full lives together in
friendship and in peace.
Spasibo y do svidaniye. [Thank you
and
goodby.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. in the
Green Room at the Grand Kremlin Palace,
Moscow. His address was broadcast live on
radio and television in the Soviet Union and
simultaneously, via satellite, in the United
States.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released on
the same day.
632
