[279] Aug. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:37 p.m. at
Hickam Air Force Base, Hawaii. He spoke
without referring to notes.
John A. Burns was Governor of Hawaii,
Hiram L. Fong was United States Senator,
and Spark M. Matsunaga was United States
Representative. Frank F. Fasi was mayor of
Honolulu. Adm. John S. McCain, Jr., USN,
was Commander in Chief, Pacific.
280 Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Kakuei
Tanaka of Japan at Honolulu.
Mr. Prime Minister, and all of our distin-
guished guests from Japan:
In the word of welcome which is so
famous not only here in Hawaii, but
throughout the world, I say Aloha.
And, Mr. Prime Minister, I am very
honored to welcome you not only in your
official capacity for the first time, as Prime
Minister, but also to welcome you again
as a personal friend. This is as it should
be, because the alliance between our two
countries is one not only of necessity, but
it is one that is strengthened also by the
bonds of friendship. And the fact that the
relationships between Presidents of the
United States and Prime Ministers of
Japan over the years have been not only
official but personal has meant that that
alliance has been thereby strengthened.
It is particularly appropriate that your
first official visit, as Prime Minister, to the
United States should be in this State of
Hawaii, because here 30 percent of the
population of this State is proud of its
Japanese background. And we are re-
minded, as we meet in Hawaii, of how
much Americans who have Japanese back-
ground have contributed to the strength,
the diversity of our country.
As we see what has happened in
Hawaii, and as we see what has happened
in other parts of our country where people
of Japanese background and the other
diverse backgrounds of America have
August 30, 1972
worked together, we realize how much
the Japanese people of your country and
the American people can do together in
the cause of building a structure of peace
in the world.
I know that this meeting that we will
have will contribute to the desire of both
of our peoples to strengthen the structure
of peace so that we can continue on the
road to progress which we fortunately
both are moving on together today.
Mr. Prime Minister, I can say only that
I extend this welcome not only personally,
but from all the American people to you
and to the people of Japan. May we al-
ways meet as we meet today, working for
the great goals of peace in the Pacific and
peace in the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:35 p.m. at
Hickam Air Force Base, Hawaii, where
Prime Minister Tanaka received a formal wel-
come with full military honors. The President
spoke without referring to notes.
See also Item 282.
The Prime Minister spoke in Japanese. A
translation of his remarks was made available
by Japanese officials as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Mr. Secretary of
State, ladies and gentlemen:
I wish to thank you most sincerely, Mr.
President, for your very kind words and for
this extremely cordial and warm reception
accorded to us today.
Since I assumed the post of Prime Minister,
it has been my strong wish to meet and have
discussions with President Nixon and other
842
