Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [398]
towns, of factories and farms, of a greater
abundance, more widely shared, than
the world has ever known, of a constant
striving to set right the wrongs that still
persist—and I think of 210 million people,
of all ages, all persuasions, all races, all
stations in life.
More particularly, I think of one per-
son, one child-any child. That child may
be black or brown or white, rich or poor,
a boy whose family came here in steerage
in 1920, or a girl whose ancestors came on
the Mayflower in 1620. That one child is
America, with a life still ahead, with his
eyes filled with dreams, and with the
birthright of every American child to a
full and equal opportunity to pursue
those dreams.
It is for that one child that I want a
world of peace and a chance to achieve
all that peace makes possible. It is for that
one child that I want opportunity, and
freedom, and abundance. It is for that
one child that I want a land of justice,
and order, and a decent respect for the
rights and the feelings of others.
It is for that one child that I want it
said, a generation from now, a century
from now, that America in the 1970's had
the courage and the vision to meet its
responsibilities and to face up to its chal-
lenges to build peace, not merely for
our generation but for the next genera-
tion; to restore the land, to marshal our
resources, not merely for our generation
398
but for the next generation; to guard our
values and renew our spirit, not merely for
our generation but for the next genera-
tion.
It is for that one child that I want these
next 4 years to be the best 4 years in the
whole history of America.
The glory of this time in our history is
that we can do more than ever before-
we have the means, we have the skills, we
have an increasing understanding of how
the great goals that we seek can be
achieved.
These are not partisan goals. They are
America's goals. That is why I ask you
tonight, regardless of party, to join the
new American majority next Tuesday in
voting for candidates who stand for these
goals. That is why I ask for your sup-
port-after the election-in helping to
move forward toward these goals over
the next 4 years.
If we succeed in this task, then that
one child-all of our children-can look
forward to a life more full of hope, prom-
ise, than any generation, in any land, in
the whole history of mankind.
Thank you, and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke from a prepared
text. His address was recorded for broad-
cast on nationwide radio and television at 7:30
p.m. in the eastern, mountain, and Pacific
time zones and at 6:30 p.m. in the central
time zone. Time for the broadcast was pur-
chased by the Committee for the Re-Election
of the President.
Radio Address on Health Policy.
November 3, 1972
Good afternoon:
Whenever people start talking about
how exciting life would have been a
century or two ago, a friend of mine likes
to respond, "But what if you had broken
your leg?"
He has a good point. Nothing has done
more to improve the quality of life in
1089
