[33] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
Last March, when I submitted the rural
community development revenue sharing
proposal for the first time, I said that "the
major challenge facing rural America is to
diversify its economy and to provide full
opportunity for its people to enjoy the
benefits of American life." I still believe
that revenue sharing can do a great deal
to help rural America meet that challenge.
NEW PROPOSALS
Revenue sharing and reorganization
can have a great long-range significance
for rural America. But we must also take
a number of other steps which I am out-
lining today, including two major new
proposals. The first involves a new ap-
proach to rural financial assistance. The
second concerns added authorities for im-
proving the environment and attaining
conservation objectives in rural America.
EXPANDED CREDIT FOR RURAL AMERICA
I am recommending today a new rural
community development credit sharing
authority which would give the Secretary
of Agriculture and the State Governors
new tools to help revitalize rural areas.
Under this proposal, a new Rural Devel-
opment Credit Fund would be established
to provide loans, loan insurance and loan
guarantees to the States for their use in
assisting development. This credit would
be made available through the Farmers
Home Administration for up to 80 percent
of the cost of establishing or improving
businesses which help create economic
growth in rural areas. This fund would
also make loans and guarantees for sewer
and water facilities and other public
works and community facilities, such as
industrial parks and community centers,
which work directly or indirectly to im-
prove employment opportunities.
Loans and guarantees would be made
in accordance with the State development
plan required under rural revenue shar-
ing. The States would select specific
projects which are consistent with this
development plan.
A significant new feature of this credit-
sharing proposal is the requirement that
most of the authorizations be divided
among the States according to the same
formula established for rural community
development revenue sharing. Specifi-
cally, 80 percent of the loan funds for com-
mercial and industrial development and
for community facilities would be allo-
cated to the States on a formula basis.
The remaining 20 percent of loan author-
ities would be administered by the Secre-
tary of Agriculture. A large portion of the
authorization-65 percent in each fiscal
year-would be reserved for commercial
and industrial development uses and the
remainder would be available for com-
munity development purposes. Each State
would know in advance the amount of
grants and credit it could commit accord-
ing to its plan each year.
This proposal would involve private
lending institutions as fully as possible in
the rural revitalization effort. Financial
assistance would not be provided under
the program
unless it was clear that firms
and communities could not obtain credit
elsewhere. Fully three-quarters of each
year's authorization would have to be in
the form of a guarantee of loans made by
private financial institutions. Hopefully,
almost all loans could be made by this
sector of our economy. In addition to the
direct involvement of private banks, this
program would also emphasize loans to
private entrepreneurs for job creation
132
