[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Under the direction of the Secretary of
Labor and with the help of our Jobs for
Veterans Committee and the National
Alliance of Businessmen, this program has
been moving forward. During its first five
months of operation, 122,000 Vietnam-
era veterans were placed in jobs by the
Federal-State Employment Service and
40,000 were enrolled in job training pro-
grams. During the next six months, we
expect the Federal-State Employment
Service to place some 200,000 additional
veterans in jobs and to enroll nearly
200,000 more in manpower training
programs.
But let us never forget, in this as in so
many other areas, that the opportunity
for any individual to contribute fully to
his society depends in the final analysis on
the response--in his own community-of
other individuals.
GREATER ROLE FOR AMERICAN YOUTH
Full participation and first class citi-
zenship-these must be our goals for
America's young people. It was to help
achieve these goals that I signed legisla-
tion to lower the minimum voting age to
18 in June of 1970, and moved to secure
a court validation of its constitutionality.
And I took special pleasure
a year later
in witnessing the certification of the
amendment which placed this franchise
guarantee in the Constitution.
But a voice at election time alone is not
enough. Young people should have a hear-
ing in government on a day-by-day basis.
To this end, and at my direction, agencies
throughout the Federal Government have
stepped up their hiring of young people
and have opened new youth advisory
channels. We have also convened the first
White House Youth Conference-a wide-
open forum whose recommendations have
been receiving a thorough review by the
Executive departments.
Several other reforms also mean greater
freedom and opportunity for America's
young people. Draft calls have been sub-
stantially reduced, as a step toward our
target of reducing them to zero by mid-
1973. The lottery system and other new
procedures and the contributions of youth
advisory councils and younger members on
local boards have made the draft far more
fair than it was. My educational reform
proposals embody the principle that no
qualified student who wants to go to col-
lege should be barred by lack of money-
a guarantee that would open doors of op-
portunity for many thousands of deserving
young people. Our new career education
emphasis can also be a significant spring-
board to good jobs and rewarding lives.
Young America's "extra dimension" in
the sixties and seventies has been a drive
to help the less fortunate-an activist
idealism bent on making the world a better
place to live. Our new ACTION volun-
teer agency, building on the successful
experiences of constituent units such as the
Peace Corps and Vista, has already broad-
ened service opportunities for the young-
and more new programs are in prospect.
The Congress can do its part in forward-
ing this positive momentum by assuring
that the ACTION programs have suffi-
cient funds to carry out their mission.
THE AMERICAN FARMER
As we face the challenge of competing
more effectively abroad and of producing
more efficiently at home, our entire Nation
can take the American farmer as its model.
While the productivity of our non-farm
industries has gone up 60 percent during
62
