[323] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Governor Meskill, Governor Ogilvie in
Chicago ยน-that one success, revenue
sharing, is a great victory for the American
people.
But now let me come to the point. What
we need and what you can help provide
through giving us a clear majority, a new
American majority this year: You can
give us the opportunity to carry forward
exciting, new programs on the domestic
front that are just as important as those
that we have been able to carry forward
on the international front.
That is why this election is so terribly
important to the American people. What
I am saying to you tonight is that whether
it is in the field of foreign policy, whether
it is in the field of domestic policy, that
what we need and what we ask for is not
simply the support of a party, but the
support of a clear majority of the Ameri-
can people so that we can do those things
that America needs to have done for it.
We have a program. We have submitted
it to the Congress. We will have more to
submit. But we need the majority, and
you can help provide that majority. That
is what you have done by your contribu-
tions here.
Now, in very personal terms, may I tell
you what this election is really about?
What does a man think, what does Vice
President Agnew think, what do I think
as we crisscross the country, as much as
the duties of our office will permit, in
campaigning for reelection? Of course,
we think of winning. Of course, we think
of what we can do when we get in. But
above all, we think of our obligation to the
generations that have made this country
ยน Gov. William T. Cahill of New Jersey,
Gov. Thomas J. Meskill of Connecticut, and
Gov. Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois.
in the past, to the older citizens, for ex-
ample, who have contributed so much and
who deserve so much in respect as well as
in care from those that they have served
in this country.
And we think, too, of the younger peo-
ple in this country. This year, more than
in any election in our history, the candi-
dates for the Presidency and the Vice
Presidency are thinking of younger people
as well as older people.
One of the reasons, of course, is quite a
selfish one. They can vote, and being able
to vote, they can affect this election very
much. But it is good that we are reminded
of that. It is rather significant that this is
Student Government Day 2 all over the
United States. It is significant right here
in this room, that at this great dinner
where it costs, I understand, a great deal
to sit down and eat, that the young people
were able to come in and at least enjoy
the speeches.
Could I tell all of the people listening
here, all the young Americans and their
parents and all of those who think of this
country and what we want it to mean,
what I want for you, for this new
generation?
I want you to grow up in a world with
peace. We have had a war in every gen-
eration in this century. That is too many
and that is too long, and it doesn't need
to be the case. I want you to grow up in
an open world. I want you to be able to
take the trips that Mrs. Nixon and I
have taken, to the People's Republic of
China, to the Soviet Union, to nations
that up to this time have been relatively
closed to young people or any people,
On June 26, 1972, the President signed
Proclamation 4140 designating September 26,
1972, as National Student Government Day.
920
