[340] Oct. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bangladesh is now turning to a new task in a
new set of circumstances. Serious problems will
unquestionably arise and there will be many
hard decisions to make. We believe that the
United States can contribute to this difficult-
even dangerous-transition in a number of use-
ful ways. We shall spell out our suggestions in
some detail in a report to Mr. Maurice J.
Williams, your Coordinator for U.S. Humani-
tarian Assistance for South Asia.
Our visit has underlined for us the impor-
tance of your request for $100 million of grant
aid for Bangladesh for the current fiscal year
and the necessity that the Congress act favor-
ably upon that request. We urge that, in addi-
tion, appropriate amounts of PL-480 foodstuffs
be earmarked for Bangladesh.
From the observation of the performance of
the remarkably vigorous staff-all in their early
thirties of the A.I.D. office in Dacca, we are
confident that these funds will be imaginatively
and effectively used.
We believe on the basis of preliminary projec-
tions we have seen that the proposals for fiscal
1974 will set forth the basis for an effective
development program for Bangladesh.
We wish to express our appreciation of the
opportunity you have given us to serve you in
an endeavor that reflects great credit on our
country and its humanitarian traditions.
Faithfully yours,
341 Radio Address on Federal Spending.
October 7, 1972
Good afternoon:
I want to talk with you today about an
issue that strikes directly at every pocket-
book and every savings account in
America, the clear and present danger
that excessive spending by the Congress
might cause a Congressional tax increase
in 1973.
When the Congress votes to increase
spending above the Federal budget, there
are only two alternatives: either taxes will
go up or a new surge of inflation will begin
and prices will go up.
I am totally opposed to either of these
bad choices. I oppose higher taxes, and I
oppose higher prices. My budget will not
require higher taxes. It will not cause
higher prices.
I shall fight every attempt by the Con-
gress to bust that budget, because a big
spending spree by the Congress will have
only one result: a hangover of higher
taxes or higher prices for every working
family in America.
JEANNE R. FERST
GLEN HAYDON
JOSEPH E. JOHNSON
MAXWELL RABB
No goal and no program has any higher
priority with me than protecting our
people's growing purchasing power, and
when taxes or prices go up, purchasing
power goes down.
In order to clamp a lid on Congressional
spending, I have proposed a 1973 spend-
ing ceiling of $250 billion, a proposal that
will be voted on by the Congress next
week.
Let me lay it on the line in clear and
unmistakable terms. A vote against the
spending ceiling could prove to be a vote
for higher taxes. A vote for the spending
ceiling will clearly be a vote against higher
taxes.
This spending ceiling should get the
active support of every American con-
cerned with avoiding higher taxes or
higher prices. It should be approved.
But if the spending ceiling is not
passed, I still have one weapon left, the
Presidential veto. And I will not hesitate
to use that weapon on behalf of the
964
