[159] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
television. I don't want it to be the last
time.
As far as other activities are concerned,
Mrs. Nixon, as was the case in Peking, will
have a very intensive schedule and I am
sure you will find it most interesting to
follow her on days that we may be closeted
in meetings. I would also suggest one other
point, that there will be, in this instance,
plenary sessions, probably two plenary
sessions, and then we will have parallel
conversations.
My conversations will be with the Gen-
eral Secretary, Mr. Brezhnev, or with
others that he may add from time to time
from his own personal staff in addition to
the plenary sessions. And Secretary Rogers
will be meeting with Foreign Minister
Gromyko. We will divide the work, and
in some instances, we, of course, will be
discussing the same problems.
This way, with the amount of work that
we do have, we feel we can cover a mas-
sive amount of material that is before us.
Eight days seems a long time, and it will
be a long time, I can assure you, from the
standpoint of your own workload. But we
could really take 8 days to consider even
one of the subjects that I have men-
tioned-SALT, commercial relations,
even space and so we are cramming a
great deal of work into a relatively brief
period of time. We think that that, how-
ever, can be quite useful.
In mentioning, incidentally, our visit to
the Soviet Union, I want you all not to
overlook the fact we are going to Iran. I
know you will enjoy our visit there. I con-
sider it very important to go to Iran to
return a visit that the Shah made here, to
show America's friendship and our close
association with this strong friend of the
United States in that part of the world.
We will be going to Austria, stopping
there for tomorrow and Sunday, and I
look forward to going back there, having
had the opportunity to see Austria in 1956
and being back on other occasions as well.
And then, of course, our trip will con-
clude with a visit to Poland.
I would advise that in all of these areas,
to the extent you can-as you will in the
Soviet Union-if you can find time from
your work, do some sightseeing, because
they are all great cities, extremely interest-
ing, and I just wish I had the time to do a
little sightseeing myself.
Now, one little personal note. On trips
like this, virtually everybody who is going
for the first time asks me, "Now, what
would you
advise that we see?"
Well, naturally you want to see the
Kremlin. You ought to see the university;
you ought to see certainly one of the great
industrial plants in Moscow, the magnifi-
cence of the gardens and the former
Czar's Palace in Leningrad, and so forth.
But one place that may not have oc-
curred to you that I would urge, if you
have the time, to get a real feel of the new
Soviet Union and the old Russia, is to go
to the marketplace. I have always gone
there on all four of my trips. You will find
the Russian people extremely friendly
when they know you are from the United
States, and extremely interested, asking
many questions about our country, and
you will get a flavor there you can't get in
the GUM department store, which is also
very much worth going to see, too.
I don't have stock in either one-neither
do they. [Laughter] It is a different system.
Let me just close my remarks with one
final thought. Everybody in this Govern-
ment has worked extremely hard on this
trip over the past months-some for
years:
606
