Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
population by withholding attacks against
cities.
The variety and size of Soviet strategic
forces increased further during the last
Administration and complicated the
American problem of destroying Soviet
offensive forces remaining after a Soviet
first strike. The earlier doctrines no longer
seemed credible, and the doctrine of “as-
sured destruction" gained wide accept-
ance. Under this concept, deterrence was
believed guaranteed by maintaining the
capability to destroy a sizable percentage
of an adversary's industrial capacity and
population even following an all-out at-
tack on our own strategic forces. Under
this theory, a buildup of the other side's
strategic forces was not considered critical
as long as we maintained enough invulner-
able forces.
After reviewing various concepts for our
strategic forces, I decided that our forces
should be based on a doctrine of "strategic
sufficiency" which takes into account
political factors and a broader set of mili-
tary factors than did the "assured destruc-
tion" concept. In last year's Report I
described this doctrine as follows:
"In its narrow military sense, it means
enough force to inflict a level of damage
on a potential aggressor sufficient to deter
him from attacking. Sole reliance on a
'launch-on-warning' strategy, sometimes
suggested by those who would give less
weight to the protection of our forces,
would force us to live at the edge of a
precipice and deny us the flexibility we
wish to preserve.
"In its broader political sense, suffi-
ciency means the maintenance of forces
adequate to prevent us and our allies from
being coerced. Thus the relationship be-
tween our strategic forces and those of the
Soviet Union must be such that our abil-
ity and resolve to protect our vital security
interests will not be underestimated."
Sufficiency requires forces that are ade-
quate in quantity and have the qualitative
characteristics to maintain a stable strate-
gic balance despite technological change.
Capabilities of both the U.S. and USSR
have reached a point where our programs
need not be driven by fear of minor quan-
titative imbalances. The Soviet Union
cannot be permitted, however, to estab-
lish a significant numerical advantage in
overall offensive and defensive forces.
Our forces must be maintained at a
level sufficient to make it clear that even
an all-out surprise attack on the United
States by the USSR would not cripple
our capability to retaliate. Our forces must
also be capable of flexible application. A
simple "assured destruction" doctrine does
not meet our present requirements for a
flexible range of strategic options. No
President should be left with only one
strategic course of action, particularly that
of ordering the mass destruction of enemy
civilians and facilities. Given the range of
possible political-military situations which
could conceivably confront us, our stra-
tegic policy should not be based solely on
a capability of inflicting urban and indus-
trial damage presumed to be beyond the
level an adversary would accept. We must
be able to respond at levels appropriate to
the situation. This problem will be the
subject of continuing study.
Faced with a potential Soviet threat to
the sufficiency of our forces, I directed in
the first year of my Administration:
-Initial deployments of an anti-bal-
listic missile system.
-Research on new long range sub-
marine-launched ballistic missile
systems.
-The equipping of existing missiles
307
