[411] Nov. 4 Public Papers of the Presidents
port of the American people. We ask for
that support in this election.
They have different interests than we
have in many parts of the world. That
will continue. But again, imagine what
we would leave to the younger generation
had we not moved this year on that front.
We would have gone down the road to an
inevitable confrontation and a nuclear
explosion, possibly, that would have de-
stroyed civilization as we know it. I could
not let that happen. You could not let it
happen. That is why we went to Moscow.
There we negotiated an historic number
of agreements, agreements, for example,
in the field of trade, agreements in the
field of science, agreements in the field of
space, and particularly those that you will
remember, agreements to begin the limi-
tation of nuclear arms.
But I again emphasize, it was only a
beginning, just as the trip to Peking was
a beginning. What we must do now is to
go on from there and in going on from
there what we must recognize is that just
next month, for example, we are plan-
ning to meet with the leaders of the Soviet
Union—our representatives-to negotiate
the second round of arms limitation.
I am not suggesting that as a result
of that meeting, any more than the first
meeting, that all differences will dis-
appear. But I do say this, and I say this
as a message of hope to all of the wonder-
ful young people here and your parents
and
your friends: that never since the end
of World War II have the chances for
peace for a whole generation been better
than they are right today in the United
States and in the world.
What we ask for is a chance to continue.
What we ask for from the American
people is a message to the leaders abroad,
a message that the President of the United
States, when he negotiates, has the sup-
We also must recognize that in order
to have these negotiations succeed to limit
arms, in order for the United States to be
able to play the role which we are destined
to play, of building a peaceful world, it
is vitally important that the President of
the United States never be sent to the
bargaining table with another country as
the head of the second strongest nation
in the world. We must remember that
strength for the United States is vitally
important to world peace.
I know there are those who say that
we can cut our defenses so that we have
the second strongest navy and the second
strongest air force and the second strong-
est army and it doesn't really make any
difference. But let me tell you, the day
that happens peace and freedom will be
in deadly jeopardy throughout the world.
Let me say, keep America strong so that
the President of the United States will
represent a strong America and not a
weak America.
Our thoughts, of course, turn also to
our problems at home. We have moved
forward to something we haven't had
since President Eisenhower was President,
and that is full prosperity without war and
without inflation.
We have some way to go, but we now
have the highest rate of growth of any
industrial nation; we have the lowest rate
of inflation of any of the great industrial
nations. And we are going to continue
on that road until Americans can have
that opportunity that they have not had
since 15 years ago when President Eisen-
hower was in the White House, and
that is prosperity without war, without
inflation.
1132
