Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 12 [347]
South are just like the rest of the country
in wanting progress. They don't want to
stand still. It is a myth. It was a myth in
1934 to '37 when I was in law school, when
I talked to these young law students and
they spoke with such idealism of the fu-
ture of the South and how they wanted
to get up with the rest of the country.
They were proud of it, but they wanted to
come up.
You look at this great skyline of the
city of Atlanta. Look at New Orleans, look
at Texas, look across this whole area,
Florida, for example, North Carolina,
Tennessee, and you can see that the prog-
ress in this part of the country, along with
the West, is probably the greatest of all in
the Nation.
They want more of that progress, and,
in order to have that progress, they know
that we need the kind of a government
that will avoid confiscatory taxes. That is
one of the reasons why they support the
proposals I have made to put a spending
ceiling on spending in Washington, so
that we don't raise taxes for the American
people.
That is why also they support the his-
toric movement-and of course we some-
times perhaps overuse that word, but in
this instance it is historic, because it is a
great change in the approach to our con-
stitutional responsibilities in this coun-
try-which provides for revenue sharing.
Let me tell you what it means. Sure-
as I told the mayor of Atlanta today—it
is going to mean money for the city of
Atlanta. It is going to be money for the
counties and cities of this State and all the
States of the Nation. It is going to be
money for the State governments that they
can use to deal with local problems. But
what is involved that is far more signifi-
cant is this:
It means that after 180 years of power
flowing from the people and the States
and the cities to Washington, we have
finally turned it around, and the money
and the power is going to go back to the
States and back to the cities so that the
people can decide what they want for
themselves rather than having it done in
Washington, D.C.
Think what this means: This means
better education. It means an opportunity
in the future to lower the burden of prop-
erty taxes. It means better opportunity. It
means the kind of progress that the people
of this part of the country want just like
the people in all parts of the country.
One other point that I would make
before concluding is that sometimes there
is a tendency to speak of the South as
being sort of the Bible belt, and that is
said by some in a complimentary way and
some in, shall we say, a rather derogatory
way.
I would only suggest I would put it in
a broader sense. There is, in this part of
the country, a deep religious faith. There
is a great respect for moral values. There
is a great devotion to what we call char-
acter. But let me say that in that religious
faith and in that devotion to moral values
and in that respect for character, while it
exists in the South, it exists throughout
this Nation.
My Indiana mother and my Ohio
father-they put it in me just as your
mothers and fathers put it in you. And
I see it, for example, when I visit an
Italian picnic and I see new people, first
generation Americans, who are proud of
their national backgrounds, with deep re-
979
