Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 9 [252]
zens, the effort directed toward a cleaner
and healthier environment is a vital meas-
ure of a country's stature.
This is a hopeful sign that the produc-
tive pursuits of peace are coming grad-
ually to command increasing attention in
the discourse and competition among
nations. In the 197th year of American
Independence, the quality of life enjoyed
by our citizens has become a new sign to
the world of our progress as a people.
I am reminded of Benjamin Franklin's
remark at the Constitutional Convention
in Philadelphia, when he pointed to the
golden half-sun engraved on the back of
General Washington's chair: "Now at
length I have the happiness to know that
it is a rising and not a setting sun.'
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
August 7, 1972.
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Environmental Quality: The Third
Annual Report of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality-August 1972" (Government
Printing Office, 450 pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the report. Participants in the news
briefing were Russell E. Train, Chairman, and
Robert Cahn and Gordon J. F. MacDonald,
members, Council on Environmental Quality.
251 Statement About Signing a Bill Permitting
Presidential Appointment of Sons of Prisoners
of War and Missing in Action to the Military
Academies. August 8, 1972
I HAVE signed into law S. 2945, a bill
which makes it easier for sons of our
POW's and MIA's to attend our military
service academies if they so choose. With-
out lowering admission or rating stand-
ards, this measure assigns the highest
priority to those qualified candidates
whose fathers have proven their devotion
to their country to the fullest measure.
I am particularly pleased to sign this
measure because it reaffirms our coun-
try's appreciation of the tremendous serv-
ice and sacrifice of our prisoners of war
and missing in action in Southeast Asia.
This measure is one more reminder
that, as a government and as a people, we
are determined to do everything we can
to help the families of these men who
have sacrificed so much in our behalf.
Fathers and sons, they both deserve no less
from us.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2945, approved August 7,
1972, is Public Law 92-365 (86 Stat. 505).
252 Statement About Signing a Bill Providing for a
National Safety Inspection Program for Dams.
August 9, 1972
I HAVE signed into law H.R. 15951, a
bill which requires the Secretary of the
Army, through the Corps of Engineers, to
initiate a program of safety inspections for
dams throughout the United States.
Under this legislation, the Secretary of
769
