[58] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
QUESTIONS
MEETINGS WITH CHINESE LEADERS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Malraux
has been quoted as having said that he is
sure that the first question that Mao will
ask you is, "Will you provide aid for
China?" and that the rest of the trip, the
success of the talks, will be determined by
your answer. Can you give us any indica-
tion that if that is true what you will say?
THE PRESIDENT. That gets into the area
that I will decline to comment upon, be-
cause it involves the agenda items. I can-
not really predict with as much confidence
as Mr. Malraux perhaps can, as to what
Mr. Mao Tse-tung's questions will be.
So, consequently, I don't believe it
would be proper to comment now on a
question that has not yet been asked by
him. If it is asked, I will have an answer.
Q. Mr. President, do you look upon
these talks-do you look upon your meet-
ing with Chou En-lai and Mao Tse-tung
as dialogue or negotiation?
THE PRESIDENT. They will be primarily
dialogue. Here a very subtle but definite
distinction is made between the talks that
will take place in Peking and the talks
that will take place in Moscow.
In the talks in Moscow there are certain
subjects that we have been negotiating
about and those subjects, therefore, will
be negotiated, although, of course, there
will be dialogue as well. Dialogue is an
essential part of negotiation.
In the case of Peking, there will neces-
sarily have to be a substantial amount
of dialogue before we can come to the
point of negotiating on substantive mat-
ters. I should emphasize, too, that it has
already been pointed out by Dr. Kissinger
when he returned, that when we speak of
these matters that they will be primarily
bilateral matters. Beyond that, however,
I will not go.
CRITICISM OF POLICIES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Haldeman 2
has had very strong words for critics of
your peace proposal, saying that they are
consciously aiding and abetting the
enemy. Your statement was somewhat
softer. The Democrats do not seem to still
think it is enough. Do you think that Mr.
Haldeman's statement, since he is so close
to you and a lot of people interpret his
thinking as very close to yours, should be
left to lie as it is or is there something
further that you should say?
THE PRESIDENT. There is nothing
further that I should say. I think Mr.
Ziegler covered the situation with regard
to Mr. Haldeman and you ladies and
gentlemen pressed him very hard on that
on Monday.
I stated my position very clearly yester-
day in my summary of the state of the
world speech. We have here a situation
where there is a difference of opinion
among various candidates for the Presi-
dency as to how they should conduct
themselves at this time.
As I pointed out, I considered it a mat-
ter of judgment. I do not question the
patriotism, I do not question the sin-
cerity of people who disagree with me,
because a lot of people do disagree with
me on this and other issues as well.
Perhaps to put it in a clearer context, I
was a very vigorous critic of the policies
that got us into Vietnam. I was a critic,
for example, of the settlement which re-
sulted in the partition of Laos, which
2 H. R. Haldeman, Assistant to the President.
350
