Richard Nixon, 1972
June 1 [188]
mean anything at all, and if we do not
wish to be shouldered aside in world mar-
kets by the growing potential of the
economies of Japan, Western Europe, the
Soviet Union, the People's Republic of
China. For America to continue its role
of helping to build a more peaceful world,
we must keep America number one eco-
nomically in the world.
We must maintain our own momentum
of domestic innovation, growth, and re-
form if the opportunities for joint action
with the Soviets are to fulfill their prom-
ise. As we seek agreements to build peace
abroad, we must keep America moving
forward at home.
Most importantly, if the new age we
seek is ever to become a reality, we must
keep America strong in spirit—a nation
proud of its greatness as a free society,
confident of its mission in the world. Let
us be committed to our way of life as
wholeheartedly as the Communist leaders
with whom we seek a new relationship are
committed to their system. Let us always
be proud to show in our words and actions
what we know in our hearts-that we
believe in America.
These are just some of the challenges of
peace. They are in some ways even more
difficult than the challenges of war. But
we are equal to them. As we meet them,
we will be able to go forward and explore
the sweeping possibilities for
peace which
this season of summits has now opened up
for the world.
For decades, America has been locked
in hostile confrontation with the two great
Communist powers, the Soviet Union and
the People's Republic of China. We were
engaged with the one at many points and
almost totally isolated from the other, but
our relationships with both had reached a
deadly impasse. All three countries were
victims of the kind of bondage about
which George Washington long ago
warned in these words: The nation which
indulges toward another an habitual
hatred... is a slave to its own animosity.
But now in the brief space of 4 months,
these journeys to Peking and to Moscow
have begun to free us from perpetual con-
frontation. We have moved toward better
understanding, mutual respect, point-by-
point settlement of differences with both
the major Communist powers.
This one series of meetings has not
rendered an imperfect world suddenly per--
fect. There still are deep philosophical
differences; there still are parts of the
world in which age-old hatreds persist.
The threat of war has not been elimi-
nated-it has been reduced. We are mak-
ing progress toward a world in which lead-
ers of nations will settle their differences
by negotiation, not by force, and in which
they learn to live with their differences so
that their sons will not have to die for
those differences.
It was particularly fitting that this trip,
aimed at building such a world, should
have concluded in Poland.
No country in the world has suffered
more from war than Poland-and no
country has more to gain from peace. The
faces of the people who gave us such a
heartwarming welcome in Warsaw yes-
terday, and then again this morning and
this afternoon, told an eloquent story of
suffering from war in the past and of hope
for peace in the future. One could see it in
their faces. It made me more determined
than ever that America must do all in its
power to help that hope for peace come
true for all people in the world.
As we continue that effort, our unity
of purpose and action will be all-
important.
665
