[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
ther administrative and legislative initia-
tives. Altogether our new budget will con-
tain more than three times as much money
for environmental programs in fiscal year
1973 as we spent in fiscal year 1969. To
fail in meeting the environmental chal-
lenge, however, would be even more costly.
I urge the Congress to put aside nar-
row partisan perspectives that merely ask
"whether" we should act to protect the
environment and to focus instead on the
more difficult question of "how" such ac-
tion can most effectively be carried out.
ABUNDANT CLEAN ENERGY
In my message to the Congress on
energy policy, last June, I outlined addi-
tional steps relating to the environment
which also merit renewed attention. The
challenge, as I defined it, is to produce a
sufficient supply of energy to fuel our in-
dustrial civilization and at the same time
to protect a beautiful and healthy environ-
ment. I am convinced that we can achieve
both these goals, that we can respect our
good earth without turning our back on
progress.
In that message last June, I presented a
long list of means for assuring an ample
supply of clean energy--including the
liquid metal fast breeder reactor-and I
again emphasize their importance. Be-
cause it often takes several years to bring
new technologies into use in the energy
field, there is no time for delay. Accord-
ingly, I am including in my new budget
increased funding for the most promising
of these and other clean energy programs.
By acting this year, we can avoid having
to choose in some future year between too
little energy and too much pollution.
KEEPING PEOPLE HEALTHY
The National Health Strategy I out-
lined last February is designed to achieve
one of the Nation's most important goals
for the 1970's, improving the quality and
availability of medical care, while fighting
the trend toward runaway costs. Impor-
tant elements of that strategy have already
been enacted. The Comprehensive Health
Manpower Training Act and the Nurse
Training Act, which I signed on Novem-
ber 18, represent the most far-reaching
effort in our history to increase the supply
of doctors, nurses, dentists and other
health professionals and to attract them
to areas which are experiencing manpower
shortages. The National Cancer Act,
which I signed on December 23, marked
the climax of a year-long effort to step up
our campaign against cancer. During the
past year, our cancer research budget has
been increased by $100 million and the full
weight of my office has been given to our
all-out war on this disease. We have also
expanded the fight against sickle cell
anemia by an additional $5 million.
I hope that action on these significant
fronts during the first session of the 92nd
Congress will now be matched by action
in other areas during the second session.
The Health Maintenance Organization
Act, for example, is an essential tool for
helping doctors deliver care more effec-
tively and more efficiently with a greater
emphasis on prevention and early treat-
ment. By working to keep our people
healthy instead of treating us only when
we are sick, Health Maintenance Organi-
zations can do a great deal to help us
reduce medical costs.
Our National Health Insurance Part-
56
