Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [59]
think we saw something about volun-
teerism in the awards that were just
presented; more will be said about them
later.
As I understand, I gave them a plaque
and somebody else gives them a $5,000
check and certainly that tells us some-
thing too. You could not possibly buy what
they have been able to give with $5,000,
because as Ted Etherington has indicated,
what really distinguishes volunteerism is
that it provides services; it brings forth
efforts that money simply could not buy.
It is true all over this country, not just
thousands or tens of thousands or hun-
dreds of thousands, but millions of volun-
teers are represented in various organiza-
tions. It is a very distinctive feature of
American life. De Tocqueville noticed it
100 years ago as he traveled through
America. He said what really distin-
guished this country, whether it was in the
East, or what was then the very primitive
Midwest, was the multiplicity of volun-
teer organizations, overlapping each other,
but all working toward a common objec-
tive of making their communities or their
States and their Nation a better place.
And most recently, Willy Brandt, the
Nobel Peace Prize winner, after our meet-
ing in Miami, Florida, spent 2 weeks in
Florida. He had a press conference. He
was very generous in his comments about
the United States and its people. He said
what impressed him the most about the
American people was volunteerism. He
said, "We in Europe do not really know
this country as we should," because natu-
rally people in other countries know us by
our Government or by our Ambassadors
and others, and we try to do the best we
can, but that is highly impersonal. It is
even impersonal when we provide foreign
aid, when we help in other ways.
But as Willy Brandt pointed out, as he
saw in the areas that he visited in his 2
weeks' stay in Florida, hundreds of people,
helping in hospitals and schools and other
agencies, it gave him a different feeling
about America than he had ever had be-
fore and he, of all the foreign leaders,
knows us as well as almost any.
So, it shows that you do represent some-
thing that is very special about this coun-
try, something that is worth preserving,
and something that is worth nurturing
because it needs to grow. It presents
America at its best. It presents America at
its best at home; it also presents America
at its best abroad. Because when we do
things as a government abroad, that is
rather expected to have a selfish interest—
sometimes it does; sometimes it is solely
humanitarian.
But when we do things as volunteers,
whether it is in the Peace Corps or other
areas, it has a different connotation, it
moves from people to people.
So, here tonight, we honor volunteers.
I think perhaps the best way I can put
it is to go back to something that Walt
Whitman said. He said what really dis-
tinguished America was that this was the
country in which the President took off
his hat to the people rather than where
the people took off their hats to the
President.
Tonight I take off my hat to the volun-
teers of America, to this group, to all that
have worked in it. Any President would.
And he would do so because he is very
proud, speaking for all the Nation, to
thank people who give of their time and
their efforts and their hearts in good
causes.
We have seen two groups represented
here and they tell us something too. The
organization SERVE is, as you know, one
359
