[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Enlisting the young
President's Environmental Merit
Awards Program for high schools
Youth opportunities in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture Field Scout
program.
TIGHTENING POLLUTION CONTROL
The legislative framework for dealing
with our major air pollution problems has
become law, and I have made comprehen-
sive recommendations regarding water
pollution control. But several problems
remain to be addressed which are difficult
to deal with under the general pollution
control authorities.
DISPOSAL OF TOXIC WASTES
Increasingly strict air and water pollu-
tion control laws and their more effective
enforcement have led to greater reliance
on land-both surface and under-
ground-for disposal of waste products
from the toxic substances being used in
ever greater volume and variety in our
society. Without adequate controls, such
waste disposal may cause contamination
of underground and surface waters lead-
ing to direct health hazards.
-I propose a Toxic Wastes Disposal
Control Act, under which the Environ-
mental Protection Agency would establish
Federal guidelines and requirements for
State programs to regulate disposal on or
under the land of those toxic wastes which
pose a hazard to health. The act would
provide for Federal enforcement action if
a State should fail to establish its own
program.
SEDIMENT CONTROL
Sediment, small particles of soil which
enter the water, is the most pervasive wa-
ter pollution problem which does not come
primarily from municipal or industrial
sources. Heavy loads of sediment interfere
with many beneficial uses of water, such as
swimming and water supply, and can
change the entire character of an aquatic
environment. Many of our great water-
ways are afflicted with this problem. In
our urban areas, a significant amount of
sediment comes from construction. How-
ever, if proper construction practices are
followed, sediment runoff from this source
can be greatly reduced.
-I propose legislation calling upon the
States to establish, through appropriate
local and regional agencies, regulatory
programs to control sediment affecting
water quality from earth-moving activ-
ities such as building and road construc-
tion.
The Environmental Protection Agency,
together with other Federal agencies,
would develop Federal guidelines for ap-
propriate control measures. Federal en-
forcement would take place in situations
where a State failed to implement such a
program.
SULFUR OXIDES EMISSIONS CHARGE
In my 1971 Environmental Message, I
announced plans to ask for imposition of
a charge on sulfur oxides emissions, one
of the air pollutants most damaging to
human health and property, and vegeta-
tion. The Council on Environmental
Quality, the Treasury Department and
176
