Richard Nixon, 1972
June 22 [207]
This kind of activity, as Mr. Ziegler has
indicated, has no place whatever in our
electoral process, or in our governmental
process. And, as Mr. Ziegler has stated, the
White House has had no involvement
whatever in this particular incident.
As far as the matter now is concerned,
it is under investigation, as it should be,
by the proper legal authorities, by the
District of Columbia police, and by the
FBI. I will not comment on those matters,
particularly since possible criminal charges
are involved.
FOOD PRICES
[2] Q. Mr. President, wholesale food
prices have led to increases in the cost of
living in the last few weeks. Are you con-
sidering any kind of controls over the
price of food?
THE PRESIDENT. In the whole area of
inflation we have had a period of pretty
good news generally. As you know, in 1969
and early 1970 the rate of inflation, the
CPI, peaked out at 6 percent. Since that
time it has been moving down and par-
ticularly since the August 15 new policy
with the control system was announced,
it has now been cut approximately in half,
running at around the rate of 3 percent.
The most troublesome area however is
the one you have referred to-food prices.
We cannot take too much comfort from
the figures that came out yesterday be-
cause, as you know, they actually reflected
a slight drop in food prices. I met yester-
day, however, with the Quadriad, and
Mr. Stein reported that the weekly re-
ports that we get, which, of course, were
not reflected in yesterday's numbers, indi-
cate that meat prices particularly are be-
ginning to rise again and rising very fast.
For that reason, I have directed that
the Cost of Living Council, which will be
meeting this afternoon, look into this mat-
ter to see what further action can be taken
to deal specifically with food prices, but
particularly with meat prices.
Now with regard to meat prices, to give
you an indication of the direction of my
thinking, you can move on the control
side. But as we all remember in that pe-
riod immediately after World War II,
when we had controls but too much de-
mand and too little supply and all the
black markets, controls alone will not
work unless you also move on the supply
side.
At the present time, we have apparently
a world shortage of meat, and particularly
a shortage of meat in the United States,
where the demand is constantly going up
as the income of our people goes up.
We have to get, therefore, at the prob-
lem of supply. Consequently, one of the
areas that I am exploring is the quota sys-
tem. I have directed our staff to check
into the advisability of a temporary lift-
ing of quotas on imported meat which will
move on the supply side. It will not affect
the problem immediately, but at least it
would affect it over the next few months.
That does not rule out, also, the possi-
bility of moving on the control side, and
the control side is a matter where the
Cost of Living Council is presently, or will
be at 4 o'clock this afternoon, consider-
ing a number of options which I will con-
sider as the matter develops.
DEFENSE BUDGET AND SALT
AGREEMENTS
[3] Q. Mr. President, this may be a
borderline question in the domestic field,
but I believe it may fall there since the
issues are before Congress. Could you tell
691
