Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 17 [352]
union movement and all the other institu-
tions that we now have in this country.
However, any student of American
history knows that is not the case. There
was no free trade union movement of any
strength in the young America, not even
in Lincoln's America, not even in the late
part of the 19th century. There were
labor unions, but they had to fight all the
way for recognition, recognition not only
in their bargaining with management, but
recognition in terms of their relations
with government.
As a matter of fact, as far as the labor
union movement in the United States
was concerned, it wasn't until the 1930's
when the Wagner Act was passed and
at the highest level in our government
collective bargaining was recognized in
the United States.
Now having said that, I am suggesting
to the labor union leaders here, who come
from relatively new countries or who
represent union movements that are
young, that are trying to gain recognition,
that you have, in looking at the American
experience, an indication of what lies
ahead for you. It is inevitable that you
will develop a strong labor union move-
ment in your country. It is inevitable
also that that movement will be recog-
nized by government in your country.
And also, another point I want to make
is this: The AFL-CIO, from the dues of
its members in this country, helps free
labor unions around the world. They have
groups in Africa, in Latin America, in
Asia, and in Europe. They do that for
two reasons: One, because they feel that
they have a bond of brotherhood with
working people all over the world, but
second, they do it for another reason, be-
cause the leaders of our free trade union
movement are devoted to the survival of
freedom and to the growth of freedom all
over the world.
And one very important point should
be made: I have visited most of your
countries, in Asia, Africa, and Latin
America. And on occasions when I was
able to have more freedom and more
time, I have met with many labor union
leaders in the various countries repre-
sented here.
I am going to make a statement now
that is tremendously important, that I
trust all of you will remember and that
will be recorded by those here from the
press.
When we think of dictatorship and
when we think of a free trade union
movement, the two cannot exist together.
There is no country in the world today
in which there is a dictator and in which
there is also a free trade union move-
ment. And there is no country in the
world today which has a free trade union.
movement in which there is a dictator.
And so we see that a strong, vigorous, free
trade union movement is essential if we
are going to have free governments in this
country or in this world.
That is the American experience. It
will be, if it has not been already, the
experience in your country.
So I feel as I speak to you that I am
speaking to men and women who are
devoted to the cause of freedom as well
as to the cause of working for the inter-
ests of working men and women in your
countries, and for that reason you have a
bond of brotherhood with the workers in
America, where the free trade union
movement is proud of the fact that it
stands for freedom here and for freedom
around the world.
Let me say also that I know you are
here to examine an American political
989
