[120] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
strength and the vitality of that splendid
example.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
6:45 p.m. at Uplands Airport in response to
the welcoming remarks of Governor-General
Roland Michener. He spoke without referring
to notes.
On April 11, 1972, the White House released
a list of members of the U.S. official party for
the President's trip to Canada.
The Governor-General's remarks were as
follows:
Mr. President:
I welcome you and Mrs. Nixon and your
official party with the deep feelings of warmth
and esteem which one accords to good neigh-
bors, good friends, and trusted allies.
This is not the first time that you have been
in our country. You know, as we do, that the
almost invisible line which has been drawn
across our continent by the vagaries of history
divides us as sovereign nations, but does not
separate us as people with countless interrela-
tionships of family, friendship, and personal
interests.
We are all North Americans, with origins
which touch at many points. Although our sys-
tems of representative government have devel-
oped somewhat differently, and our relative
positions in the community of nations in terms
of numbers and power are on a rather different
scale, nevertheless our purposes and our goals
as neighbors and in the world at large are
broadly parallel.
This is not to say that we are always in
agreement nor that our perspectives and ap-
proaches to problems must necessarily converge
at all points. But our relationships have gen-
erally been characterized by sympathy and by
efforts to understand and to respect each
other's viewpoint.
As I have said, Mr. President, you have been
in Canada before, but this visit has particular
significance for us, for you come to us for the
first time as head of state. Canadians who pride
themselves on knowing about your country are
well aware of the weight of responsibility and
the demands of time and energy which fall
upon the President of the United States of
America. This responsibility and these demands
are the measure of the honor which you do to
us in coming to Canada, not from the necessity
to resolve any critical issues of conflict or ten-
sion but, rather, to bring the message which we
want most to hear-that of the friendship of
Americans for Canadians, and of their desire
to strengthen the partnership which we have
built and maintained together over this past
century and a half.
Mr. President, a Canadian welcome to be as
full and wholehearted as we wish yours to be
should be expressed in two languages which are
ours by inheritance.
Alors, Monsieur le Président, je vous adresse,
au nom de tous les Canadiens, la plus cordiale
bienvenue. Votre présence nous honore, dans
cette heureuse tradition des visites que nous ont
faites vos illustres prédécesseurs. Je vous sou-
haite, ainsi qu'à Madame Nixon et aux membres
de la délégation éminente qui vous entoure, un
heureux séjour ici. Que votre visite, comme les
autres avant elle, aide à consolider nos relations,
dont l'harmonie est pour nous tous une condi-
tion préalable de notre vie en commun sur le
continent que nous partageons.
We could have wished to have you longer,
Mr. President, and also at a season which is
more definitely one thing or the other, but we
hope sincerely that your visit, although brief,
will be both happy and productive.
I am happy to welcome you, Mr. President,
in the name of all Canadians.
121
Toasts of the President and Governor-General Roland
Michener of Canada. April 13, 1972
Mr. Governor-General and Lady Mich-
ener, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Trudeau,
Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
The very warm words which have been
spoken by His Excellency, the Governor-
General, make Mrs. Nixon and me feel
532
