[56]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Feb. 9
would only tempt other nations in other
delicately poised regions of tension to try
the same. The credibility of international
efforts to promote or guarantee regional
peace in strife-torn regions would be un-
dermined. The danger of war in the
Middle East, in particular, would be
measurably increased. Restraints would
be weakened all around the world.
Internal ethnic conflicts and separatist
strains, moreover, are a phenomenon of
the contemporary world. India, more than
most, has a heavy stake in the principle
that such instabilities should not be ex-
ploited by other countries through sub-
version or resort to arms. The alternative
is a formula for anarchy. The unanimity
of Third World countries against this war
was testimony to the universality of this
concern.
Beyond this, there were implications for
great-power relations.
Soviet policy, I regret to say, seemed to
show the same tendency we have wit-
nessed before in the 1967 Middle East
war and the 1970 Jordanian crisis-to
allow events to boil up toward crisis in the
hope of political gain. The Soviet Union
assured us that its August treaty of friend-
ship with India was designed to
strengthen its influence for peace. What-
ever the intent, in retrospect it appears
that the treaty, together with new arms
deliveries and military consultations, gave
India additional assurance of Soviet po-
litical support as the crisis mounted.
The United States, under the Nixon
Doctrine, has struck a new balance be-
tween our international commitments and
the increasing self-reliance of our friends;
the Soviet Union in the 1970's is project-
ing a political and military presence with-
out precedent into many new regions of
the globe. Over the past three years, we
have sought to encourage constructive
trends in U.S.-Soviet relations. It would
be dangerous to world peace if our efforts
to promote a detente between the super-
powers were interpreted as an opportunity
for the strategic expansion of Soviet
power. If we had failed to take a stand,
such an interpretation could only have
been encouraged, and the genuine relaxa-
tion of tensions we have been seeking
could have been jeopardized.
Finally, it was our view that the war in
South Asia was bound to have serious im-
plications for the evolution of the policy
of the People's Republic of China. That
country's attitude toward the global sys-
tem was certain to be profoundly influ-
enced by its assessment of the principles
by which this system was governed-
whether force and threat ruled or whether
restraint was the international standard.
These were our overwhelming concerns.
They underlay our efforts to prevent war
and our efforts to stop war when it broke
out. They went to the heart of our respon-
sibility as a great power.
WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?
The crisis of 1971 transformed South
Asia. We enter 1972 acutely aware of the
challenges the new conditions present.
Pakistan remains a close friend. Its peo-
ple face the ordeal of rebuilding the soci-
ety and economy of a shattered state.
The United States stands ready to help.
Our concern for the well-being and se-
curity of the people of Pakistan does not
end with the end of a crisis.
Our relief effort in East Bengal will
continue. The authorities face the grim
challenge of creating a viable political
structure and economy in one of the most
impoverished—and now newly devas-
302
