[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
current period of relaxation is to be merely
another offensive tactic or truly an oppor-
tunity to develop an international system
resting on the stability of relations be-
tween the superpowers. Its choice will be
demonstrated in actions prior to and after
our meetings.
For our part, we are committed to a new
relationship. I made this commitment in
my Inaugural Address, at the United Na-
tions, and in my exchanges with the Soviet
leaders. Our actions have demonstrated
our seriousness. We have the opportunity
to usher in a new era in international rela-
tions. If we can do so, the transformation
of Soviet-American relations can become
one of the most significant achievements
of our time.
CHINA
Few events can be called historic. The
announcement which I read on July 15
merits that term:
"Premier Chou En-lai and Dr. Henry
Kissinger, President Nixon's Assistant for
National Security Affairs, held talks in
Peking from July 9 to 11, 1971. Knowing
of President Nixon's expressed desire to
visit the People's Republic of China,
Premier Chou En-lai on behalf of the
Government of the People's Republic of
China has extended an invitation to Presi-
dent Nixon to visit China at an appro-
priate date before May 1972.
"President Nixon has accepted the in-
vitation with pleasure.
"The meeting between the leaders of
China and the United States is to seek
the normalization of relations between the
two countries and also to exchange views
on questions of concern to the two sides."
This announcement could have the
most profound significance for future
generations. The course leading up to it
was carefully navigated; the opening we
have made is still fragile; the immediate
concrete achievements may be limited.
But our purpose, and now our potential,
is to establish contact between the world's
most powerful nation and the world's
most populous nation, and to confine our
future confrontations to the conference
table. Contact now might help avert a
disastrous catastrophe later. It should
serve to enrich the lives of our two peoples.
And it could lead to cooperative ventures
between our countries in the future.
THE HISTORICAL SETTING
My meetings with the leaders of the
People's Republic of China will be
unprecedented.
The earliest Sino-American contacts
developed in the early 1800's. At that time
the ancient Chinese empire, secure and
preeminent, was just beginning the pain-
ful process of adapting itself to the outside
world. With the world's longest history of
self-government, and as the dominant
political and cultural force in their region,
the Chinese were self-confident and self-
contained as the "Middle Kingdom" of
the world. Nevertheless they were ex-
ploited by technologically superior foreign
powers. The United States-isolationist
and bending its energies to national de-
velopment-favored the territorial integ-
rity of China; but our "open door" doc-
trine of equal treatment for all foreigners
carried ambiguity in Chinese eyes.
The Communist leaders thus inherited
a tradition marked by both pride and
humiliation; the Chinese experience had
not been one of dealing with the outside
world as equals but one of their Chinese
superiority or foreign exploitation. In re-
cent years China has passed through a
212
