Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 20 [354]
mately pay the bill for environmental
quality.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
October 17, 1972.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
veto message by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs, and
Caspar W. Weinberger, Director, Office of
Management and Budget.
S. 2770 was enacted over the President's
veto on October 18, 1972, as Public Law 92-
500 (86 Stat. 816).
354 Remarks on Signing the General Revenue Sharing
Bill. October 20, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Mayor Rizzo, and all
of our distinguished guests:
We stand today on ground in which
more history has been made than any
place in America. As we stand here we
all realize that the American system of
government was born here. We realize,
too, that as we stand here that the Decla-
ration of Independence, the Constitution,
the Bill of Rights-those three great
documents created the federal system.
And now by the bill I will soon sign, we
have the privilege to renew the federal
system that was created 190 years ago.
The Constitution of the United States
begins with the words, "We the People,"
and the bill I shall sign is a demonstration
of a principle that we have faith in people,
we believe in people, and we believe that
government closest to the people should
have the greatest support.
And on behalf of the people, all of the
American people, I express appreciation
today to the Members of the House and
the Senate, the members of the various or-
ganizations, civic organizations, that have
worked for this cause, to the Governors
of the States, to the mayors, to the county
officials, and all others who have sup-
ported this cause.
You will note from the program today
it is a bipartisan group. Reference has al-
ready been made to the fact that when
this proposal was made at the Federal
level, 32 years ago, there were some who
were quite pessimistic that it would ever
come into being. And at the first of this
year, an election year, there were some
who thought it had very little chance for
success.
But as I sign this bill, we will all be re-
minded of another great truth, and that
is: When a great national purpose is to
be solved, we act-not as Republicans,
not as Democrats, not as partisans, but as
Americans.
And now as I sign the bill, there will be,
of course, a tendency to say it is done.
But it will not be done.
Perhaps the most famous painting, at
least my favorite painting of the signing
of the Constitution, hangs just outside the
Oval Office in Washington. It is an un-
finished painting. As you look at it, you
will note that the faces of some are not
painted in, and that painting tells us the
genius of the American system.
The Constitution was a great docu-
ment, but a constitution made to govern
3 million people in 13 States, 190 years
ago, would have been inadequate unless
it had within it what is really the genius
of the American system: a process by
which, through peaceful change, we can
993
