Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [327]
of very great danger. And now the leader-
ship that is important is to go forward in
these areas that we have made these
breakthroughs [in] and to continue them.
That is why we are asking the American
people, that is why I am asking our friends
here in California, in this San Francisco
area,
who have so much understanding of
the world and so much interest in the
problems of the world, to give us the
chance to go forward.
We believe that we have demonstrated
that we know how to make progress to-
ward real peace in the world. But in order
to, it seems to me, reach the inevitable
result that we all want, of a world that is
not totally peaceful-it will never be that
because people will always have differ-
ences-but one where we can have differ-
ences without resorting to war, in order to
reach that, we must continue on the path
which has proved to be so successful up to
this point.
Let me be very specific with regard to
what we need to do in a couple of areas
that have been discussed considerably in
the press, and I understand also in some
public forums. First, if we are to be suc-
cessful in our continued negotiations with
our friends and with our potential adver-
saries, and particularly in our negotiations
with the Soviet Union, it is essential that
the United States maintain a strong na-
tional defense.
I know there is a great deal of argu-
ment to the effect that it is not neces-
sary for the United States to have a de-
fense, as some have said, that is second to
none. There are some who believe that we
should make cuts in our defense budget,
that we can safely make those cuts, that
it doesn't really make any difference
whether the United States has the second
strongest Navy, the second strongest
Army, the second strongest Air Force in
the world.
As a matter of fact, we find that pro-
posals have been made that would do
exactly that. Let me say that as far as
this particular proposal is concerned, it is
one of the clearest issues of this campaign.
Because I can assure you, based on the
experience of the last 4 years, and based
on looking back over 25 years of examin-
ing the world scene and traveling all over
the world, the day the United States of
America becomes the second strongest
nation in the world, the danger of war will
be enormously increased and the prospect
of peace will be harmed. Let's not let that
happen any time.
Because this audience is one that I know
understands some of the intricacies of this
problem, let me be somewhat more spe-
cific-the argument is sometimes made
that it really doesn't make any difference
whether the United States has a strong
Navy, or a strong Air Force, or a strong
Army compared with that of the Soviet
Union, provided we have a sufficient nu-
clear deterrent.
Let me show you the fallacy of that
argument. During the Eisenhower years,
when the United States had a 15 to 20
times advantage over the Soviet Union in
terms of nuclear capacity, a policy based
on massive retaliation all around the world
was a credible policy because when you
are that far ahead of any potential oppo-
nent no potential opponent is going to test
you. It was even true at the time of the
Cuban missile crisis when our advantage
was in the neighborhood of 8 to 10 times
as great.
But the world has changed since then.
Today we live in a situation when, in
terms of nuclear capability, the Soviet
Union and the United States are roughly
929
