[87] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Act and subsequent legislation and thus
increase their effectiveness in enhancing
the employability of jobless workers; and,
second, to move toward a broader national
manpower policy which will be an im-
portant adjunct of economic policy in
achieving our Nation's economic and
social objectives.
My Administration has made substan-
tial progress in improving the operation of
manpower programs under existing legis-
lative authorizations, as described in this
report. Fundamental reform of these pro-
grams, however, requires new legislation.
For this reason, in the recent Special Mes-
sage to the Congress which forms the first
part of this volume I again urged speedy
enactment of a Manpower Revenue Shar-
ing Act, to make possible coordinated and
flexible manpower programs administered
by local governments in accordance with
local needs.
The need for a comprehensive national
manpower policy which is sensitive to the
manpower implications of government ac-
tions in many fields is also documented in
this report. There is hardly any major
aspect of government policy which does
not significantly affect the utilization, size,
and skills of the country's work force.
Yet during the 1960's, efforts to appraise
the employment impact of new and
changing policies and programs were frag-
mentary, at best-leading to avoidable
inefficiencies in program operations and
unnecessarily severe adjustments for
workers, industries, and local commu-
nities.
Both the efficiency of our economy and
the well-being of the country's workers
will be served by more systematic assess-
ment of the manpower consequences of
government policies and programs. Ac-
cordingly, I am instructing the Secretary
of Labor to develop for my consideration
recommendations with respect to the most
effective mechanisms for achieving such
an assessment and for assuring the findings
receive appropriate attention in the gov-
ernment's decision making processes.
The upturn in employment late in 1971,
in response to the New Economic Policy
which I announced in August, is another
subject discussed in this report. The out-
look is now favorable for economic and
employment expansion. However, as I said
in my Economic Report in January, un-
employment must be further reduced.
This will be accomplished by the stimulus
given to employment through our fiscal
and monetary policies and by a number of
special measures discussed in the present
record, among them:
-The expansion in enrollments in fed-
erally assisted manpower programs to
record figures, providing a substan-
tial increase in opportunities for
Negroes and other minorities;
-The new program of public service
employment which serves two pur-
poses simultaneously-opening tran-
sitional jobs for unemployed workers
and filling unmet needs for essential
public services;
-Better matching of workers and jobs
through computerized Job Banks;
and
-Special programs to aid the reem-
ployment of veterans and persons dis-
placed because of cutbacks in the
defense and aerospace programs.
Teenage workers have by far the high-
est jobless rate of any group-more than
four times the rate for adult workers in
1971. The remedial action underway and
needed to meet their special problems is
414
