[107] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
lions of Americans who deserve better
than their government is now organized
to give them-is to lose, in this rapidly
passing Second Session of the 92nd Con-
gress, our opportunity to record some solid
achievement by creating at the very
least
one, and hopefully two or more, of the
four proposed new departments.
The men and women who begin a new
Presidential term and a new Congress
next January should not have to start
over again on reorganization. They will
not have to, if we push ahead now with
the realism to see what is wrong with the
old structures, the vision to see what bene-
fits new forms can bring, and the courage
to take the long step from old to new.
OBSOLETE STRUCTURE: How IT
HURTS
What is wrong, and what reorganization
could do to set it right, is best illustrated
with two actual examples. We cannot
remind ourselves often enough that this
matter of government organization is no
mere shuffling of abstract blocks and lines
on a wall chart-that it has to do with
helping real people, building real com-
munities, husbanding real resources.
The plethora of diverse and frag-
mented Federal activities aimed at as-
sisting our communities is a glaring case
in point. If there is any one social con-
cept which has clearly come of age in
recent years, that concept would certainly
be the idea of balanced, comprehensively
planned community development. Yet
where do we find this reflected in govern-
ment organization? We grope toward it,
as with the well-intentioned and (at the
time) fairly progressive formation of a
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment; but even that step was pre-
mised on an unrealistic, artificial, and
harmful distinction between urban and
rural communities. In altogether too many
instances the dollars and efforts ear-
marked for communities end up produc-
ing more derangement than development.
This is hardly surprising when we
consider that:
-A city or town may now seek Federal
grants or loans for sewer or sewage
treatment facilities from three de-
partments and one
one independent
agency, each with different criteria,
different procedures, and a separate
bureaucracy.
-Responsibilities for housing assist-
ance are also entrusted to different
offices in some of the same depart-
ments, and to several other entities
as well.
-Highway and mass transit programs
have been isolated in a separate de-
partment with only partial considera-
tion for what such programs do to
our communities, large and small,
forcing us to learn the hard way that
highways and mass transit must be
developed integrally with land use
decisions, housing plans, and provi-
sions for other essential community
facilities.
Efforts have been made to clarify agency
roles on the basis of urban/rural, type of
facility, type of applicant, et cetera-but
the real need is for unified authority, not
artificial jurisdictional clarifications. In
sum, it has become painfully clear that
effective integration of all Federal activ-
ities relating to community development
can be achieved only under a vigorous
508
