Appendix E
and vigorous leadership. President Nixon feels
that Secretary Morton has provided such
leadership since he resigned from the Congress
to take this assignment 2 years ago, and that
he will continue to do so in the second term.
To fill the vacancy left by the resignation
of Secretary George Romney, which we an-
nounced last Monday, the President has also
asked me to announce today his intention to
nominate James T. Lynn to be Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development in the sec-
ond-term Cabinet.
Mr. Lynn, as you know, is presently serving
as Under Secretary of Commerce. He is a na-
tive of Cleveland, a veteran of naval service
in World War II, and a graduate of Western
Reserve University, with a law degree from
Harvard. Mr. Lynn left the private practice of
law in Cleveland to become General Counsel
of the Department of Commerce in 1969, and
was named by the President to be Under Secre-
tary of Commerce in March of 1971. Mr. Lynn
is 45 years old.
Repeatedly during the campaign this fall,
and since the election, President Nixon has
stressed his expectation that the next 4 years
will afford an opportunity to make some of
the same kind of dramatic progress in domestic
affairs as we have made in international affairs
during the past 4 years. Specifically, in his radio
address on urban affairs on November 1, and
then again in his message to the National
League of Cities last week, President Nixon
spoke of his conviction that what is often called
the "urban crisis" can be turned into an "urban
opportunity" if we have the right kind of public
policies and leadership in this field.
The President feels that the Department
of Housing and Urban Development made
major strides in this direction under Secre-
tary Romney's leadership, and he expects those
strides to continue and accelerate under Mr.
Lynn, whose impressive combination of youth
and energy and outstanding management abil-
ity have been amply demonstrated during his
service at the Department of Commerce.
So today we are announcing two Cabinet
positions, the fact that Mr. Lynn will be nomi-
nated to fill the post of Secretary of HUD, and
the fact that Secretary Morton will continue
on with his responsibilities at the Department
of the Interior.
Announcing Two Resignations From the De-
partment of the Treasury
December 5, 1972
Last Friday, as you may recall, we an-
nounced that Secretary of the Treasury Shultz
will be continuing in his present position into
the second term, and we also announced the
fact that he would be Chairman of the Coun-
cil on Economic Policy and Assistant to the
President.
Today I have two announcements that relate
to the Department of the Treasury.
With reluctance and regret, the President
has asked me to announce this afternoon that
two other top officials of the Treasury Depart-
ment have asked him to accept their resigna-
tions in order that they may return to private
life. Those two gentlemen are Dr. Charls E.
Walker, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, and
Eugene T. Rossides, Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Enforcement, Tariff and Trade
Affairs, and Operations.
Dr. Walker served as Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury under Secretary Robert B. Ander-
son during the Eisenhower Administration from
1959 to 1961. He returned to the Department
as number two man at the beginning of this
Administration in 1969, first as Under Secretary
and then in the new position of Deputy Secre-
tary which was created earlier this year.
He has served the public interest with excep-
tional distinction, President Nixon feels, under
three Secretaries of the Treasury. In accepting
Dr. Walker's resignation, the President ex-
pressed his deep appreciation for the Deputy
Secretary's numerous contributions to the policy
successes of this Administration. Among the
major pieces of legislation which Dr. Walker
has successfully guided to passage have been
the Tax Reform Act of 1969, the Revenue
Sharing Act of 1972, the general revenue shar-
ing bill which was signed in October, and legis-
lation in the fields of student loans and minority
enterprise.
The strong staff and vigorous administrative
operation which the Treasury has built up
over the past 4 years are largely to Dr. Walker's
credit. Dr. Walker was instrumental in the de-
veloping of the President's new economic
E-9
