Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
prehensive program of August 15 has
achieved significant success in dealing
with the root causes of our trade problem:
-The December realignment has cor-
rected a major problem. The previ-
ously overvalued dollar had made
American products artificially more
expensive than competing products
in foreign and domestic markets.
Conversely, the products of coun-
tries with undervalued exchange rates
were relatively less expensive both at
home and in other markets. The ap-
preciation of other currencies relative
to the dollar, by adjusting this situa-
tion, should substantially improve
our export performance and dampen
the increase of imports.
-The wage-price freeze, and the sub-
sequent restraints of Phase II, should
enable us to check inflation. The high
rate of inflation that became en-
trenched in the latter part of the
1960's exacerbated the problems
caused by the overvalued dollar. Re-
ducing inflation will increase the
competitiveness of American prod-
ucts and thereby strengthen our ex-
port performance. It will make our
products a better buy for our own
consumers.
-We have made positive progress in
resolving a number of trade issues,
which will result in the removal of
certain restrictions against Ameri-
can exports. We look forward to
reaching agreement with our trading
partners to bring about major multi-
lateral negotiations in 1972-73 on
more basic trade issues, with a view
to a general expansion of world trade
including improved access for Ameri-
can products to foreign markets.
Trade Negotiations. There is a deep
and growing consciousness in the United
States that international trade is impor-
tant to our domestic economy, and that
some of our major trading partners are
following certain trade policies which ad-
versely affect us. In recent years trade
issues have been focal points for domestic
political and protectionist pressures. They
have been major irritants in our relations
with other nations. Particularly worrisome
are new preferential trading arrangements
being entered into by the European Com-
munity, which encourage the development
of a world divided into discriminatory
trading blocs. This in turn would con-
strain worldwide trade opportunities, in-
cluding our own, weaken seriously the
multilateral basis of international eco-
nomic relations and raise the risk of politi-
cal tensions. Progress in dealing with these
points of friction would reinforce political
support in this country for an expanded
European Community and for our strong
ties with Japan, Canada, Europe and our
other allies.
But trade, like monetary issues, is a
multilateral problem which must be ad-
dressed in a spirit of multilateral coopera-
tion. Today the European Community,
Japan, the United States and other na-
tions maintain trade barriers which ad-
versely affect each other's exports. The
Community maintains an agricultural pol-
icy which is highly detrimental to the
agricultural exports of the United States
and other efficient producers, as well as a
number of special restrictions on indus-
trial products from Japan and East Asia.
Japan retains a variety of barriers which
restrict imports from this country, Europe
and Canada. The United States too has
import restrictions which affect the trade
of other nations.
Bilateral negotiations alone cannot re-
87-234-74--20
245
