Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [404]
404 Remarks at Providence, Rhode Island.
November 3, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you very much, first, to those
marvelous bands, let's give them a hand
for entertaining while we were here.
Second, I want you to know that when
I come to Rhode Island, I feel some-
what like coming home, because it was
30 years ago that I spent 2 months in
Quonset Point, and from here went into
the service and then overseas into the
Pacific. I always remember when I, at
Quonset Point, used to come in to Provi-
dence, how very warm and generous and
hospitable were the people of Rhode
Island and of Providence to those of us
in the Navy at that time. Thank you
very much for what you did 30 years ago.
Now, on this visit, I would like to men-
tion all of the fine candidates who are
running on our ticket. Time will not per-
mit it, but there are two here that I want
to mention in particular. I mention them
because they have been such splendid
members of our Administration during
these past 4 years. I am going to start with
a man who was the Assistant Secretary of
Transportation. I know that in that posi-
tion that he was a dedicated public
servant, but what was more, he was
dynamic, he was strong, he was intelligent.
He was a good organizer. We didn't want
to give him up, but I think the State of
Rhode Island needs him as Governor of
this State, Herb DeSimone.
Herb, with you standing here by me,
just let me say that in these next 4 years
I look forward to working with you as
Governor of Rhode Island, and that door
will always be open for Governor De-
Simone of the State of Rhode Island.
[At this point, Herbert F. DeSimone spoke
briefly. The President then resumed speaking.]
Now, turning to the national scene, I
speak about a man that I know, and that
you
have known for many years. I remem-
ber when he was the Governor of this
State and rated by all of the objective
journalists as one of the top Governors in
the Nation. I remember him, too, as the
Secretary of the Navy in our Administra-
tion for 3 years. John Chafee, without
question, is a man who was born to be in
public service. He is a man that the Na-
tion needs in public service. Let me just
put it quite directly to you: Rhode Island
needs him in the Senate, America needs
him in the Senate, I need him in the
Senate, and you are going to put him in
the Senate. John Chafee.
[At this point, John H. Chafee spoke briefly.
The President then resumed speaking.]
Now, I would like to say a word for an-
other candidate, for myself. I would like
to say in that respect that I have had the
great honor of being a candidate for the
highest office in this land on three occa-
sions, in 1960, in 1968, and again this
year, in 1972. I lost the first time in a
narrow election. I won the second time,
and now comes the third.
As I stand here in Rhode Island, it just
occurred to me that while in those elec-
tions to which I referred, in '60 and '68, I
have at one time or the other carried
most of the States, Rhode Island is a State
that I have never carried. Let me say, the
third time will be the charm. This is the
year when we take Rhode Island.
I want to tell you why I believe this is
a year when the people of Rhode Island
1107
