[98] Mar. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
any parties to exist. And as we think back
over those 25 years, we are grateful for
the friendship that we have enjoyed, the
alliance that we have had with Turkey
through those years.
We realize that Turkey is a nation and
a people which has had a long and proud
history, and we realize that you, Mr. Prime
Minister, are developing the programs
that will build an even greater future.
But what is important is that you are
attempting to build that future, despite
great pressures that might be applied upon
you, in the paths of independence and
freedom, rather than succumbing to the
great influences of dictatorship and op-
pression.
As I looked over the Prime Minister's
background, I find that he and I have
much in common. We were born in the
same year, 1913. We both studied the law
and were relatively successful in that field.
And as political men, we both have lost
elections as well as won some.
But although we were born over 4,000
miles apart, in countries very different in
background, we have something very
much in common, as we knew from know-
ing each other's records and as we had
firmly embedded in our minds by our con-
versations today. We are devoted to the
same ideals: We are devoted to peace in
the world; we are devoted to the inde-
pendence of nations; we are devoted to a
system of government which provides a
freedom of choice, a parliamentary system
in your country and the system of
govern-
ment which we have here in the United
States.
And it is these common ideals, even
more important than the common interest
that we have, that bring us together and
that make us the close friends that we are.
We are proud of the friendship that we
have had with Turkey going back over
those 25 years, and we know that the visit
of the Prime Minister to our country, the
talks that he will have at all levels with
people in our Government, will contribute
to a continuing close relationship, a rela-
tionship which is not based simply on the
signing of a piece of paper, a treaty,
whether it is in NATO or bilateral, but a
relationship which is much deeper than
that—a relationship based on ideals that
are immortal, ideals that we both believe
in, that we both share, that we want for
our own people in each country and for
other people where they might have that
opportunity, as well.
And so it is in that spirit that I know
that everybody here, people who come
from all over the United States as well as
our friends from Turkey, people of both
political parties in our country, of all
walks of life, will want to join me in the
toast that I will propose.
It will be, of course, to a continued
friendship between our two peoples, to the
progress and the prosperity of the people
of Turkey, and particularly to the one who
provides the progressive, enlightened,
strong leadership in Turkey that all the
world admires today, the Prime Minister
of Turkey.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:54 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
See also Items 95 and 99.
The Prime Minister responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and
gentlemen:
I would like, first, to thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent, for your most friendly remarks. Your
words set the tone not only for this exquisite
function but also are indicative of the spirit in
which our talks were held. As this memorable
day ends, I can say without hesitation that the
understanding between our two countries has
458
