[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
vative program which it is expanding to
cover the widely scattered islands of the
archipelago. The Philippines continues
to be a mainstay of regional cooperation.
A central purpose of the new partner-
ship we are building with Asian states is
to nurture a growing sense of regional
identity and self-confidence. Without it, a
vital impetus for cooperation would be
lost, and individual nations would be
obliged to choose between an inward-
looking nationalism, and excessive reli-
ance on the initiative of others to bring
coherence and stability to the area. Work-
ing together, however, smaller powers can
gain the influence needed to mold their
own futures, while their efforts provide
a natural focus for assistance and coopera-
tion from others.
The past three years have seen a note-
worthy advance of the spirit of regionalism
in Asia. Formal political associations such
as the Asian and Pacific Council
(ASPAC) and the Association of South-
east Asian Nations (ASEAN) have
demonstrated the utility of periodic con-
sultations on major regional issues, and
have served as a forum for the resolution
of differences between participants. Most
recently, the ASEAN Foreign Ministers,
meeting at Kuala Lumpur in November
1971, declared their intention to consult
with other Southeast Asian states and
outside powers on long term means to
strengthen the region's security and in-
dependence. Their expressed interest in
an eventual neutralization of the area
bears witness to their readiness to discuss
even the most difficult issues of common
interest. Our own dialogue with the
ASEAN member states also demonstrates
a sober awareness that much remains to
be done before such an objective can be
realized: the secure independence of
sovereign Southeast Asian nations is its
essential precondition.
Just as significant to Asia's peaceful de-
velopment is the contribution of regional
economic organizations. In recent years,
the Asian Development Bank has grown to
become a major source of the area's de-
velopment and technical assistance. By the
end of 1971 it had approved 85 loans to
16 developing nations in Asia, totaling
some $639 million. It is particularly
heartening that the advantaged nations
of Asia have played an active role in these
achievements. Though I attach great im-
portance to our continued financial sup-
port for Asian development-including
Congressional approval of soft loan funds
for the Asian Development Bank-there
are welcome signs that others recognize
the limits of our resources and the need
for a broader effort.
Japan's leading role in Asian develop-
ment efforts is well known. Less widely
recognized, however, is the contribution
of Australia, which now ranks as the
world's third largest aid donor in terms
of the percentage of its GNP earmarked
for this purpose. While Papua/New
Guinea has been the principal recipient,
Australia has made substantial grants to
Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia, and the
South Pacific Commission as well. New
Zealand has also channeled increased aid
to Southeast Asia and the Pacific area.
The World Bank, the International
Monetary Fund, and the nations of
Europe have pooled their efforts with our
own and with those of Asian states in a
growing number of international consortia
established to assist such nations as Indo-
nesia, Korea, the Philippines, and Thai-
land. This arrangement not only maxi-
mizes resources, but also ensures their
coordinated use for priority needs.
256
