Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 4 [337]
15927 does not meet this test and thus it
would threaten the very existence of the
railroad retirement fund which already is
on shaky financial ground. In addition,
the bill in its present form would con-
tribute to inflation which harms all the
people, including the railroad retirees
themselves.
I have often stated my strong belief that
the millions of older men and women who
did so much to build this Nation should
share equitably in the fruits of that labor,
and that inflation should not be allowed
to rob them of the full value of their pen-
sions. By providing a 20 percent benefit
increase without adequate financing,
however, this bill goes far beyond reason-
able equity.
In passing this bill, the Congress has
mistakenly assumed that railroad retire-
ment benefits should be increased by the
same percentage as social security bene-
fits. In fact, the two systems are entirely
different. Railroad benefits are much
higher than social security benefits-for
full-career workers the benefits may be
twice as high.
The railroad retirement system pay-
ments are a combination of social security
benefits augmented by the equivalent of a
private pension. There is no valid reason
why the private pension equivalent neces-
sarily should be increased whenever social
security benefits are raised. Other indus-
tries have not raised their pension benefits
by 20 percent as a result of social security
increases, even though most of them pro-
vide less adequate benefits.
The argument that these "temporary"
benefits do not require a tax increase is, in
my judgment, a delusion. I cannot imagine
that the Congress would find it possible
or desirable to slash railroad retirement
benefits next year or in any year.
The imprudence of H.R. 15927 is un-
derscored by the recent report of the Com-
mission on Railroad Retirement. That
Commission was created by the Congress
in 1970 to study the troubled railroad re-
tirement system and recommend measures
necessary to place it on a sound actuarial
basis. Yet the Congress acted on H.R.
15927 before it had an opportunity to
consider and act on the recommendations
of its own Commission for basic changes
in the railroad retirement system.
The Commission's findings do not sup-
port H.R. 15927 and a majority of the
Commissioners recommended against
such legislation.
The Commission found that existing
railroad retirement benefits are adequate,
particularly for workers retiring after a
full career. Retired railroad couples re-
ceive higher benefits than 9 out of every
10 retired couples in the country. The
Commission also reached the sobering
conclusion that the enactment of an
across-the-board 20 percent increase,
without adequate financing, would bank-
rupt the system in 13 years.
I believe that railroad beneficiaries
should now receive the same dollar in-
creases in benefits as social security recipi-
ents with similar earnings. A 20 percent
increase in the social security portion of
railroad retirement benefits can be fi-
nanced without worsening the financial
position of the Railroad Retirement Trust
Fund. The Congress followed this sound
approach when it increased railroad re-
tirement benefits in 1968.
Therefore, I propose that the Congress
enact a bill which again applies this prin-
ciple, instead of H.R. 15927. The 1972
increase under my proposal would average
$28 per month for single retired railroad
workers and would be about $47 a month
951
