Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
serious. They are at the heart of the secu-
rity and well-being of both countries. They
are not, therefore, susceptible to solution
by resort to mere atmospherics. They re-
quire, instead, concrete agreements on the
specific problems which cause the tension
between our two countries.
Such agreements can be obtained only
by a careful and painstaking effort by both
countries. It requires each to exercise
restraint, to recognize and accept the legit-
imate interests of the other, and to nego-
tiate realistically to accommodate con-
flicting views. For our part, we are
committed to such an approach. We are
convinced that it can serve the best
interests of the American and Soviet
ples and the peoples of the world.
peo-
That is the burden of the message
which, in various ways, we have been con-
veying to the Soviet leaders for the past
three years. We hope that what has been
accomplished will prove to be the begin-
ning of a transformation of the relation-
ship between ourselves and the Soviet
Union.
The first requirement for such a trans-
formation is that we understand clearly
the sources of our differences. They are
profound and they do not spring from
transitory causes, or from personalities, or
from some historical accident. Rather,
they are rooted in the different ways our
two countries have developed. They are
exacerbated by tendencies which spring
from our national personalities and our
differing approaches to the conduct of
international affairs.
-Americans consider tensions in inter-
national relations abnormal, and
yearn to see them resolved as quickly
as possible. We tend to believe that
good will is a principal ingredient for
their resolution, and that our own
good will is beyond question. We as-
sume that if tensions persist, it is proof
that our adversary is implacably hos-
tile to us. The application of these at-
titudes to relations with the Soviet
Union has led us to excessive and un-
justified optimism during periods of
detente, and to uncritical acceptance
of inevitable and unbounded hostil-
ity during periods of tension.
-The USSR tends to view external
tensions as the inevitable corollary of
conflicting social systems. Soviet
diplomacy therefore is prepared to
accept international tension as nor-
mal, and, too often, to view negotia-
tions with the United States as a form
of harsh competition from which only
one side can possibly gain advantage.
In the past, this attitude has often
tempted the Soviets to treat the occa-
sional improvement in our relations
as a transitory opportunity to achieve
narrow tactical advantages. It has led
the Soviets to consider the interven-
ing periods of hostility as inevitable,
and the causes of that hostility as
beyond resolution.
-Both these attitudes reflect the na-
tional experiences of the United
States and the Soviet Union, and
have worked for two decades to
frustrate a better relationship be-
tween our two countries. They cause
periods of detente to founder, and
they protract and intensify the pe-
riods of hostility.
It is, of course, true that there are deep
concerns that divide us. The beginning of
a process of accommodation is to recog-
nize them for what they are.
-We are ideological adversaries, and
will remain so.
-We are political and military com-
87-234-74--17
205
