Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [270]
finally, for the climax of the convention,
on the fourth day, here we are in San
Diego.
Mr. President and Pat-because she is
the First Lady of our land, but I think in
the hearts of all of us she is "Pat," and we
are just going to take advantage of it and
keep it that way-we are also very proud,
proud to have you here, proud that you
are one of us. And, of course, those people
who tried to pretend that what was taking
place the last few days in Miami Beach
was unexciting because we knew how it
was going to turn out, well, I have never
seen a John Wayne movie that was unex-
citing because you knew he was going to
get the bad guy in the end. [Laughter]
[Crowd chanting: "Four More Years."]
You are right. It is going to be four
more years.
It is a great pleasure to welcome you
here, and now I think you would rather
present these other people that are here.
Bless you. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. And then, of course,
somebody who-nobody here, of course,
needs introduction. Everybody is a celeb-
rity. You know, for somebody from Whit-
tier to see all of these celebrities, it is
really something, believe me. But I do
want you to know we have Bob Wilson.
We brought him back. I asked for a new
majority in the country, and Bob is trying
to get a new majority in the House of Rep-
resentatives. Come on up.
REPRESENTATIVE BOB WILSON OF CALI-
FORNIA. Thank you, Mr. President. I can
assure you we are going to give you the
conventional Nixon landside in the elec-
tion this year in San Diego. Thank you
very much.
THE PRESIDENT. And the Lieutenant
Governor of our State, Ed Reinecke. Ed,
come up here.
LT. GOV. ED Reinecke of CALIFORNIA.
Thank you, Mr. President, and Mrs.
Nixon.
I would like to introduce you to a whole
lot of delegates that helped to win that
vote you just won the other night, Mr.
President. These are the delegates that
have just come back from-San Diego
was it,ยน or was it that other city, or
wherever we were? These are the people
who helped put you across, and we are
going to put you across in November, just
like I am sure thousands, hundreds, mil-
lions of people are going to do. God bless
you.
THE PRESIDENT. And the Mayor, Pete
Wilson.
MAYOR PETE WILSON OF SAN DIEGO.
Thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon.
These folks came here to listen to you, so
all I am going to say is that America's fin-
est city welcomes America's finest citizens,
and we are going to be happy to see you
back in the White House.
THE PRESIDENT. Now, I understand
you have been here a long time and you
have had a wonderful show. I will not
talk long, because what I have to say I
think you will understand very clearly,
and we would like the chance to shake
hands with a few more of you before we
go on to San Clemente.
First, I would like to express apprecia-
tion not only to all of you, but to this
wonderful group of celebrities that I have
referred to, and they are celebrities, be-
lieve me. We couldn't possibly afford
them, but they are here as volunteers.
I said the other night-some of you may
have heard-when I spoke to the youth
rally in Miami Beach, I was talking about
ยน San Diego was the site first scheduled for
the 1972 Republican National Convention.
811
