[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
nutritional and related purposes, money
which would also be spent through the
Administration on Aging.
With this substantial increase in funds,
we would be able to step up significantly
our efforts to develop and coordinate a
wide range of social and nutritional serv-
ices for older Americans. Our central aim
in all of these activities will be to prevent
unnecessary institutionalization-and to
lessen the isolation of the elderly wherever
possible.
EXTENDING THE OLDER AMERICANS ACT
Since its passage in 1965, the Older
Americans Act has served as an important
charter for Federal service programs for
the elderly. Unless the act is promptly
extended, however, the grant programs it
authorizes will expire on June 30th. This
must not happen. I therefore urge that
this landmark legislation be extended-
and that the extension be indefinite,
rather than limited to a specific period
of time.
STRENGTHENING THE PLANNING AND
DELIVERY OF SERVICES
In addition, I am asking that the Older
Americans Act be amended to strengthen
our planning and delivery systems for
services to the elderly. Too often in the
past, these "systems" have really been
"non-systems," badly fragmented, poorly
planned and insufficiently coordinated.
My proposed amendments are designed
to remedy these deficiencies.
We should begin by helping to develop
and strengthen the planning capacities of
the State agencies on aging and of new
area agencies on aging which would be es-
tablished within each State. Up to 75 per-
cent of the administrative costs of these
new area planning agencies would be
funded by the Administration on Aging,
which would also establish general goals
to which activities at the State and local
levels would be directed. One of the major
priorities would be to enhance and main-
tain the independence of older citizens.
The State and area planning agencies
would plan for the mobilization and co-
ordination of a wide range of resources-
public and private-to meet such goals.
The Administration on Aging would be
authorized to fund up to 90 percent of the
cost of social and nutritional services pro-
vided under plans developed by the area
planning agencies. In fiscal year 1973,
$160 million would be allocated in for-
mula grants for nutritional and social serv-
ices. An additional $40 million would be
allocated in special project assistance to
develop new and innovative approaches
and to strengthen particularly promising
area plans.
By establishing overall objectives and by
providing both money and mechanisms
for a stronger planning and coordination
effort, we can ensure that resources and
energies which are now widely scattered
and fragmented can be pulled together in
ways which will notably increase their
impact.
COORDINATING FEDERAL EFFORTS
Even as we strengthen coordination at
grassroots levels, so we must do a better
job of coordinating Federal programs. As
this message makes clear, efforts are being
made all across our Government to help
older citizens. But if there was one clear
message at the White House Conference
on Aging, it was that this wide range of
Federal resources must be better coordi-
476
