Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 26 [129]
both public and private negotiating ses-
sions. Our most recent proposal provided
for an immediate cease-fire; the exchange
of all prisoners of war; the withdrawal of
all of our forces within 6 months; and
new elections in Vietnam, which would
be internationally supervised, with all
political elements including the Commu-
nists participating in and helping to run
the elections. One month before such
elections, President Thieu and Vice Presi-
dent Huong would resign.
Now, Hanoi's answer to this offer was
a refusal even to discuss our proposals
and, at the same time, a huge escalation of
their military activities on the battlefield.
Last October, the same month when we
made this peace offer to Hanoi, our in-
telligence reports began to indicate that
the enemy was building up for a major
attack. And yet we deliberately refrained
from responding militarily. Instead we
patiently continued with the Paris talks,
because we wanted to give the enemy
every chance to reach a negotiated settle-
ment at the bargaining table rather than
to seek a military victory on the battle-
field-a victory they cannot be allowed to
win.
Finally, 3 weeks ago, on Easter week-
end, they mounted their massive invasion
of South Vietnam. Three North Viet-
namese divisions swept across the demili-
tarized zone into South Vietnam-in
violation of the treaties they had signed
in 1954 and in violation of the under-
standing they had reached with President
Johnson in 1968, when he stopped the
bombing of North Vietnam in return for
arrangements which included their pledge
not to violate the DMZ. Shortly after the
invasion across the DMZ, another three
North Vietnamese divisions invaded
South Vietnam further south. As the
offensive progressed, the enemy indis-
criminately shelled civilian population
centers in clear violation of the 1968
bombing halt understanding.
So the facts are clear. More than
120,000 North Vietnamese are now fight-
ing in South Vietnam. There are no South
Vietnamese troops anywhere in North
Vietnam. Twelve of North Vietnam's 13
regular combat divisions have now left
their own soil in order to carry aggressive
war onto the territory of their neighbors.
Whatever pretext there was of a civil war
in South Vietnam has now been stripped
away.
What we are witnessing here-what is
being brutally inflicted upon the people
of South Vietnam-is a clear case of
naked and unprovoked aggression across
an international border. There is only one
word for it-invasion.
This attack has been resisted on the
ground entirely by South Vietnamese
forces, and in one area by South Korean
forces. There are no United States ground
troops involved. None will be involved.
To support this defensive effort by the
South Vietnamese, I have ordered attacks
on enemy military targets in both North
and South Vietnam by the air and naval
forces of the United States.
I have here on my desk a report. I re-
ceived it this morning from General
Abrams. He gives the following evalua-
tion of the situation:
·
The South Vietnamese are fighting
courageously and well in their self-
defense. They are inflicting very
heavy casualties on the invading force,
which has not gained the easy victory
some predicted for it 3 weeks ago.
• Our air strikes have been essential in
·
551
