[42] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
urban areas. We will now use a similar
approach in our all-out drive against drug
traffickers and pushers who corrode our
national life. On the local level we have
made a grant of $160 million to strengthen
the fight against serious crime in our
major metropolitan centers. We will con-
tinue to extend this kind of aid through
the Law Enforcement Assistance Admin-
istration, and through Revenue Sharing
when it is approved by the Congress.
These are just two examples of our full-
scale commitment to back up the police
43
officer in a task that is of such critical con-
cern to every citizen. I am especially grate-
ful to the public-spirited members of the
National Exchange Club for the initiative
and encouragement they have given to
this effort in the last quarter-century. I
look forward to our continuing coopera-
tion in the years ahead.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement was made available to
the press at Key Biscayne, Fla., in connection
Iwith the observance of National Crime Pre-
vention Week, February 6–12, 1972.
Statement About a Special Message to the Congress on
Special Revenue Sharing for Manpower.
February 5, 1972
THROUGH the efforts of all its people,
America is making great progress in the
fight against inflation. At the same time,
the American economy is also doing re-
markably well at producing new jobs.
Since I announced the new economic pol-
icy less than 6 months ago, more than a
million new jobs have been generated.
This is a good record. Though unemploy-
ment remains unacceptably high, it gives
promise of further progress toward our
goal of full employment without war and
without inflation.
One of the greatest challenges of this
industrial transition from war to peace
has been the need to absorb more than 2
million workers from the Armed Forces
and defense-related jobs into the civilian
economy. Yet, it is not enough to point
out that if they were still in their wartime
jobs the rate of unemployment would be
far lower. Nor is it enough to point to the
large number of new young workers who
have gone out in search of their first jobs.
This is not an acceptable answer for
an unemployed worker wondering why
he has no job. Though we are making
progress, we must do better still and we
shall.
We have taken many new measures to
cut unemployment, and most are just be-
ginning to take hold on the economy-
and to have their effect in expanding em-
ployment. Among these have been:
-A tax program calculated to expand
employment even more significantly dur-
ing 1972.
-An economic stabilization program
to ensure that the economic expansion
we are developing is not lost in inflated
wages and prices, but is directed toward
producing more jobs.
-A transitional public service employ-
ment program to give meaningful work
to the thousands of jobless Americans in
the hardest hit areas.
-New international monetary and
trade policies which will improve the com-
petitive position of American industry and
produce jobs for American workers.
158
