[31] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
First, I asked Sammy [Davis] to come
over for a reason. He has probably for-
gotten this, but I will always remember it.
Seventeen years ago, on one of the few
evenings when I was Vice President when
we had a little time off in New York, we
went over to the Copacabana Restaurant.
He was performing then. He was a young
star. And he performed, I remember, with
his father and his uncle.
Afterwards, I went backstage and I met
the three of them-this wonderful family.
And I said to them, "This has to be the
very best that possibly could be done in
the field of entertainment."
And Sammy said, "Well, you're prob-
ably right." [Laughter]
No, he didn't say that, because he is a
man who knows how good he is, but he
also is a very humble man. But he ap-
preciated the fact that I came back with
my wife, and believe me, I appreciated
the fact that he was a great star, a star
then and a star now.
I thought back on that time, and I
thought also of the present time, and this
brings me to Bob Brown.
In the field of music, in the field of art,
in the field of athletics, we all know that
as far as ability is concerned, it is recog-
nized; it knows no color, it knows no
religion. If a man or a woman has it, he
or she goes to the top, and that is the
it ought to be.
way
And what Bob Brown stands for in this
White House of ours is this: Bob Brown
is a rather quiet kind of a man, but he is
the most tenacious fellow I ever knew,
believe me. But the point that he makes
over and over again in my office is this:
that not just in the field of music, or in the
field of art or the field of athletics where
we have learned that any kind of a differ-
ence with regard to color denies us the
ability that can see us the perfection, the
very best, he says, "You know, we have
got to be sure that in every field of life in
America, when a man or woman has got
it, he or she has got to be able to go to
the top." That is what he stands for.
Now I said that I was going to speak
directly to you and from the heart. That
isn't true in America today, not com-
pletely. It perhaps will never be true, be-
cause we will never be perfect. But it is
better than it was, and it is going to be
better, and we have got to make it better,
because what we have to do is to provide
the opportunities in this country that every
individual, if he wants to go to the top in
Government, he can go to the top.
Let me tell you something. Why does
Ed Brooke win overwhelmingly for At-
torney General and for Senator in the
State of Massachusetts? Not because he
has got the black vote, but because he is
the best there is in that State. That is why
he goes to the top.
So in the field of government, so it must
be in the field of business. I know that
there are many in this audience that rather
wonder whether our whole program of
minority business enterprise means any-
thing. It looks like sort of tokenism and
symbolism. But it is a beginning, and we
have to have a situation in which people
can go to the top, because if one group of
people are forever going to be confined
to doing tasks that are not those that are
administrative or executive, that is not
right. We have got to be sure that if an
individual really has it, he has the chance
to go to the top.
And that is one of the things Bob Brown
122
