Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 8 [81]
President as possessing authority to origi-
nally classify information or material
"Top Secret" as set forth in said Order:
The White House Office
National Security Council
Office of Management and Budget
Domestic Council
Office of Science and Technology
Office of Emergency Preparedness
President's Foreign Intelligence Ad-
visory Board
Council on International Economic
Policy
Council of Economic Advisers
National Aeronautics and Space
Council
Office of Telecommunications Policy
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 8, 1972.
81 Memorandums About Acceleration of Publication of
"Foreign Relations of the United States" Series.
March 8, 1972
Memorandum for the Secretary of State:
SUBJECT: Acceleration of Publication of
"Foreign Relations" Series
The official documentary series "For-
eign Relations of the United States," pub-
lished by the Department of State, has for
many years provided the American public
with an indispensable perspective on our
Nation's history. The materials now being
published, however, relate to the events
of 1946, and I think that in the interests
of a better informed public the length of
time between event and publication
should be shortened. Accordingly, I ask
that, without impairing the quality and
comprehensive nature of the series, you
immediately institute a program to reduce
this time lag to 20 years. Your objective
should be to make this reduction within
the next 3 years and to keep the publica-
tion point at 20 years from then on.
In order to achieve this goal in the most
expeditious manner, I am today instruct-
ing the Secretary of Defense, the Director
of Central Intelligence, and the Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
fairs to cooperate fully with you in collect-
ing and declassifying the appropriate
materials to the maximum extent con-
sistent with the requirements of national
security.
Memorandum for:
RICHARD NIXON
The Secretary of Defense
The Director of Central Intelligence
The Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs
SUBJECT: Acceleration of Publication of
"Foreign Relations" Series
I have today instructed the Secretary
of State to institute a program to reduce
the time lag of the official documentary
series "Foreign Relations of the United
States," published by the Department of
State, from 26 to 20 years.
The Department of State, in carrying
out this instruction, will be seeking the as-
sistance of your department or agency in
the collection and declassification of the
material in question. I ask that you coop-
407
