[207] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
over the past 3 years. Nine million poor
people have been totally removed from
the Federal tax rolls. The lower-income
taxpayers have had reductions of 83 per-
cent in their taxes since 1969 and middle-
income taxpayers have had reductions of
13 percent.
But there are still inequities. One point
I particularly emphasize: At a time that
we have made some necessary reforms,
some of which I have referred to, we have
moved in the wrong direction in another
way. The tax system, particularly the
Federal income tax system, is hopelessly
complex. I majored in law school in tax
law. As a lawyer I used to do quite a bit
of tax work. I naturally don't take the
time to make up my own income tax re-
turns now. But when Manolo 5 came in
recently and asked me to help him figure
out the forms, I had to send him to a
lawyer, and when that is the case with a
man who is in basically not a high income
bracket, then it is time to do something
to make the system not only more equita-
ble but make it more simple. It will put
some lawyers and accountants out of busi-
ness, but there are other things they can
do.
Q. Are you saying all these proposals
won't come until after the first of the
year?
THE PRESIDENT. We will make the
proposals before the first of the year, but
they will not be considered by the Con-
gress until after the first of the year.
It would not be fair to the American
people, it would not be fair to those, for
example, interested in the nonpublic
school relief, to suggest that the Congress,
in this sort of sputtering, start-and-stop
period-I mean, they are stopping next
"Manolo Sanchez, the President's valet.
week and they come back for 6 weeks and
maybe come back after the Republican
Convention and the rest-that it could
enact tax reform. It is not going to happen,
and I am aware of that.
ANTI-BUSING AMENDMENT
[13.] Q. Mr. President, back on the
subject of busing, are you moving at all
toward the position of favoring an anti-
busing constitutional amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. A constitutional
amendment is a step that should be taken
only if the legislative route proves to be
inadequate or impossible-impossible due
to the fact that the Congress will not
enact it. As far as I am concerned, we do
need action here. I prefer the legislative
route. I think it is the most responsible
route, but if the Congress does not act,
then the only recourse left is for a con-
stitutional amendment, and I will move in
that direction. We must deal with the
problem.
GENERAL LAVELLE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, do you think
that there should be a court-martial in
the case of General Lavelle to bring out
all the facts there, and what is your opin-
ion about that?
THE PRESIDENT. First, that does deal
with the foreign policy-defense area, Viet-
nam and so forth. But since it does in-
volve a current case, I will comment upon
it.
The Secretary of Defense has stated his
Gen. John D. Lavelle had been accused of
carrying out unauthorized air strikes against
North Vietnam between November 1971 and
March 1972. In April 1972, after an investiga-
tion by the Air Force, he was demoted and
retired from active service.
700
