Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 17 [301]
strength of our country. I know you are
having a wonderful time. I went by some
of the food shops. I just had lunch. I'll
have to take some home to eat tonight at
the White House.
I know, too, that you realize that this
serves a very good cause, this home for
some of our senior citizens and also the
church in Washington which supports it.
But I would like to speak very briefly
to you about what you and those of
Italian background have meant to Amer-
ica and what you make it possible for
America to mean to the world.
Just a moment ago I met the leader
of this band. He told me a very interesting
thing. He said that almost all the members
of this orchestra are from the Army and
the Marines and the Navy-they gen-
erally are in the Army and the Marines
and the Navy, but here, they are joining
in this band at this Italian event.
Now, that tells us something, of course,
about Italians generally, their great sense
of music and love of music. Anybody who
has been to Italy, as I have been so many
times, knows this. Anybody who has been
to an Italian affair knows it. But perhaps
you did not know that the President's offi-
cial band, or orchestra, in the White
House, is the Marine Band. The way it
was set up, the way it was gotten to-
gether, was in the very early days of this
country when Thomas Jefferson was try-
ing to find a suitable orchestra, or band,
for the White House. He couldn't find it
among those in the Colonies at that time,
and so he sent off to Italy and got some
Italians to come over and they formed the
nucleus of the band. But you all know the
contribution in the field of music.
You have had an opportunity today to
see something in the field of government.
I am very proud that one of the most out-
standing members of our Cabinet is John
Volpe, the former Governor of Massachu-
setts. And with the record of Italians in
discovering this country, as travelers,
naturally he is in charge of transportation,
and he is taking us a long way, I can
assure you.
I, too, want to pay my respects to John
Scali. As a matter of fact, he was the one
that delivered the invitation. John Scali
is a member of our White House Staff.
And he has traveled with me all over the
world, when he was a reporter for one of
the television networks. You wonder how
anybody in a television network got to
work for the White House Staff. Well, I
can assure you that he is one of the very
best, and he does a fine job representing
the great profession of the news media and
also for the President of the United States.
And then, too, on such an occasion as
this, I would like to refer to a lot of
others. I was trying to think if I could
claim any Italian background. All I can
say is this: Every time I have been in Italy
and every time I attend an Italian picnic,
I think I have some Italian blood, I can
assure you of that.
And Larry Hogan, the Congressman
from this district, told me the same thing
as we were walking up here.
Let me just put this in one very non-
political sense, which I know all of you
will appreciate. Many years ago-it was
1956, as a matter of fact-I went to the
border of Hungary to help receive the
Hungarians, the young Hungarians who
were fleeing from the Communist Gov-
ernment, crossing into Austria. It was
Christmastime. It was a very desperate
time. And about 150,000, you will remem-
ber, came across that border, and many
871
