Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [329]
328 Statement About Congressional Spending and the
Nation's Welfare. September 27, 1972
AT THE present time there are pending
in Congress a number of huge spending
proposals which, if enacted into law,
would lead inevitably to a tax increase.
The best way I can serve the American
people is to stay in Washington, when I
consider it necessary, to fight those pro-
posals to veto them if they are passed,
and to enlist enough support in the Con-
gress to sustain my vetoes.
What we must recognize is that a veto
of a spending proposal which substantially
exceeds the budget that I have submitted
to Congress is, in effect, a veto of a tax
increase. A vote for such a proposal is a
vote for a tax increase.
It is considered to be good politics in a
campaign to promise huge new spending
programs for good causes like the environ-
ment, health, education, and welfare. But
I believe it is known that I have recom-
mended programs in these fields to the
Congress which we can afford without in-
creasing taxes.
I shall make no promises in this cam-
paign for any spending programs-no
matter how popular-if such programs
would lead to a tax increase.
Those who call for a redistribution of
income and a confiscation of wealth are
not speaking for the interests of people;
they are speaking against the interests of
people.
We can be proud of the fact that the
United States has the most generous pro-
gram for aid to the poor, the elderly, and
others who need assistance, of any country
in the world. We can afford these pro-
grams only because the 82 million Ameri-
cans who work for a living and the
businesses of this country produce the
taxable income which can finance them.
Let us reject any program which makes
it more profitable for a person to go on
welfare than to go to work.
Let us reject any program which would
discourage business from providing the
new jobs that America needs if we were
to have full employment without war and
without inflation.
Massive redistribution of income is not
the way to make the poor rich. It is a way
to make everybody poor.
Many nations abroad have gone down
the road to the welfare state and have
lived to regret it. Let's not make the same
mistake in the United States.
NOTE: The statement was released in connec-
tion with the President's visit to Los Angeles to
attend a "Victory '72" dinner.
329 Remarks at a "Victory '72” Dinner in Los Angeles,
California. September 27, 1972
Governor and Mrs. Reagan, Chairman
and Mrs. Carter, all of the distinguished
guests at the head table, in the audience,
and our very special guests who have
added such excitement, enthusiasm, and
idealism to our campaign, the Young Vot-
ers for Nixon-Agnew:
May I also express appreciation to all
of those who have participated in the pro-
gram up to this point, the very generous
933
