[36] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
gency disputes in the transportation in-
dustry. Under current provisions of this
Act, the President may appoint a Board
of Inquiry when he believes that a work
stoppage imperils the Nation's health or
safety. Upon receiving a report from the
Board on the status of the strike, the Presi-
dent may direct the Attorney General to
petition a Federal District Court to en-
join the strike for an 80-day "cooling-off"
period. But there the formal authority of
the Federal Government ends: the Board
of Inquiry may issue no recommendation
on a settlement and the President has no
additional options when the 80-day period
elapses except to ask for emergency legis-
lation. On nine of 30 occasions when this
machinery has been invoked since 1947,
a strike or lockout has resumed after the
80-day period, as it has now on the West
Coast.
To permit a more flexible Federal re-
sponse, I propose that the President be
granted three options when the "cooling-
off" period fails to produce a settlement:
-First, he could extend the period for
30 days, a most useful device if the dispute
seems to be near an end.
-Secondly, he could require partial
operation of the troubled industry, so that
those segments essential to the national
health or safety could be kept in operation
for an additional 180 days.
-Or thirdly, he could invoke a "final
offer selection" procedure whereby the
final offers of each party would be sub-
mitted to a neutral panel. This panel
would select, without amendment, the
most reasonable of the offers as the final
and binding contract between the parties.
Unlike bargaining which now occurs
under the Railway Labor Act or under
arbitration, this approach would en-
courage the parties to narrow their posi-
tions so that they could persuade the
panel of their reasonableness. Thus genu-
ine negotiations and settlement would be
encouraged automatically.
Among the additional features of this
proposal is the establishment of a National
Special Industries Commission to conduct
a two-year study of labor relations in in-
dustries which are especially subject to
national emergency disputes.
As I informed the Congress two years
ago, the Crippling Strikes Prevention Act
creates a balance between two cherished
but sometimes inconsistent principles: the
protection of the national health and
safety against damaging work stoppages,
and the protection of collective bargain-
ing from interference by the Government.
"Ideally," I said then, "we would provide
maximum public protection with mini-
mum Federal interference."
Without doubt, my proposal would tip
the present scales back in the direction of
greater protection for the public, but we
must face up to the hard realities that the
old way simply has not worked. The
scales, in fact, have been heavily weighted
against the public. The actions I propose
would not only correct the balance but
would also preserve and enhance the
processes of collective bargaining.
THE WEST COAST DISPUTE
The present tie-up on the West Coast
vividly illustrates why we need the Crip-
pling Strikes Prevention Act. Both the
failure of negotiations and the resulting
economic losses have been a painful les-
son for us all.
Talks and negotiations between the
parties have dragged on for 15 months,
140
