[136] May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
paralleled devotion and ability and
dedication.
For 25 years, from the time I came to
Washington as a freshman Congressman,
he has been one of my closest personal
friends and advisers. Every American, in
my opinion, owes J. Edgar Hoover a great
debt for building the FBI into the finest
law enforcement organization in the en-
tire world.
I have ordered that all the flags on gov-
ernment buildings be flown at half-mast.
But I will say that in doing so, Edgar
Hoover, because of his indomitable cour-
age against sometimes very vicious attack,
has made certain that the flag of the FBI
will always fly high.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Mr. Hoover, 77, died at his home in Wash-
ington, D.C.
On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11669 ordering the flag to be
flown at half-staff as a mark of respect to the
memory of Mr. Hoover.
On May 3, 1972, the White House released
the transcript of remarks by Acting Attorney
General Richard G. Kleindienst and L. Patrick
Gray III on Mr. Gray's designation as Acting
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Their remarks are printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p.
819).
137 Statement on the Death of J. Edgar Hoover.
May 2, 1972
ALL Americans today mourn the death
of J. Edgar Hoover. He served his Nation
as Director of the FBI for 48 years under
eight American Presidents with total loy-
alty, unparalleled ability, and supreme
dedication.
It can truly be said of him that he was
a legend in his own lifetime. For millions
he was the symbol and embodiment of the
values he cherished most: courage, patri-
otism, dedication to his country, and a
granite-like honesty and integrity.
In times of controversy, Mr. Hoover
was never a man to run from a fight. His
magnificent contribution to making this
a great and good Nation will be remem-
bered by the American people long after
the petty carpings and vicious criticisms
of his detractors are forgotten.
The FBI he literally created and built
is today universally regarded as the finest
law enforcement agency in the world. The
FBI is the eternal monument honoring
this great American.
138 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Plan for
United States Participation in the World Weather
Program. May 3, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
By monitoring and predicting weather
over the globe and by assessing the impact
of man's activities upon the atmosphere,
the World Weather Program helps signifi-
cantly to improve the quality of our life
and the safety of the earth's inhabitants.
I am pleased to report that the World
Weather Program is making significant
strides forward:
572
