[266] Aug. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world is involved we are not Repub-
licans, we are not Democrats. We are
Americans, first, last, and always.
These five Presidents were united in
their total opposition to isolation for
America and in their belief that the in-
terests of the United States and the inter-
ests of world peace require that America
be strong enough and intelligent enough
to assume the responsibilities of leadership
in the world.
They were united in the conviction
that the United States should have a de-
fense second to none in the world.
They were all men who hated war and
were dedicated to peace.
But not one of these five men, and no
President in our history, believed that
America should ask an enemy for peace
on terms that would betray our allies and
destroy respect for the United States all
over the world.
As your President, I pledge that I shall
always uphold that proud bipartisan
tradition. Standing in this Convention
Hall 4 years ago, I pledged to seek an
honorable end to the war in Vietnam. We
have made great progress toward that
end. We have brought over half a million
men home, and more will be coming
home. We have ended America's ground
combat role. No draftees are being sent
to Vietnam. We have reduced our casual-
ties by 98 percent. We have gone the extra
mile, in fact we have gone tens of thou-
sands of miles trying to seek a negotiated
settlement of the war. We have offered a
ceasefire, a total withdrawal of all Ameri-
can forces, an exchange of all prisoners
of war, internationally supervised free
elections with the Communists participat-
ing in the elections and in the supervision.
There are three things, however, that
we have not and that we will not offer.
We will never abandon our prisoners of
war.
Second, we will not join our enemies in
imposing a Communist government on
our allies—the 17 million people of South
Vietnam.
And we will never stain the honor of the
United States of America.
Now I realize that many, particularly
in this political year, wonder why we in-
sist on an honorable peace in Vietnam.
From a political standpoint they suggest
that since I was not in office when over a
half million American men were sent
there, that I should end the war by agree-
ing to impose a Communist government
on the people of South Vietnam and just
blame the whole catastrophe on my
predecessors.
This might be good politics, but it would
be disastrous to the cause of peace in the
world. If, at this time, we betray our
allies, it will discourage our friends abroad
and it will encourage our enemies to en-
gage in aggression.
In areas like the Mideast, which are
danger areas, small nations who rely on
the friendship and support of the United
States would be in deadly jeopardy.
To our friends and allies in Europe,
Asia, the Mideast, and Latin America, I
say the United States will continue its
great bipartisan tradition-to stand by
our friends and never to desert them.
Now in discussing Vietnam, I have
noted that in this election year there has
been a great deal of talk about providing
amnesty for those few hundred Americans
who chose to desert their country rather
than to serve it in Vietnam. I think it is
time that we put the emphasis where it
belongs. The real heroes are 22 million
young Americans who chose to serve their
country rather than desert it. I say to you
792
