Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 23 [266]
Listen to these facts: Americans today
pay one-third of all of their income in
taxes. If their programs were adopted,
Americans would pay over one-half of
what they earn in taxes. This means that
if their programs are adopted, American
wage earners would be working more for
the Government than they would for
themselves.
Once we cross this line, we cannot turn
back because the incentive which makes
the American economic system the most
productive in the world would be
destroyed.
Theirs is not a new approach. It has
been tried before in countries abroad, and
I can tell you that those who have tried
it have lived to regret it.
We cannot and we will not let them do
this to America.
Let us always be true to the principle
that has made America the world's most
prosperous nation-that here in America
a person should get what he works for
and work for what he gets.
Let me illustrate the difference in our
philosophies. Because of our free economic
system, what we have done is to build a
great building of economic wealth and
money in America. It is by far the tallest
building in the world, and we are still
adding to it. Now because some of the
windows are broken, they say tear it
down and start again. We say, replace
the windows and keep building. That is
the difference.
Let me turn now to a second area where
my beliefs are totally different from those
of our opponents.
Four years ago crime was rising all over
America at an unprecedented rate. Even
our Nation's Capital was called the crime
capital of the world. I pledged to stop the
rise in crime. In order to keep that pledge,
I promised in the election campaign that
I would appoint judges to the Federal
courts, and particularly to the Supreme
Court, who would recognize that the first
civil right of every American is to be free
from domestic violence.
I have kept that promise. I am proud
of the appointments I have made to the
courts, and particularly proud of those I
have made to the Supreme Court of the
United States. And I pledge again to-
night, as I did 4 years ago, that whenever
I have the opportunity to make more ap-
pointments to the courts, I shall continue
to appoint judges who share my philoso-
phy that we must strengthen the peace
forces as against the criminal forces in the
United States.
We have launched an all-out offensive
against crime, against narcotics, against
permissiveness in our country.
I want the peace officers across America
to know that they have the total backing
of their President in their fight against
crime.
My fellow Americans, as we move to-
ward peace abroad, I ask you to support
our programs which will keep the peace
at home.
Now, I turn to an issue of overriding
importance not only to this election, but
for generations to come-the progress we
have made in building a new structure of
peace in the world.
Peace is too important for partisanship.
There have been five Presidents in my po-
litical lifetime-Franklin D. Roosevelt,
Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John
F. Kennedy, and Lyndon Johnson.
They had differences on some issues, but
they were united in their belief that where
the security of America or the peace of
791
