[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
opportunities in America. Outlays for
these programs have grown from $213
million in 1969 to $716 million in
1973.
• We will continue our efforts to help
with the problems of school desegre-
gation and upgrade our assistance to
black colleges and other developing
institutions of higher education. The
Emergency School Act will provide
$1.5 billion over a two-year period to
assist in school desegregation.
We will add to our efforts to eradi-
cate unlawful discrimination in the
sale, rental, or financing of housing.
Expenditures for these programs will
increase 20% in 1973 to $11 million.
We will increase the outlays of the
Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission from $22 million to $30
million to enhance their capability to
end discrimination in the private
sector.
To carry out these plans, I have recom-
mended total expenditures of $2.6 billion
for Federal civil rights activities in 1973.
This compares with $911 million in 1969.
Outlays will increase by 25% between
1972 and 1973.
VETERANS BENEFITS.-In moving to-
ward a generation of peace, we will pro-
vide improved benefits for the men and
women who have helped obtain that peace
through military service and great sac-
rifice. For the returning veteran, this
budget demonstrates our concern by pro-
viding greater opportunities for entry into
jobs, education, and training. For those
who have been disabled in service, this
budget provides medical care of high qual-
ity that is better tailored to their needs—
together with greater benefits for rehabili-
tation and compensation. For the widows
and children of those who did not return,
this budget provides additional depend-
ents' compensation, education, and train-
ing. Budget authority for these and other
benefits and services will be increased by
$1 billion in 1973-to $12.4 billion.
Marked benefit improvements will
include:
-an increase of 10,000 in average em-
ployment in VA medical facilities,
raising the staff to patient ratio for
VA hospital care to a record 1.5 to 1;
-a 66% increase in budget authority
for construction of new and better
hospital facilities, including seven
new replacement hospitals;
-improvements in the structure and
levels of veterans compensation bene-
fits, to insure more adequate benefits
for the most seriously disabled; and
-an increase in the monthly individual
benefit payment for the GI bill from
$175 to $190, linked with other pro-
gram improvements I have proposed.
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER TRAIN-
ING.—The need for reform in Federal ed-
ucation and manpower training programs
has not diminished since last year, but the
reforms I recommended then are still
awaiting action by the Congress.
We must reform these programs so that
people can achieve their potential intel-
lectual and occupational skills. For this
'reason, I again emphasize the need for
action on proposals to:
-substitute special revenue sharing
programs for categorical grant pro-
grams in both of these areas;
-assist school districts in desegrega-
tion efforts;
-establish a National Institute of
Education to support research and
experimentation and a National
90
