[103]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mar. 24
sible, but without it, if necessary. I think
the best indication of the fact that it is
succeeding is that as far as that part of the
Consumer Price Index which is made up
of those items that are under control, as
Mr. Stein pointed out in his briefings
yesterday, the wage-price controls have
been effective.
The only part of the Consumer Price
Index or the major part of the Consumer
Price Index which resulted in what we
thought was a disappointing increase in
prices, at least a one-month increase, was
the food index.
The food index, as we know, is not
controlled. Now, insofar as that food index
is concerned, we discussed that at con-
siderable length at the Cost of Living
Council yesterday. What we found is that
it is a mistake and totally unfair to make
the farmer the scapegoat for the high
meat prices and the high food prices.
Approximately a third of what the
prices are that the consumer pays in the
grocery store or the supermarket for food,
approximately only a third of that amount
is a result of what the farmer receives as
farm income. The other two-thirds goes
to middlemen, to retailers, and others.
And our preliminary investigation of this
situation shows that the spread between
what the farmer receives and what the
consumer pays in the grocery store and the
supermarket has widened. It is too great.
That is the reason why the Price Com-
mission is, on April 12, as you know-I
think it was announced this morning--is
going to conduct a hearing on this matter
to determine whether or not the profit
margins in this period have gone beyond
the guidelines that have been laid down.
I will simply say that as far as we are
concerned, we can say that on the one
hand we are glad to see that, looking at a
6-month period, the rate of inflation has
decelerated. On the other hand, we are
disappointed at even a one-month figure
in which the rate of inflation is at the
level it was this time.
We are particularly disappointed that
the food component was as high as it was.
That is why we welcome the action of the
Price Commission looking into that com-
ponent as to why it is, and then in the
event that those food prices do not start to
move down, then other action will have to
be taken. I am prepared to have such
other action taken. I have directed those
who have responsibility in this field to see
what action can be taken. I would simply
conclude by pointing out that to feel that
the action that will be effective is to con-
trol or move on the one-third, that which
the farmer receives as income for what he
sells, is not the most effective way to do it.
One little example that I can use which
I think is quite graphic-and Secretary
Connally was discussing this matter in the
Cost of Living Council yesterday. He said
that he had been in Texas and had talked
to a rancher who raised chickens. He
asked him how much he got a dozen for
eggs. He got 30 cents a dozen. A couple
of days later he got breakfast at the Hotel
Pierre in New York and he ordered a
couple of eggs for breakfast. It was $5 for
two. That is at the rate of $30 a dozen.
Now, of course, the eggs have to be trans-
ported, processed, cooked, and served, but
30 cents a dozen to the farmer and $30 a
dozen to whoever buys those eggs in a
restaurant, that is just too much, and we
are going to get at that middleman one
way or another.
490
