[176] May 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
But in an unchecked arms race between
two great nations, there would be no win-
ners, only losers. By setting this limitation
together, the people of both of our nations,
and of all nations, can be winners. If we
continue in the spirit of serious purpose
that has marked our discussions this week,
these agreements can start us on a new
road of cooperation for the benefit of our
people, for the benefit of all peoples.
There is an old proverb that says, "Make
peace with man and quarrel with your
sins." The hardships and evils that beset
all men and all nations, these and these
alone are what we should make war upon.
As we look at the prospects for peace,
we see that we have made significant
progress at reducing the possible sources
of direct conflict between us. But history
tells us that great nations have often been
dragged into war without intending it,
by conflicts between smaller nations. As
great powers, we can and should use our
influence to prevent this from happening.
Our goal should be to discourage aggres-
sion in other parts of the world and par-
ticularly among those smaller nations that
look to us for leadership and example.
With great power goes great respon-
sibility. When a man walks with a giant
tread, he must be careful where he sets
his feet. There can be true peace only
when the weak are as safe as the strong.
The wealthier and more powerful our own
nations become, the more we have to lose
from war and the threat of war, any-
where in the world.
Speaking for the United States, I can
say this: We covet no one else's territory,
we seek no dominion over any other peo-
ple, we seek the right to live in peace, not
only for ourselves but for all the peoples
of this earth. Our power will only be used
to keep the peace, never to break it, only
to defend freedom, never to destroy it.
No nation that does not threaten its neigh-
bors has anything to fear from the United
States.
Soviet citizens have often asked me,
"Does America truly want peace?"
I believe that our actions answer that
question far better than any words could
do. If we did not want peace, we would
not have reduced the size of our armed
forces by a million men, by almost one-
third, during the past 3 years. If we did
not want peace, we would not have
worked so hard at reaching an agreement
on the limitation of nuclear arms, at
achieving a settlement of Berlin, at main-
taining peace in the Middle East, at estab-
lishing better relations with the Soviet
Union, with the People's Republic of
China, with other nations of the world.
Mrs. Nixon and I feel very fortunate
to have had the opportunity to visit the
Soviet Union, to get to know the people
of the Soviet Union, friendly and hos-
pitable, courageous and strong. Most
Americans will never have a chance to
visit the Soviet Union, and most Soviet
citizens will never have a chance to visit
America. Most of you know our country
only through what you read in your news-
papers and what you hear and see on radio
and television and motion pictures. This is
only a part of the real America.
I would like to take this opportunity to
try to convey to you something of what
America is really like, not in terms of its
scenic beauties, its great cities, its fac-
tories, its farms, or its highways, but in
terms of its people.
In many ways, the people of our two
countries are very much alike. Like the
Soviet Union, ours is a large and diverse
nation. Our people, like yours, are hard
working. Like you, we Americans have a
630
