Richard Nixon, 1972
May 28 [176]
176 Radio and Television Address to the People of the
Soviet Union. May 28, 1972
Dobryy vecher [Good evening]:
I deeply appreciate this opportunity
your Government has given me to speak
directly with the people of the Soviet
Union, to bring you a message of friend-
ship from all the people of the United
States and to share with you some of my
thoughts about the relations between our
two countries and about the way to peace
and progress in the world.
This is my fourth visit to the Soviet
Union. On these visits I have gained a
great respect for the peoples of the Soviet
Union, for your strength, your generosity,
your determination, for the diversity and
richness of your cultural heritage, for your
many
achievements.
In the 3 years I have been in office, one
of my principal aims has been to establish
a better relationship between the United
States and the Soviet Union. Our two
countries have much in common. Most
important of all, we have never fought
one another in war. On the contrary, the
memory of your soldiers and ours embrac-
ing at the Elbe, as allies, in 1945, remains
strong in millions of hearts in both of our
countries. It is my hope that that
memory can serve as an inspiration for
the renewal of Soviet-American coopera-
tion in the 1970's.
As great powers, we shall sometimes be
competitors, but we need never be
enemies.
Thirteen years ago, when I visited your
country as Vice President, I addressed the
people of the Soviet Union on radio and
television, as I am addressing you tonight.
I said then: "Let us have peaceful com-
petition not only in producing the best
factories but in producing better lives for
our people.
"Let us cooperate in our exploration of
outer space. . . . Let our aim be not vic-
tory over other peoples but the victory of
all mankind over hunger, want, misery,
and disease, wherever it exists in the
world."
In our meetings this week, we have
begun to bring some of those hopes to
fruition. Shortly after we arrived here on
Monday afternoon, a brief rain fell on
Moscow, of a kind that I am told is called
a mushroom rain, a warm rain, with sun-
shine breaking through, that makes the
mushrooms grow and is therefore con-
sidered a good omen. The month of May
is early for mushrooms, but as our talks
progressed this week, what did grow was
even better: a far-reaching set of agree-
ments that can lead to a better life for
both of our peoples, to a better chance for
peace in the world.
We have agreed on joint ventures in
space. We have agreed on ways of work-
ing together to protect the environment,
to advance health, to cooperate in science
and technology. We have agreed on means
of preventing incidents at sea. We have
established a commission to expand trade
between our two nations.
Most important, we have taken an his-
toric first step in the limitation of nuclear
strategic arms. This arms control agree-
ment is not for the purpose of giving
either side an advantage over the other.
Both of our nations are strong, each re-
spects the strength of the other, each will
maintain the strength necessary to defend
its independence.
87-234-74-44
629
