[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
it singles out for special protection, and by
giving priority attention to the coastal
zones. I propose to supplement these safe-
guards with new economic disincentives to
further discourage unnecessary wetlands
development.
-I propose legislation to limit applica-
bility of certain Federal tax benefits when
development occurs in coastal wetlands.
haps, the wonder, beauty, and elemental
force in which the least of them share sug-
gest a higher right to exist—not granted
them by man and not his to take
away. In
environmental policy as anywhere else
we cannot deal in absolutes. Yet we can
at least give considerations like these more
relative weight in the seventies, and be-
come a more civilized people in a healthier
land because of it.
MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC LANDS
During 1971, I acted to strengthen the
environmental requirements relating to
management and use of the Nation's vast
acreage of federally-owned public lands
administered by the Department of the
Interior. I proposed new legislation to
establish an overall management policy
for these public lands, something which
we have been without for far too long.
This legislation, still pending before the
Congress, would direct the Secretary of
the Interior to manage our public lands in
a manner that would protect their envi-
ronmental quality for present and future
generations. The policy which it would
establish declares the retention of the pub-
lic lands to be in the national interest
except where disposal of particular tracts
would lead to a significant improvement
in their management, or where the dis-
posal would serve important public ob-
jectives which cannot be achieved on
non-public lands.
PROTECTING OUR NATURAL HERITAGE
Wild places and wild things constitute
a treasure to be cherished and protected
for all time. The pleasure and refresh-
ment which they give man confirm their
value to society. More importantly per-
PREDATOR CONTROL
Americans today set high value on the
preservation of wildlife. The old notion
that "the only good predator is a dead
one" is no longer acceptable as we under-
stand that even the animals and birds
which sometimes prey on domesticated
animals have their own value in maintain-
ing the balance of nature.
The widespread use of highly toxic
poisons to kill coyotes and other predatory
animals and birds is a practice which has
been a source of increasing concern to the
American public and to the federal offi-
cials responsible for the public lands.
Last year the Council on Environmental
Quality and the Department of the In-
terior appointed an Advisory Committee
on Predator Control to study the entire
question of predator and related animal
control activities. The Committee found
that persistent poisons have been applied
to range and forest lands without ade-
quate knowledge of their effects on the
ecology or their utility in preventing losses
to livestock. The large-scale use of poisons
for control of predators and field rodents
has resulted in unintended losses of other
animals and in other harmful effects on
natural ecosystems. The Committee con-
cluded that necessary control of coyotes
182
