[94] Mar. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
and I am confident, based on the kind of
people that we have working in our pro-
grams at the Federal and State level here
in New York City, that we are making a
major offensive effort that is going to pay
off-pay off in criminal penalties for those
that are guilty, pay off also on rehabilita-
tion for those who are users, and also,
here in the supply area, will pay off by
stopping the source of supply, the source
of supply which could destroy the charac-
ter of so many of our young people, and
eventually the character of this Nation.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:25 p.m. at
John F. Kennedy International Airport after
reviewing customs inspection procedures. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Earlier he had gone to the regional office
95
of the Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforce-
ment at the Federal Plaza in New York City
for a meeting of Federal, State, and local law
enforcement agencies on the Drug Abuse Law
Enforcement program. He then joined Gov.
Nelson A. Rockefeller in attending a meeting
of State and local judges, members of the New
York State Narcotics Addiction Control Com-
mission, and city prosecutors to discuss opera-
tions of 12 new special narcotics courts in the
city.
The President and Myles J. Ambrose, Special
Assistant Attorney General, Office for Drug
Abuse Law Enforcement, also met privately
with undercover agents from the Bureau of
Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs and the Bu-
reau of Customs for a report on heroin traffick-
ing in New York City.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the President's trip to New York
City and on Administration efforts to combat
drug abuse.
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Nihat Erim
of Turkey. March 21, 1972
Mr. Prime Minister and our distinguished
guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, it is a very great
privilege to welcome you on this first day
of spring to our country, and to welcome
Mrs. Nihat Erim and the members of your
party on this occasion.
Your visit comes at a very special time.
It is halfway between the visits that I will
have paid to the P.R.C. and the U.S.S.R.,
and it reminds us of a very profound
truth. At a time that we seek better rela-
tions with those who have been our
adversaries, we do not forget those who
have been and are our friends.
Turkey and the United States have
been allies and friends for many years.
That alliance has been particularly strong
in NATO, and from the standpoint of
friendship, I shall never forget the warm
welcome that the people of Turkey and
your Government extended to Mrs. Nixon
and me when we visited your country in
1956. We hope that we can make you,
your wife, and the members of your party
feel just as welcome as you visit Wash-
ington, our Nation's Capital today.
We are reminded, too, that our alliance
and friendship goes beyond military mat-
ters. We know, for example, that in a
cause that is interesting to not only people
in your country, but in ours, people all
over the world, that of dealing with dan-
gerous drugs, your Government has taken
strong positions of leadership and coopera-
tion that have been most helpful in dealing
with this problem, and for that we are
most grateful.
As I think of your country and its great
history, the motto which came from your
450
