Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 4 [40]
corporation plan nearly 17 months ago, I
called it “an opportunity to fulfill, in this
city, at this time, a magnificent vision of
the men who founded our Nation, and at
the same time to create a standard for the
rest of the Nation by which to measure
their own urban achievement, and on
which to build visions of their own." It is
not an opportunity that waits forever,
though; of the time available between that
1970 statement and the beginning of the
Bicentennial year, more than a fourth is
already gone. Every month that passes
without this legislation further dims our
chances of giving all Americans one birth-
day present they ought to have-a Capital
"main street" to be proud of.
THE NEXT FOUR YEARS
Both local and Federal plans for the
Bicentennial celebration here in the Na-
tion's Capital are far from complete at
present. It is right that they should con-
tinue to evolve and expand as we move
toward 1976. This message, however, at-
tempts to set the tone and theme for Fed-
eral participation over the course of the
next 4 years, and also to convey some of
the aspirations of Washingtonians them-
selves without presuming to dictate what
those aspirations should be.
The various levels and jurisdictions of
government in the Washington area are
well organized to follow through on the
proposals I make today and to supervise
further planning. The American Revolu-
tion Bicentennial Commission, with its
distinguished bipartisan membership
headed by David J. Mahoney, continues to
provide excellent national leadership.
The District government is well served by
the responsive local Assembly and Com-
mission structure to which I referred
above; Mayor Washington is also estab-
lishing liaison with suburban planning
bodies and with State officials of both Vir-
ginia and Maryland. The massive and
diverse physical construction effort out-
lined in this message has been coordinated
through a full-time District of Columbia
bicentennial task force within the General
Services Administration, until recently
headed with great skill by Administrator
Robert Kunzig. Now that Mr. Kunzig has
become a Federal judge, I shall ensure
that this coordination work is carried for-
ward at the same high standard.
Under such direction and with the sup-
port of the Congress, we can achieve our
Bicentennial goal of dual excellence in the
District of Columbia, and we can realize
by 1976 a dramatic improvement in the
quality of Washington life for all whose
physical or spiritual home this great Capi-
tal is. And by so doing we can help to
inspire and encourage the preparations of
other communities all across the country
for a truly magnificent Bicentennial.
The White House,
February 4, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on plans
for the Bicentennial observance in the District
of Columbia. Participants in the news briefing
were Walter E. Washington, mayor of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Robert L. Kunzig, Associate
Judge, United States Court of Claims, Egil
Krogh, Jr., Deputy Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs, and Theodore C. Lutz,
Budget Examiner, Office of Management and
Budget.
155
