[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
petitors, and neither can be indiffer-
ent to advances by the other in either
field.
-We each stand at the head of a group
of countries whose association we
value and are not prepared to sacri-
fice to an improvement in Soviet-
American relations.
-We each possess an awesome nuclear
force created and designed to meet
the threat implicit in the other's
strength.
-We both conduct global policies. Un-
less prudence is used, this can create
new tensions and areas of conflict in
our relations.
-Both our peoples are acutely con-
scious of almost half-a-century of
sharp hostility. This historic fact con-
ditions efforts to move toward a
better relationship.
The essence of this Administration's
approach to the Soviet Union has been to
concentrate on the substance rather than
the climate of our relationship and to con-
front squarely the serious issues which
divide us. This required the careful and
unemotional examination with the Soviet
Union of the specific problems which
appeared susceptible of resolution and of
the general approach which both coun-
tries must take to those problems and to
the overall conduct of our relationship, if
progress were, in fact, to be obtained.
Our determination to pursue this ap-
proach was reinforced by changes in the
international scene affecting Soviet in-
terests and the USSR's position in the
world. There were ambiguous tendencies
in Soviet policy; the same factors that
might lead the USSR toward greater
hostility also suggested the opportunity for
a relaxation of tension. The task of Amer-
ican policy was to recognize the persist-
ence of this ambiguity and to take action
to strengthen the more positive tendencies.
—Sharp rivalries had grown up
grown up within
the Communist world and had be-
an important influence on
Soviet foreign policy. They created
some immediate pressures to compete
for the mantle of militancy. In some
areas—especially in Asia-Com-
munist competition actually sharp-
ened conflicts. The breakup of a
single Communist entity, however,
relaxed some of the ideological inhi-
bitions against dealing with the U.S.
and forced the Soviet Union to re-
evaluate its security concerns. This
suggested that the Soviet Union
might seek a reduction of tensions
with the U.S. and its Atlantic allies.
-The Soviet Union had created a
nuclear force comparable to ours.
The magnitude of Soviet strategic
programs and their accelerating
pace opened up both opportunities
and dangers that had not existed
before; the USSR might be tempted
by the possibility of gaining a domi-
nant position, even though it should
be clear that neither side would per-
mit the other to develop a decisive
strategic advantage. On the other
hand, it was possible that for the
first time, strategic conditions freed
the USSR from some of its own fears
and might permit serious arms limi-
tations at no disadvantage to either
side.
-The expansion of Soviet military and
economic resources has made feasible
a steady expansion of the Soviet
presence in the Middle East, in South
Asia, and in other areas. As it in-
creases its influence, however, the
Soviet Union also acquires responsi-
206
