Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 19 [13]
not always flow. Consequently, countries
that expropriate often postpone the attain-
ment of their own development goals. Still
more unfairly, expropriations in one de-
veloping country can and do impair the
investment climate in other developing
countries.
In light of all this, it seems to me im-
perative to state-to our citizens and to
other nations-the policy of this Govern-
ment in future situations involving ex-
propriatory acts.
1. Under international law, the United
States has a right to expect:
-that any taking of American private
property will be nondiscriminatory;
that it will be for a public purpose;
and
-that its citizens will receive prompt,
adequate, and effective compensation
from the expropriating country.
Thus, when a country expropriates a
significant U.S. interest without making
reasonable provision for such compensa-
tion to U.S. citizens, we will presume that
the United States will not extend new
bilateral economic benefits to the expro-
priating country unless and until it is
determined that the country is taking rea-
sonable steps to provide adequate com-
pensation, or that there are major factors
affecting U.S. interests which require con-
tinuance of all or part of these benefits.
2. In the face of the expropriatory cir-
cumstances just described, we will presume
that the U.S. Government will withhold
its support from loans under considera-
tion in multilateral development banks.
3. Humanitarian assistance will, of
course, continue to receive special consid-
eration under such circumstances.
4. In order to carry out this policy effec-
tively, I have directed that each potential
expropriation case be followed closely. A
special interagency group will be estab-
lished under the Council on International
Economic Policy to review such cases and
to recommend courses of action for the
U.S. Government.
5. The Departments of State, Treasury,
and Commerce are increasing their inter-
change of views with the business com-
munity on problems relating to private
U.S. investment abroad in order to im-
prove government and business awareness
of each other's concerns, actions, and
plans. The Department of State has set up
a special office to follow expropriation
cases in support of the Council on Inter-
national Economic Policy.
6. Since these issues are of concern to a
broad portion of the international com-
munity, the U.S. Government will con-
sult with governments of developed and
developing countries on expropriation
matters to work out effective measures for
dealing with these problems on a multi-
lateral basis.
7. Along with other governments, we
shall cooperate with the international
financial institutions-in particular the
World Bank Group, the Inter-American
Development Bank, and the Asian Devel-
opment Bank-to achieve a mutually
beneficial investment atmosphere. The
international financial institutions have
often assisted in the settlement of invest-
ment disputes, and we expect they will
continue to do so.
8. One way to make reasonable provi-
sion for just compensation in an expro-
priation dispute is to refer the dispute to
international adjudication or arbitration.
Firm agreement in advance on dispute
settlement procedures is a desirable means
of anticipating possible disagreements
between host governments and foreign
investors. Accordingly, I support the exist-
33
