Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 25 [21]
difficult war in American history.
Honest and patriotic Americans have
disagreed as to whether we should have
become involved at all 9 years ago; and
there has been disagreement on the con-
duct of the war. The proposal I have
made tonight is one on which we all can
agree.
Let us unite now, unite in our search
for peace—a peace that is fair to both
sides a peace that can last.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on radio and
television.
Before delivering the address, he met with
the bipartisan leadership of the Congress.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day, as well as the text of the
joint U.S.-South Vietnam peace proposal which
read as follows:
1. There will be a total withdrawal from
South Vietnam of all U.S. forces and other
foreign forces allied with the Government of
South Vietnam within 6 months of an
agreement.
2. The release of all military men and
innocent civilians captured throughout Indo-
china will be carried out in parallel with the
troop withdrawals mentioned in point 1. Both
sides will present a complete list of military
men and innocent civilians held throughout
Indochina on the day the agreement is signed.
The release will begin on the same day as the
troop withdrawals and will be completed when
they are completed.
3. The following principles will govern the
political future of South Vietnam:
The political future of South Vietnam will
be left for the South Vietnamese people to
decide for themselves, free from outside
interference.
There will be a free and democratic Presi-
dential election in South Vietnam within 6
months of an agreement. This election will be
organized and run by an independent body
representing all political forces in South Viet-
nam which will assume its responsibilities on
the date of the agreement. This body will,
among other responsibilities, determine the
qualification of candidates. All political forces
in South Vietnam can participate in the elec-
tion and present candidates. There will be in-
ternational supervision of this election.
One month before the Presidential election
takes place, the incumbent President and Vice
President of South Vietnam will resign. The
Chairman of the Senate, as caretaker head of
the Government, will assume administrative
responsibilities except for those pertaining to
the election, which will remain with the inde-
pendent election body.
The United States, for its part, declares
that it:
-will support no candidate and will remain
completely neutral in the election,
--will abide by the outcome of this election
and any other political processes shaped
by the South Vietnamese people them-
selves,
-is prepared to define its military and eco-
nomic assistance relationship with any
government that exists in South Vietnam.
Both sides agree that:
-South Vietnam, together with the other
countries of Indochina, should adopt a
foreign policy consistent with the military
provisions of the 1954 Geneva Accords.
-Reunification of Vietnam should be de-
cided on the basis of discussions and agree-
ments between North and South Vietnam
without constraint and annexation from
either party, and without foreign inter-
ference.
4. Both sides will respect the 1954 Geneva
Agreements on Indochina and those of 1962 on
Laos. There will be no foreign intervention in
the Indochinese countries and the Indochinese
peoples will be left to settle their own affairs
by themselves.
5. The problems existing among the Indo-
chinese countries will be settled by the Indo-
chinese parties on the basis of mutual respect
for independence, sovereignty, territorial in-
tegrity, and non-interference in each other's
affairs. Among the problems that will be settled
105
