[377] Oct. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
The new relationship between the
United States and the People's Republic
of China, which began when I visited
Peking earlier this year, is another situa-
tion in which our farmers are both con-
tributing to peace and profiting from
peace. The grain sales which we have
made to the People's Republic of China
only scratch the surface of an immense
trade potential between our two countries.
And today I am happy to announce
that an additional contract for the sale of
300,000 tons of American corn to the
People's Republic of China was signed
within the last few days.
Leading the way in our efforts to bring
U.S. farm products to the world, and to
bring a better day for America's farmers
and rural people, have been the two able
and energetic men who have served in my
Cabinet as Secretary of Agriculture-Cliff
Hardin and Earl Butz.
It has been said of the present Secretary
of Agriculture that "Nobody bullies Earl
Butz." The people in Washington have
learned how true that is, so have the Na-
tion's farmers, and we can be proud to
have Secretary Butz on our team.
This autumn of 1972 is a season of har-
vest not only for the farmers across Amer-
ica's countryside but for our Nation as a
whole.
At home, we are beginning to reap the
results of a long battle to launch a new
prosperity in America, a time of full em-
ployment without inflation and without
war. We are moving toward greater
domestic peace, stability, and national
unity. Around the world, the chances seem
better and better that our children will be
able to grow up in a full generation of
peace.
Now the great question is: How shall
we use that peace once it is achieved? We
must use it as an opportunity to better the
human condition, to lift up the hearts
and the hopes of all mankind. Here the
American farmer has a great role to play.
It is significant, I think, that the last
American to win the Nobel Peace Prize
was not a statesman, not a social activist,
but a man of the soil-Dr. Norman
Borlaug, the man whose research with
high-yield wheat has launched the "Green
Revolution" which is helping to feed
hungry millions around the globe today.
I wish it were possible to present a
peace prize to every farmer and every
farm family in America in recognition
of what they have done in years past to
help keep our country strong and free,
and in recognition also of what they can
do in years ahead to help unite all peoples
in a new alliance against the common
enemies of mankind-hunger and poverty
and misery in the world.
But farm people do not ask for prizes.
What they do ask is a fair chance to suc-
ceed, a fair share in America. That is
what I am determined to help them
achieve.
I will not be satisfied until farmers
have the rewards, the satisfaction, and the
income they so richly have earned.
I will not be satisfied until we are as-
sured that rural America will continue to
be a place of promise--a good place to
live.
I pledge that during the next 4 years
we will do everything in our power to
justify the confidence which the strong
people of America's rural heartland place
in the future of agriculture, the future of
America, and the future of peace in the
world.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m.
from the Library at the White House. The
1048
