Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
Consortium for Aid to Turkey has pro-
vided an efficient multilateral mechanism
to this end. Both agreed that this and other
endeavors in multilateral institutions
should continue and be further enhanced.
The President also said the U.S. would
continue its financial support of Turkey
in its efforts to reach its declared goal of
vigorous, self-sustaining economic growth.
The President described his China trip
and discussed his upcoming trip to the
Soviet Union. The Prime Minister indi-
cated that Turkey has followed with ad-
miration the efforts of the President to
strengthen the peace of the world. He
emphasized his belief that the visits of
President Nixon to Peking and Moscow
will have a special bearing on the promo-
tion of world peace. The Prime Minister
said that Turkey, on her side, encourages
and supports efforts for peace in her region
and is constantly improving her good rela-
tions with her neighbors.
President Nixon and Prime Minister
Erim agreed that it is important that there
be a just settlement of the Cyprus problem
which would contribute to the wellbeing
of the concerned parties and to peace in
the Eastern Mediterranean. Proceeding
from the binding effects of existing treaties
and recognizing the beneficial peacekeep-
ing role of the United Nations, it was
agreed that such a settlement can best be
reached through negotiation by the con-
cerned parties.
NOTE: See also Items 95 and 98.
100 Special Message to the Congress on Older Americans.
March 23, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
When I addressed the White House
Conference on Aging last December, I
pledged that I would do all I could to
make 1972 a year of action on behalf of
older Americans. This message to the
Congress represents an important step in
fulfilling that promise.
Many of the actions which are outlined
in this message have grown out of con-
cerns expressed at the White House Con-
ference and at related meetings across the
country. The message also discusses a
number of steps that have already been
taken or that were announced at an earlier
date. All of these actions are part of our
comprehensive strategy for helping older
Americans.
The momentum which has been gen-
erated by all these steps-old and new-
will move us toward the great national
objectives which the White House Con-
ference set forth. I pledge that this
momentum will be sustained as we follow
through on these initiatives and as we
keep other recommendations of the White
House Conference at the top of our
agenda, under continuing review.
This message, then, does not represent
the last word I will have to say on this im-
portant subject. It does, however, identify
those administrative steps which we are
taking immediately to help older Ameri-
cans, along with a number of legislative
initiatives which should be of highest
priority on this year's Congressional
agenda.
We often hear these days about the
"impatience of youth." But if we stop to
think about the matter, it is the elderly
who have the best reason to be impatient.
As so many older Americans have candidly
87-234-74-33
461
