Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 19 [303]
States at comparable stages of its develop-
ment.
A major factor contributing to this
record growth has been the increasing
availability to lower income countries of
external assistance from many sources.
The United States can take pride in its
role as an innovator and sustainer of this
pattern of cooperation.
During the same ten years, the lower
income countries also amassed a variety
of other important resources for growth.
Their technical and managerial experts
have grown in number and experience,
acquiring greater confidence in their
ability to perceive national needs and to
design and execute national development
strategy. As the lower income nations
have gained greater perspective and
greater understanding of their own prob-
lems, they have been formulating more
of their own development plans and or-
ganizing more of their own resources.
Other developments that must be
taken into account in planning United
States aid programs include the growth
of new centers of economic and political
power, the rapid pace of social and politi-
cal change, and the increasing emphasis
on man's relationship with his environ-
ment. Perhaps most significantly, there
has been a substantial increase in the aid
contributions of other nations and in the
role of international lending institutions.
Whereas a decade or so ago the United
States was the predominant source of de-
velopment resources and guidance, other
industrialized nations and international
lending institutions have since expanded
both their contributions and their admin-
istrative capabilities. Today the United
States is the foremost of donor nations
in absolute terms, but the other in-
dustrialized nations have increased their
participation to the extent that in many
cases they are contributing a greater per-
centage of their total resources to develop-
ment assistance than is the United States.
We have been working to adjust our aid
programs to all these new conditions. A
number of important reforms were em-
bodied in two pieces of draft legislation
submitted to the Congress in April 1971.
We hope that those proposals will provide
a basis for a discussion with the Congress
of ways in which we can structure our pro-
grams to increase their effectiveness.
While the Congress has been consider-
ing these proposed reforms, the Agency
for International Development has moved
ahead with steps to increase the effective-
ness and efficiency of its operations with-
in the constraints of existing legislation.
These initiatives have included:
-Separation of economic supporting
assistance activities from develop-
ment programs within the AID
structure;
-Reduction of AID's American staff,
by an additional six percent, reflect-
ing a total reduction of nearly one-
quarter over the past three years and
bringing total AID personnel to the
lowest level in the Agency's history;
-Substantial simplification of AID
procurement policies and procedures;
-Substantial progress in concentrating
technical assistance programs in
priority sectors of agriculture, educa-
tion, population, and health;
-Steps toward centralizing overseas
lending operations in Washington.
87-234-74-59
877
