[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
AMERICA'S INTERESTS IN AFRICA
Historically, U.S. interests derive from
the many American citizens of African
descent, and the long involvement of
American churchmen, educators, and bus-
inessmen with Africa. In the last two dec-
ades, Africa's drive for independence
stimulated our interest, and commanded
our understanding and our support. The
creation of new independent governments
in Africa gave a new focus to our relation-
ship and opened new opportunities for
fruitful contacts between us. The special
identification of black Americans with
their African heritage adds intensity to our
inherent interest in demonstrating that
men of all races can live and prosper
together.
One-third of the world's independent
nations are in Africa. Their voice and
views are increasingly important in world
affairs. Our global responsibilities require
that we seek their understanding and dip-
lomatic support for a wide range of
policies.
In the economic sphere our common
interests are substantial and growing.
African leaders look to the United States
for help primarily in meeting their de-
velopment objectives. The American in-
terest in a fruitful relationship with the
African Continent commands that we,
along with others, respond. On our part,
we consider this an area particularly ap-
propriate for an active U.S. role in
African affairs. As African countries di-
versify their economic relationships, our
own economic interests and opportunities
in Africa expand. Our interest in African
trade and investment opportunities
matches the African interest in American
goods and their desire for American
technology.
THE NEED FOR MUTUAL RESPECT AND
RESTRAINT
If these American interests in Africa
provide a firm basis for relations of mu-
tual benefit-and I believe they do I am
equally convinced that both African and
American interests are served by political
restraint in our policy toward Africa.
We have made preeminently clear our
respect for the diversity and independence
of African nations. For historical and geo-
graphical reasons, Africa is resistant to
involvement in alien conflicts and contro-
versies. This accords with our purposes as
well as Africa's. As Secretary of State
Rogers stated following his February 1970
trip to Africa:
"We have no desire for any special
influence in Africa except the influence
that naturally and mutually develops
among friends... we do not believe that
Africa should be the scene of major power
conflicts. We on our part do not propose
to make it so."
Restraint must be mutual to be effec-
tive. Non-African powers should not seek,
nor Africans provide, opportunities for
exploiting local conflicts. Africans have
demonstrated, in their drive for auton-
omy and self-reliance, their ability to
solve their problems without outside
interference.
Mutual respect in relations with the
United States also includes African recog-
nition of our non-interference in African
political affairs. We expect African na-
tions to resist the temptation to serve
domestic political purposes by making un-
substantiated charges of American inter-
ference in their affairs. Such charges
appeared in a few places in Africa in 1971,
particularly in Madagascar and Guinea.
American restraint accords with the
268
