[375] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
you may lay the foundation for not having
another war in that same generation.
That is why we have insisted on these
conditions that I have laid down, and that
is why, as this war does come to a con-
clusion, it will be concluded in a way, we
believe, that will discourage aggression
in the future rather than encourage it.
That is just the beginning. Let me take
you a little further, however, on this whole
prospect for peace in the world.
It would have been somewhat easy, as a
matter of fact somewhat tempting, during
these past 4 years to work as we did only
on trying to bring the war in Vietnam to
an end. And it would have been some
satisfaction to have brought home
500,000, as we did, to reduce the casualties
98 percent, as we did, to get into peace
negotiations that now have a good chance
for success, but we did not stop there. And
the reason we did not stop there is that,
as I looked at the world, I saw that once
the war was over in this small part of the
world, there still hung over the world a
greater danger potentially in the future.
There was another super power, the
Soviet Union. At the beginning of our
term in office, we were in confrontation
with that super power. And then there
was the huge People's Republic of China,
where one-fourth of all the people in the
world were living, and with which the
people of the United States and their
Government had had no communication
for a period of over 20 years.
As I studied that situation at the begin-
ning of my term in office, long before it
began, I determined that it was essential
that we build a world order in which
governments could have their differences,
in which governments could be built on
different philosophies, but in which the
peoples of nations with different philos-
ophies and different governments need not
necessarily be enemies.
I felt this was essential, essential par-
ticularly when what was involved was not
a conventional but a nuclear war which
no one would win, where there would be
only losers. And so we began in January
1969 not only to bring an end to the war
in Vietnam but to establish a new rela-
tionship with the Soviet Union and a be-
ginning of a relationship with the People's
Republic of China. The year 1972, this
year, has perhaps seen, historians will
record, more progress toward true peace
in the world than any year since the end
of World War II.
I don't mean it is here. I don't mean
simply because we went to Peking and
established a dialogue that we are not
going to have differences with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China. We will have.
And I don't mean that because we have
had an arms control agreement and trade
agreements and exchange agreements and
health agreements and environmental
agreements with the Soviet Union that we
are not going to continue to have differ-
ences with the Soviet Union. We will.
Theirs are Communist governments;
ours is a free government. And sometimes
our interests will come in contradiction to
each other. But what we have done, you
see, what we have done is now to have
replaced what was a hopeless situation,
hopeless, with the great powers moving
down the road to an inevitable collision
at some time in the future, with now a
hopeful situation in which the United
States and the Soviet Union are negotiat-
ing their differences at the conference
table-we negotiate hard, but we nego-
tiate, and we settle them-in which the
1038
