[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
lation in this session, the Congress can
give us the permanent machinery so badly
needed for resolving future disputes.
Historically, our transportation systems
have provided the cutting edge for our
development. Now, to keep our country
from falling behind the times, we must
keep well ahead of events in our trans-
portation planning. This is why we are
placing more emphasis and spending more
money this year on transportation research
and development. For this reason, too, I
will propose a 65 percent increase-to
the $1 billion level-in our budget for
mass transportation. Highway building
has been our first priority-and our great-
est success story-in the past two dec-
ades. Now we must write a similar success
story for mass transportation in the 1970's.
PEACE AT HOME: FIGHTING CRIME
Our quest for peace abroad over the last
3 years has been accompanied by an in-
tensive quest for peace at home. And our
success in stabilizing developments on the
international scene has been matched by
a growing sense of stability in America.
Civil disorders no longer engulf our cities.
Colleges and universities have again be-
come places of learning. And while crime
is still increasing, the rate of increase has
slowed to a 5-year low. In the one city
for which the Federal Government has
a special
responsibility-Washington,
D.C.-the picture is even brighter, for
here serious crime actually fell by 13 per-
cent in the last year. Washington was one
of 52 major cities which recorded a net re-
duction in crime in the first nine months of
1971, compared to 23 major cities which
made comparable progress a year earlier.
This encouraging beginning is not
something that has just happened by
itself I believe it results directly from
strong new crime fighting efforts by this
administration, by the Congress, and by
State and local governments.
Federal expenditures on crime have in-
creased 200 percent since 1969 and we
are proposing another 18 percent increase
in our new budget. The Organized Crime
Control Act of 1970, the District of Co-
lumbia Court Reform Act, and the Omni-
bus Crime Control Act of 1970 have all
provided new instruments for this im-
portant battle. So has our effort to expand
the Federal strike force program as a
weapon against organized crime. Late last
year, we held the first National Confer-
ence on Corrections—and we will con-
tinue to move forward in this most critical
field. I will also propose legislation to im-
prove our juvenile delinquency prevention
programs. And I again urge action on my
Special Revenue Sharing proposal for law
enforcement.
By continuing our stepped up assistance
to local law enforcement authorities
through the Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration, by continuing to press for
improved courts and correctional institu-
tions, by continuing our intensified war
on drug abuse, and by continuing to give
vigorous support to the principles of order
and respect for law, I believe that what
has been achieved in the Nation's capital
can be achieved in a growing number of
other communities throughout the Nation.
COMBATING DRUG ABUSE
A problem of modern life which is of
deepest concern to most Americans-and
of particular anguish to many-is that of
drug abuse. For increasing dependence on
drugs will surely sap our Nation's strength
and destroy our Nation's character.
66
