Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 12 [347]
is enjoyable, the opportunity to see the
people in the rest of the country, and I
will do as much as I can between now and
the election, but I have to be President
first.
Q. Will this be your only trip to the
South or have you decided yet?
THE PRESIDENT. No, but we are com-
ing to the South because we consider it
part of the country. The idea of dividing
the North and the South, as I will say
later, is now, as this election will demon-
strate, over forever.
Q. Mr. President, how many more days
do you think you will be campaigning?
THE PRESIDENT. It will have to depend
on how much business we have in the
Congress. We will determine that in the
next week.
NOTE: The exchange took place shortly after
I p.m. in front of the Regency Hyatt House.
347 Remarks at a Campaign Reception for Southern
Supporters in Atlanta, Georgia.
Ladies and gentlemen:
As I am sure all of you know who are
here from the various States represented,
this is a meeting which covers the entire
South, and, consequently, the remarks I
will make at the outset, before having the
opportunity, with Mrs. Nixon, to meet
each of you, will be directed not just to
this State but to the whole South and, as
a matter of fact, to the whole Nation, as
you will soon see.
Before, however, referring to the South
in general, I would like to say a word
about the reception we have had in At-
lanta today.
It is a very great privilege, of course, to
represent this country as Mrs. Nixon and I
have in various capacities, as Vice Presi-
dent for 8 years and then as President. We
have seen many very big crowds. We have
seen some that are bigger. However, I
have never seen a bigger crowd in Atlanta.
I understand it is the biggest crowd in
Atlanta's history.
While there are some cities that are
larger than Atlanta, and that would only
account for a larger crowd in some places,
I have never seen a crowd that had what
October 12, 1972
I call a higher "E.Q." We all hear about
"I.Q." That is very important. But "E.Q."
sometimes is even more important. That
means "Enthusiasm Quotient," and there
was enthusiasm in that crowd.
Now, to all of you ladies and gentlemen,
and to the ladies and gentlemen of the
press who are here from the Washington
press corps and from all over the South,
let me direct my remarks to this cam-
paign-what it means to the South, what
it means to the Nation.
This election marks the beginning of a
new era in the political alignment of the
South and of the Nation. For 100 years,
one party took the South for granted, and
the other party, as a matter of fact, wrote
it off. Now that is entirely changed.
Neither party is going to take the South
for granted, and neither party can afford
to write it off.
This is going to be good for the South.
It is going to be good for the Nation. I
have seen this develop. This is not the
first time that we have had a motorcade
in Atlanta; the first was in 1960. It was
one of the most exciting motorcades of the
entire campaign. It was a huge crowd, an
975
