[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
istration, usually during crises, and
typically following meetings of the
National Security Council from
which basic decisions emerged. I
have personally met with the WSAG
on a number of occasions.
In every policy review or crisis situ-
ation, the range of the NSC system is
brought to bear. This ensures extensive
and continuing review of policy and
operational choices on all major issues.
For example:
-In connection with SALT, the Veri-
fication Panel has met 22 times and
the NSC 8 times.
-On European issues, including Berlin,
MBFR, and the proposed Confer-
ence on European Security and Co-
operation, the SRG has met 20 times,
the Verification Panel 5 times and
the NSC 8 times.
-During the Jordan crisis in 1970, the
WSAG met 12 times, the SRG 5
times, and the NSC 4 times.
-Between March and December 1971
the NSC met 3 times, the SRG met
4 times, and the WSAG met 18 times
on the situation in South Asia.
The National Security Council system
draws on the entire machinery of the ex-
ecutive branch of the Government. The
extensive network of interdepartmental
study groups exists for a single purpose: to
ensure that the entire wealth of imagina-
tion, expert knowledge, and experience
available in the Government is brought
to bear on the issues on which I must make
a decision.
I rely heavily on the advice and judg-
ment of the Secretary of State, my senior
foreign policy adviser, but clearly there
must be a means by which I can secure
the views of all agencies concerned with
national security affairs and foreign pol-
icy. There can be no question of the right
and obligation of each agency to present
its views. The NSC system exists to assure
and protect that right. There is no more
cogent demonstration of this than the fact
that for the first time, through the De-
fense Program Review Committee, the
broad foreign policy judgment of the De-
partment of State is actively sought in the
planning of the defense budget.
The emphasis at all levels in the policy
formulation process is, as it must be, on
candor. Precisely for this reason the right
and ability of all senior advisers and their
assistants to give their views and recom-
mendations and to comment on those of
others candidly throughout the delibera-
tive process must be assured. Only in this
way can the President and the National
Security Council have the benefit of the
widest range of thought and the clearest
expression of opinion.
This Administration will be judged by
the substance of its policies, not by the
instruments chosen to devise them. But at
no time in our history was the need for
rigorous and systematic review of our poli-
cies more urgent. I was determined that
our system of decision making be respon-
sive to my need for a statement of clear-
cut alternatives and their costs and conse-
quences, from which I could select the
course to be pursued. The NSC system has
provided me with that range of choice.
The candor with which my advisers have
expressed their views on all of the sig-
nificant issues we have faced has been a
hallmark of the system and essential to
its success. The accomplishments of this
Administration stand as a measure of the
344
