[412] Nov. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
where deadly diseases and drug abuse are
rapidly diminishing.
Through our plan for a comprehensive
health program, our accelerated food as-
sistance programs, our conquest-of-cancer
efforts, and our total war against danger-
ous drugs, your Government today is
committed to that kind of America for
1976.
Soon tomorrow's children will be ready
to start school. Will their parents select
the schools they attend? Will tax pressures
force them, all of them, into public class-
rooms regardless of their preferences?
Let us assure each child, as the fourth
part of his birthright, the chance to go
to school in a well-educated America-
in an educational system that calls each
of us to excellence in all that we do, that
brings the light of learning and the pride
of useful skills to all who desire them, that
preserves neighborhood schools and edu-
cational diversity, and that nurtures a
new world renaissance in science, the arts,
the humanities.
What about the homes in which these
children grow up? Will their living stand-
ard be high? What about the careers
which await them? What about the re-
tirement years at the end of those careers?
Point five of the American birthright
must be a secure and a prosperous Amer-
ica, where there are jobs for all who can
work, a decent income with dignity for
those who cannot work; where every dol-
lar earned will buy a dollar's worth; where
prudent government spending works for
the people, with a fair tax system which
does not force the people to work more
for the government than they work for
themselves.
We owe our children something better
than steadily rising prices and ever-higher
taxes to support welfare handouts. We
owe them the kind of solid prosperity
America has not had since the Eisenhower
years of 1955 and 1956-when we had
full employment without inflation and
without war. We owe them a reform of the
welfare system so that it will not be more
profitable to go on welfare than to go to
work. We must continue the progress of
the last several years and reach those
goals.
What about the quality of life in the
cities and towns where tomorrow's chil-
dren will live? What about the green
earth around them?
Let us make the sixth article of their
birthright a livable America-a nation
whose urban and rural communities are
growing in quality, order, and grace, a
nation whose natural environment is re-
stored and protected, with cleaner air and
water, more parks and open spaces, wiser
use of limited natural resources.
The 1970's have been called America's
environmental decade. Through the
mobilization of citizen concern and the
massive support of government at every
level, we are meeting that challenge. We
are fighting the degradation of man's sur-
roundings everywhere, from the inner city
slum to the mountain wilderness, and we
are in this fight to win.
Our seventh goal for the birthright of
tomorrow's children must be an America
free from fear, a country where the rule
of law is supreme and the rate of crime is
declining, where violence is replaced by
peaceful change, where civility quiets the
angry voices and where decency drives out
moral decay. Here, too, we are making
good progress, but we must do even better.
The last three articles of this birthright
as we enter America's third century must
deal with the conditions necessary for
achieving all the other goals.
1136
