[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
foreign policy, our commitments around
the world would be very, very seriously
jeopardized.
Now the most important point I have
saved for the last and that is this: I think
these agreements are in the interest of
the United States. I think that they are
very much in the interest of arms control
and therefore in the interest of world
peace. But, they are only a beginning; they
are only the foundation. Now, what we
have to do is to really go forward with the
second step. That is why the phase two of
the arms control limitation, which we
hope will begin in October provided the
Congress approves the ones that we have
before them at the present time-phase
two, which will be a permanent arms con-
trol agreement on all offensive nuclear
weapons-this is the one that we think
can have far greater significance even than
phase one.
Phase one is the break-through, and
phase two is the culmination. And phase
two, if we can reach agreement with the
Soviets and it will take long and hard
bargaining-but if we can reach it, it will
mean, then, that we not only hold our
arms budgets where they are, but that in
these new programs instead of going for-
ward with them on the basis presently
projected we will be able to cut them
back.
That is our goal, and I think we can
achieve it provided we approve phase one
and provided we continue a credible arms
program because, believe me, the Soviets
are not going to agree to limit their future
programs unless they have something to
get from us.
B-1 BOMBER
[11.] Q. Mr. President, in considera-
tion of your argument on our need for
offensive weapons, why then do you insist
on development of the costly B-1 bomber
when in fact the Soviet Union has shown
little interest in the bomber force in recent
years and as far as we know has no new
bomber force on the drawing boards at
this time?
THE PRESIDENT. Each power, the So-
viet Union and the United States, must
have those forces that are needed for its
own security. We basically are not only a
land power but a land and sea power. The
Soviet Union is primarily a land power
with certain definite requirements. Hav-
ing that in mind, we believe that the B-1
bomber is, for our security interest,
necessary.
As far as the Soviet Union is concerned,
the fact that they are not developing
bombers does not mean that they do not
respect ours. And I would say, too, that
had we not had our present advantage in
bombers we could not then stand by and
allow the Soviets to have a 1,600 to 1,000
advantage in terms of missiles that are
land based. So, our bomber is an offset
for that.
SOCIAL SECURITY
[12] Q. It was made perfectly clear to
us this week that you would be less than
overjoyed if the Senate should attach a
20-percent social security increase to the
debt ceiling extension bill which expires
tomorrow night. It looks like that might
happen tomorrow. I wonder what you see
as the consequences, and what you could
do about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there should be
an increase in social security. There has
been an increase in the cost of living, and
I have favored an increase in the social
security. The problem with the 20-percent
increase which the Senate will consider
712
