Richard Nixon, 1972
May 8 [145]
power training programs of the Depart-
ment of Labor should be increased for
unemployed and underemployed Viet-
nam-era veterans. Efforts should also be
made to increase veteran participation in
GI Bill training and manpower assistance
programs and to augment benefits
through the coupling of MDTA and GI
Bill training programs. Further, priority
modifications which are necessary to as-
sure adequate enrollment of returning
veterans in MDTA and HEW education
programs should be made without delay.
These actions lend themselves well to
both State and local participation, and to
plans for coalition among VA, Labor,
OEO, HEW, HUD, and other public and
private agencies and institutions.
I am particularly hopeful that partici-
pation in GI Bill programs can be in-
creased through specific outreach into
urban and rural areas, fully informing
veterans of available educational and
other benefits.
Apprenticeship training programs
should be specially adapted and publi-
cized to provide for maximum participa-
tion by recent veterans.
(4) Assure that listing of job openings
with the U.S. Employment Service is
being accomplished by all agencies and
contractors funded by the Federal Gov-
ernment.
Based upon Executive Order 11598,
there should be a sizeable increase in the
number of jobs listed with local public
employment offices and available to re-
turning veterans. The effectiveness of the
Order will be greatly increased by moni-
toring of Federal procurement officers.
(5) Increase the number of appropri-
ate job openings for Vietnam-era veterans
and the placement of veterans in those
jobs.
All public employment programs should
realistically aim for higher goals and ac-
complishments in order to infuse govern-
ment at all levels with the unique capa-
bilities of returning veterans. The Civil
Service Commission should expand its
programs in this area. Every agency should
maximize job opportunities involving on-
the-job training for veterans, particularly
the Veterans Administration, the U.S.
Employment Service, and the National
Alliance of Businessmen. VA and USES
should design "coupled on-the-job train-
ing programs" throughout the country to
allow the employer to be reimbursed for
training costs while the veteran trainee
receives a GI Bill training allowance in
addition to his regular wage. All new
opportunities of this type should also be
widely publicized.
(6) Provide special Labor/VA serv-
ices to Vietnam-era veterans who have
been drawing unemployment compensa-
tion for three or more months.
These veterans should be referred im-
mediately to the U.S. Employment Serv-
ice, VA, or where serious employment
handicaps are indicated-to State voca-
tional rehabilitation agencies for special
counseling, job placement and training.
Beyond these tasks, I would expect that
the veterans' assistance programs already
initiated by the Office of Economic Op-
portunity, the Civil Service Commission,
and the U.S. Postal Service will be ex-
panded in the year ahead.
I also anticipate that the Jobs for Vet-
erans-National Committee (JFV) will
continue to conduct effective promotional
measures. Working closely with the Ad-
vertising Council, JFV should bring our
message to the entire nation through ex-
581
