[71] Feb. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
ence and sovereignty and the people of
Jammu and Kashmir in their struggle for
the right of self-determination.
There are essential differences be-
tween China and the United States in
their social systems and foreign policies.
However, the two sides agreed that coun-
tries, regardless of their social systems,
should conduct their relations on the
principles of respect for the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of all states, non-
aggression against other states, non-
interference in the internal affairs of
other states, equality and mutual benefit,
and peaceful coexistence. International
disputes should be settled on this basis,
without resorting to the use or threat of
force. The United States and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China are prepared to
apply these principles to their mutual
relations.
With these principles of international
relations in mind the two sides stated
that:
-progress toward the normalization of
relations between China and the
United States is in the interests of all
countries;
-both wish to reduce the danger
of international military conflict;
-neither should seek hegemony in the
Asia-Pacific region and each is op-
posed to efforts by any other country
or group of countries to establish
such hegemony; and
-neither is prepared to negotiate on
behalf of any third party or to enter
into agreements or understandings
with the other directed at other
states.
Both sides are of the view that it would
be against the interests of the peoples of
the world for any major country to col-
lude with another against other countries,
or for major countries to divide up the
world into spheres of interest.
The two sides reviewed the long-stand-
ing serious disputes between China and
the United States. The Chinese side re-
affirmed its position: The Taiwan ques-
tion is the crucial question obstructing
the normalization of relations between
China and the United States; the Gov-
ernment of the People's Republic of
China is the sole legal government of
China; Taiwan is a province of China
which has long been returned to the
motherland; the liberation of Taiwan is
China's internal affair in which no other
country has the right to interfere; and all
U.S. forces and military installations must
be withdrawn from Taiwan. The Chinese
Government firmly opposes any activities
which aim at the creation of "one China,
one Taiwan," "one China, two govern-
ments," "two Chinas," and "independent
Taiwan" or advocate that "the status of
Taiwan remains to be determined."
The U.S. side declared: The United
States acknowledges that all Chinese on
either side of the Taiwan Strait maintain
there is but one China and that Taiwan
is a part of China. The United States
Government does not challenge that posi-
tion. It reaffirms its interest in a peaceful
settlement of the Taiwan question by the
Chinese themselves. With this prospect
in mind, it affirms the ultimate objective
of the withdrawal of all U.S. forces and
military installations from Taiwan. In the
meantime, it will progressively reduce its
forces and military installations on Tai-
wan as the tension in the area diminishes.
The two sides agreed that it is desirable
to broaden the understanding between
the two peoples. To this end, they dis-
cussed specific areas in such fields as
science, technology, culture, sports and
378
