[93] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
million to $500,000; provide increased
equity to MESBICs in the form of pre-
ferred stock to be purchased by SBA in
place of part of the debt instruments pur-
chased by SBA from MESBICs under
current law; and lower the interest rate
on SBA loans to MESBICs to three points
below the normal rate set by the Treasury
during the first five years of the loan.
Restructuring Effects of the Act. The
immediate impact of this legislation would
be to materially restructure the MESBIC
program and stimulate increased private
investment and gifts to MESBICs, result-
ing in greatly increased capital for minor-
ity business enterprises, at startlingly small
Federal cost.
The legislation would: Lower the high
cost of starting the investment program
of a MESBIC; allow MESBICs to take
advantage of full SBA financing; enable
MESBICS to invest more in equity secu-
rities and to reduce interest rates to port-
folio companies; provide special incentives
to existing smaller MESBICs which have
pioneered the program.
In the act, I am proposing a fairer
partnership between the private and pub-
lic sectors—a partnership that would yield
enabling capital for minority enterprise.
The MESBIC program is sound, practical
and necessary. It equitably extends our
free enterprise system by making it work
for all Americans.
CONCLUSION
Opening wider the doors of opportunity
for one-sixth of our people is a social
necessity, which responds to an imperative
claim on our conscience. It also is an eco-
nomic necessity. By stimulating minority
enterprise-by permitting more of our
people to be more productive, by creating
new businesses and new jobs, by raising the
sights and lifting the ambitions of millions.
who are enabled to see that others who
started under handicaps like theirs are
writing records of economic success-we
help to stimulate the whole economy.
I therefore urge the Congress to give its
swift approval to the Minority Enterprise
Small Business Investment Act of 1972, to
my fiscal year 1973 budget request for
$63.6 million for OMBE, and to our other
small business proposals currently pending
in the Congress.
Hard work, private risk, initiative, and
equal chance at success-these are the
American way. Helping ensure for all of
our people an opportunity to participate
fully in the economic system that has made
America the world's strongest and rich-
est nation-this too is the American way.
And this lies at the heart of our program.
for minority enterprise.
The White House,
March 20, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message, released March 19, 1972,
was transmitted to the Congress March 20.
On March 19, the White House released a
fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing,
held on March 18, on the message. Participants
in the news briefing were Peter G. Peterson,
Secretary, James T. Lynn, Under Secretary,
and John L. Jenkins, Director, Office of Minor-
ity Business Enterprise, Department of Com-
merce; and Thomas S. Kleppe, Administrator,
and Anthony G. Chase, Deputy Administrator,
Small Business Administration.
448
