Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
lems. With China, the task was to estab-
lish a civilized discourse on how to replace
estrangement with a dialogue serving to
benefit both countries. With the Soviet
Union, we already had the discourse. We
had examined at great length the general
principles upon which the policies of both
countries must be based, if we were to
move from the mere assertion to the
harmonization of conflicting national
interests. The task was to make this dis-
course fruitful by moving to the achieve-
ment of concrete arrangements of benefit
both to the Soviet Union and ourselves.
We have, in 1971, made striking
progress toward both goals:
1. The People's Republic of China. We
have ended a 25-year period of implacable
hostility, mutually embraced as a central
feature of national policy. Fragile as it is,
the rapprochement between the most
populous nation and the most powerful
nation of the world could have greater
significance for future generations than
any other measure we have taken this year.
This initiative was the fruit of almost
three years
of the most painstaking, metic-
ulous, and necessarily discreet prepara-
tion. It is an essential step in tempering
animosities which have their roots in the
past and which stand in the way of our
hopes for the future.
My visit to Peking in February will
certainly not bring a quick resolution of
the deep differences which divided us from
the People's Republic of China. But it will
be a beginning, and it will signal the end
of a sterile and barren interlude in the
relationship between two great peoples.
Finally, it will represent a necessary and
giant step toward the creation of a stable
structure of world peace.
2. The Soviet Union. We have suc-
ceeded in giving a new momentum to the
prospects for more constructive relations
through a series of concrete agreements
which get at the cause of the tension be-
tween our two countries. The agreements
vary in importance, but together provide
serious grounds for believing that a funda-
mental improvement in the U.S.-Soviet
relationship may be possible.
-In February, we agreed on a treaty
barring weapons of mass destruction
from the ocean floor.
-In May, we broke the deadlock
which had developed in the talks on
limiting strategic arms, and agreed
on a framework which made it pos-
sible to resume progress.
-In September, we agreed on a draft
treaty prohibiting the production or
possession of biological and toxic
weapons.
-In September, we and our British
and French allies reached an agree-
ment with the Soviet Union on Berlin
to end the use of the citizens of West
Berlin as Cold War hostages, and to
reduce the danger of Berlin once
again becoming the focus of a sharp
and dangerous international con-
frontation.
-In September, we agreed on a more
reliable "Hot Line" communication
between Washington and Moscow,
and on measures for notification and
consultation designed to reduce the
risk of an accidental nuclear war.
-In November, the visit of the Amer-
ican Secretary of Commerce to
Moscow was the beginning of con-
versations looking toward a general
normalization of economic relations.
These steps can represent the start of a
new relationship with the Soviet Union.
There were, however, other developments
in 1971 which make it unclear whether
197
