Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [407]
I simply want to say that I think all
Americans are very proud that in spite of
the disruption, in spite of the organized
heckling, the Vice President of the United
States has kept his cool, his dignity, and
has come through it as the splendid man
that he is.
Now I am going to suggest, so that we
can give equal time here at this meet-
ing, that our friends in the three tele-
vision networks over here, ABC, CBS,
NBC, who will have this on the program
tonight, that they now turn their cameras
to the few hundred that are over here.
Let them see the kind of people that are
supporting our opponents over here.
Now in the name of equal time and in
the objectivity which I know all fair news-
men in North Carolina stand for, turn to
the thousands over here and let's hear
and see the kind of people that are sup-
porting us.
As
you know, I was very proud to have
lived 3 years among you here in the Tar
Heel State. It seems hard to realize that
it was 35 years ago. Many of my friends,
the best friends that I have, are from
North Carolina. I learned to know them
when I was at Duke University at law
school.
Incidentally, when I was at Duke, I
learned to respect all the fine schools in
this country, North Carolina, North Caro-
lina State, Wake Forest, Davidson—all of
them.
But when I was in law school, having
come from California and never been in
the South before, I saw the South as it
was then. I saw that the South was divided
from the North. I saw, too, that the State
of North Carolina was a heavily Demo-
cratic State where Republicans had no
chance, usually, to win. It was a one-
party State.
I was thinking as the airplane came
up today and I saw this enormous crowd,
how things have changed. They have
changed for the better. They have
changed not in a partisan sense, but now
we find and this is the significant thing
that I wish to emphasize to this great
audience that this country is no longer,
on the great issues, divided in a regional
sense.
On the great issues, it is not divided in
a partisan sense. When it comes to keep-
ing America strong, when it comes to
peace with honor, we are not Democrats
or Republicans or Southerners or North-
erners-we are Americans. That is the
way the people of North Carolina feel.
That is why in this State which, ac-
cording to registration, is far more Demo-
cratic than Republican, we have support
that crosses the party line. Because
whether it is here in North Carolina or
whether it was in Rhode Island where we
were last night or whether it was in Okla-
homa City where we were at 2 o'clock
yesterday afternoon or whether it was in
Illinois where we were at noon yesterday,
you can go to the East, to the North, to
the South, or the Far West where we will
be this afternoon in California, and you
will find that Americans are joining to-
gether in a new American majority stand-
ing for issues that are above party and
above regional differences.
One of the issues that joins us together
is the desire, a desire that is heartfelt
throughout all of this country, for peace
with honor for America and the world.
As you know, we have made a major
breakthrough in the negotiations which
can lead to that peace with honor. In
making that breakthrough I want to point
out that we have reached agreement on
the three fundamental principles that I
1117
