[266] Aug. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
let us take risks for peace, but let us never
risk the security of the United States of
America.
It is for that reason that I pledge that
we will continue to seek peace and the
mutual reduction of arms. The United
States, during this period, however, will
always have a defense second to none.
There are those who believe that we
can entrust the security of America to the
good will of our adversaries.
Those who hold this view do not know
the real world. We can negotiate limita-
tion of arms, and we have done so. We
can make agreements to reduce the dan-
ger of war, and we have done so.
But one unchangeable rule of interna-
tional diplomacy that I have learned over
many, many years is that, in negotiations
between great powers, you can only get
something if you have something to give
in return.
That is why I say tonight: Let us always
be sure that when the President of the
United States goes to the conference table,
he never has to negotiate from weakness.
There is no such thing as a retreat to
peace.
My fellow Americans, we stand today
on the threshold of one of the most excit-
ing and challenging eras in the history of
relations between nations.
We have the opportunity in our time
to be the peacemakers of the world, be-
cause the world trusts and respects us and
because the world knows that we shall
only use our power to defend freedom,
never to destroy it; to keep the peace,
never to break it.
A strong America is not the enemy of
peace; it is the guardian of peace.
The initiatives that we have begun can
result in reducing the danger of arms, as
well as the danger of war which hangs
over the world today.
Even more important, it means that the
enormous creative energies of the Rus-
sian people and the Chinese people and
the American people and all the great
peoples of the world can be turned away
from production of war and turned to-
ward production for peace.
In America it means that we can un-
dertake programs for progress at home
that will be just as exciting as the great
initiatives we have undertaken in building
a new structure of
peace abroad.
My fellow Americans, the peace divi-
dend that we hear so much about has too
often been described solely in monetary
terms-how much money we could take
out of the arms budget and apply to our
domestic needs. By far the biggest divi-
dend, however, is that achieving our goal
of a lasting peace in the world would re-
flect the deepest hopes and ideals of all
of the American people.
Speaking on behalf of the American
people, I was proud to be able to say in
my television address to the Russian peo-
ple in May: We covet no one else's ter-
ritory. We seek no dominion over any
other nation. We seek peace not only for
ourselves, but for all the people of the
world.
This dedication to idealism runs
through America's history.
During the tragic War Between the
States, Abraham Lincoln was asked
whether God was on his side. He replied,
"My concern is not whether God is on
our side, but whether we are on God's
side."
May that always be our prayer for
America.
We hold the future of peace in the
world and our own future in our hands.
Let us reject therefore the policies of
794
