[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
provinces in December 1970. Government
control was over 80 percent in 20 prov-
inces compared with nine a year earlier.
Over 80 percent of the total population
of South Vietnam, including the six mil-
lion urban dwellers and eight million in
rural areas, is under effective Government
control.
Despite the substantial overall progress
in pacification, there were also some set-
backs. The percentage of the rural popu-
lation under uncontested Government of
Vietnam control declined in five of the
seven most northern provinces, closest to
the enemy's staging areas in North Viet-
nam and Laos. We hope that the forma-
tion of an additional division in the north-
ern sector and other recent steps by the
Government will reverse that trend.
More South Vietnamese now receive
government protection and services than
at any time in the past decade. A majority
of the population has participated in na-
tional and local elections. Rice production
has risen to the highest level in history. A
major land reform program has resulted
in distribution of more than 850,000 acres
of land to over 275,000 farm families.
And perhaps most significantly of all,
the government has the confidence to
hand over nearly 600,000 weapons to
peasants who serve as a local militia, the
People's Self-Defense Forces. A govern-
ment unpopular with its people would
never dare to arm them.
These are the actions of a government
that is increasingly sure of allegiance and
taking the steps to deserve that allegiance.
Political Development
In last year's Report I pointed out that
the political dimension was crucial for
South Vietnam's future and would take
on increasing importance as the military
efforts wound down. Noting the upcoming
Presidential and lower house elections, I
said that, "1971 will show the extent of
political development in South Vietnam."
The results this past year have been
mixed. There are areas in which political
freedom and development still need to be
advanced in South Vietnam. And the
cohesiveness of the non-Communist po-
litical forces remains to be tested.
But this should not obscure some funda-
mental facts. In just a few short years,
South Vietnam has made remarkable
progress building toward democracy in
the midst of a war. The past four years
have been characterized by basic political
stability in South Vietnam rather than
the turbulence of the previous period. The
Constitution is proving effective, and par-
ticipation in the political process is
broadening.
A consistent political evolution has
taken place in the period since the election
of a Constitutional Assembly in 1966 and
of the President and a National Assembly
in 1967. The numbers of voters and
candidates participating has been excep-
tionally high in the numerous national
and local elections held during the last
five years, despite the announced Com-
munist intent to disrupt elections and to
attack candidates. Over 95 percent of the
elections for hamlet chiefs and village
councils have been completed. Councils
have been elected in all provinces and
municipalities.
This trend was furthered in the August
1971 national elections for South Viet-
nam's lower house. There was lively com-
petition, and 78 percent of the eligible
voters turned out. As in the Senate elec-
tions a year earlier, where an opposition
slate led the returns, groups critical of the
Government won significant victories and
284
