Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 3 [284]
the individual, in the belief that self-
reliance and willingness to work make a
person a better human being.
The welfare ethic, on the other hand,
suggests that there is an easier way. It says
that the good life can be made available
to everyone right now, and that this can
be done by the Government. The welfare
ethic goes far beyond our proper concern
to help people in need. It sees the Gov-
ernment, not the person, as the best judge
of what people should do, where they
should live, where they should go to
school, what kind of jobs they should have,
how much income they should be allowed
to keep.
The choice before the American worker
is clear: The work ethic builds character
and self-reliance, the welfare ethic de-
stroys character and leads to a vicious
cycle of dependency.
The work ethic builds strong people.
The welfare ethic breeds weak people.
This year, you are not only going to
choose the kind of leadership you want,
you are going to decide what kind of
ple Americans will be.
peo-
Let me give you three specific exam-
ples of the difference between the work
ethic and the welfare ethic, and how the
choice directly affects your life.
The believers in the welfare ethic think
it is unfair for some people to have much
more income than others. They say we
should begin right away to redistribute
income, so that we can reduce the number
of poor and bring about that day when
everybody has much closer to the same
income.
I believe that a policy of income redis-
tribution would result in many more
Americans becoming poor, because it
ignores a human value essential to every
worker's success-the incentive of reward.
It's human nature for a person who
works hard for a living to want to keep
most of what he earns, and to spend what
he earns in the way he wants. Now, some
may call this work ethic selfish or mate-
rialistic, but I think it is natural for a
worker to resent seeing a large chunk of
his hard-earned wage taken by Govern-
ment to give to someone else who may
even refuse to work.
The people who advocate the welfare
ethic spend their time discussing how to
cut up the pie we have, but those who
believe in the work ethic want to bake a
bigger pie, and I'm for baking that bigger
pie. That's the kind of people Americans
are, and that's the best way to take care
of those who cannot care for themselves.
Putting a ceiling on the opportunity of
those who work is not the way to provide
a floor for the support of those who do
not work.
Let me give you a second example of
the challenge to our traditional values
that is being made today.
It shows how well-intentioned people,
who believe that a paternal government
in Washington can solve everything, can
defeat their own good purposes by refus-
ing to recognize the realities of human
nature.
I am talking about the involuntary bus-
ing of schoolchildren away from their
neighborhoods for the purpose of achiev-
ing racial balance.
We have come a long way in the past
4 years in ending segregation in this coun-
try. Just as important, we have done it
without the riots, without the bitterness,
without the hatred that plagued this Na-
tion during the sixties. We're getting
where we want to go in a way that permits
understanding and friendship to grow in-
stead of prejudice and fear.
851
