[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and this is perhaps the most important
number to those who are employed, the
80 million or so-have resulted in the
wage earners of this country getting off
the treadmill.
For 5 years before we arrived here in
1969, wages had gone up but the wage
increases had been almost entirely eaten
up by price increases. The most significant
thing that has happened since the new
economic policy is that we have cut the
rate of inflation down so that it is half
of what it was in 1970, from 6 to 3 per-
cent. Wages have continued to go up, even
though at a lower rate, but real, spendable
earnings of 80 million wage earners have
gone up 5 percent. That is as compared
with going up at the rate of only one per-
cent a year in the sixties. It is this kind of
progress that is good.
On the other hand, I am not a bit satis-
fied with the fact that unemployment is at
5.9 percent, and we are continuing to ex-
plore other means of trying to bring it
down faster.
BOMBING AND THE PARIS PEACE TALKS
[15] Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chi-
cago Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, a clarifying question
on the bombing, please. You have said
that the sole purpose of your bombing
and your mining, in your May 8 speech,
was to protect the 60,000 American troops
there. Did I understand you to say, in an-
swer to an earlier question, that that
bombing is now contingent upon the re-
lease of the prisoners? And I would like
to ask an additional question that is
slightly related: Were there any condi-
tions attached by each side to the return to
the Paris peace talks?
THE PRESIDENT. No, there are no con-
ditions attached to either side. We are
going back to the talks prepared to nego-
tiate without conditions, which we think
is the most constructive way to obtain
results. For example, the condition-I
assume this is the implication of your ques-
tion--there was no condition that if we
would go back to the talks we would stop
the bombing. We do not intend to. We
will stop the bombing when the conditions
are met that I laid out in my May 8
speech.
In my May 8 speech, Mr. Lisagor, as
you recall, I laid down three conditions. I
said that we were bombing military targets
in the North, that we were mining the
harbor, and that we were doing so for
three purposes: to prevent the imposition
of a Communist government in South
Vietnam, to protect our remaining forces
in South Vietnam, which were then
60,000, and, in addition, for the purpose
of obtaining the release of our POW's.
Those are the three conditions that we
have as far as the bombing is concerned.
But we are prepared to negotiate on
those points with the enemy. We have no
desire to continue the bombing for one
moment longer than necessary to accom-
plish what we consider to be these very
minimal objectives.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT DECISION
[16.] Q. Mr. President, do you regard
capital punishment as cruel and unusual,
and do you think steps should be taken
to reinstate it?
THE PRESIDENT. I was expecting that
question tonight, but as you know, the
Court just handed down its decision, and
"William Henry Furman v. Georgia (408
U.S. 238).
714
