Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [58]
of racial balance. Those are my views
which have been stated on many occasions.
The problem we have now is that some
courts have handed down decisions which
seem to differ from those views. And so
the question arises as to whether legisla-
tion or a constitutional amendment is
necessary if we are to see that those views
that I have just enunciated can properly
be held and implemented.
Because if the courts, acting under the
Constitution, decide that the views that I
have held are unconstitutional, I, of
course, will have to follow the courts.
Under these circumstances, therefore, I
have ordered a study of the legislative
route and of the constitutional amend-
ments. And, as part of that study, I have
asked that Senator Brock and Senator
Baker in the Senate and Congressman
Steed and Congressman Lent in the
House, come to the White House on Mon-
day for the purpose of discussing their
amendments. The purpose of this discus-
sion is to see whether the constitutional
amendment approach is the best approach
to this problem.
After I have met Monday, I will be glad
to have Mr. Ziegler brief you on what the
next step will be. I have not made a de-
cision on it but the matter is under
consideration.
NEIGHBORHOOD LEGAL SERVICES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, what is your
position on civil suits filed in the names of
indigents by Neighborhood Legal Services
lawyers against local and State govern-
ments? Is that a legitimate function of
Neighborhood Legal Services offices?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to get
into that at this point.
TAX REFORM PROPOSALS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, on another
Congressional matter, you have been re-
ceiving strong suggestions from Congres-
sional Democrats on the proposed tax
reform program. How do you intend to
respond?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear the first
part of the question.
Q. The proposal for tax reforms, the
suggestion that you submit a program for
tax reform, has been broached by the
Democrats. How do you intend to
respond?
THE PRESIDENT. First, there will be no
increase in taxes this year. It is obvious
that even if the Administration were to
recommend tax reform this year, it would
be impossible for the Congress, particu-
larly the Ways and Means Committee, as
much as it has on its plate, and the
Finance Committee, with welfare reform,
revenue sharing, and the rest, ever to get
to it.
So there will be no tax increase this
year.
Second, I pointed out in the State of
the Union Message that we are studying
the problem of the property tax. We are
studying it, first, because it is the most
regressive of all taxes and, second, because
in those States, and that is most of the
States, where the property tax is the pri-
mary source for financing public educa-
tion, recent court decisions indicate it may
be unconstitutional.
Under these circumstances, that is why
I have asked the McElroy Commission *
and the Commission on Intergovernmen-
Neil H. McElroy was Chairman of the
President's Commission on School Finance.
355
