Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 4 [42]
persons. These procedures and criteria
should be issued shortly.
I also directed the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to form and to chair a
Relocation Assistance Advisory Commit-
tee. This Committee includes representa-
tives of the Departments of Agriculture;
Defense; Health, Education, and Wel-
fare; and Transportation; the General
Services Administration; the Office of
Economic Opportunity; and the United
States Postal Service.
This Committee will continually review
the Government's relocation program for
the purpose of making recommendations
to the Office of Management and Budget
for improvements in the guidelines and
for new legislation. In the interests of uni-
form and equitable administration of the
law, it will also provide a vehicle for co-
ordinating the relocation programs of
each of the agencies.
Executive branch review of the relo-
cation assistance program and of the
provisions of the Uniform Relocation As-
sistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act of 1970 has disclosed a num-
ber of problem areas which require legisla-
tive consideration. The principal areas
identified are detailed as enclosure 4 of
this report, while other problem areas are
identified in individual agency reports.
Corrective legislation will be submitted to
the Congress.
The White House,
February 4, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released at
Key Biscayne, Fla.
42 Statement About National Crime Prevention Week, 1972.
February 4, 1972
LAW enforcement is not a job for the
police officer alone. To be effective law
enforcement must be backed by the
understanding and support of an in-
formed citizenry. It gives me pleasure,
therefore, to salute the members of the
National Exchange Club and commend
them on their annual sponsorship of Na-
tional Crime Prevention Week.
The twenty-fifth anniversary of this ob-
servance comes at a time when crime still
poses a major threat to our way of life
and to the well-being of our people. But
at the same time, encouraging statistics
for 1971 tell us that the rate of increase in
criminal offenses has been slowed to its
lowest rate in five years. In fifty-two
American cities crime is currently on the
decrease, as compared to only twenty-
three such cities a year ago. In our Na-
tion's Capital the number of crimes in the
past year was thirteen percent below 1970.
These results did not just happen. They
stem from strong new measures adopted
by this Administration, by the Congress,
by state and local governments and by
outstanding civic organizations such as the
National Exchange Club.
I welcome this opportunity to pledge
my Administration's continuing efforts to
expand and intensify crime prevention
programs, through both direct Federal
activity and Federal aid to local law
enforcement.
As one example of recent Federal ac-
tion, we have introduced special strike-
forces which are proving to be useful de-
terrents to organized crime in our large
157
