Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 27 [106]
and mothers whose husbands were either
working or registered for work.
Families without employable adult
members would not be subject to registra-
tion requirements but would receive the
same basic benefits under the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare's
Family Assistance Program.
For the first time in our history, na-
tional wage supplements would be paid
to the working poor on a proportionate
sliding scale designed to spur, rather than
kill, the incentive to start working and
keep on earning.
Eligible persons would be able to keep
the first $720 earned during the year
without reduction in their supplements.
As job income rose beyond that, supple-
ments would be reduced by two-thirds of
job income until a cut-off point were
reached and the recipient had attained a
degree of self-sufficiency.
A family of four thus could earn $720
and receive a benefit of $2,400-for a
total income of $3,120. When such a fam-
ily's earnings reached $3,600, it still would
be eligible for a supplement of $480 for
a total income of $4,080.
When such a family reached earnings
of $4,320 it would move completely out of
the Federal assistance program.
Under the terms of H.R. 1, the Oppor-
tunities for Families program, the Family
Assistance Plan and programs for the
needy, aged, blind and disabled would be
totally financed by the Federal Govern-
ment-thereby providing much-needed
financial relief for the States, which now
share welfare costs.
In several respects, the proposed pay-
ments to the working poor constitute the
basic conceptual foundation of my new
approach.
These payments would encourage those
who are working to keep on working,
rather than sliding into welfare depend-
ency. And they would motivate welfare
recipients to start work.
We must hit head-on the cruel fallacy
that any income, no matter how low, is
sufficient for an American family merely
because that money comes from full-time
work.
We must establish the more humane
and relevant principle that the total in-
come of each American family must reach
a certain minimum standard.
Another foundation of my approach is
the strong work requirement and the pro-
visions which would help implement that
requirement, including child care bene-
fits, manpower services, job training and
job locating, and a program of 200,000
transitional public service jobs.
Recipients, with very few exceptions,
would have to register for training and
accept jobs which were offered, or bene-
fits would be terminated for that recipient.
An entirely separate new Federal pro-
gram would be established for needy aged,
blind and disabled individuals and cou-
ples. While no work requirements would
be included, of course, those who could
work would be provided with strong in-
centives for doing so.
The current State payments to such
individuals and couples, varying widely
across the Nation, would be replaced by a
Federal benefit of $130 a month for an
aged, blind, or disabled individual, rising
to $150 in two steps. For a couple in these
categories, $195 a month would be pro-
vided, rising to $200. Such benefits now
can be as low as $70 a month for an
individual and $97 a month for a couple.
In all, some $2 billion in new money
503
