[282] Sept. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
under the common aims of maintaining
and promoting peace and prosperity of
the world and the well-being of their
countrymen. They agreed to strengthen
and expand the already close cooperation
between the two countries in controlling
the illegal traffic in narcotics and other
dangerous drugs, and they also agreed
on the need for further bilateral and mul-
tilateral cooperation concerning the de-
velopment and better utilization of energy
and mineral resources and on the pressing
problems of environmental protection and
pollution control. They pledged to con-
tinue appropriate assistance through the
UN and its specialized agencies for the
solution of problems caused by too rapid
population growth.
11. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent discussed cooperation in space explo-
ration including Japan's goal of launch-
ing geo-stationary communications and
other applications satellites. The President
welcomed Japan's active interest in and
study on the launching of a meteorological
satellite in support of the global atmos-
pheric research program.
12. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent expressed satisfaction with their talks
and agreed to continue to maintain close
personal contact.
NOTE: The joint statement was released at
Kahuku, Hawaii.
See also Item 280.
On August 31, 1972, Prime Minister Tanaka
was the President's guest at a working dinner at
the Kuilima Hotel, Oahu, Hawaii.
On September 1, the White House released
an announcement on the results of talks be-
tween Robert S. Ingersoll, U.S. Ambassador to
Japan, and Kiyohiko Tsurumi, Japanese Dep-
uty Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, on
U.S.-Japanese economic and trade matters. The
White House also released the transcript of a
news briefing by U. Alexis Johnson, Under Sec-
retary of State for Political Affairs, and Am-
bassador Ingersoll on the joint statement and
the announcement. The announcement and the
news briefing are printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p.
1335).
283 Remarks at a Ceremony Marking the Retirement
of Admiral John S. McCain, Jr., as Commander
in Chief, Pacific. September 1, 1972
Mr. Secretary of State, Governor Burns,
Senator Fong, Congressman Matsunaga,
Admiral Moorer, Admiral McCain, Ad-
miral Gayler, all of the distinguished
guests, and all of you who are here on this
memorable occasion:
It is for me a very great honor to be
here, to be here in my capacity as Com-
mander in Chief of the Armed Forces,
but also representing all of the American
people, to pay respects to one of the great
families of a proud Navy tradition, the
McCains: John McCain, Commander of
the Second Carrier Task Force and Task
Force 38; Admiral McCain, Jr., who has
just received his second Distinguished
Service Citation and has completed 4
years of outstanding service as Com-
mander in Chief of our Pacific Forces, one
who has served in World War II, in
Korea, and in Vietnam; and his son, John
McCain III, a splendid Naval aviator
who has been a prisoner of war in Viet-
nam for the past 5 years.
In the story of the McCains we see the
greatness of America. We see service to
this country. We see men who have de-
voted their lives to this country to keep it
strong so that America could be free and
so that America could play its role of being
846
