[113] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
celerating disappearance of such schools.
No single school system, whether public
or private, must ever gain an absolute
monopoly over the education of our chil-
dren, because such a system, one that had
a total monopoly, would never reflect the
diversity and richness of our national
heritage and character. It would lack al-
together that essential spur of competi-
tion to innovate, to grow and reform. It
would lead inevitably toward mediocrity
and dull uniformity in American educa-
tion-conditions which this Nation can-
not tolerate.
The American public school system,
which is the greatest in the world, which
today educates nine of every ten children
in the United States, has nothing to fear
and everything to gain from the presence
of a vigorous, diverse, competitive private
school system, the kind of system which
we still have today, but which we can pre-
serve for tomorrow only by decisive action
now.
I think we all have to recognize the
fact that too often in the past an at-
mosphere of mutual suspicion and hos-
tility has divided the public schools from
the nonpublic schools in this country. Yet,
such an atmosphere can only weaken both
school systems and do a disservice to the
public interest in quality education. Worst
of all, it can only penalize the children
whose future is our most sacred trust.
The education of our children is too
important for us to be divided over it by
party, by religion, by race, or by region
in this country.
So I say let all Americans join together
in a new recognition of the vital and posi-
tive roles which both the public and the
nonpublic school systems play.
Let all America follow the example of
this city of Philadelphia where the Com-
mittee of 31 made up of leaders of all re-
ligions, and made up of the nonpublic as
well as the public schools, work together
to meet the educational needs of a city.
That is an example that the Nation can
follow.
This new spirit of constructive coopera-
tion and good will can serve our children
better, and it can make our country
stronger. That is why I say let us do all in
our power to make this spirit the keynote
of the coming era in American education.
I should like to close my remarks with,
if I might, a rather timely, if personal,
anecdote. A few weeks ago, on my visit
to the People's Republic of China, I vis-
ited the Great Wall. Some of you perhaps
saw that on television. As I stood there
and looked at that Great Wall and
thought of when it was built and of the
great empire that had built it, I thought
how well they had built it materially-it
still stood. And yet the empire was gone.
I thought back to other civilizations and
other peoples who have had similar ex-
periences. I shall never forget when, as a
young Congressman, I walked on the
Acropolis in Athens at night and saw those
magnificent columns built so well that
they still stand as examples of architecture
for all the world to see. But the civiliza-
tion is gone.
And I thought of the Roman Forum.
Walking through there one evening 25
years ago for the first time, and many times
since, there again you see buildings and
columns standing because they were built
so well materially. But the civilization is
gone.
And there is a pattern that runs through
these stories, and the pattern is very sim-
ply this: When those civilizations went
522
