[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
solve these issues. Because of the impor-
tance of international cooperation in this
area, at the June Ministerial meeting of
the Organization for Economic Coopera-
tion and Development (OECD), Secre-
tary Rogers took the lead in establishing
a small, high-level group of experts to con-
sider how best to deal with world trade
problems. I have designated my Special
Representative for Trade Negotiations,
Mr. William D. Eberle, to represent this
country.
Discussions within that group, and the
trade talks we have had in the last sev-
eral months, have led us to conclude that
the time has come to begin moving toward
a major series of international negotia-
tions for reduction of trade barriers. A
compelling case for such an effort was
made in the report of my Commission on
International Trade and Investment
Policy, chaired by Mr. Albert L. Williams.
A sustained and reciprocal reduction of
trade barriers is needed to reverse the
movement toward discriminatory trading
blocs and to remove the restrictions in
each country which others use to justify
the imposition of their own new restric-
tions. Only an international trading sys-
tem which is mutually advantageous to
the major trading nations and has their
confidence and support is sustainable over
the long run. We are prepared to move in
unison with other major trading nations
toward this end.
U.S. Domestic Measures. The long term
solution to our trade problem does not lie
solely in the removal of trade barriers by
other nations. A more competitive and
productive American economy, particu-
larly in the export sector, is vitally im-
portant. The Job Development Tax
Credit should stimulate new investment
and thereby increase productivity. And
we will institute programs to develop new
technologies which will increase our com-
petitiveness and enhance export possibil-
ities.
In addition, the Council on Interna-
tional Economic Policy (CIEP) which
began operations in February 1971 under
my Assistant for International Economic
Affairs, Mr. Peter G. Peterson, is develop-
ing long range programs to improve U.S.
competitiveness and strengthen U.S. ex-
port performance-thereby stimulating
employment in our export industries—
and to improve programs of domestic ad-
justment to foreign competition.
My first assignment to Mr. Peterson was
to prepare a comprehensive briefing on
the changed world economy and this
country's position in it. His briefing was
presented to the Cabinet, members of the
Congress, and other interested groups. In
December, Mr. Peterson made public a
report, based on his analysis, which cau-
tioned against erecting new barriers to im-
ports. It called instead for a firm negotiat-
ing posture to assure our products equal
access to world markets and, to take ad-
vantage of such access, for a positive pro-
gram to build on America's strengths and
increase our international competitive-
ness. I fully endorse this view and will
strongly support our efforts to implement
it. Accordingly, I have directed the CIEP
to consider closely the recommendations
contained in the report of the Williams
Commission. That report contains crea-
tive and far-reaching proposals to increase
the strength and resilience of our economy,
stimulate vigorous export growth, im-
prove the technical capability that sup-
ports U.S. export performance, and ease
the adjustment problem posed by import
competition.
Because of the importance I attach to
246
