Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
revenue sharing becomes more acute as
time passes. The financial crisis of State
and local government is deepening. The
pattern of breakdown in State and
municipal services grows more threaten-
ing. Inequitable tax pressures are mount-
ing. The demand for more flexible and
more responsive government—at levels
closer to the problems and closer to the
people-is building.
Revenue sharing can help us meet these
challenges. It can help reverse what has
been the flow of power and resources
toward Washington by sending power and
resources back to the States, to the com-
munities, and to the people. Revenue
sharing can bring a new sense of account-
ability, a new burst of energy and a new
spirit of creativity to our federal system.
I am pleased that the House Ways and
Means Committee has made revenue
sharing its first order of business in the
new session. I urge the Congress to enact
in this session, not an empty program
which bears the revenue sharing label
while continuing the outworn system of
categorical grants, but a bold, compre-
hensive program of genuine revenue
sharing.
I also presented last year a $100 million
program of planning and management
grants to help the States and localities do
a better job of analyzing their problems
and carrying out solutions. I hope this
program will also be quickly accepted. For
only as State and local governments get
a new lease on life can we hope to bring
government back to the people-and with
it a stronger sense that each individual can
be in control of his life, that every person
can make a difference.
OVERHAULING THE MACHINERY OF GOV-
ERNMENT: EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION
As we work to make State and local
government more responsive-and more
responsible-let us also seek these same
goals at the Federal level. I again urge
the Congress to enact my proposals for re-
organizing the executive branch of the
Federal Government. Here again, support
from the general public—as well as from
those who have served in the executive
branch under several Presidents-has
been most encouraging. So has the success
of the important organizational reforms
we have already made. These have in-
cluded a restructured Executive Office of
the President-with a new Domestic
Council, a new Office of Management
and Budget, and other units; reorganized
field operations in Federal agencies;
stronger mechanisms for interagency co-
ordination, such as Federal Regional
Councils; a new United States Postal
Service; and new offices for such pur-
poses as protecting the environment,
coordinating communications policy,
helping the consumer, and stimulating
voluntary service. But the centerpiece of
our efforts to streamline the executive
branch still awaits approval.
How the government is put together
often determines how well the govern-
ment can do its job. Our Founding
Fathers understood this fact-and thus
gave detailed attention to the most precise
structural questions. Since that time, how-
ever, and especially in recent decades,
new responsibilities and new constitu-
encies have caused the structure they
established to expand enormously—and
87-234-74—————8
53
