[56]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Feb. 9
the system was structurally unsound. In
two previous Foreign Policy Reports and
in many forums I called for basic reform.
Progress was slow. Then last August, we
faced an emergency; I acted decisively to
put our own house in order and to turn
the crisis into an opportunity for the West
to put the international monetary house
in order as well. We brought home to our
partners that we were serious.
There were temptations for the United
States then to make separate bilateral ar-
rangements with selected countries in
order to bring pressure on our other trad-
ing partners for a solution most eco-
nomically advantageous to us. However,
the political unity of the Atlantic world
was of paramount importance to the
United States, and we had to reach a solu-
tion in a manner that fostered it.
My summit meetings with allied leaders
in December and January laid the politi-
cal basis for a broad cooperative solution.
I was able to assure Prime Minister
Trudeau of Canada-our most important
trading partner-that we understood the
strong impact of our New Economic Policy
on Canada and were eager to reinforce
our close friendship with Canada. I then
made an approach to the ally whose views
on the economic question differed most
from ours--President Pompidou of
France. Our meeting at the Azores pro-
duced an agreement in principle on major
points, which opened the way for the
multilateral consensus achieved in Decem-
ber at the Smithsonian meeting of the
Group of Ten. This development is dis-
cussed in greater detail in the Interna-
tional Economic Policy chapter.
There were important concessions on all
sides; the result was a tremendous gain for
the whole free world.
ALLIANCE DEFENSE
Western collective defense in Europe
has deterred war for more than two dec-
ades and provided the essential condition
of security in which free European institu-
tions could revive and flourish. Today,
the military balance underpins the overall
stability on the Continent which makes
detente feasible in the 1970's. East-West
diplomacy in Europe is more active today
than at any time since the Second World
War; new hopes and new complexities are
emerging. This is hardly the time for the
West to abandon the very cohesion and
stability that have brought these new
opportunities about.
But this makes it more, not less, impor-
tant for the Alliance to face up to the
basic security question confronting it: do
we have a clear rationale for our force
deployments today, or are they the vestige
of military and political conditions of two
decades ago?
NATO Strategy and Forces. The func-
tion of our military forces is to deter
war-and to defend our nations if war
breaks out. As strategic conditions change,
we have to ensure that our strategies and
deployments fulfill these functions in the
new environment. The Alliance con-
ducted such a review in 1970. Together
we asked some basic questions:
-What military threats were most
likely in the 1970's?
-What military strategy would be most
likely to deter aggressive actions and
provide forces for a viable defense?
-What relationship between strategic
nuclear, theater nuclear, and conven-
tional forces would best support our
strategy?
-How should the responsibilities of
224
