[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
cluding rural America in a nationwide
program to foster balanced growth.
It is striking to realize that even if we
had a population of one billion-nearly
five times the current level-our area is so
great that we would still not be as densely
populated as many European nations are
at present. Clearly, our problems are not
so much those of numbers as they are of
distribution. We must work to revitalize
the American countryside.
We have begun to make progress on this
front in the last 3 years. Rural housing
programs have been increased by more
than 450 percent from 1969 to 1973. The
number of families benefiting from rural
water and sewer programs is now 75 per-
cent greater than it was in 1969. We have
worked to encourage sensible growth pat-
terns through the location of Federal facil-
ities. The first biennial Report on Na-
tional Growth, which will be released in
the near future, will further describe these
patterns, their policy implications and the
many ways we are responding to this
challenge.
pro-
But we must do more. The Congress
can begin by passing my $1.1 billion
gram of Special Revenue Sharing for
Rural Community Development. In
addition, I will soon present a major pro-
posal to expand significantly the credit
authorities of the Farmers Home Admin-
istration, so that this agency--which has
done so much to help individual farmers-
can also help spur commercial, industrial
and community development in rural
America. Hopefully, the FHA will be able
to undertake this work as a part of a new
Department of Community Development.
In all these ways, we can help ensure
that rural America will be in the years
ahead what it has been from our Na-
tion's beginning-an area which looks
eagerly to the future with a sense of hope
and promise.
A COMMITMENT TO OUR CITIES
Our commitment to balanced growth
also requires a commitment to our cities--
to old cities threatened by decay, to
suburbs now sprawling senselessly because
of inadequate planning, and to new cities
not yet born but clearly needed by our
growing population. I discussed these
challenges in my special message to the
Congress on Population Growth and the
American Future in the summer of 1969-
and I have often discussed them since.
My recommendations for transportation,
education, health, welfare, revenue shar-
ing, planning and management assistance,
executive reorganization, the environ-
ment-especially the proposed Land Use
Policy Act--and my proposals in many
other areas touch directly on community
development.
One of the keys to better cities is better
coordination of these many components.
Two of my pending proposals go straight
to the heart of this challenge. The first, a
new Department of Community Develop-
ment, would provide a single point of
focus for our strategy for growth. The sec-
ond, Special Revenue Sharing for Urban
Community Development, would remove
the rigidities of categorical project grants
which now do so much to fragment plan-
ning, delay action, and discourage local
responsibility. My new budget proposes a
$300 million increase over the full year
level which we proposed for this program
a year ago.
The Department of Housing and Urban
Development has been working to foster
orderly growth in our cities in a number
of additional ways. A Planned Variation
64
