[427] Dec. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
creasing and with more new earth-stations
being inaugurated each year, the global
communications satellite system is help-
ing to bring the peoples of the world closer
together. It is our hope that the closing
of communications gaps will greatly en-
hance understanding among nations.
We can now look forward to the day
when nations around the world will be
linked together for instantaneous com-
munications. The implications of this
development are enormous, presaging
improved international relations in the
political, economic, cultural, and scien-
tific spheres.
I am pleased to congratulate the part-
ner-members of INTELSAT and to ex-
press my confidence in the continued
growth and expanding usefulness of this
system.
NOTE: The texts of the agreements are printed
in Treaties and Other International Acts Series
(TIAS 7532).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on INTELSAT and the agree-
ments.
428 Message to the Congress on Federal Civilian and
Military Pay Increases. December 15, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
section 5305 of title 5, United States Code,
I hereby report on the comparability ad-
justment I have ordered for the Federal
statutory pay systems in January 1973.
The American system of career civil
service is based on the principle of re-
warding merit. As President I have a spe-
cial appreciation of the contribution that
the service makes to our Nation, and I am
pledged to continue striving to make it an
even more effective, responsive part of our
Government. One way of achieving this is
to maintain a salary scale for civil servants
that is just and comparable to that re-
ceived by equivalent individuals in the
private sector.
The adjustment I have ordered is based
on recommendations submitted to me by
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget and the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission, who serve
jointly as my "agent" for Federal pay.
Their report, which is enclosed, compares
Federal salaries with average private en-
terprise salaries as shown in the 1972
National Survey of Professional, Admin-
istrative, Technical, and Clerical Pay,
and recommends a 5.14 percent increase
in Federal salaries in order to achieve
comparability with the private sector.
The report of the Advisory Committee
on Federal Pay, which I appointed under
the provisions of section 5306 of title 5, is
also enclosed. The Advisory Committee
generally agreed with the recommenda-
tions of the Director of OMB and the
Chairman of the Civil Service Commis-
sion and endorsed their plans for studies
and further refinements in the pay com-
parison process. However, the Advisory
Committee also recommended that in ad-
dition to the 5.14 percent increase, an
extra pay adjustment of approximately
.36 percent be granted to make up for the
three-month delay of this pay adjustment
that was necessitated this year by the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Act Amendments of
1971. Since such an increase would re-
1156
