Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [315]
for Nixon," call it "Democrats for Amer-
ica." In 1947, I recall one of the first votes
I cast as a freshman Congressman. At that
time, as you remember, the Republicans
had won the Congress in the elections of
1946. President Truman was in the White
House. There was a threat to Greece and
Turkey from the Communists. President
Truman came before the Congress and
asked for the enactment of the Greek-
Turkish aid program.
It seems so long ago, but anyone who
writes the history of those times will real-
ize how tremendously important drawing
that line at that time was, not simply in
saving Greece and Turkey, but in also
saving the rest of free Europe from what
could have been an eventual Communist
envelopment.
It was a hard vote for those of us who
were Republicans. There was a Demo-
cratic President. We had just won the
House of Representatives. There were
great partisan appeals to us to vote the
party and not vote the country. I looked
at the vote as it occurred and it is re-
corded in the Congressional Record-just
a few days ago. I saw the names of those
who voted in the affirmative, voted with
President Truman. There was a young
Congressman from Texas who later be-
came President of the United States,
Lyndon Johnson. He was 40 years of age
then. There was a young Congressman, a
freshman Congressman from Massachu-
setts who later became President of the
United States, John Kennedy. He was 31
years of age. And I am proud to say
there was a young Congressman from
California, who was 34 years of age, who
later became President of the United
States-but all put America above their
party.
And I simply want to say to you tonight,
speaking not in partisan terms, not in per-
sonal terms, but speaking of this country
that we all love so much, that I am very
proud to have the support of leaders of
the Democratic Party from across this
country. I know the risk that you have
taken. I know the heat that you are tak-
ing. But I can only assure you that if we
prevail in this election, I am going to do
everything I possibly can to make your
votes and your support look good for
America.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:42 p.m. at a
dinner sponsored by the Democrats for Nixon
and hosted by former Secretary of the Treasury
and Mrs. Connally at their home, the Picosa.
Ranch, Floresville, Tex. The President spoke
without referring to notes.
Mr. Connally introduced the President as
follows:
May I first say to all of you here how de-
lighted Nellie and I are to welcome you to this
home of ours. You came from many States,
many miles to be here. We know you didn't
come to see us. [Laughter] But we are thrilled
to host you anyway. I want you to know that.
I can't tell you how honored we are to host
the President and the First Lady in your behalf.
Nearly everyone here is a Democrat, but you
are here in support of the President of the
United States. And by your presence here and
by your actions in your home States and your
home cities and your home communities, you
have proven beyond any doubt that you are
going to put your country above your party in
this election year, 1972.
I wish that each of you had been privileged
to have had the great pleasure and privilege
that has been mine, to serve a President of the
United States, who also so clearly puts his
country above his party. I wish that each of
you could know the President of the United
States as I know him to be, a man who is con-
cerned about this country, about its people,
a man who has great respect for its past and
yet who has such unbounded faith and hope
for its future.
I wish that each of you could have seen him
899
