[414] Nov. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
in which the old relationships between the
two super powers, the Soviet Union and
the United States, and between the
world's most populous nation, the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, and the United
States, are changed so that we are on the
eve of what could be the greatest genera-
tion of peace, true peace for the whole
world, that man has ever known.
This is a great goal, bigger than whether
we are Democrats or Republicans, and it
is one that I think you will want to work
with me, with all of us, in helping to
achieve.
There are other goals that go with
that the prosperity without war and
without inflation that we have all wanted
and that we now can have, and the prog-
ress for all Americans, the kind of progress
so that we can say to any young Ameri-
can, whatever his background, that he or
she in this great country has an equal
chance to go to the top in whatever field
he or she may choose.
I have noted, in listening to the returns
a few minutes ago, that several commen-
tators have reflected on the fact that this
may be one of the great political victories
of all time. In terms of votes that may be
true, but in terms of what a victory really
is, a huge landslide margin means noth-
ing at all unless it is a victory for Amer-
ica. It will be a victory for America only
if, in these next 4 years, we, all of us, can
work together to achieve our common
great goals of peace at home and peace for
all nations in the world, and for that new
progress and prosperity which all Ameri-
cans deserve.
I would only hope that in these next 4
years we can so conduct ourselves in this
country, and so meet our responsibilities
in the world in building peace in the
world, that years from now people will
look back to the generation of the 1970's,
at how we have conducted ourselves, and
they will say, "God bless America."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:54 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes. His remarks were
broadcast live on radio and television.
415 Remarks at a Presidential Election Victory Rally.
November 8, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Agnew, all of
our very distinguished guests here at the
Shoreham Hotel, and the very distin-
guished audience listening on television
and radio:
At Ontario, California, on Saturday
night, at the conclusion of a speech to
what was estimated as a crowd of 50,000,
I said, "This is the last time I will ever be
addressing a campaign rally as a candi-
date." It may be that that was the last
campaign rally as a candidate, but this
means tonight we still have a rally right
here.
Now, let me briefly touch upon several
significant things about this election.
First-and this for me is rather unusual-
I have never known a national election
when I would be able to go to bed earlier
than tonight.
Second, I want to say here to this great
audience and to all of those who will be
listening on television and radio, that I
know from having been a candidate for
Vice President, and a Vice President for
8 years, that this is always a team cam-
1140
