[334]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Oct. 3
then, is, we believe, the beginning of a
great historical process in which we have
learned by working out these agreements,
following, as they do, the Non-Prolifera-
tion Treaty and the Test Ban Treaty, that
we have found the way to make progress
in other fields which can eventually lead to
the goal that we all want, a world that is
much safer and particularly a world that
may possibly be free from the enormous
danger of a nuclear disaster.
I think all of us are quite aware of the
fact that the signing of these documents
today, the signing of the documents that
occurred earlier this year in the Kremlin,
raise the hopes of all the people of the
world for a dream of mankind from the
beginning of civilization, a world of peace,
a world in which peoples with different
governments and different philosophies
could live in peace together.
We believe that we have contributed to
that cause and to the realization of that
dream. And as we take this first step, we
look forward to working together in tak-
ing the next steps, we look forward par-
ticularly in being worthy of the hopes of
the people of the world. And we can be
worthy of those hopes if our two great
nations can move together, not only to
limit the burden of arms on ourselves but
to lift the burden of fear of war from all
of the people of the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
10:15 a.m. in the East Room at the White
House following the remarks of Andrei A.
Gromyko, Soviet Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The President spoke without referring to notes.
Foreign Minister Gromyko spoke in Russian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies
and gentlemen:
The treaty and the interim agreement on
questions of strategic arms limitation, which
were signed in Moscow by you, Mr. President,
and by the General Secretary of the Central
Committee of the Communist Party of the So-
viet Union, Leonid Brezhnev, and which are
today coming into force, will go down in history
as a significant achievement in restraining the
arms race.
This is how the significance of this event is
evaluated by world public opinion. The Soviet
Union attaches great importance to these ac-
cords which are a continuation of the process
initiated by the conclusion of the Moscow Test
Ban Treaty, the Treaty on the Non-Prolifera-
tion of Nuclear Weapons, and other important
agreements limiting the arms race in the world.
The Soviet people firmly intend to go on im-
plementing the peace program approved by the
24th Congress of the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union. We are confident that the ques-
tion on the nonuse of force in international rela-
tions and on the permanent prohibition of the
use of nuclear weapons, which we have sub-
mitted for consideration by the current session
of the United Nations General Assembly, is also
of signal importance for the cause of peace.
The treaty and the interim agreement enter-
ing into force today are based on recognition of
the principle of the equal security of the parties,
and they offer no one any unilateral military
advantages. At the same time, these accords
meet not only the interests of our two nations
but also the interests of international security
as a whole and the interests of all nations be-
cause security and peace are their common goal.
Practical steps to limit rocket nuclear arma-
ments rightfully hold an important place among
the very real political changes taking place in
relations between our two countries, and this
signifies a success for the policy of peaceful
coexistence and it has a positive effect on the
entire international situation as a whole.
For the first time since the Second World
War, agreements are coming into force aimed at
slowing down the race in the most destructive
types of armaments, but any treaty and any
agreement can have a genuine historic sig-
nificance only when the principles and the
intentions proclaimed in them become the con-
tent of the practical activity of states and lead
to further important achievements in that
direction.
948
