Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 25 [372]
neighborhoods. The answer to inequities
in our educational system is to spend
more money on learning and less money
on forced busing.
Quality education for all and an end
to racial discrimination are goals that we
seek, and we seek them both. The way to
achieve them is to eliminate unlawful dis-
crimination, and to make a special effort
to improve the quality of education in the
disadvantaged areas.
That is the policy that I am committed
to as President. The emergency school aid
act, recently enacted, authorizes $2 bil-
lion of new money to help meet the spe-
cial problems of desegregating the Na-
tion's schools.
This Administration's equal educa-
tional opportunities act of 1972, had the
Congress approved it, would have con-
centrated funds for the improvement of
education for underprivileged children,
and would have legislated an end to arbi-
trary, court-ordered busing of children
out of their neighborhoods. However, as
you know, after passing the House of Rep-
resentatives, this measure was filibustered
to death in the Senate by pro-busing
Senators. I will once again press the next
Congress for the passage of this legislation.
The question of neighborhood schools
is part of a greater issue-that of where
the real decisionmaking power in the field
of education should lie; whether it should
lie in the hands of appointed judges or
officials in Washington or in the hands of
people themselves. I believe that the peo-
ple themselves deserve the greatest voice
in our educational system.
That is one reason why I have proposed
an education special revenue sharing pro-
gram to be spent on education in the way
the local people and their locally elected
leaders deem best, without Federal con-
trols or Federal domination.
This is the best way I know to get
American education back on the track,
to relate it to the needs of our people
instead of the whims of Federal bureau-
crats. I will keep on working for this
program until it is enacted.
Looking further ahead, the whole edu-
cation process needs to be reexamined.
We need to put American know-how to
work analyzing the learning process itself.
The Government should never dictate
to the people what kind of education is
best, but it has an obligation to provide
the people with the research and the
information they need to decide these
matters for themselves. In a changing age,
education must keep pace. It must not
fall behind.
To meet this challenge, we have cre-
ated a National Institute of Education-
not to turn out Federal regulations and
quotas, but to put some of the best minds
in this country to work learning more
about the learning process itself. Their
findings will help parents and local edu-
cators to provide our children with more
effective, more useful teaching in the years
ahead.
Each of these achievements and goals
that I have outlined this afternoon is im-
portant. Each can help to make our edu-
cation system even better than it is, and
can extend the American dream to more
of our people. But there is another crucial
ingredient which no President, no ad-
ministration, no Congress can supply.
That is respect for education and for
teaching, respect that must lie in the
hearts of the people.
Most of us can probably think back to
a teacher who opened up our minds to
1029
