Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 28 [73]
Chou En-lai. The two sides had a serious and
frank exchange of views on the normalization
of the relations between China and the United
States and on matters of interest to the two
sides.
We people of Shanghai, like the people
throughout our country, welcome this positive
action which conforms to the common desires
of the peoples of China and the United States.
And we are glad that it is in Shanghai today
that we have reached agreement on the joint
communique after the discussions which took
place over the past few days.
Shanghai is a city where our people have
relatively a lot of contacts with peoples from
other countries. In the 23 years since the libera-
tion of this city in 1949, fundamental changes
have taken place and our city has now been
preliminarily transformed and built into a com-
prehensive socialist industrial base of our coun-
try, but this means that we have only completed
73
the first step of our long march and at present
the industry of Shanghai is not yet very ad-
vanced and in some aspects it is still rather
backward.
More heavy and arduous tasks still await us,
and the working class and the people of the
entire Shanghai municipality are continuing to
work hard under the leadership of the Commu-
nist Party of China along the road charted by
Chairman Mao Tse-tung, the road of maintain-
ing independence and keeping the initiative in
our own hands and relying on our own efforts.
On the eve of the departure from our coun-
try for home of Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon,
and our other American guests, I would like to
propose a toast to the health of President Nixon
and Mrs. Nixon, to the health of our other
American guests, and to the friendship between
the great Chinese people and the great Ameri-
can people.
Remarks at Andrews Air Force Base on Returning From
the People's Republic of China. February 28, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Members of the Con-
gress, members of the Cabinet, members
of the diplomatic corps, and ladies and
gentlemen:
I want to express my very deep ap-
preciation, and the appreciation of all of
us, for this wonderfully warm welcome
that you have given us and for the support
that we have had on the trip that we have
just completed from Americans of both
political parties and all walks of life across
this land.
Because of the superb efforts of the
hardworking members of the press who
accompanied us—they got even less sleep
than I did-millions of Americans in this
past week have seen more of China than
I did. Consequently, tonight I would like
to talk to you not about what we saw but
about what we did, to sum up the results
of the trip and to put it in perspective.
When I announced this trip last July,
I described it as a journey for peace. In
the last 30 years, Americans have in three
different wars gone off by the hundreds
of thousands to fight, and some to die, in
Asia and in the Pacific. One of the central
motives behind my journey to China was
to prevent that from happening a fourth
time to another generation of Americans.
As I have often said, peace means more
than the mere absence of war. In a tech-
nical sense, we were at peace with the
People's Republic of China before this
trip, but a gulf of almost 12,000 miles and
22 years of noncommunication and hostil-
ity separated the United States of America
from the 750 million people who live in
the People's Republic of China, and that
is one-fourth of all the people in the world.
As a result of this trip, we have started
the long process of building a bridge across
381
