Richard Nixon, 1972
July 27 [239]
peripheral areas getting down to mounds,
which have, of course, the purpose of con-
trolling the floodwaters in that particular
area.
If it were the policy of the United
States to bomb the dikes, we could take
them out, the significant part of them
out, in a week. We don't do so for the
reasons that I have mentioned, because
we are trying to avoid civilian casualties,
not cause them.
Now, with regard to the reports, reports
that have come from Hanoi that there
had been some damage to some parts of
the dike system, I think it is important to
note two things: One, there has been no
report of any flooding; second, there has
been no report of any strikes on the major
dike areas.
What I am referring to is the big dams
which are the heart of the system. There
have been reports of incidental damage
to some of the peripheral installations in
this 2,700-mile system which covers the
country of North Vietnam.
Now, under these circumstances, I think
that it is well to keep in context, first, what
our policy is, and second, what its effect
has been. Our policy is not to bomb civil-
ian installations, and second, our restraint,
it seems to me, rather than being subject
to criticisms should be subject to objective
analysis and, it seems to me, a considerable
amount of support.
this
As far as this matter is concerned, I
think, too, it is time to strip away the
double standard. I noted with interest
that the Secretary General of the U.N.,
just like his predecessor, seized upon
enemy-inspired propaganda, which has
taken in many well-intentioned and naive
people, to attack what he called the
American bombing of civilian installa-
tions and risking civilian lives, and yet
not raising one word against deliberate
bombing of civilian installations in South
Vietnam.
Now just so the record will be kept
straight-and it should be stated at this
point-all of you ladies and gentlemen,
of course, are aware of it, and you have
printed it, and perhaps you will see fit
to again in this context:
I just got a cable from Ambassador
Bunker. I had asked him what had hap-
pened to civilians in the new offensive.
You recall in my speech of May 8, I said
that 20,000 civilian casualties, including
women and children, had resulted be-
cause of the deliberate shelling of the
cities and the slaughtering of refugees in-
discriminately by the North Vietnamese.
The number is now 45,000, including
women and children, of which 15,000 are
dead.
I asked him for the number of refugees.
It is higher than I had thought. There
have been 860,000 made homeless by
the North Vietnamese invasion of South
Vietnam, this newest invasion to date;
600,000 of them are still in refugee camps,
away from their homes.
Looking back over the period of this
very difficult war, we find that since 1965
there have been 600,000 civilian casual-
ties in South Vietnam as a result of
deliberate policy of the North Vietnamese
Communists, not accidental, but deliber-
ate.
And in North Vietnam, in the period
from 1954 to 1956, in their so-called land
reform program, a minimum of 50,000
were murdered, assassinated, and-ac-
cording to the Catholic Bishop of Danang,
whom I talked to when I was there in
1956 in South Vietnam-in addition to
745
