Richard Nixon, 1972
Dec. 11 [424]
support team.
I wish you good luck and Godspeed.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was made available to the
press.
On December 5, 1972, the President had
telephoned crew members Capt. Eugene A.
Cernan, USN, Comdr. Ronald E. Evans, USN,
and Dr. Harrison H. Schmitt at the Kennedy
Space Center to extend his best wishes to them
on their mission.
424 Statement Announcing Freeze on Hirings and Promotions
in the Executive Branch. December 11, 1972
I HAVE repeatedly made clear that it is
my firm intention to hold down unneces-
sary Federal spending so that our people
can be spared the higher prices and/or
higher taxes that such spending inevitably
generates. No Federal programs, no mat-
ter how attractive they may be individ-
ually, can have a higher priority than the
protection of the purchasing power of all
the people.
The budget I will send to the Congress
in January will constitute a plan for keep-
ing Federal spending under effective con-
trol, while providing responsible appro-
priations for all worthy programs.
We cannot wait until January, how-
ever, to begin action on one vital part of
that plan: There is an urgent need for us
to act now to keep the Federal bureauc-
racy from becoming too large, and thus
too expensive, too unwieldy, and too un-
responsive. Accordingly:
-I am today imposing a freeze on all
new civilian hirings and on all civilian
and military promotions by executive
branch agencies.
-This freeze is effective at once and
will remain in effect until the new
budget is transmitted to the Con-
gress in January.
-When the budget is transmitted, the
freeze will be relaxed, but only to
the extent permitted by the revised
spending goals for fiscal year 1973 as
set forth in the budget.
Exceptions to the freeze order will only
be permitted in cases where the actions
are essential to preserve human life and
safety, to protect property, to preserve the
continuity of government, or for emer-
gency situations-such as the need for the
Postal Service to hire temporary help to
meet the Christmas mail rush. All excep-
tions will have to be approved on a case-
by-case basis by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
I do not expect this freeze to interfere
in any way with plans for revitalizing the
Federal Government. It will also have no
effect on employees' eligibility for step
increases, or on the scheduled com-
parability pay raise for Federal employees
at the turn of the year.
My aim is to prevent unnecessary and
wasteful growth of the Federal budget.
Otherwise, we shall spurn the best chance
we have had in more than 20 years to
achieve prosperity without war and with-
out inflation. I will not miss this
opportunity.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a transcript of remarks by Secretary
of the Treasury George P. Shultz announcing
decisions reached by the President on economic
stabilization and Federal spending. After his
opening statement, Secretary Shultz and Cas-
par W. Weinberger, Director, Office of Man-
1153
