[380] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Well, those who say these things are
wrong.
Those who say these things do not know
the real America.
In my 4 years as President, I have
visited every State in the Union.
Increasingly, everywhere I have gone
I have found new evidence, not of dis-
unity, but of unity. I have found the peo-
ple of the North, the South, the East, the
West, united in their basic concerns and
beliefs. I have found hard evidence of
something I always believed-that, despite
our vast diversity of races, of ethnic
origins, and of faiths, when you get down
to the basics, we are still One America.
And the basics are the same in every
part of the country. They are the same for
the Polish-American, the Italian-Ameri-
can, the Mexican-American, the steel-
worker, the farmer.
I find that most Americans still want a
strong country, not out of national vanity
or jingoism, but because they know that
a strong United States is the guardian of
peace and freedom in the world. They
reject the philosophy that we should
unilaterally weaken America.
I have found that the vast majority of
Americans want peace, but are convinced
that it must be a lasting peace with honor.
They know that only a peace built on
honor and integrity can long survive. They
know that retreat and surrender lead not
to security, but to new provocations and
confrontations and to greater risk of war.
That is why, in the difficult job of
seeking an honorable negotiated settle-
ment in Vietnam, I have been able to
count on the support of a majority of
Americans. That is why America has been
able to preserve its pledge that we shall
not betray our allies, or abandon our men
held prisoner or missing in action, as we
work for a full generation of peace.
I have found that most Americans
everywhere agree that we should hold the
line on taxes and spending. The days of
the Congressional blank check for spend-
ing are gone. The people are rightly
demanding an end to the government ex-
travagance that has driven up taxes and
prices. They are determined to put the
brakes on the cost-of-living treadmill. I
am equally determined to hold those
brakes and hold them in place. They have
supported this Administration's policies
that have now given us the lowest rate of
inflation and one of the highest rates of
growth of any major industrial nation in
the world, policies that are moving us to-
ward our goal of full employment without
war and without inflation--and that is
a goal that we have not met since Presi-
dent Eisenhower was in the White House.
Most Americans are united in demand-
ing respect for the law. They know that
without law there can be no justice, with-
out order there can be no progress. They
support this Administration's all-out of-
fensive against organized crime, against
violence, against dangerous drugs and
narcotics, and we are beginning to win the
war against crime because of the united
support of Americans.
We will not be satisfied until all our city
streets are safe, until we have a system of
courts that is once more capable of dis-
pensing swift, fair justice to criminal and
victim alike. That is my philosophy in ap-
pointing judges to the bench, from the
Supreme Court on down. They must be
qualified jurists, but they must be jurists
who recognize that the first civil right of
all Americans is the right to be free from
domestic violence.
1056
