Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [409]
portance of a strong defense-for New
Mexico and for the Nation.
These two men also understand that
true prosperity can only be achieved if
we can keep a lid on prices and taxes.
Manuel Lujan stood up in the Congress
for that principle this fall when he voted
in favor of a $250 billion ceiling on Fed-
eral spending. He knows, as do the people
of New Mexico, that the Federal Govern-
ment does not really need any more of the
taxpayers' hard-earned money.
In the coming years, we will face many
difficult questions in Washington, ques-
tions directly affecting the lives and pros-
perity of everyone in New Mexico. For
your own well-being and for the sake of
the Nation, I urge the people of New
Mexico to send Pete Domenici and
Manuel Lujan to Washington to help
make those tough decisions.
NOTE: The statement was released at Albu-
querque, N. Mex.
409 Remarks at Albuquerque, New Mexico.
November 4, 1972
THANK YOU very much for being here
and introducing us as you have to this
wonderful crowd in Albuquerque. As you
know, we started this morning from
Washington, D.C. We were first in North
Carolina for one of the record crowds of
the campaign, and then arriving here this
day in Albuquerque. I saw in advance
that it was the opening day of hunting
season and the homecoming game for the
university, and I wondered if anybody
would be here. Thank you for coming.
And although the Lobos ยน lost today,
speaking as one who knows how it is to
lose and win, they will come back. They
will win next time.
Also, may I say to you that it is a very
great privilege to be here on this plat-
form with the other candidates who
stood here a moment ago, because this
is truly a team effort. We often think of
the President of the United States sitting
in the Oval Office making the great de-
cisions that affect the Nation and the
world. But as you all know, he can only do
ยน University of New Mexico football team.
the job that needs to be done with your
help, the help of millions of Americans
and also with the help of Members of the
House and Senate.
For that reason, I am stopping here,
because we are interested in what you, of
course, will do, and how you will vote
on election day, at the top of the ticket,
but also, in asking for your support for
the men we need in the House and in the
Senate, so that we can do what America
wants done over these next 4 years that
you have been talking about.
If I could say a word, now, about
Manny Lujan; Manny was one who sec-
onded my nomination. I was not there,
because, you know, the tradition is that the
candidate is not supposed to go to a con-
vention until after he is nominated, and
I had to wait to make sure, but I remem-
ber seeing it on television. As I think of
all the seconding speeches, the one that
gave me the biggest charge was Manny's.
I think it is the first time that a second-
ing speech has been given in both English
and Spanish, and I understood the Span-
ish as well as the English.
II2I
