[119] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
logically the question presses, what next?
While the convening of more frequent
youth conferences, as your report recom-
mends, might further useful dialogue, this
would not seem to go to the heart of
young
people's right-and need-to participate.
Conferences, after all, cannot legislate. In
fact, the study-and-recommend approach
can easily become what your preamble
calls "a mechanism to divert the atten-
tion and energy of the people."
"This conference," you have said, "shall
not be so used." I concur absolutely. We
must treat last April's meetings not as a
closed episode, but as an effective first
step. The Administration's next step must
and will be action, respecting the Con-
ference's sincerity even where we cannot
follow its prescriptions. Your next step
should be to focus attention on a "mech-
anism" which is neither intermittent nor
potentially diversionary, as the best of con-
ferences are, but which is instead con-
tinuous, powerful, and newly accessible.
to the young-the American political
process.
This young generation-which is al-
ready (as I said in my Inaugural Address)
"better educated, more committed, more
passionately driven by conscience" than
any before it-now has the chance to be
120
more effectively involved than all earlier
ones as well. My hope is that you and your
contemporaries by the millions-of all
political preferences, all ideological per-
suasions, and all opinions pro and con the
positions taken at Estes Park-not only
will go conscientiously to the polls this
year and years to come, but will remain
informed and engaged at a level of citizen-
ship equal to the demands of America's
coming third century. With your energy
and idealism directed to this goal, you will
do your country and your own best inter-
ests a signal service.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The letter, dated March 15, 1972, is
printed in the report entitled "Federal Execu-
tive Branch Review of the Recommendations of
the 1971 White House Conference on Youth"
(Government Printing Office, 414 pp.). The
report was made available to the press on
April 13.
Stephen Hess, who was Chairman of the
Conference, and three representatives of the
Youth Conference Follow-Up Executive Com-
mittee met with the President at the White
House on Thursday, April 13, to receive the
report.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the Conference followup
program.
Remarks on Arrival at Ottawa, Canada.
April 13, 1972
Mr. Governor-General, Mr. Prime Minis-
ter, Your Excellencies, and ladies and
gentlemen:
I wish to express on behalf of all of the
members of our party my very great ap-
preciation for the very warm words of
welcome which you have spoken. And
since you have referred to the weather, I
can only say that while the weather may
be cool, the welcome is very warm and for
this we are most grateful.
You have referred also to the fact that
we are close neighbors, that we have a long
border. I think it is appropriate for me to
point out that the first official visitor who
came to the United States after I was
530
