[410] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
rate since 1956-at a rate twice as fast
as the rate of growth of the population.
While unemployment remains a serious
concern, the strength and thrust of this
progress promises to make strong inroads
into this problem in the near future.
As for the cost of living, adjusted whole-
sale prices rose only one-tenth of one
percent in October, the lowest increase
since March. And our overall rate of in-
flation is now the lowest of any major
industrial nation in the free world.
As citizens of the number one agricul-
tural State of the Union, Californians will
also be glad to know that we have some
good news for the American farmer this
week. Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz
has announced that farm exports will
reach our $10 billion goal during this fis-
cal year-a goal once scoffed at by our
opponents. This high level of farm sales
was made possible, in part, by our im-
proved relations with the People's Re-
public of China and the Soviet Union.
All of these indicators tell us that we
have been on the right course, that the
support the people have consistently ex-
pressed for this Administration's policies
to keep inflation, taxes, and prices down,
and the American economy growing and
expanding, have been right on target.
The political voices of gloom who were
so quick to give up, the political prophets
of doom who said that American society
was falling apart, and the American econ-
omy along with it-these misguided
pessimists have been proven wrong.
We are a strong country, militarily and
economically. The fibers of our social
fabric are strong. Our spirit is strong. It
is because we are strong that we have been
able to work successfully for peace in the
world and prosperity at home.
of
As I conclude the last campaign visit
my last campaign for public office, I
see a strong, respected America, and a
proud, united American people. None of
this could have been achieved merely by
government; it was done by the people.
When it comes down to the important
things, Americans still stand together-
that we are one America in conscience, in
purpose, and in inspiration.
This campaign-my last campaign—
will be over in a few short days. But the
work of building a better America goes
on. The work of building an honorable
peace and a real prosperity goes on. And
much remains to be done. We must con-
tinue to move justly and firmly in the
second round of SALT disarmament
talks, in our efforts to achieve balanced,
mutual troop reductions in Europe, in our
efforts to keep the peace in the volatile
Mideast.
We must continue the transition of the
American economy from a wartime to a
peacetime footing by effective means such
as this Administration's technical mobili-
zation and reemployment program, which
has already relocated more than 17,000
displaced aerospace engineers and is part
of our overall strategy that has success-
fully provided workers with 2.3 million
real jobs-not government make-work
jobs-in the past year alone.
I promise that in the next 4 years I will
continue to use every resource at my dis-
posal to keep us building, to keep us lead-
ing the way, and to keep America strong,
decent, and united.
NOTE: The statement was released at Ontario,
Calif.
1128
