Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [268]
that means, of course, that "politicians"
may be a bad word, and I don't agree
with that, because politics is an honorable
profession. But, on the other hand, what
it does mean is that citizens ought to get
in, too, and whatever you do in your life—
and the majority of you will not get into
politics, you will get into business, you will
work at a job, some of you may teach,
some of you may be heads of families,
whatever the case may be-but whatever
you do, take some time out of
your life
to work in the field of making this country
a better country, of making our govern-
ment a better government.
Be a Republican. Be a Democrat. Pick
the party of your choice. But the main
thing is, play that game, because it is the
most important game in life and we need
the best, and young America has so much
to give. You see, you have enthusiasm,
you have vitality, you have idealism, and
a nation needs your enthusiasm, your
vitality, and your idealism.
Here is what I think: I think when we
look at the 18- to 21-year-old vote-for
the first time they vote in 1972—that you
are going to be good for America because
I believe in America's young people. I
believe in you. I know your idealism. I
know your enthusiasm. And I know that
this country, which is going to be 200 years
old in just 4 years-and that is pretty
old-at that time will need an infusion of
youth. We don't want to become old. We
want to stay young, and the only way you
stay young is to have young people par-
ticipating in politics.
So we want you. Get in there and fight
for the candidate of your choice. Will you
do that?
Now I think General Eisenhower would
have wanted me to say one other thing to
this group, since I have referred to politics,
and I know that all of you will under-
stand when I say what I am just about
to say.
America at this time in our history is in
an enormously significant position. We
think of the young America, 3 million
people, weak, poor, but it excited the
imagination of the world because it stood
for something other than military strength
or economic power. We think of the
America today, a strong nation, a rich
nation, the richest in the world, and
America still means something more than
military strength and economic wealth.
It is a spirit, a spirit that is ours. It is
what we stand for. It is what we do. It
is how we treat each other. America has
a meaning in the world.
I know General Eisenhower would
want me to say, "Love your country."
Don't love it because it is always right,
because it isn't. Love it because we have
a system that allows you to change those
things that are wrong. Love it because
there is more right about America than in
any country in the world, and believe me
that is the case.
And in that connection, I know that
General Eisenhower would want me to
mention peace, peace in terms of not just
bringing an end to a war which has long
been a very difficult problem for the
United States, but more in terms of the
long term. How can we have a peace that
is not just an interlude between wars, but
one that would last?
That is why Mrs. Nixon and I went to
the People's Republic of China. We can-
not have lasting peace in the world, peace
that you young people can enjoy, if 800
million people, one-fourth of all the peo-
ple in the world—and incidentally one-
fourth of the ablest people in the world—
are isolated from the rest of the world.
807
