Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
ment, including redirection of employ-
ment assistance to strengthen reservation
economies, creating local Indian Action
Teams for manpower training, and in-
creased contracting of education and
other functions to Indian communities.
I again urge the Congress to join in
helping Indians help themselves in fields
such as health, education, the protection
of land and water rights, and economic
development. We have talked about in-
justice to the first Americans long enough.
As Indian leaders themselves have put
it, the time has come for more rain and
less thunder.
EQUAL RIGHTS FOR WOMEN
This administration will also continue
its strong efforts to open equal opportuni-
ties for women, recognizing clearly that
women are often denied such opportuni-
ties today. While every woman may not
want a career outside the home, every
woman should have the freedom to choose
whatever career she wishes-and an equal
chance to pursue it.
We have already moved vigorously
against job discrimination based on sex in
both the private and public sectors. For
the first time, guidelines have been issued
to require that Government contractors in
the private sector have action plans for
the hiring and promotion of women. We
are committed to strong enforcement of
equal employment opportunity for women
under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
To help carry out these commitments I
will propose to the Congress that the juris-
diction of the Commission on Civil Rights
be broadened to encompass sex-based
discrimination.
Within the Government, more women
have been appointed to high posts than
ever before. As the result of my directives
issued in April 1971 the number of women
appointed to high-level Federal positions
has more than doubled-and the number
of women in Federal middle management
positions has also increased dramatically.
More women than ever before have been
appointed to Presidential boards and
commissions. Our vigorous program to
recruit more women for Federal service
will be continued and intensified in the
coming year.
OPPORTUNITY FOR VETERANS
A grateful nation owes its servicemen
and servicewomen every opportunity it
can open to them when they return to
civilian life. The Nation may be weary of
but we dare not grow weary of doing
right by those who have borne its heaviest
burdens.
war,
The Federal Government is carrying
out this responsibility in many ways:
through the G.I. Bill for education-
which will spend 22 times more in 1973
than in 1969; through home loan pro-
grams and disability and pension bene-
fits-which also have been expanded;
through better medical services-includ-
ing strong new drug treatment programs;
through its budget for veterans hospitals,
which is already many times the 1969 level
and will be stepped up further next year.
We have been particularly concerned
in the last 3 years with the employment of
veterans-who experience higher unem-
ployment rates than those who have not
served in the Armed Forces. During this
past year I announced a six-point national
program to increase public awareness of
this problem, to provide training and
counseling to veterans seeking jobs and to
help them find employment opportunities.
61
