Appendix E
John D. Twiname, Administrator, Social and
Rehabilitation Service.
The President also accepts today the resig-
nations of two individuals who are administra-
tors in the Department of Transportation:
Douglas W. Toms, Administrator of the Na-
tional Highway Traffic Safety Administration;
and Carlos C. Villarreal, Administrator of the
Urban Mass Transportation Administration.
All will be returning to private life. We have
biographical information to provide to you on
each of the individuals I have referred to.
Announcing Further Decisions on Personnel
for the Second Term
December 18, 1972
We have several more announcements today
relating to the makeup of the Administration
in the second term, relating to some individuals
who will be leaving Government to return to
private life and others who will be receiving
new areas of responsibility and others who will
be staying.
The President has asked me to announce
today the following resignations from the De-
partment of Commerce. The President accepts
with deep appreciation for his service the resig-
nation of Dr. Harold C. Passer, Assistant Secre-
tary for Economic Affairs, who will be return-
ing to private industry, and Robert A. Podesta,
Assistant Secretary for Economic Development,
who will also be returning to private life. Dr.
George Hay Brown, Director of the Bureau
of the Census, has indicated that for personal
reasons he wishes to return to private life. The
President also accepts his resignation with sin-
cere appreciation for his contribution.
In the Department of the Interior President
Nixon is announcing that the resignations have
been accepted of four officials whose service
over the past years is greatly appreciated:
Hollis M. Dole, Assistant Secretary for Mineral
Resources; James R. Smith, Assistant Secretary
for Water and Power Resources; Mitchell
Melich, Solicitor for the Department of the
Interior; and Ellis L. Armstrong, Commissioner
of Reclamation, who also will be returning to
private life.
There are some additional announcements
that I have to make regarding personnel
changes on the White House Staff.
I believe that you will find in these a con-
tinuation of the pattern that some White House
Staff members, as we have already indicated,
will be staying, others will be returning to
private life, while still others are moving to
new positions or have moved to new positions
in the Administration as we continue to make
plans for the second term.
The President has already pointed out, as
most of you have noted, that the Executive Of-
fice of the President will be reduced in num-
bers. We are working toward that objective
and as time moves along you will note that
changes will be made working toward the
achievement of that objective. I have noted
some stories that suggest we are making changes
in many of the departments and reductions in
departments, but not so much here at the White
House. I can just assure you that the objec-
tive which the President outlined in relation
to the White House will be met.
First, I would like to say that the President
is very pleased to announce today that three
members of his staff will be continuing on in
the new Administration. They are Richard A.
Moore, as Special Counsel to the President;
Dwight L. Chapin, Deputy Assistant to the
President; and Michael J. Farrell, Special As-
sistant to the President.
As we have made announcements before on
the White House Staff, we have pointed out
that as the new structuring that will take place
in the White House evolves, the duties and
responsibilities of some of the individuals who
have been announced may expand or be
altered somewhat. We are not prepared at this
time to spell that out, but I did want to let you
know, as we continue here, those individuals
will be continuing.
The President is also announcing that he
accepts with personal regret the resignations of
four other members of the White House Staff:
Brigadier General Robert L. Schulz, U.S. Army,
retired, who has ably served President Nixon as
liaison with former Presidents, will be leaving
the staff. General Schulz formerly served as a
top aide to the late President Eisenhower. Presi-
dent Nixon is extremely grateful for the quality
of service that General Schulz has performed
in this Administration. As most of you know,
E-19
