Richard Nixon, 1972
July 1 [220]
220
Statement on Signing a Bill Extending Temporary Ceiling
on National Debt and Increasing Social Security
Benefits. July 1, 1972
I HAVE today signed H.R. 15390, which
extends the temporary ceiling on the
national debt, and which, among other
measures, provides for an across-the-board
increase of 20 percent in social security
benefits.
One important feature of this legisla-
tion which I greet with special favor is the
automatic increase provision which will
allow social security benefits to keep pace
with the cost of living. This provision is
one which I have long urged, and I am
pleased that the Congress has at last ful-
filled a request which I have been making
since the first months of my Administra-
tion. This action constitutes a major
break-through for older Americans, for it
says at last that inflation-proof social secu-
rity benefits are theirs as a matter of right,
and not as something which must be tem-
porarily won over and over again from
each succeeding Congress.
Another important section of H.R.
15390 provides for accelerated tax refunds
for disaster losses. This provision, the pas-
sage of which this Administration also
urged on the Congress, extends from 32
months to 6 months the period after the
end of the tax year in which a person can
claim a deduction for disaster losses. This
means, for example, that a person suffer-
ing disaster losses between April 15 and
June 30 of this year can recompute his or
her 1971 taxes and receive a refund check
now, while the money is needed most,
rather than waiting until next April to
claim the same amount. This is particu-
larly timely in the wake of the extensive
damage caused by the recent floods.
As I have indicated on other occasions,
however, H.R. 15390 includes some seri-
ous shortcomings.
It fails the test of fiscal responsibility
by failing fully to finance its increase in
social security benefits. As a result of this
failure, it would add an additional $3.7
billion to the more than $3 billion by
which earlier actions and inactions by the
Congress have already thrown the full em-
ployment budget for fiscal year 1973 into
deficit-thus threatening dangerously to
escalate the rate of inflation at a time
when this Administration's economic
policies are succeeding in turning it back.
I am determined that we shall win the
battle against inflation-and that fiscally
irresponsible policies shall not again pe-
nalize all Americans, and especially the
older citizens whom these benefit increases
are designed to help, by taking away in
higher prices what they have gained in
higher wages and higher benefits.
Therefore, it will be necessary for the
Congress and the Administration to offset
the additional $3.7 billion deficit created
by this measure through cuts in other Fed-
eral programs.
An additional fault with H.R. 15390
is that it jeopardizes the integrity of the
Social Security Trust Fund by substan-
tially reducing the necessary coverage of
trust fund reserves to ensure annual bene-
fit payments. I shall request the next Con-
gress to restore this full 100-percent
protection.
My belief that offsetting cuts in other
programs can be made-although they
may be painful—together with my belief
723
