Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 15 [255]
nomic future. While we have cut the rate
of inflation in half the price of food re-
mains a major concern. We have to get the
unemployment rate down much further.
We have to continue to improve U.S.
competitiveness to strengthen our inter-
national economic position.
To accomplish all these things will re-
quire continued efforts by everyone—
including the Government-to comply
with the letter and the spirit of the price-
wage control system and to raise produc-
tivity even higher.
The critical point at which the help and
understanding of the American people is
now needed is the Federal budget. If we
allow Federal expenditures to soar again,
to a point far exceeding the revenues even
under conditions of full employment-as
they did between 1965 and 1968-we will
risk destroying the hard-won gains we
have already made. The result would be
big increases in the cost of living, or big
new taxes or the first followed by the
second.
This Administration is determined to do
its best to resist this course by keeping the
budget under control, and I have urgently
called upon the Congress for help.
But the outcome will depend most of
all on the wishes of the American people:
If the people insist on spending beyond
the $250 billion ceiling I have urged, such
spending will be done. But if the people
join me in insisting that Federal spend-
ing be held down, to avoid reviving infla-
tion now and paying higher taxes soon,
the Government will act responsibly.
This critical situation poses a great test
of our mature determination to manage
our economic affairs soundly. I am con-
fident that we will meet it, and that our
national economy-which includes all of
us-will continue to rise to new heights
of
prosperous greatness.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The introduction is printed in the report
entitled "The Economy at Mid-1972" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 109 pp.).
255 Message to the Congress on Plans for an International
Exposition on the Environment To Be Held in
Spokane, Washington. August 15, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Public Law 91-269,
I wish to inform the Congress today of cur-
rent plans for the six-month International
Exposition on the Environment to be held
in Spokane, Washington in 1974.
This exposition will be a particularly
welcomed event in America. The Spokane
exposition and the 1976 Winter Olympics
are now the only internationally recog-
nized events scheduled for this country
during our Bicentennial Era. In addition
to stimulating trade and cultural ex-
changes, the exposition through its
theme "How Man Can Live, Work and
Play in Harmony with His Environ-
ment"-will also focus fresh attention on
one of the most pressing concerns of our
time.
In November 1970, Expo '74, the non-
profit corporation which is sponsoring the
exposition and is responsible for its plan-
ning and operation, applied for Federal
recognition of the exposition under the
773
