[376] Oct. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
have been almost quadrupled since 1970
under this Administration.
Flood Control Act of 1972 (S. 4018) —
This measure would authorize federal
projects which would ultimately cost
hundreds of millions of dollars. It contains
projects never approved or recom-
mended by the executive branch. In
addition, it contains a number of ob-
jectionable features such as authorizing
ill-defined and potentially costly new pro-
grams, and limiting my authority to es-
tablish criteria and standards to measure
the feasibility of water resources proj-
ects in determining which ones to recom-
mend for Congressional authorization.
However, a number of projects in this
bill are in my judgment justified and I
will recommend legislation to authorize
their construction early in the next
Congress.
Upgrading of Deputy U.S. Marshals
(H.R. 13895)—
This would raise the pay of some 1,500
deputy marshals by as much as 38 per-
cent, through wholesale across-the-board
upgrading. There is no justification for
this highly preferential treatment, which
discriminates against all other Govern-
ment employees who perform work of
comparable difficulty and responsibility
and whose pay is now the same as that
of deputy marshals.
National Cemeteries Act of 1972 (H.R.
12674)-
This bill would block the orderly system
of surplus land disposal established by
general law and Executive order, by re-
quiring an unusual Congressional ap-
proval procedure before any VA land
holdings larger than 100 acres could be
sold.
These property transfer restrictions
would undermine the executive branch's
Government-wide system of property
management and surplus property dis-
posal which is designed to assure the best
and fullest use of Federal property. It
would impede the Legacy of Parks pro-
gram and the procedures for disposing
of surplus Federal property under the
Federal Property and Administrative
Services Act and Executive Order 11508.
Also, the bill deals inconsistently with
the serious problem of burial benefits for
the Nation's veterans and war dead. It
commissions a study of this problem at
the same time it preempts the results of
such a study by authorizing new burial
benefits which would annually add $55
million to the Federal budget beginning
next year. The Administrator of Veterans
Affairs already is at work on such a study,
which will identify the alternatives for
improving burial and cemetery benefits.
In the interim, it would be unwise to com-
mit additional Federal resources as pro-
posed by this bill.
Veterans Health Care Expansion Act
of 1972 (H.R. 10880) —
The liberalizing features of this bill
would unnecessarily add hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars to the Federal budget. It
would open the VA hospital system to
nonveterans and would expand the type
of direct medical services available from
VA. By providing direct medical services
to veterans' dependents, the bill runs
counter to this Administration's national
health strategy which would provide na-
tional financing mechanisms for health
care and sharply reduce the Federal Gov-
ernment's role in the direct provision of
services.
The bill also purports to set manda-
tory minimums on the number of patients
treated in VA hospitals. In testimony on
this bill, the Veterans Administration
1044
