Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [102]
has agreed in 36 of the votes-two-thirds
of the total. It has disagreed with only 13
decisions-or 25 percent. In one instance
labor's representatives were split and in
four instances they abstained. Over half
of the Pay Board's decisions have been
unanimous, and of the eight major wage
cases voted on by the full Board which
have been the most controversial, labor
has agreed with the outcome in five. When
the labor representatives say that this gen-
eral pattern is one of "flagrant favor-
itism,” they must recognize that the pat-
tern is one to which they have generally
agreed.
It is true, of course, that labor's repre-
sentatives have not prevailed in every
instance-and that they did not succeed
in their effort to uphold the full 20.6 per-
cent longshoremen's increase. In a free
society no one is right all the time and no
one can have his way all the time. All
participants must be ready to accept a
reasonable amount of give and take.
Organized labor's views have not been
ignored by the Pay Board. In fact, they
have usually been accepted. But we can-
not and will not allow any single group-
business or labor-to be the exclusive
judge of fairness in its own case. The pub-
lic interest must come before any special
interest.
Our economic policies will continue to
require certain sacrifices of the American
people. But I am convinced that these
policies are also in the best interests of all
the American people. I am especially con-
fident that they serve the best interests of
our working men and women. For wage
earners know that wage increases which
are inflated are illusionary wage in-
creases they are inevitably canceled out
by rising prices.
Although a few labor leaders have
chosen to reject their public responsibility
and have sought to justify their action
with standard political rhetoric, this Ad-
ministration will not accept an "anti-
labor" label. On the contrary-there can
be no more "pro-labor," pro-workingman
stand than a firm decision to protect the
buying power of the wage earner's dollar.
Inflation is a dangerous and difficult
enemy. We have set the course in the bat-
tle against that enemy-and our decisions
have won the overwhelming approval of
the Congress and the American public. I
am determined to stay that course; I shall
not be deterred by the disaffection of a
few union leaders who represent only 17
percent of America's 80 million wage
earners.
My obligation is to serve the public
interest-and the public interest will be
served.
I have directed the Pay Board to con-
tinue, but as a single public unit, with
those labor leaders who wisely wish to
remain balanced by a reduced number of
business leaders. All will be public mem-
bers with the special perspectives of labor
and business represented in their delibera-
tions.
I have directed the Price Commission to
proceed on course, working alongside the
Pay Board to cut inflation in half by the
end of this year.
All rules and regulations remain in full
force.
The fight against inflation will go on
until the American consumer and the
American worker win the fight.
NOTE: On March 22, 1972, three members of
the Pay Board, George Meany, president of the
AFL-CIO, I. W. Abel, president of the United
Steel Workers, and Floyd E. Smith, president
487
