Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 28 [379]
address was broadcast live on nationwide radio.
Time for the broadcast was purchased by the
Committee for the Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released on
the same day.
378 Statement About United States
With the European Community.
I HAVE read with great interest the com-
munique issued by the leaders of the nine
countries of the enlarged European Com-
munity, demonstrating once again their
commitment to greater European unity.
At this important meeting, the members
of the Community have set an objective
of "transforming the whole complex of
their relations into a European Union by
the end of the present decade." The
United States strongly supports that ob-
jective. It is, and has always been, my own
deeply held view that progress toward a
unified Europe enhances world peace,
security, and prosperity.
It is also of the highest importance that
the United States and Europe work
closely together. For this reason I par-
ticularly welcome the Community's
declared intent to maintain a construc-
tive, forthcoming dialogue with us and
its commitment to a progressive liberali-
zation of tariff and nontariff barriers to
trade on a comprehensive basis during the
major multilateral negotiations to begin
next year.
Cooperation
October 27, 1972
On behalf of the United States, I wish
to reaffirm our commitment to work with
the members of the European Community
for reform of the international economic
system in a way which will bring about a
new freedom of world trade, new equity
in international economic conduct, and
effective solutions to the problems of the
developing world.
These are the objectives with which the
United States will approach forthcoming
negotiations on monetary and trade re-
form. We will be prepared to take bold
action with our European partners for a
more equitable and open world economic
order. The October 21 Summit declara-
tion is evidence that our European part-
ners are equally dedicated to the success
of these efforts. In the meantime, we look
to them for continued help in fostering a
climate of mutual cooperation and con-
fidence, and for a demonstration—
through positive action on pressing and
immediate problems-that these efforts
will be crowned with success.
379 Statement About Decision To Sign 37 Bills.
October 28, 1972
IN THE final weeks of its second session,
the 92d Congress enacted several dozen
separate pieces of legislation. I have given
a good part of my time during the last 10
days to a careful review of these bills.
Yesterday I announced my decision to
withhold my approval from nine of these
bills. Released with this statement today
will be a list of certain bills which I have
decided to sign.
1049
