[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
often have found ourselves in a situation
of stalemate-doing essentially nothing
even though most of us agree that nothing
is the very worst thing we can do.
Two years ago this week, and again one
year ago, my messages on the state of the
Union contained broad proposals for
domestic reform. I am presenting a num-
ber of new proposals in this year's mes-
sage. But I also call once again, with
renewed urgency, for action on our unfin-
ished agenda.
WELFARE REFORM
The first item of unfinished business is
welfare reform.
Since I first presented my proposals in
August of 1969, some 4 million additional
persons have been added to our welfare
rolls. The cost of our old welfare system
has grown by an additional $4.2 billion.
People have not been moving as fast as
they should from welfare rolls to payrolls.
Too much of the traffic has been the other
way.
Our antiquated welfare system is re-
sponsible for this calamity. Our new pro-
gram of "workfare" would begin to end it.
Today, more than ever, we need a new
program which is based on the dignity of
work, which provides strong incentives for
work, and which includes for those who
are able to work an effective work require-
ment. Today, more than ever, we need a
new program which helps hold families
together rather than driving them apart,
which provides day care services so that
low income mothers can trade dependence
on government for the dignity of employ-
ment, which relieves intolerable fiscal
pressures on State and local governments,
and which replaces 54 administrative sys-
tems with a more efficient and reliable
nationwide approach.
I have now given prominent attention
to this subject in three consecutive mes-
sages on the state of the Union. The House
of Representatives has passed welfare
reform twice. Now that the new economic
legislation has been passed, I urge the
Senate Finance Committee to place wel-
fare reform at the top of its agenda. It is
my earnest hope that when this Congress
adjourns, welfare reform will not be an
item of pending business but an accom-
plished reality.
REVENUE SHARING: RETURNING POWER
TO THE PEOPLE
At the same time that I introduced my
welfare proposals 22 years ago, I also
presented a program for sharing Federal
revenues with State and local govern-
ments. Last year I greatly expanded on
this concept. Yet, despite undisputed evi-
dence of compelling needs, despite over-
whelming public support, despite the
endorsement of both major political
parties and most of the Nation's Gover-
nors and mayors, and despite the fact that
most other nations with federal systems of
government already have such a program,
revenue sharing still remains on the list
of unfinished business.
I call again today for the enactment of
revenue sharing. During its first full year
of operation our proposed programs would
spend $17.6 billion, both for general pur-
poses and through six special purpose pro-
grams for law enforcement, manpower,
education, transportation, rural commu-
nity development, and urban community
development.
As with welfare reform, the need for
52
