[389] Oct. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
dren. This is a deep disappointment to
all-including the taxpayers-who are
the victims of the existing welfare mess.
In the next Congress, I will renew my
efforts to achieve a work-oriented welfare
program that will help all deserving peo-
ple on a fair and equitable basis-but
which will contain firm work require-
ments, and will not encourage idleness
by making it more profitable to go on wel-
fare than to work.
I
Despite this major omission, H.R. 1 does
give life to many of my recommendations
to improve the quality of life for older
Americans, the blind, and the disabled.
Social Security-It provides increased
benefits for 3.8 million widows and wid-
owers; it liberalizes the retirement earn-
ings test by increasing from $1,680 to
$2,100 the amount a beneficiary can earn
without having benefits reduced, a pro-
vision that will aid 1.6 million persons; it
establishes a special minimum benefit of
$170 per month for 150,000 persons who
have worked for long years at low wages;
and it improves benefits for men retiring
at age 62 and for those who work be-
yond 65.
Medicare/Medicaid-It extends Medi-
care to cover 1.5 million social security
disability beneficiaries; it limits the
monthly premium under Part B of Medi-
care, an expense I had urged be elimi-
nated; it permits optional Medicare cov-
erage through health maintenance
organizations; and it extends Medicare
coverage for kidney transplants and renal
dialysis--the cost of which is beyond most
individuals to workers under social se-
curity, and their dependents.
I am especially pleased that this legisla-
tion embodies my recommendation that
the Federal Government bear the full cost
of skilled nursing home inspectors to en-
sure that all such institutions meet the
standards that a dignified and humane
existence and the law-require.
Many of our nursing homes are of good
quality. But many others fall woefully
short of standards, and many patients are
forced to live their later years in institu-
tions which are unsanitary and unsafe,
overcrowded and understaffed. This in-
tensified inspection program will help
clean up such neglect and degradation.
H.R. I also contains an important pro-
vision, sponsored by Senator Wallace
Bennett of Utah, for the mandatory estab-
lishment of Professional Standards Re-
view Organizations which will review the
medical necessity, appropriateness, and
quality of services covered under Medi-
care and Medicaid. This will assure that
patients are getting exactly what they
need-and nothing which they do not
need-with the highest possible quality
of care all along the line.
The Needy Aged, Blind, and Dis-
abled-H.R. I will establish, beginning
January 1, 1974, a nationally uniform
system of benefits for people in these
groups. As delegates to the White House
Conference on Aging pointed out, these
people now are subject to great inequities
and considerable redtape inherent in the
present system of varying State programs
with different benefits, eligibility stand-
ards, and rules. The cost of this measure
for calendar year 1974 is estimated to be
$1.5 billion over what is being spent under
the current law.
The new national plan-one I have
long urged upon the Congress-will pro-
vide a minimum monthly benefit of $130
for an individual and $195 for a couple.
States currently paying higher benefits
1070
