[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
purpose of U.S. security assistance, there-
fore, is to ease and to speed the transition
to greater national self-reliance.
We know from experience that such a
transition is possible. A number of coun-
tries which were once dependent on large
amounts of U.S. aid have achieved or are
nearing self-reliance. Others are progress-
ing toward that goal, but need our support
if they are to reach it in safety.
We know also that until other nations
are more self-reliant, our common objec-
tives of partnership, strength, and inter-
national cooperation cannot be realized.
If both we and our friends are to be secure,
we must have a program of action. If we
are to ask others to assume an increasing
share of their own and free world de-
fense, then we must share the skills, equip-
ment and technology which will allow
them to share the burden.
-Cambodia is a striking example. The
Cambodian people have rallied to
resist the occupation of their home-
land by a determined and stronger
enemy. Assisted with U.S. equipment,
the Cambodian Army has grown
from 30,000 to approximately 200,-
ooo within less than 24 months. They
have greatly complicated the enemy's
efforts to supply its forces operating
against South Vietnam; and they
have strengthened their cooperation
with their neighbors as they seek to
meet the common threat.
-The Republic of Korea prospers with
a flourishing economy and a high
rate of growth. Behind the shield pro-
vided by its own forces and the
United Nations command, U.S.
forces have been reduced and no
longer man major defenses along the
DMZ. Our military assistance pro-
gram is making it possible for Korea
to complete the modernization of its
forces which is essential if Korea is to
provide for its own defense.
Security assistance also provides a
means whereby we can influence others
to limit arms races. Some maintain that if
we refused to provide military assistance
or to sell weapons, arms competition
would diminish in many areas. If we were
the only source of modern weapons, that
argument would be valid. But other coun-
tries which are sources of military arms
have not shown restraint. If we refuse
military assistance programs, we forsake
the opportunity such programs afford to
counsel moderation in arms acquisition.
Countries which perceive threats to their
security can and do acquire the weapons
they want elsewhere.
Our security assistance, like our other
programs, reflects our vision of a future
structure of peace in a world in which in-
dependent states cooperate for mutual
benefit. Our friends can be assured that
we will continue to help them meet their
defense needs through a well managed
and flexible security assistance program.
ARMS CONTROL
"I decided early in the Administration
that we should seek to maintain our secu-
rity whenever possible through coopera-
tive efforts with other nations at the low-
est possible level of uncertainty, cost, and
potential violence."
U.S. Foreign Policy for the 1970's
Report to the Congress
February 18, 1970
The nuclear era places on the two pre-
ponderant powers a unique responsibility
to explore means of limiting military com-
petition. Never before have weapons so
316
