[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Chinese alignment. There is no such align-
ment; neither of my summit meetings is
directed against any other nation. And
there were ample opportunities for the
Soviet Union to help prevent the Pakistani
political conflict from being turned into
an international war.
A more constructive approach to great-
power relations in South Asia--and else-
where--will be one of the goals I hope to
further in my discussions in both Peking
and Moscow.
A tragic irony of 1971 was that the con-
flict in South Asia erupted against a back-
ground of major developments, global and
regional, which had offered unprece-
dented hope:
-Globally, we could see the beginnings
of a new relationship between the
United States and the People's Re-
public of China; concrete progress
on important issues in U.S.-Soviet
relations; a maturing relationship be-
tween the U.S. and East Asia as the
Nixon Doctrine took effect and the
U.S. sharply reduced its military in-
volvement in Vietnam; the increasing
contribution of Japan in Asian af-
fairs; and efforts among industrial-
ized nations to create new economic
relationships increasing the trade op-
portunities of the developing world.
-Regionally, there were breakthroughs
in economic development. The
"Green Revolution" in agriculture
was laying the basis for industrial
development and steady growth.
Trade earnings were financing an in-
creasing proportion of development
needs, strengthening economic and
political self-reliance.
Our purpose now will be to recapture
the momentum of these positive develop-
ments. The 700 million people of the sub-
continent deserve a better future than the
tragedy of 1971 seemed to portend. It is
for them to fashion their own vision of
such a future. The world has an interest
in the regional peace and stability which
are the preconditions for their achieving
it.
PART V: THE IMPERATIVE OF
SECURITY
-Strategic Policy and Forces
-General Purposes Forces
-Security Assistance
-Arms Control
ASSURING NATIONAL SECURITY
"We do not seek power as an end in
itself. We seek power adequate to our
purpose, and our purpose is peace."
Address To The
Naval Officer Candidate School
March 12, 1971
National security is the paramount re-
sponsibility of any American President.
There has always been an essential con-
tinuity between administrations in meet-
ing this responsibility. Just as long range
decisions of previous Presidents have
shaped present capabilities, the choices I
make today will be crucial to our future
security.
Security issues in the 1970's are more
complex than ever before.
-The fundamental requirements for
our security are not as obvious today
as they were in the earlier bipolar era
when threats were less complex.
-Many citizens and legislators are un-
derstandably concerned over the high
cost of modern weapons systems, and
over the size of the U.S. share of the
304
