[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
to 139,000 by the first of February, if I
make another announcement of approxi-
mately the same level or at an even some-
what higher level for a period in the
future, that the number of Americans in
Vietnam will be down to a very low level
well before the election.
Now, the question arises then, can the
President of the United States, sitting in
this office, with the responsibility for 400
POW's and 1,500 missing in action
throughout Southeast Asia, because they
are also potential POW's, can he with-
draw all of our forces as long as the enemy
holds one American as a prisoner of war?
The answer is no.
So I would have to say that with regard
to the statement that I made to Time
magazine, our goal is to end the American
involvement in Vietnam before the end
of this year, and before the election, not
just because it is an election, but because
these are the ways our plans are working
out. Our preference is to end it by negotia-
tion. If that does not work we will do it
by withdrawal through Vietnamization.
But if POW's are still retained by North
Vietnam, in order to have any bargaining
position at all with the Vietnamese, North
Vietnamese, we will have to continue to
retain a residual force in Vietnam, and we
will have to continue the possibility of air
strikes on the North Vietnamese.
MR. RATHER. If you have to continue
both of those-and the likelihood at the
moment concerning the negotiating pos-
ture of both sides in Paris is that that is
very likely if you have to maintain a
residual force and keep open at least the
threat of additional air strikes, then how
can you campaign saying you have ended
the American involvement?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the important
thing is not how I can campaign with
regard to the American involvement, but
the important thing is whether the Ameri-
can people are convinced that the Presi-
dent of the United States has done every-
thing that he can to bring this desperately
difficult war to an end, and that he is
doing everything that he can in view of
dealing with international outlaws to pro-
tect American men and to get back Ameri-
cans who are held, as are our Americans
who are POW's at the present time.
Now, let's look at the situation when we
came into office. I remember the first day
I sat in this room. I looked at the number
of Americans in Vietnam, 539,000. I
looked at the casualty rates, averaging as
high as 300 a week. I saw that there was
no plan to bring any home. There was no
negotiating plan on the table at Paris. And
what has happened?
Well, we have brought 400,000 home.
As we have already indicated, the rate of
withdrawal will continue throughout the
next few months. We have reduced the
casualties from 300 a month-last week to
one to an average of less than 10 over the
past 3 months. Now, that is too many-
one American dying in war anyplace in
the world is too many as far as I am
concerned-but that is a considerable
achievement.
As far as the POW problem is con-
cerned, that is one that we unfortunately
are confronted with. But let me just give
this much hope to our POW people. I
believe that as the enemy looks at the
alternatives that they may decide, as they
see the American involvement ending,
that it would be well for them not to
retain our POW's and run the risk that it
would be necessary for the United States
to stay in Vietnam.
I know sometimes you and some of your
colleagues have pointed out, and with very
4
