[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
-We are continuing our program to
put multiple independently target-
able warheads on strategic missiles.
This ensures a credible capability to
retaliate. With these warheads, the
missiles which survive an initial at-
tack will still be able to strike large
numbers of targets and complicate
an enemy's defensive problems. They
also serve as insurance against
increasingly sophisticated missile
defenses.
-We are continuing development of a
new manned bomber to replace the
aging B-52s. This is an important
element in the mix of retaliatory
forces which provides assurance
against technological breakthroughs
and complicates an enemy's offensive
and defensive problems. We are also
improving penetration aids for our
strategic bomber force.
-We are decreasing the time it takes
our bomber force to leave the ground
on warning of an attack. We also are
relocating these bombers to bases fur-
ther from the coast to reduce the
threat from Soviet ballistic missile
submarines.
-We are designing a new long range
submarine-launched missile system
(ULMS-Undersea Long Range
Missile System). This system will al-
low our submarines to operate in a
larger ocean area where they will be
even less vulnerable to enemy anti-
submarine forces. The first version of
this missile can be placed in existing
submarines. We are also initiating a
program to build additional missile
submarines. This is particularly im-
portant at a time of increasing threat
to our land-based missiles.
-We are continuing an active research
program to ensure the survivability
of our forces over the long term.
-We are prepared to take additional
actions to increase quickly the capa-
bilities of our strategic forces
should unabated Soviet deployments
continue.
In considering the overall strategic bal-
ance, our ballistic missile submarine force
currently provides a compensating factor.
Although the Soviet sea-based ballistic
missile force is approaching numerical
parity, our missiles have longer range and
are being equipped with multiple inde-
pendently targetable warheads. Moreover,
our new submarines are now superior in
quality.
Thus our forces meet the test of
sufficiency.
BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE
In announcing the Safeguard ABM
program, I promised to review each phase
of the deployment to ensure that we were
doing no more than the existing threat
required. We have measured progress of
the program against the background of
SALT, our strategic policy, changes in
Soviet capabilities, and the development
of Chinese forces.
-Soviet strategic forces, even at cur-
rent levels, have the potential of
threatening our land-based ICBMs if
the Soviets choose to make certain
qualitative improvements. They have
the necessary technological base.
-The Chinese are continuing to de
velop a strategic offensive capability.
-The possibility of accidental attacks
remains.
These facts confirm the wisdom of the
decision to begin Safeguard deployment.
However, we may soon complete a
310
