Richard Nixon, 1972
[201]
June 15
See also Items 200 and 203.
President Echeverría spoke in Spanish. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
We Mexicans cannot help but remember
with great pleasure the fact that a few years
ago a little over 30 years ago-a young Cali-
fornia lawyer who had just married a delicate
and attractive schoolteacher, picked our coun-
try for his honeymoon. They took a long jour-
ney, made careful observations throughout
their journey, without knowing that destiny
would enable him some day to apply those ob-
servations more directly and more carefully
in this new relationship of ours that we are
working at perfecting.
We appreciate even more, however, the fact
that 25 years after that wedding trip, the
Nixons went back, with their children this
time, went back over the trail of their honey-
moon to show the children the various places
where they had traveled on that occasion.
And we believe, Mr. President, and Mrs.
Nixon, that especially on this second journey
when you went back with your daughters that
this was a testimony of your affection, of a
cordial expression of your sentiments that has
nothing at all to do with politics but is just your
personal opinion and sentiments towards this
country.
Mr. President, you have recalled the figures
of Lincoln and Juárez. Both men emerged vic-
torious from a very divisive civil war in their
own countries, a war that had rendered deep
divisions among their people.
Both of them in practice led their peoples to
the victory of the cause of what is right and
both of them consolidated the unity of their
people.
And what better than to recall them now
when the world is trying to emerge from an
era of deep divisions, is trying to find a path
under law, so that with justice we, as we
especially aspire to in the Americas, are trying
to solve the problems that affect us.
And so daily, as we seek to find solutions to
some of these terribly complex problems, some
of them so complex as to seem insoluble, I think
it is positive, therefore, to find our inspiration
in the best men produced by our history. And
it is right then that we should look back upon
these heroes of our past who with justice, recog-
nizing how-through their very efforts, their
arduous struggles, their daily sacrifices-how
they won victory for their countries and served
their people through that cause. Their best
reward for them was to achieve a victory for
the good cause that they espoused.
You had invited us in December of 1970 to
a small friendly dining room on the second floor
of the White House. On that occasion, Mr.
President, you told me that after I took office
that you would invite me and my wife to come
to Washington on a full state visit, which is
what we are in the process of engaging our-
selves in now, and that on this occasion we
would talk about a number of subjects that
you have just mentioned which then, as Presi-
dent-elect, I was not in a position to discuss.
Some might think that we have come to
speak on behalf of Mexico with frankness, per-
haps with excessive frankness, about some of
our common problems. But your various jour-
neys, Mr. President, to these two great world
powers of recent months have shown that we
are living new days indeed, and days in which
problems must be faced, and when we say face
problems it means show our face and face up
to the problems that do exist.
And so I ask and I will answer in the
affirmative before I even finish the question-
is this a new style that is being introduced into
international political life? Is this a new diplo-
matic style that we are using that is coming
from the Americas that will have effects on the
entire world? And the answer, as I said, is in
the affirmative.
Because this is a process of renewal, this new
style, this new approach that we are showing
in this hemisphere that will affect the entire
world. This is a very special style, a very effec-
tive style because it has a very great sense of
realism.
So we are in a sense rediscovering contem-
porary realism and facing up to our problems
close up and I think this will permit us to over-
come the crisis of our days.
Mr. President, in thinking of your tempera-
ment as a fighter, and your will to fight and to
win, we really could not find a full explanation
683
