Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 5 [285]
each person by the quality of his work
and the reach of his mind?
I say that America, to be true to her
highest ideals, must remain on the road
that makes way for individual ability.
In every case I have discussed with you
today, the difference in approach is not
a matter of degree, but a matter of princi-
ple. It makes no sense to gloss over the
fundamental difference in approach be-
tween those who believe in the "good
life" under the work ethic, and those who
vainly seek the "easy life" under the wel-
fare ethic.
Does the American workingman want
to turn over a large part of his economic
freedom, including much of his freedom
to bargain collectively, to economic
theorists who think they can permanently
manage the economy with a system all
their own?
Does the American workingman want
to turn over his power of decision on how
he lives his life and spends his earnings to
a powerful central government? Does he
want to trade away opportunity for the
false promise of government security?
Does the American workingman want
his country to become militarily weak and
morally soft? That is certainly not in the
tradition of American labor.
But the choices must be made. If the
workingman does not see the danger, if he
decides to sit out this election, the choices
will be made without him.
That is why I call upon working men
and women across the Nation to make this
Labor Day commitment: to understand
all that is at stake for them and their fam-
ilies and to make their decision out of a
conviction of what is best for themselves
and best for all the people of America.
I call upon American labor to speak
out and to turn out as it never has before:
-to defend the economic progress it
has fought for over the years,
-to move this Nation along the path
to full employment without inflation,
in a generation of peace, and
-to pass on to our children the respect
for the dignity of work that makes a
person strong and makes a people
great.
NOTE: The message was recorded for use on
radio. The President spoke from a prepared
text, and a copy of the text was released at
San Clemente, Calif.
285 Remarks Following a Meeting With the Citizens'
Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality
in San Francisco, California. September 5, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I will make a brief statement with re-
gard to the meeting in which we have
just participated. Then Secretary Morton
and Mr. Rumsfeld will brief the members
of the press and answer questions on this
project which we have been discussing
today.
With regard to the Gateway West proj-
ect, it is the companion project for the
two that we have been working on over the
past 2 years-Gateway East and Gateway
West. Between the two of them, 25 mil-
lion people will have the opportunity to
visit park areas. This is part of the pro-
gram of bringing parks to people, of not
having parks just for the sake of parks,
but having parks for the sake of people, a
87-234-7458
853
