[183] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
for Iran's impressive record in the devel-
opment of a strong economy and the suc-
cessful implementation of His Imperial
Majesty's "White Revolution." His Im-
perial Majesty outlined the main features
of Iran's new five year plan with particu-
lar emphasis on agro-industry and
socio-economic projects. The President
reiterated the readiness of the United
States to cooperate with Iran as appro-
priate in this extensive program and im-
portant enterprise.
The President and His Imperial Maj-
esty also discussed the worldwide narcotics
problem. They noted that Iran and the
United States were taking vigorous action
against the illicit international narcotics
traffic. Both took satisfaction in Iran's
effective measures to control domestic
opium production. The President ex-
pressed understanding of Iran's declared
policy to cease internal cultivation of the
opium poppy when Iran's neighbors also
cease internal cultivation of the opium
poppy. They agreed that the two govern-
ments should continue their close coopera-
tion in international forums dealing with
narcotic matters. The President noted
with appreciation the active support
provided by Iran at the recent United
Nations conference which adopted a
protocol amending the 1961 single con-
vention on narcotic drugs. The President
reaffirmed United States' support for re-
gional cooperation in solving international
narcotics problems.
Both sides expressed deep satisfaction
over the excellence of relations between
their two countries and the expectation
that they would continue in the future.
His Imperial Majesty stressed once again
Iran's determination to strengthen its de-
fensive capability to ensure the nation's
security. The President confirmed that
the United States would, as in the past,
continue to cooperate with Iran in
strengthening its defenses. They reaf-
firmed their respect for the sovereign right
of every nation to choose its own destiny
in its own way without any outside.
interference.
In expressing appreciation for the
warm hospitality shown him and Mrs.
Nixon, the President invited Their Im-
perial Majesties to visit the United States
at a mutually convenient time. The invita-
tion was accepted with deep appreciation.
NOTE: The joint communique was released in
Tehran, Iran.
184 Remarks on Arrival at Warsaw, Poland.
May 31, 1972
Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers
and all of our distinguished guests:
We express our very deep appreciation
to you for
your generous words of
welcome.
This, for me, is a very special moment.
While I was here 13 years ago with Mrs.
Nixon, I was here then in my capacity as
Vice President of the United States. And
now, at this very moment, for the first time
in the long history and friendly history
between our two countries, a President of
the United States stands on Polish soil.
It is fitting that this should be so, first,
because I bring greetings of friendship
from all of the American people to all of
the Polish people. And particularly as
you, Mr. Chairman, referred to them, I
652
