Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [59]
for all that you have done through the
years.
A final thought: When I announced to
the press today some of the items of the
schedule that we will be undertaking in
the trip to Mainland China, which will
begin next Thursday, I pointed out that
my schedule would necessarily be very
flexible because of the extensive talks I
would be having with the leaders of that
government and that those talks had to
take priority over protocol or seeing those
points of interest that anyone would want
to see in a country he had not visited
before.
But I also pointed out that Mrs. Nixon
would not have those inhibitions, that she
would have the privilege, and it will be a
privilege for her, as it was when she visited
Africa just a few weeks ago, and as it has
been as she has visited so many countries
all over the world during the years we
have been in and out of public life. She
will have the opportunity to, in this coun-
try, the most populous of all the nations
of the world, to visit their schools, their
hospitals, to see their people.
We know there are great differences in
our philosophies. There are great differ-
ences between our governments and they
are not going to be washed away by
simply a week's discussions, particularly
since there has been 20 years in which
we have had hostility and virtually no
communication.
But of this thing I am sure: If, on such
a trip, there can be just the opening of
communication, if the people of China
could only feel that the people of America
want peace with all people in the world,
that when children are concerned we care
about them, no matter what their govern-
ment may be, that where people who are
in distress are concerned, we care about
them, no matter what differences we may
have in foreign policy-this is what
America really wants to convey to peoples
around the world. We believe that that
may be possible, at least steps can be
taken in that direction in the brief time
that we are there.
But the main point that I make is this:
I look over this audience. About half are
women and half are men. Among the
leaders in volunteerism here, in addition
to the men who will all be properly recog-
nized, we have Eunice Kennedy Shriver,
who has been so active in volunteerism for
so many years, and Mrs. Romney, who
has been, also, so very active in volun-
teerism. And this tells us something else.
An interesting point that I have found
and that any of you who have studied
recent Chinese history will find, is that per-
haps one of the most significant changes
that has occurred in the 20th century in
that huge country that we know so little
about has been that women have changed
insofar as their status is concerned. I am
not suggesting in this respect that this
would not have happened had there not
been changes in government and so forth
such as have occurred there, but I do say
that for us in the United States to recog-
nize that in many parts of the world
women are now reaching a new state of
recognition and that we on our part should
demonstrate that we also have that same
standard, that this is a message on a
people-to-people basis that is enormously
important to get across.
I think that one of the most striking
things and the encouraging things about
volunteerism in America is that really,
* Lenore Romney, member of the Center's
board of directors and wife of George W.
Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development.
361
