Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
Meeting this challenge is not a task for
government alone. I have been heartened
by the efforts of millions of individual
Americans from all walks of life who are
trying to communicate across the barriers
created by drug use, to reach out with
compassion to those who have become
drug dependent. The Federal Govern-
ment will continue to lead in this effort.
The last 3 years have seen an increase of
nearly 600 percent in Federal expendi-
tures for treatment and rehabilitation and
an increase of more than 500 percent in
program levels for research, education
and training. I will propose further sub-
stantial increases for these programs in
the coming year.
In order to develop a national strategy
for this effort and to coordinate activities
which are spread through nine Federal
agencies, I asked Congress last June to
create a Special Action Office for Drug
Abuse Prevention. I also established an
interim Office by Executive order, and
that unit is beginning to have an impact.
But now we must have both the legislative
authority and the funds I requested if
this Office is to move ahead with its crit-
ical mission.
On another front, the United States
will continue to press for a strong collec-
tive effort by nations throughout the
world to eliminate drugs at their source.
And we will intensify the world-wide at-
tack on drug smugglers and all who
pro-
tect them. The Cabinet Committee on In-
ternational Narcotics Control-which I
created last September-is coordinating
our diplomatic and law enforcement ef-
forts in this area.
We will also step up our program to
curb illicit drug traffic at our borders and
within our country. Over the last 3 years
Federal expenditures for this work have
more than doubled, and I will propose a
further funding increase next year. In ad-
dition, I will soon initiate a major new
program to drive drug traffickers and
pushers off the streets of America. This
program will be built around a nation-
wide network of investigative and prose-
cutive units, utilizing special grand juries
established under the Organized Crime
Control Act of 1970, to assist State and
local agencies in detecting, arresting, and
convicting those who would profit from
the misery of others.
STRENGTHENING CONSUMER PROTECTION
Our plans for 1972 include further steps
to protect consumers against hazardous
food and drugs and other dangerous prod-
ucts. These efforts will carry forward the
campaign I launched in 1969 to establish
a "Buyer's Bill of Rights" and to
strengthen consumer protection. As a part
of that campaign, we have established a
new Office of Consumer Affairs, directed
by my Special Assistant for Consumer
Affairs, to give consumers greater access
to government, to promote consumer edu-
cation, to encourage voluntary efforts by
business, to work with State and local gov-
ernments, and to help the Federal Govern-
ment improve its consumer-related activi-
ties. We have also established a new
Consumer Product Information Coordi-
nating Center in the General Services
Administration to help us share a wider
range of Federal research and buying
expertise with the public.
But many of our plans in this field still
await Congressional action, including
measures to insure product safety, to fight
consumer fraud, to require full disclosure
in warranties and guarantees, and to pro-
tect against unsafe medical devices.
67
