[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
ness of the task which we both face. That
fact constitutes a solid basis for renewed
confidence in the future of U.S.-Japanese
cooperation, with all that such coopera-
tion promises for the mutual benefit of our
two peoples, and for the world's hopes
for a stable structure of peace and
prosperity.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY
"What has happened here is that the
whole free world has won, because as a
result of this agreement, we will have,
from a financial and monetary standpoint,
a more stable world."
Remarks Announcing the
Monetary Agreement of the
Group of Ten
December 18, 1971
The year 1971 marked a turning point
in the world economy. We undertook a
series of far-reaching measures which re-
vitalized our foreign economic policy and
set the stage for fundamental and long
term reforms in the international eco-
nomic system.
THE SETTING FOR CHANGE
In the immediate postwar period new
arrangements and institutions to govern
the international economic system were
established. At that time the United States
was the preeminent economic power in
the world and assumed primary responsi-
bility for the economic viability and secu-
rity of much of the non-Communist world.
We launched the Marshall Plan to help
Europe get back on its feet. We assisted
in the economic recovery of Japan. We
encouraged European economic coopera-
tion.
Along with other nations, we helped
to establish the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) to promote world mone-
tary cooperation; the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to create
a code and a mechanism for the orderly
conduct of international trade; and the
World Bank to assist reconstruction in
Europe and provide assistance to the less
developed nations. These formed the in-
stitutional basis of
basis of an international
economic system which promoted the ex-
panding flow of commerce and resources
needed to restore free world prosperity.
Since those institutions were estab-
lished, the world economy has undergone
major structural changes. Both the vol-
ume of commerce and the transfer of
financial resources have increased greatly.
The industrial capacities of Europe,
Japan, and Canada have grown rapidly,
and each is now a strong trading and
financial power. These new realities
needed to be reflected in both our foreign
economic relationships and international
institutions and arrangements. In 1971
our policies were directed at achieving
that objective.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY
After two decades of stability and prog-
ress, a series of crises beginning in the late
1960's had shown that the international
monetary system could not cope ade-
quately with the scale and severity of con-
temporary world monetary problems. In
1971 the situation reached critical
proportions.
Monetary crises in May and August,
and our deteriorating balance of pay-
ments position, convinced me that a major
realignment of currencies and reform of
the international monetary system were
necessary. On August 15, I instituted a
238
