Richard Nixon, 1972
June 13 [196]
195 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Reports
of Five River Basin Commissions. June 12, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit herewith the
annual reports of the five river basin com-
missions established under the Water
Resources Planning Act of 1965. These
reports are from commissions that have
been set up in the Pacific Northwest River
Basins, the Souris-Red-Rainy River
Basins, the Great Lakes Basin, the New
England River Basins, and the Ohio River
Basin and reflect the accomplishments
of each commission during Fiscal Year
1971.
The primary responsibility of each com-
mission is to develop plans for the best use
of its water and related land resources,
and to recommend priorities for imple-
menting its plans. These commissions,
though comprised of State and Federal
members, are established at the initiation
of the Governors of the States involved
within the commission areas. They are
unique in that they are neither wholly
Federal nor State, but rather jointly
financed partnerships working to develop
the resources of their respective regions.
The commissions provide an opportu-
nity for all interested persons, especially
the residents of the river basins, to con-
tribute to water resource planning. This
196
has become particularly important in re-
cent years because the wise use of our
natural heritage is a critical public
concern.
The substantial number of programs
which these commissions have already
begun will help to meet both existing and
emerging problems of water and land use
within their regions. They are also mak-
ing studies that will promote effective
solutions, with full recognition of the need
both to preserve and to enhance the
environment.
The White House,
June 12, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The five reports are entitled:
Pacific Northwest River Basins Commission:
Annual Report for Fiscal Year Ending
June 30, 1971 (44 pp.).
Souris-Red-Rainy River Basins Commission:
Annual Report-Fiscal Year 1971
(45 pp.).
Great Lakes Basin Commission: Annual Re-
port-Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1971
(21 pp.).
New England River Basins Commission: An-
nual Report-Fiscal Year 1971 (51 pp.).
Ohio River Basin Commission: Annual Re-
port-Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1971
(8 pp.).
Remarks on Transmitting to the Congress the Antiballistic
Missile Treaty and the Interim Agreement on Strategic
Offensive Arms. June 13, 1972
I AM sending to the Congress today the
nuclear arms limitation agreements that
I negotiated with the Soviet leaders in
Moscow.
I am convinced that these agreements
are in the security interest of the United
States. They will enable the United States
to maintain defenses second to none, de-
673
