[281] Aug. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
with pay in private industry. For our Gov-
ernment to operate efficiently in these in-
creasingly complex and demanding times,
we must have a civil service of the highest
caliber, and to recruit and retain these
necessary employees, we must offer them
a fair and just wage. Nevertheless, in our
efforts to stabilize and revitalize our Na-
tion's economy, it is also appropriate that
they be treated the same as employees in
the private sector, who are also able to
receive such an increase no more fre-
quently than once every 12 months.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
August 31, 1972.
282 Joint Statement Following Meetings With Prime Minister
Tanaka of Japan in Hawaii. September 1, 1972
1. PRIME MINISTER Tanaka and
President Nixon met in Hawaii August
31-September 1 for wide ranging discus-
sions on a number of topics of mutual
interest. The talks were held in an at-
mosphere of warmth and mutual trust
reflecting the long history of friendship be-
tween Japan and the United States. Both
leaders expressed the hope that their meet-
ing would mark the beginning of a new
chapter in the course of developing ever
closer bonds between the two countries.
2. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent reviewed the current international
situation and the prospects for the relaxa-
tion of tension and peaceful solutions to
current problems in the world, with par-
ticular reference to Asia. It was stressed
that the maintenance and strengthening
of the close ties of friendship and coopera-
tion between the two countries would
continue to be an important factor for
peace and stability in the evolving world
situation. Both leaders reaffirmed the in-
tention of the two governments to main-
tain the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation
and Security between the two countries,
and agreed that the two governments
would continue to cooperate through
close consultations with a view to ensur-
ing smooth and effective implementation
of the Treaty.
3. In discussing the increasing indica-
tions for peace and stability in Asia, the
Prime Minister and the President wel-
comed the recent opening of dialogue in
the Korean Peninsula, and the increas-
ingly active efforts of Asian countries for
self-reliance and regional cooperation,
and shared the hope for an early realiza-
tion of peace in Indochina. The Prime
Minister and the President recognized
that the President's recent visits to the
People's Republic of China and the
USSR were a significant step forward. In
this context, they shared the hope that
the forthcoming visit of the Prime Min-
ister to the People's Republic of China
would also serve to further the trend for
the relaxation of tension in Asia.
4. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent discussed the recent agreements
reached by the United States and the
USSR on the limitation of ballistic missile
defenses and the interim arrangement on
the limitation of strategic offensive mis-
siles, and they agreed that such measures
represented an important step forward
in limiting strategic arms and contributing
to world peace. They agreed to consult
844
