Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
decision and effort be shared within
the Alliance?
-What specific improvements in our
force posture were required to make
it effective for our strategy?
From our review, we concluded that for
the foreseeable future a major war in
Europe was unlikely. But it was evident
that Europe was still prone to crises as
long as East-West political issues were un-
resolved, and that the confrontation of
opposing forces raised a risk of conflict
unless NATO's forces were clearly suffi-
cient to deter and defend. Soviet military
power in Europe had grown, not dimin-
ished, over the decade, and was now being
projected beyond the Soviet periphery
into the Mediterranean, the North At-
lantic, and elsewhere.
In an era of strategic balance between
the U.S. and USSR, the more plausible
threats were those below the threshold of
strategic nuclear war. The Alliance there-
fore reaffirmed its consensus that it needed
a flexible strategy, resting on the deploy-
ment of appropriate forward defenses. We
could not afford to be dependent solely
upon conventional forces, because these
might be inadequate to prevent defeat of
our armies or loss of territory. Sole reli-
ance upon early resort to nuclear weapons,
on the other hand, would leave us no
option between capitulation and risking
all-out mutual destruction.
Twenty years ago, ironically, when our
conventional forces returned to Europe in
strength, the U.S. enjoyed a nuclear
monopoly and had perhaps less military
need of a massive conventional presence.
Today, when we no longer have this uni-
lateral nuclear advantage, a NATO con-
ventional option is needed as never before.
The nuclear forces of the United States,
supplemented by the nuclear forces of our
allies, remain the backbone of our deter-
rent. But in today's strategic conditions,
our willingness to defend ourselves is made
most credible by our willingness and abil-
ity to resist at every level of force or threat
of force.
Our Alliance review also determined
that improvements in NATO's ground,
air, and naval forces and logistical infra-
structure were essential to maintain the
balance with the Warsaw Pact's theater
forces. Our European allies, on their own
initiative, have launched high-priority
programs to make some of the specific
improvements required:
-For example, Warsaw Pact strength
in Central Europe rests primarily on
a superiority in tanks. Our allies plan
to add more than 1,100 new main
battle tanks and 700 medium-range
anti-tank weapons in 1971 and 1972,
and an additional 600 tanks and more
than 8,500 anti-tank weapons in
coming years.
-Additional European programs will
contribute more than 300 self-pro-
pelled heavy artillery pieces, 600
other combat vehicles, over 400 mod-
ern combat aircraft and helicopters,
and 20 ships in 1971-72, and an ad-
ditional 3,500 combat vehicles, over
500 modern combat aircraft and
helicopters, and 53 ships in the
future.
NATO's Nuclear Planning Group has
made important progress in its review of
key questions of nuclear doctrine. Some
doctrinal issues have required reexamina-
tion in the light of new strategic con-
ditions; a joint and better Alliance
understanding of the complexities inher-
ent in nuclear defense now permits the
refinement of other elements of our doc-
trine. Our review will continue. These are
225
