[58] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Vietnam, as well as the Government of
the United States.
The best example of that is the proposal
that I announced on January 25 and
which we had presented on October 11.
The offer on the part of President Thieu
to resign a month before the election was
his idea. And we included it in the pro-
posal. It was a very, in my opinion, a very
statesmanlike thing for him to do and
showed his devotion to the proposition of
trying to find a way to break the political
deadlock which has deadlocked these talks
all along.
Now, at this point, I can say that any
future proposals we make will be joint
proposals of the Government of South
Vietnam and the Government of the
United States. As far as we are concerned,
we have made an offer. It is forthcoming.
Many have said it is as far as we should
go. We are ready to negotiate on that
offer, we and the Government of South
Vietnam, but under no circumstances are
we going to make any further proposals
without the consultation with and the
agreement of the Government of South
Vietnam, particularly on political issues,
because the political issues are primarily
theirs to decide rather than ours.
And I would say also, that under no
circumstances are we going to negotiate
with our enemy in a way that undercuts
our ally.
We are not going to negotiate over the
heads of our ally with our enemies to over-
throw our ally. As I said in my speech on
January 25, we are ready to negotiate a
settlement, but we are not going to nego-
tiate a surrender either for the United
States, nor are we going to negotiate the
surrender of 15 million people of South
Vietnam to the Communists.
So, as far as President Thieu and his
Government is concerned, and our Gov-
ernment is concerned, the proposal that
we have made is a joint proposal. If there
are to be any changes in that proposal-
and we don't intend to make any unless
and until there is some indication that the
enemy intends to negotiate in good faith-
it will be a joint proposal.
The next step is up to the enemy. Our
proposal is on the table and it is going to
stand there until we get a reply from them.
VIETNAM AS AN ISSUE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, you have said in
the past that if the Democrats hope to
make an issue of Vietnam, that the rug
would be pulled out from under them. I
think that is a fairly accurate quote. Do
you feel that that issue now remains a live
issue, and are you disappointed that it
does still remain a part of the public
dialogue in so intense a way?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very disappointed
that the enemy has refused to negotiate
and I, as you know, have always pointed
out that we have a two-track approach to
ending the American involvement. Our
favorite track is negotiation. That could
have ended it in '69, '70, '71. We made
various proposals we think were the basis
for negotiation.
The longer track is Vietnamization.
That will end the American involvement
in a predictable time, as I think most of
us can see.
As far as pulling the rug out from under
those who criticize-and it is not a
partisan issue; there are Republicans as
well as Democrats who have disagree-
ments on this; I respect those disagree-
ments as far as pulling the rug out is
352
