[379] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
sibility for this program in the Depart-
ment of Commerce rather than in the
Department of the Interior as I would
have preferred-and as I called for in my
proposed land use policy act. This action
is not sufficient reason in my judgment
for vetoing the bill, but it does under-
score once again the importance of creat-
ing a new Department of Natural Re-
sources, as I have recommended, so that
we can reverse the trend toward the frag-
mentation and fractionalization of Fed-
eral programs and begin to coordinate
our environmental efforts more effec-
tively.
CONTROLLING NOISE
Still another important piece of en-
vironmental legislation which has grown
out of an Administration proposal is H.R.
11021, the Noise Control Act of 1972.
While a number of municipal govern-
ments have moved to control the rising
levels of noise in our country-particularly
in major urban centers-many of the
most significant sources of noise move in
interstate commerce and can be effec-
tively regulated only at the Federal level.
The new act will enable the Environ-
mental Protection Agency to set limits
on the amount of noise permitted both
from trucks, buses, and railroad trains
operating in interstate commerce and
from a variety of newly manufactured
products such as jackhammers and com-
pressors, automobiles, motorcycles, snow-
mobiles, motors and engines. It will also
permit the EPA to require the labeling
of noise emission levels on products such
as household appliances. It calls for a
9-month study of aircraft and airport
noise leading to a procedure for regulat-
ing aircraft noise in a way which is con-
sistent with maintaining aircraft safety.
GATEWAY RECREATION AREAS-EAST
AND WEST
Two environmental projects in which
I have taken a particular personal inter-
est are the Gateway National Recreation
Area [S. 1852] in and around New York
City and the Golden Gate National Recre-
ation Area [H.R. 16444] in and around
San Francisco Bay. I have recently visited
the sites of these recreation areas, and it
is with particular pleasure that I sign the
legislation which officially authorizes their
establishment.
The need for open space and recre-
ational opportunities is especially pressing
in our great metropolitan centers. These
two bills represent major advances in
meeting this need. It is estimated that the
Gateway National Recreation Area in
New York and New Jersey, a 26,172-acre
project, will serve some 9.5 million people
in the first year of operation and some 19
million people by the 10th year. The
Golden Gate National Recreation Area
will contain over 34,200 acres and will
serve an estimated 2 million people in the
first year
and 16 million by the 10th year.
Nineteen hundred seventy-two marks
the beginning of the second century of na-
tional parks in America. It is fitting that
we launch that second century by creating
two great new recreation areas which will
directly benefit so many Americans. I
plan to continue my emphasis on bringing
"parks to the people" through the dona-
tion of Federal lands to State and local
authorities for the development of parks
and recreation areas near population
centers.
1052
