Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 24 [103]
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, will you give us
your views on the general proposition of
large political contributions either by cor-
porations or individuals in terms of possi-
bly getting something back for it?
THE PRESIDENT. Nobody gets anything
back as far as the general contributions are
concerned in this Administration. As a
matter of fact, I think some of our major
complaints have been that many of our
business people have not received the con-
sideration that perhaps they thought that
an Administration that was supposed to be
business-oriented would provide for it.
As far as such contributions are con-
cerned, they should always, of course,
comply with the law.
Second, as far as those who receive
them are concerned, they must be ac-
cepted with no understandings, expressed
or implied, that anything is to be done as
a result of those contributions that would
not be done in the ordinary course of
events.
Let me just say on that point that look-
ing at ITT, which, as I understand, has
been a contributor to a number of political
causes over the years, it is significant to
note-and I would hope that the members
of the press would report this; I have not
seen this in many stories—it is significant
to note that ITT became the great con-
glomerate that it was, in the two previous
administrations primarily, in the Kennedy
Administration and in the Johnson Ad-
ministration. It grew and it grew and it
grew, and nothing was done to stop it.
In this Administration we moved on
ITT. We are proud of that record. We
moved on it effectively. We required the
greatest divestiture in the history of the
antitrust law. And second, we also, as a
result of the consent decree, required that
ITT not have additional acquisitions, so
that it became larger.
Now, as Dean Griswold pointed out,
that not only was a good settlement, it was
a very good settlement. I think under the
circumstances that gives the lie to the sug-
gestion that this Administration, in the
handling of the ITT case, just using one
example, was doing a favor for ITT. If we
wanted to do a favor for ITT, we could
just continue to do what the two previous
administrations had done, and that is
nothing, let ITT continue to grow. But
we moved on it and moved effectively.
Mr. McLaren 5 is justifiably very proud
of that record, and Dean Griswold is very
proud of that record, and they should be.
BUSING AND EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, could we dis-
cuss your speech the other night and your
moves on the problems of the schools, par-
ticularly with the blacks in our society?
There are those who feel that in the com-
bination of the constitutional issue that
has been raised, in which you have asked
that the courts have a moratorium, and
at the same time by putting more money
into black schools, what you are doing, in
effect, is going back to the old doctrine
of separate but equal facilities for blacks.
Could you comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I see that that
charge has been made and I can see how
that understanding, or misunderstanding,
could develop. But let me explain what
Erwin N. Griswold, Solicitor General, De-
partment of Justice.
5 Richard W. McLaren was Assistant Attor-
ney General, Antitrust Division, Department of
Justice, from January 1969 to February
1972.
49I
