Appendix B
January
22 The President has written to Clifford H.
Buck, president of the United States Olym-
pic Committee, expressing good wishes for
the 1972 Winter Olympic Team in Sap-
poro, Japan.
24 Mayor Frank L. Rizzo of Philadelphia met
with the President to discuss Federal-city
relationships.
26 Prime Minister Barend W. Biesheuvel of
the Netherlands met with the President
at the White House.
26 The President met with the Quadriad-
Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connal-
ly, Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council
of Economic Advisers, Director George P.
Shultz of the Office of Management and
Budget, and Chairman Arthur F. Burns
of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System-at the White House.
26 Representative Page Belcher of Oklahoma
and Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz
met with the President at the White House
to discuss agricultural and rural develop-
ment matters.
28 Dr. Rainer Barzel, leader of the Christian
Democratic Union of the Federal Republic
of Germany, paid a courtesy call on the
President at the White House.
28 Ambassador Yitzhak Rabin of Israel called
on the President to present the first vol-
ume of the Encyclopedia Judaica.
31 Joseph M. A. H. Luns, Secretary General
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion, met with the President at the White
House.
31 Brig. Gen. James D. Hughes, Military
Assistant to the President, who is being
reassigned to other duties, met with the
President at the White House. During the
meeting, the President presented him with
his second star as major general and the Dis-
tinguished Service Medal.
31 Guilford Dudley, Jr., who has recently
retired as United States Ambassador to
Denmark, called on the President at the
White House.
February
I The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
Convention on the Taking of Evidence
Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters.
I The Apollo 15 astronauts called on the
President to report on their recent 16-day
goodwill mission to Poland and Yugoslavia.
1 Fifteen Boy Scouts and Explorers presented
the Scouts' annual report to the President
in a ceremony at the White House.
1 At the President's suggestion, beginning
February 5, Ambassador George H. Bush,
U.S. Permanent Representative to the
United Nations, will visit Sudan, Kenya,
Zambia, Zaïre, Gabon, Nigeria, and Chad.
He will carry a message from the President
to the head of state of each country.
1 The President hosted a dinner at the
White House for Republican Governors.
2 Newly elected Representative Richard W.
Mallary of Vermont met with the President
at the White House.
2 Former Speaker of the House John W.
McCormack called on the President at the
White House.
3 Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield
breakfasted with the President at the White
House.
3 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
convention between the United States and
Norway for the avoidance of double taxa-
tion and the prevention of fiscal evasion
with respect to taxes on income and
property.
3 The President accorded the personal rank
of Ambassador to Joseph Martin, Jr., of
the District of Columbia, during the period
he serves as the United States Representa-
tive or Alternate Representative at meet-
ings of the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament in Geneva.
B-2
