Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 23 [316]
affiliation, that you don't have a choice, that
you only have one course to follow, and that is
the message that we ought to preach to all of
the precincts of this Nation, and that is: The
President of the United States should be
reelected.
And ladies and gentlemen, before I present
the distinguished President, may I also have the
privilege of asking my wife, Nellie, to come up
here and stand, because she has labored harder
and longer to put on this party than anyone.
And now it is my great privilege and high
honor to present to you a lady who is a lady in
every sense of the word, who has been a
magnificent helpmate, who has been as fine a
mother as any woman could be, who has a
steady hand, a calm hand, a reasoning hand,
always in the support of her President, in vic-
tory and in defeat, a lady who can walk the
streets of Moscow or the schoolrooms of China
and be at home and reflect nothing but great
dignity, great poise, and great credit on the
United States. Mrs. Nixon.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is a signal honor for
me, under these circumstances, to present to you
the President of the United States.
316 Statement About the Latest Economic
Statistics. September 23, 1972
THE LATEST economic statistics, issued
yesterday in Washington, confirm the
steady expansion in the purchasing power
of the Nation's workers-and Texans are
sharing fully in this healthy prosperity
trend.
This is greatly pleasing to me-it shows
we definitely are on the right track with
our economic policies.
In the year our new economic policy
has been in effect, the real spendable
weekly earnings of the average production
worker have increased by more than 4
percent-even after price increases and
Federal taxes have been accounted for.
For such a worker, that means his pur-
chasing power has gained more than $200
in the past year-the equivalent of two
extra weekly paychecks.
The plain fact is that American work-
ers have scored greater increases in spend-
able income in the past year than at any
time in the past 8 years.
The price statistics kept for Dallas, for
example, as part of the nationwide cost of
living calculation, indicate that Texans
are sharing fully in this mounting purchas-
ing power prosperity.
In Dallas, as in the Nation, the latest
consumer price statistics show that the
1969 rate of inflation has been cut by more
than half.
Inflation was running at a cruel 6.4
percent in Dallas in 1969, while the na-
tionwide rate was 6.1 percent. The rise in
prices has been reduced in the past year to
2.3 percent in Dallas and to 2.9 percent
nationally.
These statistics remind us what it was
like when this Administration first took
office. It then was necessary for the aver-
age U.S. worker to get a raise of more than
6 percent just to stay even in purchasing
power-any smaller increase meant his
family actually fell behind on the inflation
treadmill of the late 1960's.
We have made solid progress in the
battle against inflation, but that battle is
not yet won. We are determined to cut the
rate of inflation even more than we have,
in Texas and in the Nation.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Antonio, Tex.
901
