[278] Aug. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
-And, it includes various improve-
ments in the administrative machinery of
the Farmers Home Administration which
would facilitate more effective program
administration.
The most disconcerting feature of this
act is that it does not include one of my
most important proposals for rural devel-
opment, the substitution of special reve-
nue sharing for categorical grants, and
instead creates a number of new cate-
gorical grant programs. That means more
decisionmaking in Washington instead of
decentralized decisionmaking at the State
and local level where the pressing needs
actually exist. While this act is praise-
worthy in providing additional Federal
funds for community development, it
unfortunately will also bring Federal deci-
sionmakers into fields of community activ-
ity that were previously free from such
outside involvement. In addition, this
act-if fully funded-would add $400 to
$500 million in expenditures to the Fed-
eral budget at a time when it has already
been overloaded with large spending in-
creases by the Congress this
year.
In short, while I would have much
preferred that this act contain the provi-
sions which I proposed and reiterated last
February, I believe that it probably repre-
sents the best compromise which could be
enacted by this Congress. Even with the
shortcomings I have noted in this act, it is
a significant first step in our determina-
tion to strengthen economic opportunity
and community life through rural Amer-
ica. I do strongly urge, however, that the
Congress act quickly and affirmatively on
my government reorganization and spe-
cial revenue sharing proposals related to
rural development. They hold substan-
tially greater promise than this act does
for community development in rural and
urban areas. Because this act represents
an important step-but only the first of
several essential steps-I take pleasure in
signing it today. But I look forward to
early Congressional action on my other
proposals which would provide our com-
munities with the tools so desperately
needed to attain this Nation's objective of
balanced and beneficial growth.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, H.R. 12931 is Public Law 92-
419 (86 Stat. 657).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the provisions of the act.
279 Remarks on Arrival at Honolulu.
August 30, 1972
Governor and Mrs. Burns, Senator and
Mrs. Fong, Congressman Matsunaga and
Mayor Fasi, Admiral McCain, and all of
our very distinguished and fine guests here
in Hawaii:
Over the past 25 years, my wife and I
have received welcomes in 80 countries
and 50 States, but every time we come to
Hawaii we say there is nothing like a wel-
come in Hawaii, and we are most grateful
for the warm reception we have received.
I appreciate your signs. I see "Nixon
No Ka Oi." [Nixon is the best.] I know
what it means.
Governor Burns has very eloquently
described the purpose of our visit. Because
the rain is coming down a bit, I will not
take much of your time. I would like very
840
