Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [410]
That is what America needs and that
is what you are going to help us
give America by your support in this
campaign.
This morning I made a call to
a distinguished Senator from Maine,
Margaret Chase Smith. I wished her well
in her campaign for reelection. As I
spoke to her, I thought of the fact that it
used to be said in politics that as Maine
goes, so goes the Nation. However in
1936 that proved to be untrue. As you
remember, in that year Mr. Roosevelt
carried all the States except Maine and
Vermont. So Maine did not go the way
the Nation went.
I did a little studying before getting off
the plane today. I found that since the
time New Mexico became a State of the
Union in 1912 that New Mexico has
never voted for a loser. Let me say, you
are not going to vote for one this time.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:03 p.m. at a
rally at the Albuquerque International Airport.
He spoke without referring to notes.
410 Statement on Concluding Campaign for Reelection.
November 4, 1972
THIS election eve visit to California is
not only the last rally in a long campaign,
it is also my last such campaign appear-
ance as a candidate for public office. It
is fitting that it should be here, in Califor-
nia. This is my native State, and the State
in which I began my political career 26
years ago.
This moment calls forth many mem-
ories. But what is most important to me
is the fact that this campaign road is end-
ing on a positive note-a note of hope and
optimism for America. With election day
fast approaching, Americans can stand
united in the knowledge that, more than
at any time in this century, the hope for
a full generation of peace burns bright.
The world is a calmer, more rational
place today than it was 4 years ago. After
so much sacrifice, patience, and endur-
ance, the American people can finally re-
joice in the confidence that a fair and
honorable peace in Vietnam can soon be
achieved. In the world at large, 1972 has
been a year of greater achievement for
peace than any since the end of World
War II.
I am proud that my Administration was
able to make such great progress for
peace, and I am determined that just as
we have worked resolutely to achieve a
peace with honor and without surrender,
we will also achieve peace with prosperity.
And that prosperity must be real pros-
perity-a prosperity free of rampant in-
flation and ever-higher taxes. To this goal
my Administration and I are pledged.
The signs are hopeful. The new eco-
nomic figures announced this week give
us fresh evidence that a strong tide of real
prosperity is rising across the Nation. The
latest employment statistics reveal that
82,500,000 Americans were at work in
the month of October, nearly 300,000
more than a month earlier and more than
5 million more than when this Adminis-
tration took office.
Jobs are still increasing at the fastest
1127
