Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF
SECURITY
Economic progress and political stabil-
ity must rest on a foundation of security.
The central role we have played in pro-
viding the margin of security for the
nations of East Asia has enabled develop-
ment to proceed and national self-confi-
dence to thrive. Therefore, as we shaped
a new Asian role for ourselves, we recog-
nized a need to help create a greater
indigenous capability to ensure security.
In July 1969, I set forth at Guam my
concept of a new direction for our defense
policy.
First, I emphasized that the United
States would keep its treaty commitments,
while relating our concrete contributions
of troops and resources to changing condi-
tions in the area. To abandon the structure
so painfully built up over the past 25 years
would only invite new conflict or induce
sudden and unforeseeable shifts in align-
ments. Henceforth, however, we would
carefully weigh our interests in under-
taking new commitments, and we would
shun a reflexive response to threats and
conditions in the variegated context of
modern Asia.
Second, I affirmed our intention to pro-
vide a shield if a nation allied with us or
vital to our security were threatened by a
nuclear power. Here, too, we were con-
vinced of the need to forestall upheaval in
the international relations of Asia and
elsewhere. Our course would be to pre-
clude nuclear blackmail while discourag-
ing nations from developing their own
nuclear capability.
Finally, I stated our intention to help
meet other forms of aggression by provid-
ing military and economic assistance,
while looking primarily to the threatened
nation to provide the manpower for its
own defense.
These principles have stood the test of
experience, and I am confident that
Asians themselves have welcomed them.
By our actions as well as our words, we
have demonstrated that America remains
committed in Asia and determined to
participate in building its future.
-Our bilateral security treaties with
Japan, the Republic of China, the
Philippines, and the Republic of
Korea remain the touchstones of re-
gional stability. Similarly, our multi-
lateral security pacts--ANZUS and
SEATO-have made a valued con-
tribution to peace. They have been
and will be honored. In meetings this
past year we joined our partners in
the Southeast Asia Treaty Organiza-
tion (SEATO) and the ANZUS
Pact in noting encouraging trends in
the region, while reiterating the con-
tinued importance of cooperation
and consultation in the common de-
fense. These alliances have helped
provide the measure of strength that
now enables us to move toward a
dialogue with the Communist powers.
-We will continue to maintain suffi-
cient U.S. forces in the region to per-
mit us to meet our commitments.
Adjustments in our own military de-
ployments in Asia have come only
after thoroughgoing reviews with our
partners. If this country is to move to
a more balanced participation in
Asian affairs, it is essential that we
proceed from a shared understanding
of where we are going and how we
will get there.
-Our provision of substantial-and in
some cases increased-security and
economic assistance is indispensable
257
