[74] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
sure the safety of the foods and drugs
which Americans consume. Since then,
industrial and agricultural revolutions
have generated an endless variety of new
products, food additives, industrial com-
pounds, cosmetics, synthetic fabrics and
other materials which are employed to
feed, clothe, medicate and adorn the
American consumer.
These revolutions created an entirely
new man-made environment-and we
must make absolutely certain that this new
environment does not bring harmful side-
effects which outweigh its evident benefits.
The only way to ensure that goal is
met is to give the agency charged with that
responsibility the resources it needs to
meet the challenge.
My budget request for the Food and
Drug Administration for fiscal year 1973
represents the largest single-year expan-
sion in the history of this agency-70 per-
cent. I believe this expansion is amply
justified by the magnitude of the task
this agency faces.
In the past year, the foundations for a
modern program of consumer protection
have been laid. The FDA has begun a
detailed review of the thousands of non-
prescription drug products now marketed.
The pharmaceutical industry has been
asked to cooperate in compiling a com-
plete inventory of every drug available to
the consumer.
Meanwhile, I have proposed the fol-
lowing legislation to ensure more effective
protection for consumers:
-A wholesome fish and fish products
bill which provides for the expansion of
inspections of fish handlers and greater
authority to assure the safety of fish
products.
-A Consumer Product Safety bill
which would authorize the Federal Gov-
ernment to establish and enforce new
standards for product safety.
-Medical device legislation which
would not only authorize the establish-
ment of safety standards for these
products, but would also provide for
premarketing scientific
scientific review when
warranted.
-A drug identification bill now before
the Congress would provide a method for
quickly and accurately identifying any pill
or tablet. This provision would reduce the
risk of error in taking medicines and allow
prompt treatment following accidental
ingestion.
-The Toxic Substances Control Act
that I proposed last year also awaits action
by the Congress. This legislation would
require any company developing a new
chemical that may see widespread use to
test it thoroughly beforehand for possible
toxic effects.
NURSING HOMES
If there is one place to begin upgrading
the quality of health care, it is in the
nursing homes that care for older Ameri-
cans. Many homes provide excellent care
and concern, but far too many others are
callous, understaffed, unsanitary and
downright dangerous.
Last August I announced an eight-point
program to upgrade the quality of life
and the standards of care in American
nursing homes. The Federal interest and
responsibility in this field is clear, since
Federal programs including Medicare
and Medicaid provide some 40 percent of
total nursing home income nationally.
That HEW effort is well underway
now:
Federal field teams have surveyed every
State nursing home inspection program,
394
