[268] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
1924. He was a great, great builder of
men. He could take men who were not
too talented in football and make stars out
of them, except he couldn't do it with me.
I never made the team.
I
But I learned a lot sitting on the bench
talking to the coach. Believe me, that is
the way to learn something about it. I
was going to say I remember Chief New-
man. I went out for 4 years, went out on
the practice field, so I got into a few games
after they were hopelessly won or hope-
lessly lost, you know, when they put the
substitutes in, and finally the water boy,
and then me. That is the way it worked.
I remember one year, the last year,
came up to the Chief and I said probably
I shouldn't go out that year, because I
really couldn't contribute too much, and
he needed somebody to be on the taxi
squad to run the other teams' plays, and
he said, "Look, you really have to come
out." Then he said something very
inter-
esting. He was a man who used to talk
about winning and losing. His definition
of being a good loser is something that
affected me for the rest of my life.
You have all heard the traditional defi-
nition about being a good loser. "Oh, well,
it is just a game; forget it. Be a good loser.
Smile about it and try something else."
Not the Chief. He hated to lose, and he
told all of us on the team, he said, "You
have got to hate to lose." He said, "The
way to be a good loser is to commit your-
self that you are going to try again and
try harder." And when I told him, I
said, "Chief, I really think I oughtn't to
come out for the team this year," he said,
"No, you ought to come out." He said,
"Really, what is wrong is not losing. What
is wrong is not not making the team.
What is wrong is not trying. What is
wrong
is not playing the game. What is
wrong is when you lose, not getting up off
that floor and coming back and fighting
again."
Now, out here in this audience there
are a lot of young people-grade school,
junior high, high school. You are going
to win some battles and you are going to
lose some. You all aren't going to get into
politics, some will, but it is very hard to
lose and it is a lot of fun to win. I know.
I have done both. [Laughter] But I can
assure you, however, that in life it will be
that way. Sometimes you will apply for a
job and you won't get it and you will think
it is the greatest setback, but just remem-
ber it isn't losing that is wrong; it is quit-
ting. Don't quit. Don't ever quit. Keep
trying, because this country needs the very
best that you, the young generation of
America, can give to it.
Now I want to relate all of that to
present day, shall we say, politics. As you
know, there is an election this year. It will
be very exciting, as all elections are. It is
going to be particularly significant because
for the first time in the 195-year history
of this country, men and women 18 to 21
years of age will have the chance to vote.
The important thing, let me say to all
of you who may be voting for the first
time-naturally, I have an interest; I have
an idea of how you ought to vote
[laughter] and I am sure others would
tell
you something else [laughter]-but the
main point is getting in and playing that
game. Be for the candidate of your choice.
Don't sit on the sidelines. Don't fail to
participate, because the more that we
have your participation, the participation
of all of our people in our voting proce-
dure, the better this country is going to
be.
It has often been said that politics is too
important to leave to the politicians. Now,
806
