[367] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
367 Remarks in Uniondale, New York.
October 23, 1972
Governor Rockefeller, all of the distin-
guished guests here on the platform, and
all of you here in this great audience here
in Nassau:
Four years ago I had the privilege of
attending the windup rally in the State
of New York in the new Madison Square
Garden. I thought then that I would
never see a bigger or a better crowd. I
want to say tonight that here in Nassau,
in this new stadium, this is the biggest
and best rally, Joe Margiotta,¹ that I have
ever seen.
And there is something else that is new
here. There is this great, enormous num-
ber of people in front of me. I see you
and I know that you are young people.
Four years ago, at your age, you could
not vote. But predictions were made that
the young voters will be on the other side.
Let me say a majority of America's young
voters are going to be on our side this
year.
Governor Rockefeller, you have intro-
duced me very generously. I want to say
this to the great audience here in the
State of New York that we had a cere-
mony on Friday in Philadelphia where
an historic bill providing for revenue shar-
ing was signed. Credit was given on that
occasion to mayors and Governors and
Congressmen and Senators. I want you to
know that Governor Rockefeller deserves
the major credit. Without him, we would
not have revenue sharing today, and my
hat is off to him for it.
Now, tonight, as we are just 2 weeks
away from the election, I want to talk to
¹ Joseph M. Margiotta was New York State
Assemblyman and chairman of the Nassau
County Republican Committee.
you about something that perhaps at this
stage in a campaign you seldom hear. You
know that there are great differences be-
tween those who are seeking the office for
the Presidency today. You know that those
differences are honestly held by both men.
You know, too, that the choice that is to
be made is one that is bigger than party.
It is one that is as big as America itself.
That is the reason why this year not
only Republicans but millions of Demo-
crats and independents are joining us, be-
cause they are voting for what is best for
America.
Tonight I want to talk to you about
what those Four More Years can mean
to America. I do not want to talk about
those fears and hates that divide Amer-
ica. I want you, all of us in this country
and this great rally, to address ourselves
to the hopes and to the dreams that unite
America, that unite us, whatever our
party, whatever our background. Let us,
as Americans, look at the future of this
country, and let us work for and vote for
what we think is best for this country.
Let me begin, if I may, with, I know,
a subject that is much in the minds, as it
should be, of particularly the young people
here. That is the situation with regard to
the chance to have something we have not
had in this country in this whole cen-
tury—a full generation of peace.
In speaking to that subject, you will
remember the situation when we came
into office. You will recall that we had
had no negotiation whatever of signifi-
cance with the country or the government
that had the biggest number of people in
the world, the People's Republic of China.
You will recall that we were in constant
1016
