[411] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
America's history. That is what I ask for
tonight.
Now, if I could close with one personal
note, I mentioned a moment ago that the
last rally of the 1960 campaign was here
at Ontario. Tonight, as I drove through
this crowd, I was thinking back to the first
rally I ever attended or spoke to. It was
in 1945, November. That is quite a few
years ago, before most of this audience
was born. But as I was thinking back to
that, I thought of how good the people
of California have been to us: First to
the House of Representatives for two
terms, then the United States Senate, and
then 8 years as Vice President, out of
office for a period of 8 years, then back
in office again.
But I want you to know that looking
back over those years, in victory, the
people of California have enjoyed the
victory with us. In defeat, they have stood
412
by us, and we are most grateful for that.
This year we look forward to a victory,
but as we look forward to it, we know that
we owe it to thousands, yes, millions of
people in this State and across this Nation
that we will never get a chance to thank
personally.
Tonight, as I speak to you here in
Ontario, I think you should know that
this, of course, not only is the last rally of
this campaign that I will speak to, it is
the last time I will speak to a rally as a
candidate in my whole life, and I want to
say to all of you here who worked on
this, to all of you who took the time to
come, thank you very much for making
it probably the best rally that we have
ever had.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:40 p.m. at a
rally at Ontario International Airport. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Radio Address: "The Birthright of an American Child."
November 5, 1972
Good afternoon:
Next Tuesday, for the 47th time in
our Nation's history, Americans will cast
their ballots to choose a President for the
next 4 years.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a former
member of my Cabinet and a gifted ob-
server of the American scene, has made
the comment that "Elections are rarely
our finest hours. This," he said, "is when
we tend to be most hysterical, most
abusive, least thoughtful about problems,
and least respectful of complexity."
I think Americans want our democracy
to meet a higher standard than that. We
all want to make the election of 1972 one
of our finest hours, and we have the op-
portunity to do so.
We need to recognize, first, that poli-
tics is not merely some kind of game to
be played hard and played for keeps, with
everyone defending his own interests as
best he can. It is not just a competition
in which one man or one party seeks to
defeat another. It is not an auction in
which the prize of office is awarded to the
highest bidder for the favor of the voters.
Instead, in the highest sense, our
democracy is a sacred trust which all of
us who participate exercise together on
behalf of those who cannot yet participate.
One American in three-over 69
1134
