Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 27 [106]
be abolished, and if America's work in-
centive-job reward system is to be placed
within reach of every citizen.
We should never forget that it is pre-
cisely this system that has enabled us to
develop the highest standard of living-
with the most widely shared advantages--
in the history of the world. We should
continue to rely on it as we drive to close
the final gaps between economic promise
and economic reality.
On June 22 of last year the House of
Representatives, for the second time,
passed by a wide majority omnibus legis-
lation which would implement my overall
welfare reform. This legislation is now
being closely scrutinized by the Senate
Finance Committee, whose able Chair-
man, Senator Long, has assured me that
the committee will report H.R. I to the
Senate floor as soon as possible. H.R. 1
continues to have my full support, and I
hope that it will be enacted into law this
year in the basic form approved by the
House of Representatives.
We need reform this year so that, in-
stead of pouring billions more into a sys-
tem universally recognized as a failure, we
can make a new start.
We must not forget that H.R. I contains
basic reforms in social security and medi-
cal benefits, as well as welfare reform.
These benefits, by themselves, are path-
breaking in scope and impact—including a
further 5 percent benefit increase in social
security, the automatic adjustment of so-
cial security benefits in the future to make
them inflation proof, and a host of addi-
tional reforms discussed in my recent mes-
sage to the Congress on older Americans.
As I said in that message, even one more
year of delay in the passage of H.R. 1
would cost older Americans some $52
billion in annual benefits.
87-234-74-36
H.R. I clearly lies at the heart of eco-
nomic progress of millions of Americans
in 1972-and into the future. It is the
most important single piece of social legis-
lation to come before the Congress in
several decades. I strongly urge the Con-
gress to pass it as soon as possible this year.
No legislation should have a higher
priority.
THE WELFARE MESS WORSENS
When I first presented my welfare re-
form proposal to the Congress on Au-
gust 11, 1969, I declared that "America's
welfare system is a failure that grows
worse every day."
Nine hundred and fifty eight days have
passed since that message and that com-
ment. The welfare landscape today is a
greater fiscal and ethical wasteland than
ever:
-Injustice and inequities are wide-
spread: There are glaring differences be-
tween welfare benefits paid in various
parts of the country-they can range from
$60 a month to $326 a month for a woman
with three children, depending on in
which State she happens to live. More-
over, too many Americans can get more
money by going on welfare than by going
to work. There is no real requirement that
a recipient seek, much less accept, a job.
-The basic immorality of the system
still prevails: In most States welfare still
offers a man a bounty to desert his family.
-Incentive continues to be penalized:
A man working hard for low wages can
see neighboring families on welfare that
are better off than his own family.
-Millions of children suffer: They are
forced to live in degrading and deplorable
conditions because the present system pre-
cludes their families from any benefits.
501
