[317] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
317 Remarks to Members of Young Labor for
Nixon. September 23, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am very delighted to welcome you
here in the East Room of the White House.
I want you to know that after I speak to
you briefly that some refreshments are
available. It is a little early, but they will
be very nice. A little coffee and the best
hors d'oeuvres you can possibly imagine,
and all of you are young, so eat them up so
that we won't have to eat them tomorrow.
I was under the impression that this
was "Young Labor for the President," or
"Young Labor for Nixon," and as I went
along, you know, people were reaching out
handing me things. This is an interesting
thing. I guess that is the hardhat vote, so
I will put that in there. [Laughter] And
some fellow gave me a cigar and since it
said "Young Labor for the President," I
said, "Your daughter?" He said, "No, my
granddaughter." So we have one that is a
little older.
Then one little boy-here he is right
here in front-shook hands with me, and
I said, "Well, you are not old enough, are
you?" And he said, "Oh, not to vote, but
old enough to work." [Laughter] There is
a little girl over there.
Let me say in speaking to you, I know
that you have had a very heart-warming
announcement today. I am most grateful
for that support. I know, too, that you
have come from most of the States in this
eastern seaboard. I know, too, that giving
up a Saturday, when you have been doing
a lot of work all week, is somewhat of a
sacrifice to come here, and we want you
to feel very much at home. I want you to
remember this visit as one that was worth
coming to, worth coming here.
I would like to speak to you in terms of
what this election is about, not in partisan
terms of Democrats versus Republicans,
or one individual against another, but
in terms that I was trying to describe
last night in speaking to a group in
Texas. There were leaders from all over
the country of an organization called
Democrats for Nixon. And when I
addressed them, I said, of course, in a
personal sense I liked the name of the or-
ganization, but I said, on the other hand,
in a larger sense I would prefer another
name. Rather than saying "Democrats
for Nixon," why not "Democrats for
America." That is what it is really all
about.
I would like for you to think in those
terms. You have the wonderful asset of
being young. You have all those great
years ahead of you, and they will be good
years I am sure, better years than any
generation in our history. We are all work-
ing for that.
But being young, and looking ahead,
you think of your country and America,
and whatever your party, whatever your
background, whatever you are doing,
whatever job you have, you want this
country to be better, you want it to play
the role that it should play in making a
better world, and that is what I have been
trying to work for. That is what every
President tries to work for, be he a Demo-
crat or Republican.
So, in telling you why I think many of
you are here, let me say that I believe one
of the reasons is that you believe that
America needs to be strong, strong not
simply in the sense of being bigger than
902
