Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
ities for their children. The lower income
countries today are meeting the major
part of their development needs through
their own resources. And, although con-
tinuing to need foreign assistance, most
are now highly effective in setting their
own development priorities and in utiliz-
ing the aid they receive.
When this Administration assumed
office, we undertook a thorough reexami-
nation of our foreign assistance program.
We needed an accurate picture of what
we wanted aid to achieve. And we needed
a clear concept of how our foreign assist-
ance program should be restructured to
meet our objectives in the 1970's.
During the latter part of 1969 and the
beginning of 1970, my Task Force on
International Development, chaired by
Mr. Rudolph Peterson, undertook a com-
prehensive study of our entire foreign
assistance program. Subsequently, other
government agencies studied that group's
report and provided their own views.
After close review of these, I proposed
legislation embodying a new approach to
foreign assistance.
A New Approach for the 1970's. The
first step was to understand clearly the
objectives of our foreign assistance effort.
Under the existing structure, develop-
ment, humanitarian, and security assist-
ance had been combined under the
Foreign Assistance Act. Economic and
social objectives had tended to become
entwined with security objectives. Some
attempted to justify development assist-
ance on the grounds that it could win
friends, convert nations to our way of
thinking, and thereby serve our security
needs. Others justified security assistance
on developmental, as well as security,
grounds. And while there are situations in
which these justifications have merit, pres-
entation of the program in this way con-
fused their main purposes.
There are three types of foreign assist-
ance, which can effectively serve three
main objectives.
-Security assistance (including mili-
tary aid and economic supporting
assistance) is vital to help friendly
countries develop the capability to
defend themselves.
-Humanitarian assistance helps coun-
tries struck by natural disasters or the
human consequences of political
upheaval.
-Economic aid assists lower income
countries in their efforts to achieve
economic and social progress.
In order to enable us to distinguish
between these objectives and fix program
responsibility for each, it was essential to
present them clearly and establish an ad-
ministrative and policy structure for each.
In my April 21 message to the Congress,
therefore, I proposed two bills: one for
International Security Assistance and the
other for International Development and
Humanitarian Assistance thereby sepa-
rating them for the first time. To assure
more effective policy control and manage-
ment, I proposed that a Coordinator of
Security Assistance be established in the
Department of State, and that responsi-
bility also be centralized for coordinating
humanitarian assistance programs.
Development Assistance. The most de-
tailed and comprehensive proposals in my
April 21 message pertained to develop-
ment assistance. Reform was clearly
called for.
The Agency for International Develop-
ment was established at a time when it
was incumbent upon the United States to
play the major role in the foreign assist-
ance effort. That Agency's past leadership
249
