Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 30 [393]
sion programs more comprehensive and
more reliable, for example, and to let
older people receive more tax-free income.
Inflation is a special menace to the in-
come of older Americans. Since 1969, we
have cut the rate of inflation almost in
half. In the area of medical care prices,
we have cut inflation by nearly two-
thirds-an achievement which is particu-
larly important to older people because
they spend more than three times as much
per capita on health care as do younger
people.
And we are also moving to relieve the
property tax burden which falls so heavily
on older citizens. Two-thirds of older
Americans own their own homes. Yet,
even when their income has gone down
because of retirement, their property taxes
have kept going up-by more than 100
percent in the last 10 years. The result:
The home which was once a symbol of
financial independence too often becomes
a cause of financial hardship.
There are over 6 million American
homeowners who are more than 65 years
old. More than one million of these re-
tired Americans live in their own homes
on an income of less than $2,000 a year.
In the Northeast, to take one example,
these elderly citizens are paying an aver-
age of 30 percent of their income in prop-
erty taxes.
This is wrong. We must stop it. One of
my highest priority proposals to the new
Congress will be property tax relief for
older Americans.
Another problem which is of critical
concern for older Americans-and for
this Administration-is the quality of our
nursing homes. Many of them are doing
a good job, but too many have been below
recent and decent standards. In 1971, I
launched a new eight-point action plan to
change this. Under that plan, we have
already cut off Federal funding to hun-
dreds of hopelessly inferior homes. H.R. 1
will permit the hiring and training of
2,000 inspectors to enforce strict regula-
tions. And we have substantially expanded
Federal efforts to make all nursing homes
brighter and better places.
We also want to help more older Amer-
icans live decent, dignified lives in the
familiar settings of their own homes. This
is why we have increased budgeting under
the Older Americans Act eightfold in the
last 4 years, expanding a wide range of
services in fields such as health, education,
homemaking, counseling, and nutrition.
While the Older Americans bill is being
perfected in the months ahead, these pro-
grams will all move forward under a con-
tinuing resolution. We have also taken
special steps to fight crime in areas where
older people are living, to provide more
housing and transportation for older
people, to fight job discrimination based
on age, and to expand opportunities for
older people to find self-fulfillment in use-
ful voluntary action. We have doubled
the budget for the Foster Grandparent
Program. We have tripled the budget for
the Retired Senior Volunteer Program.
2 See 1971 volume, Items 259 and 260.
On July 19, 1972, the White House released
a fact sheet on progress on the eight-point im-
provement program for nursing homes and the
transcript of a news briefing on a meeting with
the President to report on the program. Par-
ticipants in the news briefing were John G.
Veneman, Under Secretary, Dr. Merlin K.
DuVal, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Health and
Scientific Affairs, and Dr. Marie Callender,
Special Assistant for Nursing Home Affairs,
Department of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare; and Arthur S. Flemming, Special Con-
sultant to the President on Aging.
87-234-74-72
1077
