Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
ber of its overseas officials to the low-
est level since the Agency was
founded.
-The Overseas Private Investment
Corporation came into being in
January 1971. Through its insurance
services and other investment incen-
tives, it has stimulated investment
by U.S. firms in constructive projects
in the developing countries.
These changes have significantly im-
proved our foreign assistance program,
and AID will institute further reforms
during 1972. I am pleased by this progress
and believe it merits strong support.
I was distressed by the Congressional
action on foreign assistance during the
latter part of last year. The 10 percent
reduction in foreign aid which I ordered
in August was effected as a budgetary
measure at a time when Americans also
were asked to sacrifice. It did not signal
a renunciation of the commitment of this
Administration to assist the developing
countries. It did not justify the action
taken by the Senate in November which
almost abolished our entire aid program.
This action, subsequent Congressional
treatment of the aid program, and the
large cuts in the aid levels I requested are
of serious concern to those of us who real-
ize the importance of this program, and to
friendly nations who look to us for assist-
ance. The vital role of foreign assistance
and the progress which is being made
deserve the support of the American peo-
ple and the Congress.
Expropriation. Because of the signifi-
cance of this issue, I recently clarified our
policy on the protection of U.S. private
investment overseas. Henceforth, should
an American firm be expropriated without
reasonable steps to provide prompt, ade-
quate and effective compensation, there
is a presumption that the expropriating
country would receive no new bilateral
economic benefits until such steps have
been taken, unless major factors affecting
our interests require us to do otherwise.
Similarly, we would withhold our support
for loans to that country in multilateral
development institutions, under the same
presumption. And, because expropriation
is a concern of many countries, we are
placing greater emphasis on the use of
multilateral mechanisms for dealing with
this problem. We urge greater use of the
International Center for the Settlement
of Investment Disputes and support fully
the early establishment of the Interna-
tional Investment Insurance Agency.
Multilateral Assistance. A necessary
complement to the more effective bilateral
program we are attempting to build, and
a major element in my new approach to
foreign assistance, is a broader interna-
tional sharing of responsibility for the
development assistance effort.
We will need the same degree of inter-
national cooperation in development as-
sistance as is necessary in the areas of
monetary and trade policy. We fully sup-
port a strengthened international effort
for development through our membership
in the multilateral development institu-
tions and various consortia and consulta-
tive groups, through United Nations
specialized agencies and the United Na-
tions Development Program, and through
our continued participation in the Devel-
opment Assistance Committee of the
OECD.
The assistance we provide through the
multilateral institutions is of special im-
portance to the development effort. These
institutions have made outstanding prog-
ress in providing vitally needed aid and in
assuming an effective leadership role. We
251
