[14] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
We believe in full and equal oppor-
tunity for all Americans and in the protec-
tion of individual rights and liberties.
We believe in the family as the keystone
of the community, and in the community
as the keystone of the Nation.
We believe in compassion toward those
in need.
We believe in a system of law, justice,
and order as the basis of a genuinely free
society.
We believe that a person should get
what he works for-and that those who
can, should work for what they get.
We believe in the capacity of people to
make their own decisions in their own.
lives, in their own communities—and we
believe in their right to make those
decisions.
In applying these principles, we have
done so with the full understanding that
what we seek in the seventies, what our
quest is, is not merely for more, but for
better for a better quality of life for
all Americans.
Thus, for example, we are giving a new
measure of attention to cleaning up our
air and water, making our surroundings
more attractive. We are providing broader
support for the arts, helping stimulate a
deeper appreciation of what they can con-
tribute to the Nation's activities and to our
individual lives.
But nothing really matters more to the
quality of our lives than the way we treat
one another, than our capacity to live
respectfully together as a unified society,
with a full, generous regard for the rights
of others and also for the feelings of others.
As we recover from the turmoil and vio-
lence of recent years, as we learn once
again to speak with one another instead
of shouting at one another, we are regain-
ing that capacity.
As is customary here, on this occasion,
I have been talking about programs. Pro-
grams are important. But even more im-
portant than programs is what we are as a
Nation-what we mean as a Nation, to
ourselves and to the world.
In New York Harbor stands one of the
most famous statues in the world-the
Statue of Liberty, the gift in 1886 of the
people of France to the people of the
United States. This statue is more than a
landmark; it is a symbol-a symbol of
what America has meant to the world.
It reminds us that what America has
meant is not its wealth, and not its power,
but its spirit and purpose-a land that
enshrines liberty and opportunity, and
that has held out a hand of welcome to
millions in search of a better and a fuller
and, above all, a freer life.
The world's hopes poured into
America, along with its people. And those
hopes, those dreams, that have been
brought here from every corner of the
world, have become a part of the hope
that we now hold out to the world.
Four years from now, America will cele-
brate the 200th anniversary of its found-
ing as a Nation. There are those who say
that the old Spirit of '76 is dead-that we
no longer have the strength of character,
the idealism, the faith in our founding
purposes that that spirit represents.
Those who say this do not know
America.
We have been undergoing self-doubts
and self-criticism. But these are only the
other side of our growing sensitivity to the
persistence of want in the midst of plenty,
of our impatience with the slowness with
which age-old ills are being overcome.
If we were indifferent to the shortcom-
ings of our society, or complacent about
our institutions, or blind to the lingering
40
