Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 28 [382]
-I will ask the Congress to amend the
Federal drug statutes so as to require
tough, mandatory sentences for heroin
traffickers.
-I will not hesitate to suspend all
military and economic assistance to any
country which condones or protects the
international drug traffic.
-I will continue to carry out my 10-
year reform program for the Federal
prison system.
My goal for the next 4 years is for every
American city to begin realizing the kind
of victories in the war on crime which
we have already achieved in the Nation's
Capital-where the crime rate has been
cut in half since my Administration took
office, and where heroin overdose deaths
have almost disappeared.
This kind of progress can and must be
made all across America. By winning the
war on crime and drugs, we can restore
the social climate of order and justice
which will assure our society of the free-
dom it must have to build and grow.
NOTE: The statement was released at Cleve-
land, Ohio, prior to an 85-mile Presidential
motorcade through eastern Ohio communities
between Cleveland and Youngstown.
382 Campaign Statement About the Nation's Economy.
October 28, 1972
A DYNAMIC economic expansion is
surging all across America. Today, more
people are at work earning more real
spendable income than ever before in our
history. This record of economic success
is particularly evident here in Ohio.
Across the entire State, more people are
working than in 1971. And the rate of un-
employment in Ohio-4.1 percent in the
latest available measurement-is well
below the 1971 Ohio rate.
In every major city in Ohio except one,
in fact, the current unemployment is less
than the national average and substan-
tially below the Ohio rate of 1971. In
Cleveland, the largest city, the rate was
4.0 percent according to the latest
statistics.
Cleveland also is doing remarkably well
at holding back the cost of living. In the
latest available reports, prices were up
only 2.4 percent over a year ago. That
amounted to a reduction of more than
half in the former 6.1-percent rate of price
increase that was hitting the people of
Cleveland 3 years ago.
Nationally, the evidence proves that
our current economic policies are work-
ing to enable our people to produce a
better material life for themselves and
their families:
-In the past year, we have added $105
billion to our gross national product. That
is a healthy 7-percent expansion rate.
-There are now 82 million Americans
at work, an alltime record, and in the
past year jobs increased by a near-record
22 million.
-Real spendable earnings for the aver-
age production worker are rising at a
rate of over 4 percent a year-the equiv-
alent of two extra weekly paychecks.
-Continued strong economic activity
in the future is assured by all advance
indicators of job-building action. In Au-
gust, for example, new orders for non-
1059
