Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 25 [318]
There must be a thoroughgoing reform
of the world monetary system to clear the
path for the healthy economic competition
of the future.
We must see monetary reform as one
part of a total reform of international
economic affairs encompassing trade and
investment opportunity for all.
We must create a realistic code of eco-
nomic conduct to guide our mutual rela-
tions-a code which allows governments
freedom to pursue legitimate domestic
objectives, but which also gives them good
reason to abide by agreed principles of in-
ternational behavior.
Each nation must exercise the power of
its example in the realistic and orderly
conduct of internal economic affairs so
that each nation exports its products and
not its problems.
We can all agree that the health of the
world economy and the stability of the
international economic system rests largely
on the successful management of domestic
economies. The United States recognizes
the importance of a strong, noninflation-
ary domestic economy, both in meeting
the needs of our own citizens and in con-
tributing to a healthy world economy.
We
are firmly committed to reaching our goals
in this country of strong growth, full em-
ployment, price stability.
We are encouraged by the record of our
current economic performance. We are
now experiencing one of the lowest rates
of inflation, one of the highest rates of real
economic growth, of any industrial nation.
Recent gains in the productivity and the
real income of American workers have
been heartening. We intend to continue
the policies that have produced those
gains.
We also recognize that, over the longer
term, domestic policies alone cannot solve
international problems. Even if all coun-
tries achieved a very large measure of suc-
cess in managing their own economies,
strains and tensions could arise at points
of contact with other economies.
We cannot afford a system that almost
every year presents a new invitation to a
monetary crisis in the world. And that is
why we face the need to develop proce-
dures for prompt and orderly adjustment.
It is very easy for me to use the term
"prompt and orderly adjustment." And
many would say that that is a term that
only concerns bankers and finance minis-
ters and economists. But that phrase
"prompt and orderly adjustment” in in-
ternational monetary matters encompasses
the real problems of working men and
women, the fears and hopes of investors
and managers of large and small busi-
nesses, and, consequently, it is the concern
of the political leadership of every nation
represented in this group today. No nation
should be denied the opportunity to ad-
just, nor relieved of the obligation to
adjust.
In the negotiations ahead, there will be
differences of opinion and approaches.
You saw some of those differences at the
Smithsonian not a year ago, even. I had
the opportunity to see them at another
level in meetings with President Pompidou
in the Azores, with Prime Minister Heath
at Bermuda, with Chancellor Brandt in
Florida, with Prime Minister Sato in Cali-
fornia, and I know how intricate, how
difficult the problems are that you will be
considering at these meetings. Immediate
interests inevitably will seem to be in con-
flict, and there will be times when impasses
87-234-74- -61
909
