Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [58]
Israeli. As a matter of fact we were pro-
British and pro-French and pro-Israeli,
but we were against war more.
As far as India is concerned, for 25
years-and those of you who have fol-
lowed me in the House will know this, as
a Member of the House, a Member of the
Senate, as Vice President, when I was out
of office, and now as President-I have
supported every Indian aid program. I
believe it is very important for the world's
largest non-Communist country to have a
chance to make a success of its experiment
in democracy, in comparison with its great
neighbor to the north, which is the world's
largest Communist country. That and, of
course, other reasons, of course, are
involved.
But as far as being anti-Indian is con-
cerned, I can only say I was antiwar. We
did everything that we could to avoid the
war, as I pointed out. At this point, we
are going to do everything that we can
to develop a new relationship with the
countries on the subcontinent that will be
pro-Indian, pro-Bengalese, pro-Pakistan,
but mostly pro-peace.
That is what that part of the world
needs. A million were killed in the war of
partition. That is probably a modest fig-
ure. And then they went through the ter-
rible agony again in 1965, and now they
have gone through it again.
It was Prime Minister Nehru who told
me that more than anything else what the
subcontinent needed was a generation of
peace. That is where I got the phrase.
Now as far as we were concerned, I
believed that our policies-certainly, we
may have made mistakes-but our pol-
icies had the purpose of avoiding the war,
of stopping it once it began, and now of
doing everything we can to heal up the
wounds.
ANDERSON PAPERS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, has the Ad-
ministration discovered, sir, who was the
source of the papers that were leaked to
Mr. Anderson, and are you planning any
action against that person if you know
who it is?
5
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, we have a
lot of circumstantial evidence. Second, as
a lawyer, I can say that we do not have
evidence that I consider adequate or that
the Attorney General considers adequate
to take to court. You can be sure that the
investigation is continuing. If the investi-
gation gets a break which provides the
kind of evidence which will stand up in
court, we will present it, but we cannot
go to court on circumstantial evidence.
EXPRESSION OF VIEWS BY CANDIDATES
[15.] Q. Mr. President, a few moments
ago you discussed your stand in 1968 in
regard to the peace negotiations. We
know now that there was really very little
possibility
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
you know it now, but I said it then, over
and over again, to those who had to listen
to my speech-I only had one in 1968, as
you recall. [Laughter] That is what you
wrote anyway.
But I pointed out that I thought there
was very little chance, but I said as long-
and this was my phrase, I just read it this
morning-as long as there was any chance
whatever-and I could not be sure, be-
" Jack N. Anderson, columnist, Bell-McClure
Syndicate, published four columns on Janu-
ary 9-12, 1972, disclosing information from
confidential meetings of the Washington Spe-
cial Actions Group about Administration
policy on the India-Pakistan war.
357
