[250] Aug. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
much of the proposed legislation has been
the subject of congressional hearings,
where it has attracted heartening interest
and support. However, the record of final
congressional action is entirely inade-
quate, with more than 20 major environ-
mental proposals still pending.
Last month, I signed an important Port
and Waterways Safety Act into law. This
new law, which I proposed in May 1970,
will help protect our inland waters from
oil and other hazardous pollutant spills.
This is a welcome beginning, but passage
of my other major proposals to give us
effective tools to deal with the environ-
mental challenge-together with creation
of a new Department of Natural Re-
sources will be essential, in my judg-
ment, if we are to have an adequate base
for improving environmental quality. I
urge the Congress to complete final action
on responsible legislation to give us au-
thority to upgrade water quality and to
control the dumping of wastes at sea. We
urgently need the new controls I have pro-
posed over the use of toxic substances such
as mercury, over the increasing problem
of excessive noise, and over the misuse
of chemical pesticides.
I have proposed a Toxic Wastes Dis-
posal Control Act under which the En-
vironmental Protection Agency would
establish Federal Guidelines and require-
ments for State programs to regulate dis-
posal on or under the land of those toxic
wastes which pose a hazard to health. The
Act would provide for Federal enforce-
ment action if a State should fail to es-
tablish its own program.
Legislation which I have proposed is
urgently needed to protect the land from
the potential ravages of mining, by im-
posing adequate standards of reclamation.
Strip mining alone now disturbs almost
4,650 acres a week. My proposed Power
Plant Siting Act, for which the need is
more evident with each passing month,
would allow us effectively to reconcile
environmental protection and energy
needs.
I have proposed new legislation calling
upon the States to assume control over
land-use planning and regulation in areas
of critical environmental concern and to
regulate land use around major growth-
industry facilities such as highways and
airports. I have asked the Congress for
authority to initiate at the State level reg-
ulatory programs to control sediment
affecting water quality from earth-moving
activities such as building and road con-
struction. Federal enforcement would be
imposed in situations in which a State
failed to implement such a program.
I proposed a new type of law for pollu-
tion control purposes-a charge on harm-
ful sulfur oxides emissions. This proposal
embodies the principle that the price of
goods should be made to include the costs
of producing and disposing of them with-
out harm to the environment. I also pro-
posed a law that would employ our tax
structure to discourage potentially harm-
ful development in our precious coastal
wetlands.
I have asked for a new and more effec-
tive Federal law to protect endangered
species of wildlife-by covering species
likely to become endangered as well as
those more immediately threatened, and
by imposing Federal penalties for taking
of such species.
These proposals, and others I have put
forward, are vital to all Americans in the
years to come. But the critical final steps
have yet to be taken. The Nation needs
these laws, and they should be enacted
766
