[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
posed today or previously are in the east-
ern sections of the country, but the great
majority of wilderness areas are found in
the West. This of course is where most of
our pristine wild areas are. But a greater
effort can still be made to see that wilder-
ness recreation values are preserved to the
maximum extent possible, in the regions
where most of our people live.
-I am therefore directing the Secre-
taries of Agriculture and the Interior to
accelerate the identification of areas in
the Eastern United States having wilder-
ness potential.
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
A recent study by the Department of the
Interior estimated that Americans own
more than 5 million off-road recreational
vehicles-motorcycles, minibikes, trail
bikes, snowmobiles, dune-buggies, all-
terrain vehicles, and others. The use of
these vehicles is dramatically on the in-
crease: data show a three-fold growth
between 1967 and 1971 alone.
As the number of off-road vehicles has
increased, so has their use on public lands.
Too often the land has suffered as a result.
Increasingly, Federal recreational lands
have become the focus of conflict between
the newer motorized recreationist and the
traditional hiker, camper, and horseback
rider. In the past, Federal land-manage-
ment agencies have used widely varying
approaches to dealing with this conflict.
The time has come for a unified Federal
policy toward use of off-road vehicles on
Federal lands.
-I have today signed an Executive
Order [11644] directing the Secretaries of
Agriculture, Interior, Army and the Board
of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority to develop regulations providing
for control over the use of off-road vehi-
cles on Federal lands.
They will designate areas of use and
non-use, specify operating conditions that
will be necessary to minimize damage to
the natural resources of the Federal lands,
and ensure compatibility with other rec-
reational uses, taking into account noise
and other factors.
EXPANDING INTERNATIONAL COOPERA-
TION ON THE ENVIRONMENT
We are now growing accustomed to the
view of our planet as seen from space-a
blue and brown disk shrouded in white
patches of clouds. But we do not ponder
often enough the striking lesson it teaches
about the global reach of environmental
imperatives. No matter what else divides
men and nations, this perspective should
unite them. We must work harder to foster
such world environmental consciousness
and shared purpose.
UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON THE
HUMAN ENVIRONMENT
To cope with environmental questions
that are truly international, we and other
nations look to the first world conference
of governments ever convened on this sub-
ject: the United Nations Conference on
the Human Environment, to be held in
Stockholm, Sweden, in June of this year.
This should be a seminal event of the in-
ternational community's attempt to cope
with these serious, shared problems of
global concern that transcend political
differences.
But efforts to improve the global envi-
ronment cannot go forward without the
means to act.
-To help provide such means, I pro-
186
