[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
the level of pilot proficiency and
equipment readiness. After consider-
ing a range of aircraft levels and de-
grees of readiness we found that our
requirements to deter or to respond
immediately to attacks could best be
met by maintaining about 22 Air
Force wings at a high state of readi-
ness.
Because of the priority of Vietnam re-
quirements, some essential modernization
programs have been deferred. We cannot
relinquish the essential advantage which
superior equipment affords. Accordingly,
we are putting renewed emphasis on
modernizing our forces.
The military command structure must
also be kept under review to assure that
it reflects the changing character and dis-
position of our forces. Last year I ap-
proved certain changes, proposed by the
Secretary of Defense, designed to stream-
line the command organization and to
bring theater responsibilities more in line
with requirements of the 1970's. The most
significant step was the disestablishment of
the U.S. Strike Command which was re-
sponsible both for a geographical area,
now assigned to other commands, and for
training of certain land and air forces.
The Readiness Command was created to
consolidate control of the strategic re-
serve of combat units based in the United
States ready to reinforce other commands.
With these improvements, the force
posture we have designed will continue to
meet the needs of our national strategy.
MANAGING DEFENSE RESOURCES
In order to realize the full effectiveness
of our forces we must assure that all re-
scurces provided for defense are efficiently
employed. The need to improve manage-
ment practices is especially acute in the
areas of manpower and weapons develop-
ment. Personnel costs now absorb over
half of the defense budget; by the middle
of this decade these costs may rise to well
over 60 percent. At the same time, the
costs of new weapons systems have gen-
erally been two to three times the costs of
those they replace, largely due to increas-
ing complexity. The combination of these
two effects may by the mid-1970's seri-
ously limit our ability to finance forces
to meet our anticipated security require-
ments. The imaginative and forceful
management initiatives now being under-
taken by the Secretary of Defense will
continue to provide the key to solving
these problems.
In the manpower area we have con-
centrated on efforts to eliminate the draft
by attracting more volunteers with in-
creased pay and other financial benefits.
These measures have temporarily con-
tributed to the increase in personnel costs.
But the success of these programs and the
reduction of our forces in Vietnam have
produced significantly lower draft levels.
Last year we drafted only one-third as
many men as were drafted in the year
before I took office.
We plan to eliminate draft calls al-
together by July 1973. To reach that goal
there are problems which must be
resolved.
-We need to enlist men with the ability
to operate and repair the sophisti-
cated weaponry of modern warfare.
-We must enhance the attractiveness
of service careers while building a
disciplined and effective force.
I am confident that we will solve these
problems and that we will be able to end
reliance on the draft without sacrificing
military readiness.
314
