Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [90]
Nations Fund for the Environment to
foster an international attack on environ-
mental problems. Also, I believe the
American scientific community should
participate more fully in the science ac-
tivities of international agencies.
To further these objectives, I am taking
steps to initiate a broad review of United
States involvement in the scientific and
technological programs of international
organizations and of steps that might be
taken to make United States participation
in these activities more effective, with
even stronger ties to our domestic
programs.
Finally, I would emphasize that
United States science and technology can
and must play an important role in the
progress of developing nations. We are
committed to bring the best of our science
and technology to bear on the critical
problems of development through our re-
organized foreign assistance programs.
A NEW SENSE OF PURPOSE AND A NEW
SENSE OF PARTNERSHIP
The years ahead will require a new
sense of purpose and a new sense of part-
nership in science and technology. We
must define our goals clearly, so that we
know where we are going. And then we
must develop careful strategies for pur-
suing those goals, strategies which bring
together the Federal Government, the
private sector, the universities, and the
States and local communities in a coop-
erative pursuit of progress. Only then can
we be confident that our public and pri-
vate resources for science and technology
will be spent as effectively as possible.
In all these efforts, it will be essential
that the American people be better
equipped to make wise judgments con-
cerning public issues which involve science
and technology. As our national life is
increasingly permeated by science and
technology, it is important that public
understanding grow apace.
The investment we make today in sci-
ence and technology and in the develop-
ment of our future scientific and technical
talent is an investment in tomorrow-an
investment which can have a tremendous
impact on the basic quality of our lives.
We must be sure that we invest wisely
and well.
The White House,
March 16, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message. Participants in
the news briefing were Dr. Edward E. David,
Jr., Director, Office of Science and Technology,
and Alan K. McAdams, Senior Staff Economist,
Council of Economic Advisers.
90 Address to the Nation on Equal Educational Opportunities
and School Busing. March 16, 1972
Good evening:
Tonight I want to talk to you about one
of the most difficult issues of our time-
the issue of busing.
Across this Nation-in the North, East,
West, and South-States, cities, and local
school districts have been torn apart in
debate over this issue.
My own position is well known. I am
opposed to busing for the purpose of
425
