Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 22 [265]
feel very, very cheered up by that and
you will want to go on in political life. But
I want you to know what your participa-
tion in this campaign, what your enthusi-
asm, what your hard work means to me.
I will tell you what it means:
Of course we want your votes. We want
them very much because your votes could
make the difference. And we are going to
work for them; we are going to talk to
you; we are going to work with you. But
we also want something else. We want an
Administration after the election, in the
next 4 years, in which we can be worthy
of the enthusiasm and the trust and the
hopes and the ideals of young Americans.
As I look at your faces, I know what
want. I know that you are filled with the
desire to find America at peace in the
world, not just a temporary but a lasting
peace. And you want this country to be
you
one of great opportunity for yourselves,
for your children, for all Americans. All of
these things you want, and you want to
work for that. You want to participate.
You don't want to be put off and shunted
off on the sideline. In a campaign you
just don't want to just blow up the bal-
loons and carry the banners. You want to
participate, and you are going to.
So I will simply say to all of you, young
and old, who are here today: The wel-
come you have given us is one that we will
always remember, and I also assure you
that we will try to be worthy of your hopes,
your ideals, the very best that is in you in
those next 4 years that you are going to
make possible.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:10 p.m. at
Miami International Airport. He spoke without
referring to notes.
David T. Kennedy was mayor of Miami.
265 Remarks to a Young Voters Rally in Miami, Florida.
August 22, 1972
Pam Powell, Sammy Davis, all of those
who have entertained here so splendidly at
this program, I understand, earlier, and to
all of you who are attending this Young
Voters rally:
As I was driving over here from my
home in Key Biscayne-as you know it is
the custom that anyone who is nominated
for the Presidency does not appear at the
convention until after the nomination, and
consequently I have not been there except
to see it on television-but as I was driv-
ing over, the thought occurred to me that
this was one of those moments in history
that has never happened before and that
will never happen again.
I do not mean by that that I have not
been nominated before. As a matter of
fact, I was nominated in 1952 and '56, for
Vice President, and I have twice had the
honor of being nominated for President
and tonight makes it the third time.
Now, to put this all in the historical
context, all of you know that this is the
first time in the 195-year proud history
of America that young voters 18 to 21 are
going to participate in the election deci-
sion. And I believe that it is particularly
appropriate that the first appearance of
the President of the United States, after
his nomination, be made before first voters
who are voting as you are.
Now as I was coming in, I was stopped
by one of the fine television commenta-
785
