[74] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
nomic Stabilization Program.
Several months ago, the Price Commis-
sion ruled that increases in physician fees
must be kept to within 22 percent. Rules
also were issued to hold down runaway
price increases among hospitals, nursing
homes and other health care institutions.
All of these efforts were directed toward
our goal of reducing the previous 7.7 per-
cent annual price increase in total health
care costs to half of that level, 3.85 percent
this year.
These actions should buy us some time.
But they are, at best, a temporary tourni-
quet on health care price inflation.
We must now direct our energies, at-
tentions and action to the long-range fac-
tors affecting the cost, the quality and the
availability of medical care.
My overall program, of course, is one
that would improve health care for every-
one. But it is worthy of special note that
these recommendations have a particular
importance and a high value for older
Americans, whose health care needs usu-
ally rise just as their incomes are
declining.
WE SHOULD BUILD ON PRESENT
STRENGTHS
When we examine the status of health
care in America, we always must be care-
ful to recognize its strengths. For most
Americans, more care of higher quality
has been the result of our rising national
investment in health, both governmental
and private.
We lead the world in medical science,
research and development. We have ob-
literated some major diseases and dras-
tically reduced the incidence of others.
New institutions, new treatments and new
drugs abound. There has been a marked
and steady gain in the number of people
covered by some form of health insurance
to 84 percent of those under 65, and cov-
erages
have been expanding. Life expect-
ancy has risen by 3.4 percent since 1950
and the maternal death rate has declined
66 percent. Days lost from work in the
same period are down 3.5 percent and
days lost from school have declined 7.5
percent-both excellent measures of the
general good state of our health.
All of this is progress-real progress.
It would be folly to raze the structure
that produced this progress and start
from scratch on some entirely new basis-
in order to repair shortcomings and redi-
rect and revitalize the thrust of our health
system.
To nationalize health care as some
have proposed, and thus federalize med-
ical personnel, institutions and proce-
dures eventually if not at the start—
also would amount to a stunning new
financial burden for every American
taxpayer.
The average household would pay more
than $1,000 a year as its share of the re-
quired new Federal expenditure of more
than $80 billion each and every year.
Such a massive new Federal budget item
would run counter to the temper of the
American taxpayer.
Also, such a massive new Federal budget
item would run counter to the efforts of
this Administration to decentralize pro-
grams and revenues, rather than bring
new responsibilities to Washington.
And, finally, such a massive new Fed-
eral budget requirement would dim our
efforts to bring needed Federal actions in
many new areas-some of which bear di-
rectly on health, such as environmental
protection.
Clearly we must find a better answer to
386
