[79] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal departments and agencies outside
the Executive Office of the President have
broad classification authority, while sev-
eral others have more restricted powers.
Under the new system, only 12 depart-
ments and agencies and such offices in the
Executive Office as the President may
designate will have authority to originally
classify information "Top Secret" and 13
others will have authority to stamp mate-
rials "Secret" and "Confidential."
In the principal departments concerned
with national security, namely State, De-
fense, and the CIA, the number of in-
dividuals who may be authorized to
classify material "Top Secret" is also
drastically reduced from 5,100 to approxi-
mately 1,860. This authority may be exer-
cised only by the heads of the departments
and agencies and certain high officials
within their organizations whom the heads
must designate in writing. Reductions in
classification authority are also being made
at the "Secret" and "Confidential" levels.
It is anticipated that by reducing the
number of agencies with classification
powers as well as the number of people
within those agencies who have personal
classification authority, we can sharply
reduce the quantity of material which en-
ters the Government's classified files.
3. Precise Identification of Classified
Information.
A major source of unnecessary classifi-
cation under the old Executive order was
the practical impossibility of discerning
which portions of a classified document
actually required classification. Incorpo-
ration of any material from a classified
paper into another document usually re-
sulted in the classification of the new
document, and innocuous portions of
neither paper could be released.
To the extent practicable, each classi-
fied document under the new system will
be marked to show which portions are
classified, at what level, and which por-
tions are unclassified.
4. Rules for Declassifying Documents.
Perhaps the most innovative and crucial
aspect of the Executive order I have
signed today is the procedure it establishes
for the downgrading and declassification
of documents. Aside from a small amount
of documents which are subject to de-
classification after a 12-year period as
specified by existing regulations, the vast
majority of documents classified since
World War II have never been given a
rigorous declassification review and they
remain classified to this day. I believe we
can cure these ills under the new order.
A. Documents Classified After May 31,
1972
Unless specifically exempted, all docu-
ments classified after May 31, 1972, are
to be automatically downgraded and de-
classified. "Top Secret" information is to
be downgraded to "Secret" after 2 years,
to "Confidential" after 2 more years, and
declassified after a total of 10 years. "Se-
cret" information is to be downgraded to
"Confidential" after 2 years and declassi-
fied after a total of 8 years. "Confidential”
documents are to be declassified after 6
years.
Information may be exempted from the
automatic process only by an official with
"Top Secret" classification authority and
that official must specify in writing in
which of four specific exemption cate-
gories the material falls and, where
possible, he must also indicate when de-
classification will in fact occur. The four
exemption categories are:
404
