[407] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
laid down on May 8 when, as you recall,
I ordered the bombing of North Vietnam
and the mining of Haiphong.
Those three conditions on which we
have reached agreement are these: one,
all of our prisoners of war and those who
are missing in action, all of our prisoners
of war will be returned, those missing in
action will be accounted for; two, we have
reached agreement that there should be a
cease-fire, not only in South Vietnam but
in Cambodia and Laos, all over Southeast
Asia; and third, we have reached agree-
ment on the fundamental point that the
people of South Vietnam should have
the right to determine their own future
without having a Communist govern-
ment or a coalition government imposed
upon them against their will.
There are some details that are still
to be negotiated. We are going to negoti-
ate them. I want to tell you why. Because
in reaching an agreement like this we
want to be sure that it is not just a case
of peace now but peace in the years
ahead. We want peace that will last and
we want to be sure that as far as the de-
tails are concerned, all of the misunder-
standings are removed now.
Let me take you back 4 years. You
remember the bombing halt in 1968. You
remember it was entered into with the
very best of intentions by those who made
it. But you remember also that it did not
lead to peace; it simply led to a continu-
ation of the war. There was a misunder-
standing. What we are doing is insisting
on continuing the negotiation on which
we have basic agreement on the major
principles that I have mentioned, but con-
tinue it until the details are worked out.
We are confident we can achieve that
goal, but it will be a goal that we then
can be proud to say is peace with honor,
not peace with surrender, a peace that
will last for the United States and for
the world.
In that connection, the day before
yesterday the mayor of Erie, Pennsyl-
vania, a Democrat, came in to see me.
He indicated his support of our ticket
in his State. His wife was with him. His
wife's brother had been killed in Vietnam
4 days after the bombing halt. She showed
me his picture, a fine young man, a major
in the United States Army. She told me
about him. She said that she had received
a letter from him just before his death.
That letter indicated at that point sup-
port for what I was trying to advocate
at that time in the campaign.
Then she said to me, "Mr. President,
we all want peace, but above everything
else, we want a real peace. We want a
peace that will last. We want peace with
honor. We want to be sure that he died,
and others died, for a cause that will
serve this country and serve it well."
Let me tell you: We are keeping that
pledge to those who gave their lives so
that America could survive as a country of
peace. There is one other thought that
occurred to me as she was talking to me.
I think of the fact that during this very
long and difficult war, a war which began
5 years before I ever came to office, but
during the whole course of this long and
difficult war, over 22 million young
Americans, when they had to make a
decision, chose to serve their country in
Vietnam, and they deserve our respect
and our honor for having made that
choice.
Some of those 22 million, many of
them, gave their lives for their choice, as
did the brother of the wife of the mayor
of Erie, Pennsylvania. A few hundred
chose to desert America. I say they must
1118
