Richard Nixon, 1972
July 27 [239]
ern White House in San Clemente.
As far as what the situation is now,
though, looking at the fact that the
Democratic Party has a much higher
registration than the Republican Party,
looking at the volatile mix of the Ameri-
can voting public, it is my belief—and I
have told all of my associates this-that
regardless of what the polls show, whether
we are ahead or behind, this will be a
close, hard-fought election right down to
the wire.
People who make predictions now could
look very, very bad later. We are going
to assume throughout this election that
we have a very hard fight on our hands.
We think that it is a good thing that it is
going to be a fight on the issues, a good,
hard, clean fight on the issues before the
American people. We think it will be
close, and we hope to win.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[9.] Q. What impact on American pol-
icy in the Middle East is the withdrawal
of Soviet personnel from Egypt likely to
have?
THE PRESIDENT. This question I no-
ticed has been reflected on by some lower
level officials in the Government, but
not-because Secretary Rogers and I have
talked about this matter, and Dr. Kis-
singer and I—not by us. For this reason:
Our goal, as you know, is a just settlement
in the Midde East. The situation there is
still one that is not clear and any com-
ment upon it, first, might possibly be
erroneous, and second, could very well be
harmful to our goal of a just settlement.
So I am not trying to dodge your ques-
tion, but I just do not think it would be
helpful to our goal of a just settlement in
the Middle East. It might exacerbate the
problem by trying to evaluate what hap-
pened between Sadat and the Soviet
leaders.
REPUBLICAN VICE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE
[10.] Q. Mr. President, on the subject
of the Vice President, of your selection of
Mr. Agnew, could you tell us if you con-
sidered anybody else for the job and who
they were?
THE PRESIDENT. No. My thoughts with
regard to Vice President Agnew were ex-
pressed at rather great length in this very
room in an interview with one of the other
networks. I think it was CBS.
On that occasion, I expressed my con-
fidence in the Vice President. I won't go
over those matters that I covered at con-
siderable length then now, except to say
that I reaffirm that confidence as ex-
pressed then.
Under the circumstances, I believe that
the choice I made 4 years ago is one that
should now be reaffirmed by asking him
to run for the office again.
Now, there has been speculation, I
would hasten to say, about other people
for the Vice Presidency. That is inevitable.
The Vice President could get sick or the
Vice President might decide not to run,
Anwar al Sadat was President of the Arab
Republic of Egypt.
5 On July 22, 1972, the President informed
Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, Republican
National Chairman Robert Dole, Campaign
Director Clark MacGregor, Convention Floor
Leader Hugh Scott, Permanent Chairman of
the Convention Gerald R. Ford, and Campaign
Chairman Frank Dale of his intention to rec-
ommend to the Republican National Conven-
tion the nomination of Vice President Agnew
for a second term.
See Item 1 [4.].
751
