[222] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
handful of inspired men pledged their
lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor
to a new nation.
For nearly two centuries, through good
times and bad, the ideals of individual
rights and opportunity that inspired men
like Washington, Jefferson and Adams
have survived and flourished. More than
any other nation of any area, America
has truly been the home of the free and
the haven of the weak and oppressed from
other parts of the world. And the catalyst
of American values has transformed the
weak and the oppressed into part of a
strong and a just people.
Great trials and greater triumphs still
lie ahead for us as a people. There are still
wrongs to be righted, and new goals of
peace, prosperity, justice and a better
environment to be met. But as long as we
remain true to the ideals of America, as
long as our energy does not flag and our
faith does not fail, no problem is too great
and no evil is too strong to be overcome
by a united American people.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement was made available to
the press.
223 Letter of Sympathy About the Death of Mormon Leader
Joseph Fielding Smith.
Dear President Lee:
Mrs. Nixon and I were deeply saddened
to learn of the death of Joseph Fielding
Smith, and on behalf of all Americans, we
send our sincere sympathy to the members
of the Church and to President Smith's
family.
For over 70 years-from his first days
as a missionary, then as a leading religious
scholar, and finally as the tenth President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints-Joseph Fielding Smith gave
enormously to others, helping them to find
greater fulfillment in their relationship to
God. As son of another president of the
Church and grandnephew of its first presi-
dent, he received a rich heritage from the
past; perhaps his greatest accomplishment
was the way he carried forward and en-
riched that legacy for the future.
I had the privilege of enjoying the
friendship of Joseph Fielding Smith in the
closing years of his life. This was a pro-
July 3, 1972
found experience for me, and I know that
men and women everywhere have lost a
devoted and inspirational leader.
To you and others who will now guide
the Church, Mrs. Nixon and I send our
prayers and warmest best wishes.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[President Harold B. Lee, The Council of the
Twelve, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, 47 East South Temple Street, Salt
Lake City, Utah]
NOTE: Mr. Smith, 95, died in Salt Lake City,
Utah, on July 2, 1972. He was named to the
Council of the Twelve of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1910 and became
president of the Council in 1951. He was presi-
dent and prophet of the Church from 1970.
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment George W. Romney and Senator Wallace
F. Bennett of Utah represented President Nixon
at the funeral services in Salt Lake City.
The text of the letter was made available to
the press at San Clemente, Calif.
726
