Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 5 [286]
here in this area, and in so many other
parts of this country.
I will say finally that I have appreciated
the opportunity to stop briefly in San
Francisco to see again the beauties of this
area, and in looking to the future, as to
what can be left as a legacy, I would say
there is nothing of which we would be
more proud in this Administration than
to see Gateway West come into reality so
that future generations could enjoy the
natural beauties of this magnificent area.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:25 p.m. on
board the harbor ferry Golden Gate where the
meeting with the Committee had been held.
He spoke without referring to notes. Following
his remarks, the President toured the proposed
national recreation area, Gateway West, aboard
the Golden Gate.
The White House also released a fact sheet
on the President's visit to the San Francisco
Bay Area and on the Committee.
286 Statement About the Environmental Legislative
Program. September 5, 1972
THE GOLDEN Gate National Recre-
ation Area-Gateway West-when ap-
proved by the Congress, will provide
recreational facilities serving an estimated
4.5 million people a year. It will be a
key element in our program to provide a
Legacy of Parks for the next and future
generations.
However, like so much of our needed
environmental legislation, Gateway West
still awaits Congressional action.
This points up the fact that success
in our efforts to restore and renew the
American environment depends on co-
operation in the partnership between
the executive and the legislative branches
of the Government. Therefore, let us
review the record of how well each
branch has performed in this partner-
ship.
Looking first at the executive branch,
during this Administration we have in-
creased budget requests for pollution con-
trol programs by 400 percent.
While awaiting new legislation from
the Congress, we have made use of the
Refuse Act of 1899 to provide authority
now to crack down on flagrant polluters—
and we have increased enforcement ac-
tions by 600 percent.
We have named the first Council on
Environmental Quality and created the
Environmental Protection Agency, to pro-
vide strong institutional leadership both
in formulating environmental policies
and in enforcing environmental stand-
ards. I have proposed-but the Congress
has not yet approved-creation of a De-
partment of Natural Resources which
would complete the needed reorganiza-
tion for environmental and natural re-
sources programs.
Most important, I have proposed the
most comprehensive legislative program
in the Nation's history not only to solve
the environmental problems of today but
also to prevent environmental damage in
the future.
In 1970-22 years ago I sent
sweeping, 37-point environmental mes-
sage to the Congress, proposing a wide
range of pioneering new legislation to con-
trol air and water pollution and to pro-
vide more parks and open spaces within
855
