Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [367]
among those who might be of draft age,
is that in June of next year we move away
from the draft to the all-volunteer army.
I also want to tell you here in this
heart of America-because this is the
heart of America, as has already been
indicated by Joe Margiotta and Governor
Rockefeller-I want to tell you that if we
are to have an all-volunteer army, it is
not going to be enough to do what we are
going to do, pay them equally what they
can get in civilian life, because anybody
who serves in our Armed Forces in peace-
time or in wartime, but particularly even
in peacetime, above everything else,
deserves respect. I believe in respecting
the uniform of those who defend the
United States.
This is Veterans Day. I have just motor-
caded all through Westchester. I have
seen the great bands that are here. I have
heard the patriotic songs. At Eastchester
I laid the first wreath at the new War
Memorial that had been erected there.
As I laid the wreath and stood back for
the moment of silence, this thought
crossed my mind as I thought of that vol-
unteer army: The thought was that in-
stead of having all of this talk about pro-
viding amnesty for those that desert
America, let's honor those who served
America, the millions.
So I can say to you, looking to the
future, the road will not be easy, but I
see the best chance that we have had in
this century for young Americans to have
a generation of peace, and I dedicate
myself to do everything we can to bring
that about.
There is a second great goal. That
means that with peace you want jobs.
What we want is something we have not
had since President Eisenhower was
President in '55 and '56. That means full
prosperity, full employment without war
and without inflation, and we are going
to have that.
At the present time, you can have con-
fidence in the fact that the United States
today has the fastest rate of growth, the
lowest rate of inflation, of any major
industrial power in the world.
But that isn't good enough. We must
continue to hold the line on prices. If we
are going to continue to have growth in
our economy, we must stop that kind of
spending that would lead to a tax in-
crease in this country, because taxes are
already too high and we are going to keep
those taxes from going up.
If we are going to continue to have
progress, progress that will mean more
jobs for more Americans than ever before
in history, we must provide, of course,
every kind of assistance that we possibly
can to those that cannot help themselves,
but there must be no ceiling on oppor-
tunity in America, no ceiling by quota or
any other way. Let a man or woman, re-
gardless of his background, go as high
as he can. That is the way to build a great
economy in America.
And while I am talking on that subject,
if we are going to continue to have this
economy grow and expand, to provide the
new jobs that we want, let's understand
that there is no real conflict when we talk
about welfare versus work. Let us under-
stand: Every American wants to provide
welfare to the greatest extent possible to
those who cannot help themselves. But
let us also understand: Except for the
taxes paid by 82 million Americans who
work, there would be no welfare in the
United States, so we must not penalize
those who work.
I would suggest tonight an Eleventh
Commandment: No one who is able to
1
1019
