[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
the U.S. has broadened bilateral discus-
sions with our immediate neighbors,
Canada and Mexico, and with Japan,
Argentina, Italy, and others, to solve cer-
tain basic environmental problems of par-
ticular concern to us.
We are, therefore, rapidly overcoming
the initial lack of recognition of the need
for international cooperation to protect
the environment. However, the world
community now faces a more difficult
problem, that of determining how the cost
of remedial action is to be assigned. We
believe that a keystone in the effort to
develop compatible national approaches
should be the principle that the polluter
pays for the economic costs of environ-
mental control. It is the objective of this
Administration that the costs of pollution
control be allocated in a uniform manner
among different countries. Otherwise, in-
ternational trade patterns would be
distorted, and we do not think economic
disadvantages should accrue to nations
because of efforts made in a common
cause.
OUTER SPACE
As our astronauts have seen, the unity
of the Earth is experienced most vividly
from outer space. And conversely, seen
from our planet, space itself is a frontier
to mankind as a whole, not merely to indi-
vidual nations. Space is, therefore, an un-
paralleled field for cooperation among
nations.
As we move into the second decade of
space exploration, the U.S. is committed
to work with others in space for the bene-
fit of all mankind. We are taking what-
ever steps can reasonably and properly be
taken to work with other countries in the
development of their space skills.
Specifically, we have assured the Euro-
pean Space Conference that its member
countries may obtain our assistance in
launching satellites which are for peace-
ful purposes and which are consistent with
international obligations embodied in
such agreements as the Outer Space
Treaty and the arrangements for the
International Telecommunication Satel-
lite Consortium (INTELSAT). We are
prepared to consider such assistance to
other interested countries. In addition,
we are working closely with the Euro-
peans on the concepts and design of a re-
usable space transportation system.
Over the past year, NASA has agreed
with the Soviet Academy of Sciences to
significant cooperation in specific space
tasks, and in the exchange of information
and plans concerning our respective space
programs. We have exchanged samples of
lunar soil. We are examining together the
means to enable Soviet manned space-
craft and our own to rendezvous and dock
in space. Joint expert groups have been
meeting to arrange details of further col-
laboration in space meteorology, biology,
and medicine, in the study of the natural
environment, and in exploration of the
moon and planets.
In 1971, after years of negotiation in
which the United States has played a lead-
ing role, the United Nations General As-
sembly approved an Outer Space Liability
Convention. The Convention, when it
enters into force, will provide for the pay-
ment of compensation for damage caused
by space activities.
Last year also brought a new definitive
charter for the operation of INTELSAT.
When ratified and signed by two-thirds of
the 80 member countries, sometime this
year, this will replace the interim arrange-
ments under which INTELSAT has been
operating since 1964.
340
