Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
of educational and social problems gen-
erated by the desegregation process.
If these proposals are adopted, those
few who want an arbitrary racial balance
to be imposed on the schools by Federal
fiat will not get their way.
Those few who want a return to segre-
gated schools will not get their way.
Those few who want a rollingback of
the basic protections black and other mi-
nority Americans have won in recent years
will not get their way.
This Administration means what it says
about dismantling racial barriers, about
opening up jobs and housing and schools
and opportunity to all Americans.
It is not merely rhetoric, but our record,
that demonstrates our determination.
We have achieved more school deseg-
regation in the last 3 years than was
achieved in the previous 15.
We have taken the lead in opening up
high-paying jobs to minority workers.
We have taken unprecedented measures
to spur business ownership by members of
minorities.
We have brought more members of mi-
norities into the middle and upper levels
of the Federal service than ever before.
We have provided more support to
black colleges than ever before.
We have put more money and muscle
into enforcement of the equal opportunity
laws than ever before.
These efforts will all go forward—with
vigor and with conviction. Making up for
the
years of past discrimination is not sim-
ply something that white Americans owe
to black Americans-it is something the
entire Nation owes to itself.
I submit these proposals to the Con-
gress mindful of the profound importance
and special complexity of the issues they
address. It is in that spirit that I have
undertaken to weigh and respect the con-
flicting interests; to strike a balance which
is thoughtful and just; and to search for
answers that will best serve all of the Na-
tion's children. I urge the Congress to
consider them in the same spirit.
The great majority of Americans, of all
races, want their Government-the Con-
gress, the Judiciary and the Executive-
to follow the course of deliberation, not
confrontation. To do this we must act
calmly and creatively, and we must act
together.
The great majority of Americans, of all
races, want schools that educate and rules
that are fair. That is what these proposals
attempt to provide.
The White House,
March 17, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased drafts of the two proposed bills and a
fact sheet summarizing their provisions. The
White House also released the transcript of a
news briefing on the President's meeting with
the Congressional bipartisan leadership to dis-
cuss the message. Participants in the news brief-
ing were John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the
President for Domestic Affairs; George P.
Shultz, Director, and Paul O'Neill and Kenneth
W. Dam, Assistant Directors, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget; Elliot L. Richardson, Secre-
tary, and Wilmot R. Hastings, General Counsel,
Department of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare; Richard G. Kleindienst, Acting Attorney
General, and Daniel J. McAuliffe, Deputy As-
sistant Attorney General for Internal Security,
Department of Justice; and Edward L. Mor-
gan, Assistant Director, Domestic Council.
On April 26, 1972, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the Presi-
dent's proposed legislation on equal educa-
tional opportunities and school busing by Mr.
Ehrlichman.
443
