[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
being Secretary of the Treasury? And the
country has found out.
All that I can say is this: When I
named him to this position, I named him
to the position because I had had the
privilege of knowing him as a man
through many years, and particularly well
during the years I have been President.
And based on the-and it is hard to realize
that it has been 18 months, almost, now
that he has been in this position-based
on those 18 months, I can say that John
Connally, who has been a Governor and
now a Cabinet officer and was a former
Secretary of the Navy, is, in my view, a
man who has demonstrated that he is
capable of holding any job in the United
States that he would like to pursue.
I am just glad he is not seeking the
Democratic nomination. [Laughter]
If I could just add to that by saying
that we remember the new economic pol-
icy of August 15. We remember the
United States at long last standing up for
its position in international monetary
affairs, in trade matters and the rest, and
the leadership that the Secretary of the
Treasury provided. We remember his
leadership in the fight on inflation, in all
of the other areas, but I also recall those
times when clearly out of his special
capacity as Secretary of the Treasury, his
capacity as the head of the Cost of Living
Council, as an adviser, as a friend, as a
counselor in all areas, I remember how
much he has contributed to this Adminis-
tration.
And to all those, I would add one final
thing. Certainly his greatest contribution
was bringing Nellie Connally to Wash-
ington, D.C. She has been a scintillating
star on the Washington social scene. Don't
get the idea that that is bad, necessarily,
but I can assure you that in our Cabinet
family and among those who have known
her, be they Democrats or Republicans,
that they have all been as warmly affec-
tionate toward her as the people of this
State are. And we are so happy that here
with their friends, we can share this spe-
cial evening with you.
Because I know you have had a very
splendid dinner tonight, and because I
know this has probably never happened
on this ranch before-well, at least if it
has happened, it has never been done by
one who held the office that I hold-I
think that all of you would like to join
me in raising our glasses to John and
Nellie Connally.
Now, with that, let me just say a word
with regard to what John has suggested.
It did occur to him as we were sitting here
that so many of our guests don't have the
opportunity to talk with the one who hap-
pens to be the guest of honor, as those who
are at only the one table at which we are
seated. It doesn't mean that there are
many pearls of wisdom that are passed out
here that you are missing, but it does mean
simply that perhaps on an occasion like
this, since this is a party of close friends,
since this whole great State is covered,
that I know that both Pat and I would
have liked to have sat at every table and
talked to each one of you.
So for the next few minutes, if you like,
in a totally nonpartisan, nonpolitical way,
if
you would like to just rather imagine
that we were sitting in your living room,
and you were chatting and asking ques-
tions, I will try to answer them.
I can assure you, if I don't know the
answers, John will.
So with that, in that very informal way,
we will be glad to take any of your ques-
558
