[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
gram. With their continued support-
and that of all the American people-we
can carry this battle forward and win a
decisive victory.
One key element in that battle, of
course, is to be sure that Government
spending programs, including those
which help the elderly, are responsibly
financed. If they are not, then inflation
will merely be reignited and Government
policy will merely be robbing older Amer-
icans with one hand of the aid it gives
them with the other.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES: PROPERTY
TAXES
Two-thirds of all older citizens-and
78 percent of older married couples-
own their own homes. For these Ameri-
cans and for many younger Americans
as well-the heavy and growing burden
of property taxes constitutes one of the
most serious of all income-related prob-
lems. Even those who rent their homes
often bear an unfair burden since prop-
erty tax increases are frequently passed
along in the form of higher rents. The
reason these burdens are so onerous, of
course, is that the income from which
property taxes must be paid by the elderly
is usually going down at the very time the
taxes are going up.
Property taxes in the United States
have more than doubled in the last ten
years. The problems which this fact im-
plies are felt by Americans of all
ages. But
elderly Americans have a special stake in
their solution.
I am committed to doing all I can to
relieve the crushing burden of property
taxes. I have been proceeding toward this
end in two ways. First, I am continuing
to push for passage of our General and
Special Revenue-Sharing proposals, legis-
lation which would channel some $17
billion into State and local budgets and
thus provide a significant opportunity for
property tax relief. At the same time, as
I indicated in my recent State of the
Union Address, I am also moving to
change the system through which we fi-
nance public education. In developing
a new approach, I will draw on the rec-
ommendations of the President's Com-
mission on School Finance, the Advisory
Commission on Inter-governmental Re-
lations, and other analyses such as those
which are being performed under the
direction of the Secretaries of the Treas-
ury, and of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare. The purpose of this intensive in-
vestigation is to develop ways of putting
this Nation's educational system on a
sounder financial footing while helping to
relieve the enormous burden of school
property taxes.
REDUCING INCOME TAX BURDENS
pending
Recently approved and
changes in the income tax laws also pro-
vide special help to older persons. Under
these provisions, a single person age 65
or over would be able to receive up to
$5,100 of income without paying any
Federal income taxes, while a married
couple with both husband and wife 65
or over would be able to receive up to
$8,000 of such tax-free income.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES: PROTECTING
ELDERLY CONSUMERS
The quality of life for older Americans
depends to a large extent upon the re-
sponsiveness of the marketplace to their
special needs. It is estimated that elderly
472
