[2] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:36 a.m. at
the shipyard of the company. He spoke with-
out referring to notes.
John V. Banks was executive vice president,
National Steel and Shipbuilding Company;
Andrew E. Gibson was Assistant Secretary of
Commerce for Maritime Affairs; and Pete Wil-
son was mayor of San Diego.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the contracts awarded to the
company to build three new bulk carriers for
the United States merchant marine.
3 Statement Announcing Decision To Proceed With
Development of the Space Shuttle. January 5, 1972
I HAVE decided today that the United
States should proceed at once with the
development of an entirely new type of
space transportation system designed to
help transform the space frontier of the
1970's into familiar territory, easily acces-
sible for human endeavor in the 1980's
and 1990's.
This system will center on a space
vehicle that can shuttle repeatedly from
earth to orbit and back. It will revolu-
tionize transportation into near space by
routinizing it. It will take the astronomical
costs out of astronautics. In short, it will
go a long way toward delivering the rich
benefits of practical space utilization and
the valuable spinoffs from space efforts
into the daily lives of Americans and all
people.
The new year 1972 is a year of con-
clusion for America's current series of
manned flights to the moon. Much is ex-
pected from the two remaining Apollo
missions--in fact, their scientific results
should exceed the return from all the
earlier flights together. Thus they will
place a fitting capstone on this vastly suc-
cessful undertaking. But they also bring
us to an important decision point-a point
of assessing what our space horizons are as
Apollo ends, and of determining where
we go from here.
In the scientific arena, the past decade
of experience has taught us that spacecraft
are an irreplaceable tool for learning
about our near-earth space environment,
the moon, and the planets, besides being
an important aid to our studies of the sun
and stars. In utilizing space to meet needs
on earth, we have seen the tremendous
potential of satellites for intercontinental
communications and worldwide weather
forecasting. We are gaining the capability
to use satellites as tools in global monitor-
ing and management of natural resources,
in agricultural applications, and in pollu-
tion control. We can foresee their use in
guiding airliners across the oceans and in
bringing televised education
education to wide
areas of the world.
However, all these possibilities, and
countless others with direct and dramatic
bearing on human betterment, can never
be more than fractionally realized so long
as every single trip from earth to orbit
remains a matter of special effort and
staggering expense. This is why commit-
ment to the space shuttle program is the
right next step for America to take, in
moving out from our present beachhead
in the sky to achieve a real working
presence in space-because the space shut-
tle will give us routine access to space by
sharply reducing costs in dollars and prep-
aration time.
The new system will differ radically
from all existing booster systems, in that
most of this new system will be recovered
20
