[157] May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
custom-designed for a particular area.
Such plans could eventually make it
possible to assess the total human service
needs of an entire family at a single loca-
tion with a single application. Most appli-
cants need more than one service, and now
must trudge to office after office applying
for assistance from one program at a
time-with the result that they may not
obtain all the services they need, or may
be discouraged altogether from seeking
help.
The Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare administers some 200 differ-
ent human assistance programs in about
a dozen major fields-to help needy citi-
zens with such services as mental health,
vocational rehabilitation, manpower
training, food and nutrition, special pro-
grams for the aged, education, juvenile
counseling, alcoholism and drug abuse,
housing, and public health.
Each of these programs has its own
eligibility rules, application forms, man-
agement, and administrative policies.
Each program usually has its own office
location and its own geographical cover-
age area.
Federal rules and regulations, in short,
now keep each social service program
locked up in a little world of its own. This
is not only wasteful and inefficient-it also
prevents State and local efforts to close
the gaps in social service delivery systems.
As I stated in my State of the Union
Message this year, "We need a new ap-
proach to the delivery of social services-
one which is built around people and not
around programs. We need an approach
which treats a person as a whole and
which treats the family as a unit."
For the uninformed citizen in need, the
present fragmented system can become a
nightmare of confusion, inconvenience,
and red tape.
The father of a family is helped by one
program, his daughter by another, and
his elderly parents by a third. An in-
dividual goes to one place for nutritional
help, to another for health services, and
to still another for educational counseling.
They are not the only victims of frag-
mented services-others include the tax-
payers, and the public officials and gov-
ernment employees seeking to operate
these diverse programs. Vast amounts of
time, money, and energy are expended in
administrative procedures which overlap
and duplicate-rather than being effi-
ciently organized to help people.
The Allied Services Act of 1972 would
give State and local governments greater
legal freedom and planning tools needed
for the long-overdue job of modernizing
the delivery of social services into consoli-
dated programs. This process would begin
at the option of elected State and local
officials, and would be highly responsive
to their needs.
It would permit knowledgeable State
and local people to break through rigid
categorical walls, to open up narrow
bureaucratic compartments, to consoli-
date and coordinate related programs in a
comprehensive approach to related social
aid problems-designed to match widely-
varying State and local needs.
Under the Act, the Federal Government
would make dollars available for the costs
of developing consolidated plans, and it
would also be prepared to underwrite the
administrative startup costs when the
comprehensive services program went into
effect.
To encourage and facilitate such uni-
fied services, the Secretary of Health,
600
