[102] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers, resigned. The next
day, Leonard Woodcock, president of the
United Automobile Workers, also resigned from
the Board.
Before issuing the statement, the President
met at the White House with members of the
Cost of Living Council to discuss his decision
on the new composition of the Pay Board.
The White House also released the transcript
of a news briefing by George P. Shultz, Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget, on the
President's statement and Executive Order
11660.
103 The President's News Conference of
March 24, 1972
QUESTIONS
PARIS PEACE TALKS
[1] THE PRESIDENT. Miss Lewine
[Frances L. Lewine, Associated Press], we
will take your question first.
Q. Mr. President, in view of the suspen-
sion of the Paris peace talks, can you tell
us if the hopes are dimming for a nego-
tiated peace settlement and what you
assess the situation as?
THE PRESIDENT. What we are really
trying to do there, Miss Lewine, and this
has been done under my direction, is to
break a filibuster. There has been about a
32-year filibuster at the peace talks on the
part of the North Vietnamese. They have
refused to negotiate seriously. They have
used the talks for the purpose of propa-
ganda while we have been trying to seek
peace. Whenever the enemy is ready to
negotiate seriously, we are ready to nego-
tiate. And I would emphasize we are ready
to negotiate in public channels or in pri-
vate channels.
As far as the hopes for a negotiated
peace are concerned, I would say that the
way the talks were going, there was no
hope whatever. I am not saying that this
move is going to bring a negotiation. I do
say, however, that it was necessary to do
something to get the talks off dead center
and to see whether the enemy continued
to want to use the talks only for propa-
ganda or whether they wanted to nego-
tiate.
When they are ready, we are ready, but
we are not going to continue to allow them
to use this forum for the purpose of bully-
ragging the United States in a propaganda
forum rather than in seriously negotiating
peace, as we tried to do as exemplified by
not only our private contacts in the 12
meetings that I discussed on January 25,
but also in my speech of January 25, in
which I made a very forthcoming offer.
MR. KLEINDIENST'S NOMINATION
[2.] Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas,
United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, was there any link
between the ITT antitrust settlement and
the contribution to San Diego as a con-
vention city and do you think that Mr.
Kleindienst will be confirmed as the At-
torney General?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have noted
that you ladies and gentlemen of the press
have been pressing on this matter, as you
should, because it is a matter of very great
interest in the Senate and in the Nation.
I will simply limit my remarks to these
observations: First, Mr. Kleindienst is
being considered for, as you have indi-
488
