Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [45]
unemployed and underemployed citizens
we know we must do better, and we can
do better. It is time for a change.
Manpower experts throughout the Na-
tion agree that the necessary reform of the
Nation's system of manpower training
should have as its three basic goals the
decategorization, the decentralization,
and the consolidation of existing man-
power development efforts.
The Manpower Revenue Sharing Act
that I have proposed would allow us to
achieve those goals. It would benefit citi-
zens in every corner of the Nation and
offer renewed hope to members of our
society who have lacked opportunity-
hope for jobs, for advancement, and for a
better standard of living. It would estab-
lish a new framework of constructive
partnership for manpower training among
Federal, State, and local governments. Its
principles are simple and fundamental,
yet far-reaching.
THE PRINCIPLES of ManPOWER SPECIAL
REVENUE SHARING
First, the Manpower Revenue Sharing
Act does not mandate any existing cate-
gorical program or guarantee its perpetua-
tion-irrespective of its performance—in
any community. However, it would not
prohibit the continuation of any project
which a particular locality feels effectively
serves its own and its workers' needs. It is
time to end the restrictiveness of the old,
narrow programs which have frustrated
communities' efforts to develop manpower
programs geared to their own needs and
circumstances.
In its first full year of operation, the
Manpower Revenue Sharing Act would
provide $2 billion for manpower purposes,
of which $1.7 billion would be divided
among State and local units of govern-
ment-without unnecessary red tape-
using a formula based on the size of their
labor force and the numbers of unem-
ployed and disadvantaged. The remainder
would be used by the Secretary of Labor
to meet the generalized national needs of
this new system.
It would authorize a broad range of
services, including:
-classroom instruction in both reme-
dial education and occupational
skills;
-training on the job with both public
and private employers, aided by man-
power subsidies;
-job opportunities, including work ex-
perience and short-term employment
for special age groups and the tem-
porarily unemployed, and transitional
public service employment at all
levels of government.
These services, all designed to help
move people toward self-supporting em-
ployment, augmented by temporary in-
come support, relocation assistance, child
care and other supportive services au-
thorized by the Act, would make it possible
for our communities to mount integrated
manpower development programs truly
responsive to their own priority needs.
The second major goal of Manpower
Special Revenue Sharing is to increase
substantially reliance upon State and local
governments to manage major manpower
activities. Local governments are often
powerless when jobs are not to be had. It
is time we equipped our local governments
with the resources and decision-making
power to meet their responsibilities.
The Manpower Revenue Sharing Act
meets this objective. It would provide
communities with the resources they need
to help get people into jobs and job-train-
163
