[153] May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Neither George Shultz nor Cap Wein-
berger will, of course, make any statement
now or will be open to questions, because
they have to be confirmed. When I say
"have to be confirmed," I hope they are
confirmed, and soon, and I believe they
will be, sooner than some others that have
been nominated. Otherwise, Secretary
Connally will have another 6 months.
[Laughter]
But in any event, while they will leave
with me, Secretary Connally, now that
he is leaving government, will be able to
The position of Director of the Office of
Management and Budget is appointive and
does not require Senate confirmation.
stay to make a brief statement and to
take two or three questions, I understand,
before some of you may want to file a
bulletin.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:38 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Following the President's remarks, Secre-
tary Connally answered reporters' questions
about his resignation. A transcript of the ques-
tion-and-answer session was released by the
White House.
Later, the President went with Secretary
Connally and Director Shultz to the Depart-
ment of the Treasury where he spoke infor-
mally to key Department staff members about
the personnel changes.
154 Remarks to Members of the 12th Mexico-United States
Interparliamentary Conference. May 16, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Nixon and I are delighted to wel-
come this interparliamentary group, our
friends from Mexico. In welcoming you,
I can only say that we think it is rather
historic that this is the first official group
to be received in this house since probably
the most famous room in the house, the
Blue Room, has been restored and
redecorated.
It could not be better to have guests
from a country which is so very close to us,
not only physically but spiritually, the
people of Mexico, representatives of the
Parliament of Mexico.
As you know, we are looking forward
to welcoming the President of Mexico for
a state dinner in the middle of June, after
I return from my trip abroad. I can say
that we consider presidents of any coun-
try very important people, but I know
from my relationships with the Congress,
the Senate and the House, that Senators
and Congressmen are also very important
people, and we welcome you in that spirit,
because Presidents can have understand-
ings between each other, but unless they
have the support of members of their
legislatures, they will not be able to carry
out those understandings.
The fact that we have such a close and
friendly relationship between our Sena-
tors and your Senators, and our Repre-
sentatives and your Representatives,
means that not only-and this is true-
the President of Mexico and the Presi-
dent of the United States are personally
and officially good friends, but the legisla-
tors that represent Mexico and the United
States are also good friends. That means
friendship-friendship now, friendship
in the future between Mexico and the
United States.
Finally, in conclusion, I would like to
say to all of our friends that we will be
596
