Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
common strategy. A significant result has
been an increase in burden sharing.
-In December 1970, our allies' Euro-
pean Defense Improvement Program
committed an additional $1 billion to
modernizing NATO communica-
tions, accelerating construction of
shelters for NATO aircraft, and im-
proving their own national forces.
-In December 1971, they announced
further increases of about $1 billion
to their defense contribution in 1972.
This took the form of the significant
additions to the Alliance's
armory of
tanks, anti-tank weapons, artillery,
combat aircraft, helicopters, and
ships, as described above.
Another aspect of the burden sharing
problem-the balance of payments costs
of U.S. forces in Europe-has not yet
been solved. Our payments deficits at-
tributable to our defense commitments
distort both the international monetary
system and our military planning. A sub-
stantial portion of our NATO expendi-
tures in local currency is offset by financial
arrangements with the Federal Republic
of Germany, where most of our forces are
concentrated; the new agreement for
1972-73 is for $2 billion, including $183
million for renovating facilities housing
our forces. These agreements are testi-
mony to cooperation. They are not a long
term solution, however, and they strain
Alliance relations each time they come up
for renewal.
In this matter, we should work toward
arrangements whereby the United States
could maintain its forces in Europe with
balance of payments consequences no dif-
ferent from those of maintaining the same
forces in the United States. This would
neutralize the balance of payments issue
and allow the Alliance to plan its forces
on security criteria.
EAST-WEST RELATIONS IN EUROPE
This Administration has regarded a
resolution of the political issues dividing
Europe as a paramount objective of our
foreign policy. Three years ago, East-West
relations were virtually frozen. Relatively
few East-West negotiations were taking
place; little or no progress had been made
in addressing the major issues. A slight im-
provement in the atmosphere of relations
in 1967-68 was quickly dispelled by the
invasion of Czechoslovakia. There was no
firm basis for movement toward detente.
Some of our allies were pursuing detente
in bilateral contacts with the East, but it
was clear that most bilateral questions
were part of a wider web of European
security issues. The Soviet Union could
not be given the opportunity to offer
selective detente, smoothing relations with
some Western nations but not others.
Thus, Western cohesion must be the
bedrock of our pursuit of detente. We and
our allies have a responsibility to consult
together in sufficient depth to ensure that
our efforts are complementary and that
our priorities and broad purposes are
essentially the same.
There are bilateral negotiations between
the U.S. and USSR-SALT and my
forthcoming summit, for example. But, as
I have stressed since I came into office,
coordination with our allies is an essen-
tial precondition of bilateral U.S.-Soviet
negotiations which affect their interests.
On SALT, we have consulted scrupu-
lously with our allies at every stage. After
the announcement of the Moscow and
Peking summits, my summit meetings with
227
