Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
nership legislation is also essential to as-
sure that no American is denied basic
medical care because of inability to pay.
Too often, present health insurance leaves
critical outpatient services uncovered, dis-
torting the way in which facilities are used.
It also fails to protect adequately against
catastrophic costs and to provide sufficient
assistance for the poor. The answer I have
suggested is a comprehensive national
plan-not one that nationalizes our pri-
vate health insurance industry but one
that corrects the weaknesses in that system
while building on its considerable
strengths.
A large part of the enormous increase
in the Nation's expenditures on health in
recent years has gone not to additional
services but merely to meet price inflation.
Our efforts to balance the growing de-
mand for care with an increased supply of
services will help to change this picture.
So will that part of our economic program
which is designed to control medical costs.
I am confident that with the continued
cooperation of those who provide health
services, we will succeed on this most im-
portant battlefront in our war against
inflation.
Our program for the next year will also
include further funding increases for
health research-including substantial
new sums for cancer and sickle cell
anemia as well as further increases for
medical schools and for meeting special
problems such as drug addiction and
alcoholism. We also plan to construct new
veterans hospitals and expand the staffs
at existing ones.
In addition, we will be giving increased
attention to the fight against diseases of
the heart, blood vessels and lungs, which
presently account for more than half of
all the deaths in this country. It is deeply
disturbing to realize that, largely because
of heart disease, the mortality rate for men
under the age of 55 is about twice as great
in the United States as it is, for example,
in some Scandinavian countries.
I will shortly assign a panel of distin-
guished experts to help us determine why
heart disease is so prevalent and so menac-
ing and what we can do about it. I will
also recommend an expanded budget for
the National Heart and Lung Institute.
The young father struck down by a heart
attack in the prime of life, the productive
citizen crippled by a stroke, an older per-
son tortured by breathing difficulties dur-
ing his later years-these are tragedies
which can be reduced in number and we
must do all that is possible to reduce them.
NUTRITION
One of the critical areas in which we
have worked to advance the health of the
Nation is that of combating hunger and
improving nutrition. With the increases in
our new budget, expenditures on our food
stamp program will have increased nine-
fold since 1969, to the $2.3 billion level.
Spending on school lunches for needy chil-
dren will have increased more than seven-
fold, from $107 million in 1969 to $770
million in 1973. Because of new regula-
tions which will be implemented in the
year ahead, we will be able to increase
further both the equity of our food stamp
program and the adequacy of its benefits.
COPING WITH ACCIDENTS-AND
PREVENTING THEM
Last year, more than 115,000 Ameri-
cans lost their lives in accidents. Four
hundred thousand more were perma-
nently disabled and 10 million were tem-
57
