Richard Nixon, 1972
June 1 [188]
consider what the strategic balance would
have looked like later in the seventies, if
there had been no arms limitation, it is
clear that the agreements forestall a major
spiraling of the arms race-one which
would have worked to our disadvantage,
since we have no current building pro-
grams for the categories of weapons which
have been frozen, and since no new build-
ing program could have produced any new
weapons in those categories during the
period of the freeze.
My colleagues in the Congress, I have
studied the strategic balance in great de-
tail with my senior advisers for more than
3 years. I can assure you, the Members of
the Congress, and the American people
tonight that the present and planned
strategic forces of the United States are
without question sufficient for the mainte-
nance of our security and the protection
of our vital interests.
No power on earth is stronger than the
United States of America today. And
none will be stronger than the United
States of America in the future.
This is the only national defense posture
which can ever be acceptable to the
United States. This is the posture I ask the
Senate and the Congress to protect by ap-
proving the arms limitation agreements to
which I have referred. This is the posture
which, with the responsible cooperation of
the Congress, I will take all necessary steps
to maintain in Our future defense
programs.
In addition to the talks which led to the
specific agreements I have listed, I also
had full, very frank, and extensive dis-
cussions with General Secretary Brezh-
nev and his colleagues about several parts
of the world where American and Soviet
interests have come in conflict.
With regard to the reduction of ten-
sions in Europe, we recorded our inten-
tion of proceeding later this year with
multilateral consultations looking toward
a conference on security and cooperation
in all of Europe. We have also jointly
agreed to move forward with negotiations
on mutual and balanced force reductions
in central Europe.
The problem of ending the Vietnam
war, which engages the hopes of all Amer-
icans, was one of the most extensively dis-
cussed subjects on our agenda. It would
only jeopardize the search for peace if I
were to review here all that was said on
that subject. I will simply say this: Each
side obviously has its own point of view
and its own approach to this very difficult
issue. But at the same time, both the
United States and the Soviet Union share
an overriding desire to achieve a more
stable peace in the world. I emphasize to
you once again that this Administration
has no higher goal, a goal that I know all
of you share, than bringing the Vietnam
war to an early and honorable end. We are
ending the war in Vietnam, but we shall
end it in a way which will not betray our
friends, risk the lives of the courageous
Americans still serving in Vietnam, break
faith with those held prisoners by the
enemy, or stain the honor of the United
States of America.
Another area where we had very full,
frank, and extensive discussions was the
Middle East. I reiterated the American
people's commitment to the survival of
the state of Israel and to a settlement just
to all the countries in the area. Both sides
stated in the communique their intention
to support the Jarring peace mission and
other appropriate efforts to achieve this
objective.
The final achievement of the Moscow
conference was the signing of a landmark
663
