Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 29 [107]
clarification process has improved our
bills. I pledge the fullest continuing co-
operation of my Administration in seeing
that the Congress has what it needs to
move forward.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND NAT-
URAL RESOURCES: ACHIEVABLE GOALS
FOR 1972
There is still much work to do. For all
the excellent hearings conducted to date,
action has yet to be completed on any of
the departmental bills which were sent to
the Congress 370 days ago. Yet their
passage by this Congress is still possible-
especially for the Departments of Com-
munity Development and Natural Re-
sources.
I would call special attention to H.R.
6962, the legislation for a Department of
Community Development, which has now
undergone 15 days of hearings in the
House Government Operations Commit-
tee. Prompt, favorable action on this bill
would represent a much-needed victory
for common sense and the public good.
Its defeat or emasculation would serve no
interest except entrenched privilege and
private advantage, and would cruelly dis-
serve the interest of literally thousands of
urban and rural communities with mil-
lions of people who are tired of waiting
for Washington to get itself together and
help them.
I urge all those concerned with the
cause of executive reorganization to re-
double their efforts to bring H.R. 6962 to
my desk for signature during 1972—and,
further, to press ahead on enactment of
H.R. 6959, the Department of Natural
Resources bill, and of legislation for the
other two new departments which we
need to govern effectively in the seventies.
ORGANIZING TO MEET THE CHAL-
LENGES OF PEACE
Twenty-five years ago, when the United
States was realizing that World War II
had marked not the end, but only the be-
ginning, of its leadership responsibilities
in the world, a reorganization of the execu-
tive machinery in the defense area was
undertaken. That reform, which created
the Department of Defense, marks the
only major streamlining of the Cabinet
and the only departmental consolidation
in our history. The new structure thus
established has served America and the
free world well in the challenging period
since.
Now the time has come to take a simi-
lar bold and visionary step on the domes-
tic side of national affairs. The 1960s,
troubled, eventful, and full of progress
as they were, were only the prelude to a
period of still faster change in American
life. The peace which we find increasing
reason to hope will prevail during the
coming generation is already permitting
us to turn somewhat from the formerly
absorbing necessity to "provide for the
common defence," the necessity which
motivated the last major executive branch
reorganization.
•
Other great purposes now move to the
foreground: "to form a more perfect
Union, establish Justice, insure domestic
Tranquility, . . promote the general
Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Lib-
erty to ourselves and our Posterity." To
serve these purposes, let us act decisively
once again, and forge new institutions to
serve a new America.
The White House,
March 29, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
511
