Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
the Environmental Protection Agency
have now completed their studies on this
measure and have developed the details
of an emission charge proposal.
-I propose a charge on sulfur emitted
into the atmosphere from combustion, re-
fining, smelting, and other processes.
This charge would begin in 1976 and
apply in all regions where the air quality
does not meet national standards for sul-
fur oxides during 1975. The charge would
be 15¢ per pound on sulfur emitted
in regions where the primary standards-
which are designed to be protective of
public health-have not been met within
the deadline for achievement prescribed
in the Clean Air Act. In regions where air
quality met the primary standard but ex-
ceeded the secondary national standard—
designed to protect property, vegetation,
and aesthetic values-a charge of $.10
per pound of sulfur emitted would apply.
Areas which reduce emissions sufficiently
to meet both primary and secondary air
quality standards would be exempt from
the emission charge.
This charge is an application of the
principle that the costs of pollution should
be included in the price of the product.
Combined with our existing regulatory
authority, it would constitute a strong
economic incentive to achieve the sulfur
oxides standards necessary to protect
health, and then further to reduce emis-
sions to levels which protect welfare and
aesthetics.
CLEAN ENERGY GENERATION AND
CONSERVATION
Ours is an energy-based economy, and
energy resources are the basis for future
economic progress. Yet the consumption
of energy-producing fuels contributes to
many of our most serious pollution prob-
lems. In order to have both environmental
quality and an improving standard of liv-
ing, we will need to develop new clean
energy sources and to learn to use energy
more efficiently.
Our success in meeting energy needs
while preventing adverse environmental
effects from energy generation and trans-
mission will depend heavily on the state of
available technology. In my message to the
Congress on energy of last June, I
announced a series of steps to increase
research on clean and efficient energy
production. But further action is needed.
-As part of my new commitment to
augment Federal research and develop-
ment and target it more effectively on
solving domestic problems, I have re-
quested in the 1973 budget an additional
$88 million for development of a broad
spectrum of new technologies for produc-
ing clean energy.
In addition to carrying forward the
priority efforts I have already an-
nounced the liquid metal fast breeder
reactor, pipeline quality gas from coal,
and sulfur oxide control technology-the
budget provides funds for new or in-
creased efforts on fusion power, solar
energy, magneto-hydrodynamics, indus-
trial gas from coal, dry cooling towers for
power plant waste heat, large energy stor-
age batteries and advanced underground
electric transmission lines. These new ef-
forts relate to both our immediate and our
future energy problems, and are needed to
assure adequate supplies of clean energy.
My message on energy also announced
several steps that would be taken by the
Federal Government to use energy more
efficiently and with less environmental
177
