Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
our men as bargaining pawns. So
long as they hold our men there will
be American forces in South Viet-
nam. We will pursue every honorable
path until we succeed in returning
these prisoners to their families.
-Completing the Transfer of Defense
Responsibilities. Last year brought
the effective conclusion of the Ameri-
can ground combat role in South
Vietnam. The South Vietnamese as-
sumed that burden, and a steadily in-
creasing share of all other responsibil-
ities in the conflict. The remaining
problems include completion of the
transfer of air and logistic support to
the South Vietnamese; improving the
pacification situation in the northern
provinces; building more cohesive
non-Communist political forces; and
setting in train the long term devel-
opment of South Vietnam.
Major tests can be expected in coming
months. Only the sustained will of the
South Vietnamese can meet that chal-
lenge. As we complete the Vietnamization
process, we will need the continued under-
standing of the American people to finish
the process which has brought us so far, to
redeem our sacrifices, and to contribute to
the building of a more stable peace.
LAOS AND CAMBODIA
Vietnam is the central theater in what
is, in fact, a wider war. For Hanoi has
made the war an Indochina conflict by
spreading its troops throughout the
peninsula.
In 1971, with their position deteriorat-
ing in South Vietnam itself, the North
Vietnamese continued, and have now
stepped up, their aggression in Laos and
Cambodia. Hanoi maintains over 60,000
troops in Cambodia and more North Viet-
namese troops in Laos, some 100,000, than
in South Vietnam.
The situations in Laos and Cambodia
are similar in many respects:
-Both of these countries have totally
defensive military establishments;
neither poses any conceivable threat
to North Vietnam.
-The neutrality, independence, and
territorial integrity of both countries
have been inscribed in international
agreements which Hanoi signed, but
contemptuously ignores.
-North Vietnamese troops for years
have used both countries as infiltra-
tion corridors, staging bases, and
sanctuaries for attacks against South
Vietnam.
-North Vietnam continues to threaten
the legitimate governments in both
countries in order to further its at-
tacks on South Vietnam, but also
perhaps with the intention of taking
Laos and Cambodia themselves.
-The overwhelming numbers of North
Vietnamese troops in both countries
strip away any pretense that the con-
flicts in Laos and Cambodia are civil
wars.
The Lao and Cambodian governments
have tried to restore their independence
and neutrality through diplomatic means;
failing that, they have been forced to turn
to their friends for support of their de-
fense. The United States and other nations
have responded to their requests for as-
sistance. We have supported both diplo-
matic efforts to bring peace to Laos and
Cambodia, and defensive military efforts
in the absence of a settlement.
On the diplomatic front, we have al-
ways backed the efforts of Lao Prime
Minister Souvanna Phouma-the neu-
287
