Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 26 [127]
men up here to represent the force, and it
is more than just the police force that has
done this though, as you well know.
There were a great deal of programs
that you instituted in 1970 in terms of
court reorganization, in terms of narcotics
treatment, but more than anything else,
I think the thing that has made the differ-
ence to the men has been that we have
known unequivocally that we had your
support, and also the support of the citi-
zens. A great deal of credit belongs to the
citizens and the atmosphere, I think,
that has prevailed in the last couple of
years in this city has done much to bring
about this crime decline-and I say that
without intending to take anything away
from the hard work that is done by the
127
members of the department. But we cer-
tainly do appreciate the support we have
gotten.
THE PRESIDENT. All we can do is ask
you to cut it in half again by next year.
CHIEF WILSON. We will try, Mr.
President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:50 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House, where Chief
Wilson introduced him to the annual award
winners in the Metropolitan Police Depart-
ment. The President spoke without referring
to notes.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on domestic
matters including District of Columbia crime
statistics by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs, and Egil
Krogh, Jr., Deputy Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs.
Statement About Transmittal to the Congress of a Request
for Supplemental Appropriations for the Cancer
Research Program. April 26, 1972
I HAVE sent to the Congress a supple-
mental appropriation request for $40
million to expand the campaign against
cancer. This brings the total amount re-
quested in this fiscal year for the expanded
attack on cancer to $378 million, a 100
percent increase over the amount re-
quested in the 1970 budget. These addi-
tional funds would increase fellowship
and training grants by $4 million and
construction grants by $36 million.
This action follows the recommenda-
tion of 250 outstanding cancer scientists
who are involved in the development of a
total national cancer plan. As a result of
numerous planning sessions, these men
and women have urged that one of our
first priorities in the development of the
expanded cancer research program should
be a rapid increase in training and con-
struction funds.
The added training programs would
assure that additional
that additional technical and
professional staff are available to carry
the expanded cancer research
out
program.
Additional funds for construction are
required to strengthen the Cancer Re-
search Centers Program. This program
has been designed to promote the devel-
opment of facilities throughout the Nation
which would combine the fundamental
research competence of the university
medical schools with the long experience
and special skills of the best cancer in-
stitutes. The goal is a system which will
provide facilities for generating new re-
search and development and for translat-
549
