[345] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
spending that $250 billion can be ex-
pended in fiscal year 1973 without putting
inflationary pressure on prices and with-
out developing a need for higher taxes to
relieve such price pressure.
The spending ceiling thus would be a
key requirement in my effort to protect
and enhance the remarkable economic
progress we have achieved since 1969-
progress which has been fully shared by
Atlanta and by the South in general.
When my Administration took office,
inflation was running at an annual rate
of more than 6 percent, primarily because
of excessive Federal spending prior to
1969.
That meant that the average worker
had to get a pay increase of 6 percent just
to stay even in purchasing power-any
less and his family's buying power actually
fell behind on the inflation treadmill.
Now we have cut that rate of inflation
by half-to the lowest rate of any major
industrial country in the world.
And, in just the past year, the real pur-
chasing power of the average production
worker has advanced by more than 4 per-
cent—the equivalent of two extra weekly
paychecks.
Here in Atlanta, and in the South gen-
erally, that overall progress is fully
reflected.
In Atlanta, the latest available Con-
sumer Price Index put the annual rate of
inflation here at just 2 percent, signifi-
cantly lower than the national rate. The
unemployment rate of 4.2 percent in At-
lanta also is substantially better than the
national average. And a recent report
showed personal income in the State of
Georgia has jumped more than 10 percent
in the past year.
Clearly, Atlanta and the South are
joining the rest of the Nation in a surging
return to real prosperity.
What we must do to continue this dy-
namic economic tempo is to make certain
that we ourselves do not place any barriers
in our own way-such as permitting ex-
cessive Federal spending to start up the
inflation treadmill again or to bring about
the need for a Congressional tax increase.
This is why my spending ceiling is so
important, and that is why the vote in
the U.S. Senate is so vital to the pocket-
book of every family here in Atlanta, in
the South, and in the Nation.
NOTE: The statement was released at Atlanta,
Ga.
On the same day, prior to his departure for
Atlanta, the President met with a group of
Republican Senators at the White House to
discuss Federal spending ceiling legislation.
The White House released the transcript of a
news briefing on the meeting by Senator Hugh
Scott, John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the
President for Domestic Affairs, and Caspar W.
Weinberger, Director, Office of Management
and Budget.
346 Informal Exchange With Reporters After Motorcade
Through Atlanta, Georgia.
WELL, I have seen some pretty big
crowds before, but this was the biggest one
we have had. It was very warm, very
friendly, as Atlanta crowds always are,
and I will have more to say in a few min-
October 12, 1972
utes upstairs and you are welcome to
cover it.
Q. Does this make you want to go
back on the trail more?
THE PRESIDENT. This thing, of course,
974
