[270] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
the fact that when people in show business
come out into a political rally, this is
really a risk for them, because we in
politics, when we go to a rally, of course,
we know that the game is winning over
50 percent. You always expect the other
fellow to get perhaps a little less than 50.
But in show business you are trying to
please everybody. So somebody in show
business who tries to be nice to every-
body, when he gets into politics, he has
got to be convinced that the country's
needs come before even show business,
and these people feel that way. Let's give
them a hand.
We appreciate their sticking their necks
out for us, and we just hope that as a re-
sult of what happens that their business
will be better, and that the country's
business will be better. We know that we
are most grateful for what they have done.
I should also like to say a word, too,
about Governor Reagan. I saw him in
Camp David when he reported to me on
his trip to Europe where he represented
the United States so successfully in talking
to our friends after a period, of course,
when we had necessarily been having con-
versations with some of those who had
been our adversaries.2
Then in Miami Beach, he, of course,
presided the first day. He made one of the
finest speeches of the convention, and at
that time he said that when he didn't
expect to be in the position of making the
speech of the temporary chairman, that
'On August 18, 1972, Governor Reagan
met with the President to report on his 3-week
trip to Europe as the President's special rep-
resentative for the purpose of underlining
the importance the Administration attaches
to our ties with Europe, to our NATO com-
mitment, and to mutually beneficial relations
with the enlarged European Community.
he expected to be making the welcoming
speech,
Well, he has made it here in San Diego.
This is the welcoming speech as we all
know.
Now, I want to turn, if I can, for a
moment, to San Diego, what this city
means, what this county means. It is a
very special place in my heart for a
number of reasons.
A moment ago Mayor Wilson said that
he had proclaimed that San Diego for this
week would be America's finest city. Now,
I have just been today in Miami-that is
Florida. [Laughter] And I have been in
Chicago, and that means Illinois. I have
been in Detroit and that means Michigan.
Now, as I come to San Diego, which, of
course, is enormously important in Cali-
fornia, I might lose Illinois, I might lose
Michigan, and we might lose Florida. You
wouldn't want us to do that.
So I am going to say this: I think the
Mayor has made a declaration that is a
fine one. This is certainly a wonderful city.
I won't say it is the finest city. I can't say
that. I can't pick and choose right now.
But I will say this: This is the finest re-
ception we are ever going to have in this
whole campaign, and we thank you for
that.
And I will also say, it is, as far as I am
concerned, my luckiest city. You know, I
have run for office-I hadn't realized it
until I jotted it down coming out on the
plane, how many times I had been on the
ballot in this city and county of San Diego.
Nineteen hundred fifty was the first time.
Some of you are old enough here to have
been around for that one. Nineteen hun-
dred fifty, 1952, 1956, 1960, 1962, 1968—
six times I have been on the ballot in the
State of California, and in the city of San
Diego. I haven't lost it once. I have lost
812
