Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 4 [40]
FORT LINCOLN NEW TOWN
Speaking at the National Archives last
summer in a ceremony inaugurating the
Bicentennial Era, I described an unusual
painting which hangs in the Roosevelt
Room across from the Oval Office in the
White House. The scene portrayed is the
signing of the Declaration of Independ-
ence-but for some reason the canvas was
never finished, and many of the figures in
the crowded hall are just sketched in, or
left blank. The symbolism of this, I said,
is that "the American Revolution is un-
finished business, with important roles
still open for each of us to play." A broad
cross-section of District of Columbia cit-
izens have now begun playing their roles
in the continuing drama by serving on
Mayor Washington's recently formed Bi-
centennial Assembly and Bicentennial
Commission. We in the administration
found the work of the old local Commis-
sion quite valuable in formulating our
own plans for 1976, and we look forward
to working closely with the reorganized,
two-level planning group in the future.
One of the strongest strains of commu-
nity opinion identified by local represent-
atives like these is a commitment to
revitalizing the urban heart of this Wash-
ington area. This, not flight to the suburbs
or complacent satisfaction with the status
quo, seems to arouse hope and determina-
tion at the neighborhood level. At the
same time it seems a most appropriate
cornerstone for a Bicentennial program
designed to lift the quality of Washington
life.
Accordingly, I shall initiate immediate
Federal action to move ahead on plans for
building a new town at Fort Lincoln in
Northeast Washington. Fort Lincoln, over
300 acres of open land which received its
87-234-74- -14
name as a military post a century ago and
which was long the site of the National
Training School for Boys, offers an ideal
chance to create not just another urban
project where homes are razed and the
human factor is designed out, but a totally
new community planned around people.
More than 4,000 dwellings for families of
varied incomes are envisioned three-
quarters of them owner-occupied, to pro-
vide an anchor of stability in the
development.
Innovative public transportation and
communications systems and experi-
mental educational programs would help
knit the community together. Both the
installation of these features and the con-
struction work itself would be used as
demonstration settings for some of the
social-benefit technology applications
which I proposed in my State of the
Union message. Also integral to the new
town would be a Federal employment
center for 5,000 to 10,000 employees, and
a possible satellite campus for the Federal
City College. The development would be
financed through public-private partner-
ship, with the initial Federal investment
(supplemented by District contributions
which will need approval by the Con-
gress) likely to be matched several times
over in related private investment.
"The city lives!"—a rallying cry which
meets with considerable skepticism in
some quarters today-would be the assur-
ance forcefully offered to Washingtonians
and the world by a Fort Lincoln town oc-
cupied and operating in 1976. We are
determined to make it happen.
NEIGHBORHOOD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
The Fort Lincoln idea is not new, but
the impetus behind it is—a neighborhood,
149
