Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 18 [125]
of his life, as most of you have been in
diplomacy. Now diplomats have very dif-
ficult times in every country, including the
United States, but let me tell you how very
important they are. I had it brought home
to me today.
I signed a very thick treaty today with
the Prime Minister of Canada. They
brought the treaty over, they turned the
page, they said, "Sign here." And I signed.
Now as a lawyer, or a former lawyer, I
know better than to sign something with-
out reading it. Why did I sign it? I will tell
you why.
While the Prime Minister of Canada
and I were being seen on television, while
we were meeting, a meeting at the sum-
mit of our two countries, discussing these
important things, the work was being
done that made possible our agreements,
by scores of able, dedicated people. Some
were Foreign Ministers, some were Secre-
taries of State, others were at other levels
in their Foreign Service, but all were
enormously important.
I simply want to say that in this of
125
year
summitry, here is one who goes to the
summit, who knows that without the help
of those who make it possible for him to
go, who dig out the little places on those
mountains where you step before you get
to the top, there could be no summitry
whatever.
And for that reason, as I raise my glass
with yours, to the President of this Or-
ganization, let me say, it is raised to all
of those in this room who have given your
lives to the service of diplomacy, to the
service of peace and therefore to the
service of your own country and to the
American family. So I ask that you rise,
raise your glasses to la familia ameri-
cana and to President Mora.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:58 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
José A. Mora, Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Uruguay, was President of the General Assem-
bly, Organization of American States.
President Nixon spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his remarks was released
on the same day.
On April 10, 1972, the President signed
Proclamation 4122, Pan American Day and
Pan American Week.
Remarks to Members of the Table Tennis Team
From the People's Republic of China.
April 18, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen, and members of
the Chinese table tennis team:
I am delighted to have the opportunity
to welcome this team to the United States.
It is hard to realize that it was just a
year ago that the American table tennis
team, with Mr. [Graham B.] Steenhoven
and his group, were welcomed in the Peo-
ple's Republic of China.
Premier Chou En-lai welcomed our
American players, and as the President of
the United States, on behalf of all the
American people, I welcome the repre-
sentatives of the Chinese team.
We know that in the course of your tour
of the United States you will receive a
good welcome. We know, too, that in the
course of your contest there will be win-
ners and losers. But there is one big winner,
and that is more important than who wins
a match in table tennis. The big winner,
because of this people-to-people contact
that you are initiating between our two
peoples, will be friendship between the
547
