Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 19 [93]
disadvantaged business enterprise must be
strengthened now, if we are to achieve the
goal of generating the additional invest-
ment capital needed.
Today, therefore, I am turning to the
Congress for its cooperation and help. I
urge the approval by the Congress of the
following:
-first, the Minority Enterprise Small
Business Investment Act of 1972;
-second, a budget request for the Of-
fice of Minority Business Enterprise of
$63.6 million for fiscal 1973;
-third, a variety of other small business
legislation currently pending in Congress
which will directly and collaterally aid
minority enterprise.
THE PRESSING NEED
The Nation's Black, Spanish-speaking
and Indian and other minorities consti-
tute about one-sixth of the American pop-
ulation. Yet in 1967-the last year for
which final figures are available-these
American minorities accounted for well
below one percent of the total business in-
come of the Nation. Gross receipts of al-
most $1.5 trillion were reported in that
year by all American businesses. Of this
amount, minority-owned firms received
only $10.6 billion, or less than one percent.
In the United States today, there are more
than 8 million businesses; minority Amer-
icans presently own only about 4 percent
of these businesses, despite the fact that
they constitute almost 17 percent of our
population.
These statistics starkly summarize the
gross disparity of the minority enterprise
imbalance, but they do not adequately
outline the broader effects on our society
at large. The human cost, in terms of
lost potential and lowered horizons, is
immeasurable.
RESPONDING TO MINORITY NEEDS
Recognizing the need for Government
incentives and leadership, I took steps in
my first months in office to awaken the
Federal establishment and the private sec-
tor to the potential for development of
minority business. First, I established the
Office of Minority Business Enterprise
(OMBE) within the Department of Com-
merce to plan and coordinate comprehen-
sive minority business development.
Secondly, the Small Business Administra-
tion (SBA) undertook to increase mi-
nority participation in its many business
programs. Thirdly, I directed all Federal
departments and agencies to respond to
the aspirations and needs of minority en-
trepreneurs, particularly by use of their
procurement powers.
PROGRESS REPORT
I am pleased to report to the Congress
that our efforts to stimulate the Federal
Government and private sector have been
highly productive. A comprehensive state-
ment of accomplishments was published
in January of this year entitled, "Progress
of the Minority Business Enterprise Pro-
gram." Let me summarize the highlights
of that report for you and outline our
current status.
Office of Minority Business Enterprise.
Only the private sector working with the
Government can reverse a century's dis-
couragement of minority enterprise; the
Government cannot do it alone. The Na-
tion's established corporations, financial
institutions, professional associations,
foundations, and religious organizations
are indispensable to meet the demand of
minority businessmen for seed capital, op-
445
