Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
trust of both nations, and could be relied
upon to promote the dialogue with discre-
tion, restraint, and diplomatic skill.
The two sides began clarifying their
general intentions through mutually
friendly countries. After a period of cau-
tious exploration and gathering confi-
dence, we settled upon a reliable means of
communication between Washington and
Peking.
In February 1969, I also directed that
a comprehensive National Security Coun-
cil study be made of our policy toward
China, setting in motion a policy review
process which has continued throughout
these past three years. We addressed both
the broader ramifications of a new ap-
proach and the specific steps to carry it
out.
Drawing on this analysis, we began to
implement a phased sequence of unilateral
measures to indicate the direction in
which this Administration was prepared
to move. We believed that these practical
steps, progressively relaxing trade and
travel restrictions, would make clear to
the Chinese leaders over time that we were
prepared for a serious dialogue. We had no
illusion that we could bargain for Chinese
good will. Because of the difficulties in
communication we deliberately chose ini-
tiatives that could be ignored or quietly
accepted; since they required no Chinese
actions, they were difficult to reject. We
purposely avoided dramatic moves which
could invoke dramatic rebukes and set
back the whole carefully nurtured process.
Throughout 1969 and 1970 we under-
lined our willingness to have a more con-
structive relationship.
-In July 1969, we permitted noncom-
mercial purchases of Chinese goods
without special authorization by
American tourists, museums and
others. We also broadened the cate-
gories of U.S. citizens whose passports
would be validated automatically for
travel to China.
---In December 1969, we allowed sub-
sidiaries of American firms abroad to
engage in commerce between main-
land China and third countries.
-In January and February 1970, the
two sides held Ambassadorial meet-
ings in Warsaw, which in turn had
been set through private exchanges.
These sessions underlined the handi-
caps of this formal discourse. The two
sides' representatives had minimum
flexibility; they could do little more
than read prepared statements and
refer back to their capitals for in-
structions for the next meeting. This
cumbersome exchange between wary
adversaries reinforced the need for
a new approach.
-In March 1970, we announced that
U.S. passports would be validated for
travel to mainland China for any
legitimate purpose.
-In April 1970, we authorized selec-
tive licensing of non-strategic U.S.
goods for export to mainland China.
-In August 1970, we lifted certain re-
strictions on American oil companies
operating abroad so that most for-
eign ships could use American-owned
bunkering facilities on trips to and
from mainland Chinese ports.
By the end of 1970, therefore, we had
laid out a careful record of unilateral
initiatives. Throughout these two years we
had accompanied these steps with a series
of public statements which delineated our
general attitude.
-Secretary Rogers in a speech in Can-
215
