Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
economic relationship, it was evident that
Japan, like our European allies, tended to
take our commitment to a liberal trading
system for granted without extending
equivalent access to its own market.
Both these attitudes were understand-
able. But both stood in the way of the
necessary task of creating a more mature
basis for the continuation of U.S.-Japanese
cooperation. In 1971, both also proved to
be incorrect.
I knew that the July 15 announcement
of my forthcoming visit to Peking would
have a profound impact on Japan. It
brought China policy and Japan's own
future role in a changing Asia abruptly to
the forefront of our relationship. The is-
sue of China policy is, if anything, even
more important for Japan than for the
United States. Geography, culture, his-
tory, and trade potential make it a central
issue in Japanese domestic politics as well
as a key aspect of Japan's foreign policy.
On a matter of such intrinsic importance,
Japan could not fail to be disturbed at any
implication that our policies, which had
been so closely aligned, were diverging.
It was also clear, however, that we
shared a fundamental interest in improved
relations with China. We both have an
enormous stake in ending the era of con-
frontation in Asia. Japan is already
China's largest trading associate, and for
some time has had not only economic ties
but trade representation in the People's
Republic of China.
The issue between us, then, is not
whether the opening to China is desir-
able-but the need to harmonize our
sometimes differing perspectives and in-
terests in a common strategic conception
and a shared overall goal.
For our part, we have made it clear that
our aim in Peking is to establish a better
mutual understanding of one another's
policies. We will not seek or discuss bi-
lateral arrangements that could adversely
affect the interests of our allies. We have
no interest in arrangements which would
sacrifice our friendship with a long-stand-
ing ally to the need for better communica-
tion with a long-standing adversary.
Therefore, there is no cause for either
Japan or the United States to feel a lack
of trust concerning our parallel policies
toward China. In the chapter of this Re-
port concerning China we have set forth
the reasons why it was impossible for us
to consult with our allies prior to the pub-
lic announcement of the Peking visit. We
have since that time consulted very
widely. We have made particular efforts
to assure Japan of the basic harmony
which clearly exists between a lessening
of Asian tensions and the health of the
U.S.-Japanese friendship.
My recent meeting with Prime Minister
Sato at San Clemente permitted the full
review of our policies and purposes and
was an integral part of my preparation for
the talks in Peking.
We are not on a divergent course, and
autonomous policies need not create
strains in our relationship so long as we
both recognize the need to mesh those
policies. Both the autonomy and the basic
harmony of our actions are implicit and
essential elements in the new relationship
of equality and reciprocity which we seek
with Japan. We are not involved-and
must not become involved-in a competi-
tive race toward accommodation. But in a
changing world, we are both concerned
with the removal of old animosities. Our
alliance must now serve as the firm foun-
dation of a stable Asia upon which both
235
