Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 8 [415]
paigning for office.
I want you to know that during the
period of the last several weeks since the
convention when I have had to be in
Washington, for reasons that all of you
could well understand, that I watched
the Vice President as he carried the major
burden of campaigning.
I watched with no concern, and con-
siderable amusement, the attempts that
were being made by some rather vicious
heckling to get under his skin and get him
to blow his cool. Let me say, the real test
of a campaigner is to go through the fire
of a campaign when he is taking all the
heat. The Vice President has proved he
is a great campaigner. I was going to say
he can take it and he can dish it out, too.
I also would like to pay tribute to all
of the other members of the team. I refer
of course to our campaign chairman,
Clark MacGregor, to John Mitchell, his
predecessor, to Maurice Stans, our finance
chairman, to all of the members of the
Cabinet team who did such a magnificent
job traveling through this country, to
Representatives from the Congress, the
House, the Senate, and the national Ad-
ministration, who carried the story that
we wanted to tell throughout the land.
They were a great team.
I think they have been a great team
over the past 4 years, and in this cam-
paign, when you add up
those States to
what has been called a rather significant
victory, they get a great deal of the credit,
I can assure you.
I also want to pay tribute to another
group that too often is overlooked. I wrote
a book after the election defeat of 1960,
and one of the chapters of that book dealt
with the campaign of 1960. When you
write a book, you are supposed to dedi-
cate it to somebody, and, not being an ex-
87-234-74-76
pert at this sort of thing, I just put on the
flyleaf of the dedication page in this book
about the campaign of 1960-I dedicated
it, "To Pat. She also ran."
I want all of you to know tonight how
very grateful we should be to the wives of
our Cabinet members, to the distaff mem-
bers, as sometimes-I guess, we can still
call them that in these days when you
have to be very careful about how you
describe people-but in any event, at least
shall we say to our First Ladies, and they
are always our First Ladies in our own
families. I am simply very, very proud of
all of them.
I can summarize how I feel about all of
our campaign in this way: Our speakers
throughout campaigned hard. Our speak-
ers throughout campaigned clean. They
campaigned on the issues. I am proud of
the campaign they have put on, and it
showed in the results.
Something else was new in this cam-
paign. All of us know, of course, about
those young voters. I recall at the conven-
tion that we were told by some of the
enthusiasts there at our convention that
the predictions were wrong that because
of the overwhelming youth vote that was
going to go against us that we had a very,
very hard row to hoe if we were to win
this election.
Let me say, based on the results I have
seen today, we have accomplished what
was thought to be the impossible. We not
only won a majority of the votes of Amer-
ica, but we won a majority of the votes of
young Americans.
All of you should know that one who
stands in this position with 4 years ahead
must think of what he wants for those 4
years. We want, of course, many things.
We want to do the very best job we can
for all the country, for all people in our
1141
