[341] Oct. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
votes on a particular spending bill, it does
not even contain a mechanism to do so
if it wished.
This is why the spending ceiling vote
next week will be so critical to every family
in America. The spending ceiling will give
the Congress what it needs to bring order
to its spending decisions and for the Con-
gress to become a partner, rather than an
opponent, in the fight against higher taxes
and against higher prices.
Congress works largely through com-
mittees and subcommittees. There are
more than 300 of these committees and
subcommittees. Each is an independent
world of its own, specializing in one or
more fields of activity. For example, one
committee handles urban matters, an-
other farm programs, still another public
works programs. These 300 committees
and subcommittees authorize spending for
their favorite programs without direct
regard for what the others are doing.
Other committees appropriate the actual
money for these programs, and still other
committees have the responsibility of
raising the taxes to pay for the programs.
Since most programs have some attrac-
tive features, it is easy for the committees
and the Congress itself to approve them
one at a time simply because the one pro-
gram then up for decision would advance
a worthy goal. But no one individual or
committee in the Congress is officially
charged with keeping track of the totals
involved in all of this.
The Congress, thus, has no sure way
of knowing whether or when its many
separate decisions are contributing to in-
flation and higher prices, or possibly to
higher taxes.
The Congress operates the way a family
would if all of the individual family mem-
bers went out on their own, spent what
they wanted or signed up for long-term
payments for things they desired, without
regard to what other members of the
family were spending and without regard
to the total income of the family and the
total of the bills all of the members of the
family were running up on their own.
And that is why I am calling for a rigid
spending ceiling for fiscal year 1973, so
that we can make certain that Federal
spending does not exceed $250 billion and
thus does not contribute to higher prices
or generate an urgent need for higher
taxes.
People of good will can disagree over
spending priorities, but if the Congress
wishes to increase spending in one area,
then it must be prepared either to reduce
it in another area or to include higher
taxes if we are to escape more inflation.
But the Congress is not meeting this
responsibility. I do not make this state-
ment in any partisan sense. Both of our
major parties have their share of big
spenders, and there are responsible Demo-
crats as well as responsible Republicans
serving on the Appropriations Commit-
tees of the Congress, the Ways and Means
Committee of the House, the Finance
Committee of the Senate, who are as
deeply concerned as I am about the trend
toward higher spending and higher taxes.
The problem is the inherent weakness
in the present structure of the Congress
as a whole to deal with this danger. This
has been confirmed by the House Ways
and Means Committee, which is com-
posed of some of the most experienced
men in the Congress and which has a ma-
jority of 15 Democrats to 10 Republicans.
In reporting the spending ceiling legis-
lation to the House, 21 members of this
committee, 11 Democrats and 10 Repub-
licans, included a frank discussion of the
966
