[177] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
tend to widen the juridical basis of their
mutual relations and to exert the neces-
sary efforts so that bilateral agreements
which they have concluded and multi-
lateral treaties and agreements to which
they are jointly parties are faithfully
implemented.
Fifth. The USA and the USSR re-
affirm their readiness to continue the
practice of exchanging views on problems
of mutual interest and, when necessary,
to conduct such exchanges at the highest
level, including meetings between leaders
of the two countries.
The two governments welcome and will
facilitate an increase in productive con-
tacts between representatives of the legis-
lative bodies of the two countries.
Sixth. The Parties will continue their
efforts to limit armaments on a bilateral
as well as on a multilateral basis. They will
continue to make special efforts to limit
strategic armaments. Whenever possible,
they will conclude concrete agreements
aimed at achieving these purposes.
The USA and the USSR regard as the
ultimate objective of their efforts the
achievement of general and complete dis-
armament and the establishment of an
effective system of international security
in accordance with the purposes and prin-
ciples of the United Nations.
Seventh. The USA and the USSR
regard commercial and economic ties as
an important and necessary element in
the strengthening of their bilateral rela-
tions and thus will actively promote the
growth of such ties. They will facilitate
cooperation between the relevant organi-
zations and enterprises of the two coun-
tries and the conclusion of appropriate
agreements and contracts, including long-
term ones.
The two countries will contribute to
the improvement of maritime and air
communications between them.
Eighth. The two sides consider it timely
and useful to develop mutual contacts
and cooperation in the fields of science
and technology. Where suitable, the USA
and the USSR will conclude appropriate
agreements dealing with concrete co-
operation in these fields.
Ninth. The two sides reaffirm their in-
tention to deepen cultural ties with one
another and to encourage fuller familiari-
zation with each other's cultural values.
They will promote improved conditions
for cultural exchanges and tourism.
Tenth. The USA and the USSR will
seek to ensure that their ties and coopera-
tion in all the above-mentioned fields and
in any others in their mutual interest are
built on a firm and long-term basis. To
give a permanent character to these ef-
forts, they will establish in all fields where
this is feasible joint commissions or other
joint bodies.
Eleventh. The USA and the USSR
make no claim for themselves and would
not recognize the claims of anyone else
to any special rights or advantages in
world affairs. They recognize the sovereign
equality of all states.
The development of U.S.-Soviet rela-
tions is not directed against third coun-
tries and their interests.
Twelfth. The basic principles set forth
in this document do not affect any obliga-
tions with respect to other countries
earlier assumed by the USA and the
USSR.
634
