[361] Oct. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
On June 11, 1971, I announced the
Jobs for Veterans program with a target
of providing one million Vietnam-era
veterans with jobs and training place-
ments by June 30, 1972.ยน We have not
only met that goal; we have surpassed it.
We were able to place 1.3 million veterans
by the June 30 target date, and we are
now working to provide jobs and training
placements for another 1.3 million by next
June for a 2-year total of 2.6 million.
In this connection, I would like to
point out that hiring veterans is one of
the best investments an employer can
make. Veterans have proved their abil-
ity to work and to work hard. They know
the importance of discipline. Their ex-
perience in the service has taught them
the meaning of responsibility. Hiring vet-
erans isn't just patriotic-it makes plain
good business sense.
So I am confident that, with the whole-
hearted support of the private sector and
of individual citizens, we can achieve our
goal of jobs for veterans.
Most of the challenges that we face as
a nation are bigger than party politics.
No challenge is greater than that of
keeping the peace in a dangerous world in
which nations have conflicting interests.
During the past 4 years, we have
begun moving out of an era of great peril
and entering an era of great promise. But
if we are to continue to make progress
for peace, we must keep America strong.
We must keep America strong, not out
of some misguided pride or national van-
ity, but because, in the whole free world
today, no other nation can take America's
place.
That is why one of the things I have
1 See 1971 volume, Item 200.
worked hardest for as President has been
to keep America strong.
There is no such thing as a retreat to
peace. There is no such thing as peace
without order. And if America were sud-
denly to slash away her defensive strength
and abdicate her responsibilities as the
major power of the free world, we would
be retreating.
We would be leaving behind us a global
vacuum that could only be filled with
chaos and turmoil-a vacuum in which
peace and order could not survive.
Some of the voices we hear today call-
ing for a weak America, for an isolation-
ist America, are little more than echoes
of past blunders. The same misguided
thinking they espouse today led an un-
prepared America into two World Wars
in this century because it encouraged
others to believe that their aggressions
would go unpunished.
Today America is strong. Today Amer-
ica is prepared. And because we are strong
and prepared, we have been able to make
dramatic progress toward arms reduc-
tions, toward better relations with the
Soviet Union and the People's Republic
of China, toward the first full genera-
tion of peace our country will have known
in this century.
That is something we all should think
about on this Veterans Day, as we honor
the Americans who have given so much
in past wars. We can all be encouraged-
both those who have already served to
keep America free, and their children and
younger brothers and sisters who, for the
first time, have a realistic hope for a
future in which all of our people can
enjoy both peace and freedom.
Peace is not built by the weak of heart
or by the weak of spirit. It is built by
1008
