Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 21 [356]
crucial parts of this design-including our
six special revenue sharing programs, our
proposals for streamlining the Federal
Government, and our recommendations
for welfare reform.
On the last day of the Constitutional
Convention at Independence Hall in
1787, Dr. Benjamin Franklin looked at
the President's chair-which still can be
seen in the Assembly Room-and ob-
served that he had wondered throughout
the long, hot summer whether the sun
which was painted on that chair was
rising or setting. "But now at length," he
concluded, "I have the happiness to
know that it is a rising and not a setting
sun."
Many people have suggested in recent
years that America's sun was setting, that
our glory was behind us. One reason was
the government was not responding well
to people's needs. But today as we come
back to Independence Hall we do so with
confidence that we are giving our gov-
ernment back to the people again. And
like Franklin, we can be confident, as we
approach our 200th anniversary, that the
sun is rising for America.
NOTE: The statement was released at Phila-
delphia, Pa.
356 Radio Address on the Philosophy of
Government. October 21, 1972
Good afternoon:
In election campaigns, it is customary
to talk only about programs and differ-
ences of opinion on current issues. But
even more important than what a man
advocates is what he believes, because
what he believes will determine how he
will act when issues arise in the future
which are not currently before the Nation.
That is why I want to talk today about
my philosophy of government, so that
the American people will know the prin-
ciples which will guide me in making
decisions over the next 4 years.
The central question, which goes to
the heart of American government and is
sure to affect every person in this land,
is this: Do we want to turn more power
over to bureaucrats in Washington in the
hope that they will do what is best for all
the people? Or do we want to return more
power to the people and to their State
and local governments, so that people can
decide what is best for themselves?
Now, people of good conscience differ
on this issue. Certainly in the past gen-
eration there were cases in which power
concentrated in Washington did much to
help our people live in greater fairness
and security and to enable our Nation to
speak and act strongly in world affairs.
When the will of the people is best
expressed by the Nation acting as one
people, I strongly support the use of effec-
tive Federal action. But the concentra-
tion of power can get to be a dangerous
habit. Government officials who get
power over others tend to want to keep it.
And the more power they get, the more
they want.
We all remember the waste and the
resentment of the sixties, the growing
alienation of people who felt that they
no longer counted, the feeling of frustra-
tion in dealing with a faceless machine
called the Federal bureaucracy.
In a family, when a father tells the rest
of the family what to do, that's called
!
997
