Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [367]
confrontation, rather than negotiation,
with the Soviet Union, the other great
super power.
I do not contend tonight that in these
past 4 years we have accomplished the
millennium, but I do say this, and I think
history will record that this is the case:
Because of the progress we have made,
progress in ending the war in Vietnam
with honor and not surrender, because of
the trips that I was able to take early in
the year to Peking and later in the spring
to Moscow, the year 1972 will go down as
the
year in which more progress was made
toward real peace in the world than any
year since World War II.
I do not stand on that record, because
it is something to build on. Let us see
what kind of a world we can build look-
ing to the future.
Let me tell you why, for example, the
arms control agreement that we have
reached with the Soviet Union, impor-
tant as it was, is only a beginning. It was
a limited agreement. We announced just
a few days ago that we are going to have
more negotiations in November with the
Soviet Union for the limitation on all of-
fensive nuclear weapons, as well as defen-
sive weapons. These will be difficult nego-
tiations, but you can be sure that we have
laid the foundation for pursuing them,
and we believe that we have some experi-
ence for knowing how to bring them about
in a successful way.
You also know from having followed
your papers and your television and your
radio that an historic trade agreement has
been reached between the Soviet Union
and the United States. That does not
mean instantly that there is going to be
an enormous increase in trade between
two countries with entirely different
economic systems, but it does mean that
these two great peoples, the Russian peo-
ple and the American people, can turn
more to the works of peace and less to
the works of war, and that is what we
want.
It means, above everything else, that as
we have trade with the Soviet Union
now, trade in the years ahead with the
People's Republic of China, as well as
trade with other nations in the world, the
chance for you, all of you wonderful young
people today throughout America to have
a better life, and the chance for other
people in the world to have a better life,
is greatly increased.
Let me put it in another context. You
may have seen in the papers pictures in
the Oval Office at the White House that
no one even a year ago would have
dreamed would have been possible.
Fifteen doctors from the People's Repub-
lic of China were there. Two were women,
12 were men. Another was a specialist in a
certain area of science related to medi-
cine. We discussed what they had come
to America for. I do not suggest that be-
cause 15 Chinese doctors from the Com-
munist People's Republic of China have
visited the United States that this means
we are going to have instant peace and no
disagreement between two countries with
entirely different philosophies and with
many differences in interests. But let me
tell you what I think it does mean.
I remember talking on a long car ride
one day with one of the three top leaders
of the People's Republic of China. He
told me about one of his closest friends
who had just died with cancer. He said he
had read in the papers of the new initia-
tive we had in this country for finding
cure for cancer. We know it is not easy,
but I have determined that whatever
money is required will be spent for this,
1017
