Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 24 [19]
vigorously oppose irresponsible and short-
sighted spending proposals that would
commit large sums of Federal money to
schemes that are politically attractive
but would endanger an inflation-free
prosperity.
CONCLUSION
There will be those who contend that
in this budget their favorite programs are
not financed, or are not financed as much
as they want them to be.
They will be absolutely right.
Government expenses increase each
year because special interest groups, rep-
resenting only those who stand to benefit
from their program, persuade decision-
makers that more resources are needed
for those programs without regard to the
effect on the total budget. The cost is mul-
tiplied by geometric progression when
this tactic is repeated for literally hun-
dreds of programs. Seldom do any of these
groups recommend additional taxes to
finance their proposed spending.
Then inflationary factors, frequently in-
duced by the large total volume of spend-
ing resulting from individual decisions
made without consideration of the larger
picture, force the cost of these programs
upward. At the same time the special
constituency benefiting from the program
is enlarged and strengthened, its demands
are correspondingly increased, and the
cycle continues to feed upon itself.
Taken together, what is good for all
the special interests is bad for the public
interest. Our strength is in our ability to
act as one nation, not as a conglomerate of
warring and greedy factions.
For this reason my 1973 budget, large
as it is, will not be large enough to satisfy
many. However, I hope the American
people will make their desire for less per-
vasive government known in unmistak-
able terms to their elected representatives.
It is essential to preserve the private en-
terprise system, with its competitive spirit
and its work ethic, which has done so
much to inspire the independent and help
the dependent and which has made this
Nation the economic example to the rest
of the world.
That system has enabled us to secure,
for our people, a far higher standard of
living than any experienced, or even en-
visioned, by the rest of the civilized world.
I do not wish it said of my Administra-
tion that we furthered or encouraged the
process of discarding that heritage. So,
I have emphasized fiscal responsibility and
downward pressure on Federal expendi-
tures, rather than simply accept all re-
quests of all special groups and hope that
the inevitable need for new taxes could
be delayed as long as possible.
I am not averse to a day of reckoning,
but when it comes, I want it to be said.
that this Administration foresaw the
danger, held spending to amounts that
could be paid from full-employment
revenues, and took all steps possible to
reduce the need for raising taxes so that
the Federal Government plays a smaller,
not a larger, role in the life of each of us.
In this way, every citizen will have a larger
share of the fruits of his labor to spend
the
way he or she freely chooses.
RICHARD NIXON
January 24, 1972.
NOTE: The message as sent to the Congress
included illustrative diagrams which have not
been reproduced in this volume.
The President signed the message in a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
99
