[66] Feb. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
greetings to the American people on the other
side of the great ocean.
President Nixon's visit to our country at
the invitation of the Chinese Government pro-
vides the leaders of the two countries with an
opportunity of meeting in person to seek the
normalization of relations between the two
countries and also to exchange views on ques-
tions of concern to the two sides. This is a
positive move in conformity with the desire
of the Chinese and American peoples and an
event unprecedented in the history of the rela-
tions between China and the United States.
The American people are a great people.
The Chinese people are a great people. The
peoples of our two countries have always been
friendly to each other. But owing to reasons
known to all, contacts between the two peoples
were suspended for over 20 years. Now,
through the common efforts of China and the
United States, the gate to friendly contacts
has finally been opened. At the present time it
has become a strong desire of the Chinese and
American peoples to promote the normaliza-
tion of relations between the two countries and
work for the relaxation of tension. The people,
and the people alone, are the motive force in
the making of world history. We are confident
that the day will surely come when this com-
mon desire of our two peoples will be realized.
The social systems of China and the United
States are fundamentally different, and there
exist great differences between the Chinese
Government and the United States Govern-
ment. However, these differences should not
hinder China and the United States from
establishing normal state relations on the basis
of the Five Principles of mutual respect for
sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual
nonaggression, noninterference in each other's
internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit,
and peaceful coexistence; still less should they
lead to war. As early as 1955 the Chinese Gov-
ernment publicly stated that the Chinese people
do not want to have a war with the United
States and that the Chinese Government is will-
ing to sit down and enter into negotiations with
the United States Government.
This is a policy which we have pursued con-
sistently. We have taken note of the fact that in
his speech before setting out for China President
Nixon on his part said that "what we must do is
to find a way to see that we can have differences
without being enemies in war." We hope that,
through a frank exchange of views between our
two sides to gain a clearer notion of our differ-
ences and make efforts to find common ground,
a new start can be made in the relations between
our two countries.
In conclusion, I propose a toast
-to the health of President Nixon and Mrs.
Nixon,
-to the health of our other American guests,
-to the health of all our friends and com-
rades present, and
-to the friendship between the Chinese and
American peoples.
67 Exchange With Reporters at the Great
at the Great Wall of China.
February 24, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. I can only say to the
media, who, like myself, have never seen
the Great Wall before, that it exceeds all
expectations. When one stands there and
sees the Wall going to the peak of this
mountain and realizes that it runs for
hundreds of miles, as a matter of fact
thousands of miles, over the mountains
and through the valleys of this country,
that it was built over 2,000 years ago, I
think that you would have to conclude
that this is a great wall and that it had to
be built by a great people.
Many lives, of course, were lost in build-
ing it because there was no machinery or
equipment at the time. It had to all be
done by hand. But under the circum-
stances, it is certainly a symbol of what
China in the past has been and of what
China in the future can become. A people
370
