[188] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
declaration entitled "Basic Principles of
Mutual Relations Between the United
States and the U.S.S.R." As these 12 basic
principles are put into practice, they can
provide a solid framework for the future
development of better American-Soviet
relations.
They begin with the recognition that
two nuclear nations, each of which has
the power to destroy humanity, have no
alternative but to coexist peacefully, be-
cause in a nuclear war there would be no
winners, only losers.
The basic principles commit both sides
to avoid direct military confrontation and
to exercise constructive leadership and
restraint with respect to smaller conflicts
in other parts of the world which could
drag the major powers into war.
They disavow any intention to create
spheres of influence or to conspire against
the interests of any other nation-a point
I would underscore by saying once again
tonight that America values its ties with
all nations, from our oldest allies in Eu-
rope and Asia, as I emphasized by my
visit to Iran, to our good friends in the
third world, and to our new relationship
with the People's Republic of China.
The improvement of relations depends
not only, of course, on words, but far
more on actions. The principles to which
we agreed in Moscow are like a road map.
Now that the map has been laid out, it is
up to each country to follow it. The
United States intends to adhere to these
principles. The leaders of the Soviet
Union have indicated a similar intention.
However, we must remember that So-
viet ideology still proclaims hostility to
some of America's most basic values. The
Soviet leaders remain committed to that
ideology. Like the nation they lead, they
are and they will continue to be totally
dedicated competitors of the United
States of America.
As we shape our policies for the period
ahead, therefore, we must maintain our
defenses at an adequate level until there
is mutual agreement to limit forces. The
time-tested policies of vigilance and firm-
ness which have brought us to this summit
are the only ones that can safely carry us
forward to further progress in reaching
agreements to reduce the danger of war.
Our successes in the strategic arms talks
and in the Berlin negotiations, which
opened the road to Moscow, came about
because over the past 3 years we have con-
sistently refused proposals for unilaterally
abandoning the ABM, unilaterally pulling
back our forces from Europe, and dras-
tically cutting the defense budget. The
Congress deserves the appreciation of the
American people for having the courage
to vote such proposals down and to main-
tain the strength America needs to protect
its interests.
As we continue the strategic arms talks,
seeking a permanent offensive weapons
treaty, we must bear the lessons of the
earlier talks well in mind.
By the same token, we must stand
steadfastly with our NATO partners if
negotiations leading to a new détente and
a mutual reduction of forces in Europe
are to be productive. Maintaining the
strength, integrity, and steadfastness of our
free world alliances is the foundation on
which all of our other initiatives for peace
and security in the world must rest. As
we seek better relations with those who
have been our adversaries, we will not let
down our friends and allies around the
world.
And in this period we must keep our
economy vigorous and competitive if the
opening for greater East-West trade is to
664
