[201] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
of these virtues without looking at the moral
strength that you derive from this delightful
lady who is your wife.
And so, ladies and gentlemen-and this is
not a mere formula of courtesy and affection--
but please, if you would, rise and join me in a
toast to the President and to this distinguished
lady, with all of her high virtues, who has been
a great companion to this great fighter, and as
Mexicans we invite you to reiterate this expres-
sion of our deep affection for President and Mrs.
Nixon and our great appreciation for their
warm hospitality.
202
Statement About the Dedication of the Veterans
Administration Hospital in Columbia,
Missouri. June 16, 1972
TODAY the Veterans Administration is
dedicating a new hospital in Columbia,
Mo. This brings the nationwide system of
veterans hospitals to a total of 167, with
more under construction and in the plan-
ning stage.
This latest addition will provide health
care services primarily to the veterans of
central Missouri. But its opening also
symbolizes the strong and continuing com-
mitment of this Administration to making
the best possible medical care available to
every eligible veteran.
Fulfilling the Nation's obligation to its
veterans is a matter of justice and national
honor. Meeting their medical needs is one
of our highest national priorities. To in-
sure that they are met, I intend to main-
tain and reinforce the independent system
of Veterans Administration health care
facilities when and as required.
203 Joint Communique Following Discussions With President
Echeverría of Mexico. June 17, 1972
PRESIDENT Richard Nixon and Presi-
dent Luis Echeverría Alvarez welcomed
this opportunity to renew their personal
friendship and the cordial dialogue which
began at their first meeting here in 1970.
They regarded this visit as particularly
appropriate at a time when the eyes of the
world have been focused on President
Nixon's recent visits to Peking and Mos-
cow. The visit of the Mexican President
to the United States serves to direct broad
attention to the equally important tasks
of advancing new approaches to Latin
America and the less developed nations
of the world.
They also agreed that their meetings
had contributed to the establishment of a
new era, an opening characterized by a
spirit of frankness, with Mexico and which
they hoped would characterize intra-
Hemispheric relations.
The two Presidents exchanged impres-
sions on world and Western Hemisphere
affairs in considerable detail. President
Nixon described his talks with the Chinese
and Soviet leaders. President Echeverría
recounted his experiences on recent visits
to Japan, Chile and Peru. They found
this review informative, useful as well as
stimulating. They were firmly united in
684
