[89] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
research and development in improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of public
services at the State and local level.
WORLD PARTNERSHIP IN SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY
The laws of nature transcend national
boundaries. Increasingly, the peoples of
the world are irrevocably linked in a com-
plex web of global interdependence—and
increasingly the strands of that web are
woven by science and technology.
The cause of scientific and technologi-
cal progress has always been advanced
when men have been able to reach across
international boundaries in common pur-
suits. Toward this end, we must now work
to facilitate the flow of people and the
exchange of ideas, and to recognize that
the basic problems faced in each nation
are shared by every nation.
I believe this country can benefit sub-
stantially from the experience of other
countries, even as we help other countries
by sharing our information and facilities
and specialists with them. To promote this
goal, I am directing the Federal agencies,
under the leadership of the Department
of State, to identify new opportunities for
international cooperation in research and
development. At the same time, I am in-
viting other countries to join in research
efforts in the United States, including:
-the effort to conquer cancer at the
unique research facilities of our National
Institutes of Health and at Fort Detrick,
Maryland; and
-the effort to understand the adverse
health effects of chemicals, drugs and
pollutants at the new National Center for
Toxicological Research at Pine Bluff,
Arkansas.
These two projects concern priority
problems which now challenge the whole
world's research community. But they are
only a part of the larger fabric of coopera-
tive international efforts in which we are
now engaged.
Science and technology can also provide
important links with countries which have
different political systems from ours. For
example, we have recently concluded an
agreement with the Soviet Union in the
field of health, an agreement which pro-
vides for joint research on cancer, heart
disease and environmental health prob-
lems. We are also cooperating with the
Soviet Union in the space field; we will
continue to exchange lunar samples and
we are exploring prospects for closer co-
operation in satellite meteorology, in re-
mote sensing of the environment, and in
space medicine. Beyond this, joint work-
ing groups have verified the technical
feasibility of a docking mission between
a SALYUT Station¹ and an Apollo
spacecraft.
One result of my recent visit to the
People's Republic of China was an agree-
ment to facilitate the development of
contacts and exchanges in many fields,
including science and technology. I expect
to see further progress in this area.
The United Nations and a number of
its specialized agencies are also involved
in a wide range of scientific and tech-
nological activities. The importance of
these tasks-and the clear need for an
international approach to technical prob-
lems with global implications-argues for
the most effective possible organization
and coordination of various international
agencies concerned. As a step in this di-
rection, I proposed in a recent message
to the Congress the creation of a United
¹A Soviet orbital space laboratory station.
424
