Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 10 [58]
States was also among the principal
architects of a convention banning the de-
velopment, production and stockpiling of
biological weapons and toxins. The pres-
ence of these weapons in the arsenals of
any civilized nation is no longer justified.
As 1972 opens, I am determined to
maintain American leadership in achiev-
ing arms control measures which will en-
hance both national and world security
and contribute to a lasting peace.
The White House,
February 10, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Arms Control Report: 11th Annual
Report to the Congress, U.S. Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency; January 1-Decem-
ber 31, 1971" (44 pp. plus appendixes).
58
The President's News Conference of
February 10, 1972
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO CHINA
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gen-
tlemen, before going to your other
questions, I would like to make an an-
nouncement with regard to the details of
the trip to Mainland China. This will not
cover all the details, but it will at least
cover those that we can announce at this
time.
The official party will be announced
from Florida, Key Biscayne, on Saturday
the 12th. Of course, as you know, we have
already announced that Dr. Kissinger, the
Secretary of State, Mrs. Nixon, and I will
be going, and the other members of the
official party at that time will be an-
nounced from Washington.
On Monday [February 14], I have an
event that I think has already been an-
nounced, a meeting with André Malraux,
and I am giving a dinner that night for
him to which several Congressional lead-
ers will be invited, as well as members of
the official party, the Secretary of State,
Dr. Kissinger.
In mentioning André Malraux, I do not
want to reflect on many of the other ex-
perts and there are many experts in this
field of China-whose books have been
brought to my attention. I do not want
to indicate I have read them all but I
have been exposed to a great number. I
asked him to come because there was an
interesting coincidence.
In 1969, when I met with President de
Gaulle in Paris, Mr. Malraux at that time
was the Minister of Culture in the de
Gaulle Cabinet. We had a discussion prior
to the dinner on the subject of China gen-
erally, and I was particularly impressed
with his analysis of the leaders. His book,
at least the one I have read-he's written
many-but his book, the one I particu-
larly refer to was his "Anti-Memoirs." I
would commend it to you not only for
what it tells about China and its leaders,
but also about France, its problems, and
the whole World War II and post-World
War II era.
I give you this only to indicate the
breadth of the kind of briefings that all of
us who are going to participate in the
talks are trying to undertake. It is very
347
