Richard Nixon, 1972
May 20 [161]
industries containing the hazards. Respon-
sibility for black lung compensation clearly
should lie with the owners and operators
of the mines.
In this case, however, the States have
not yet improved their owner-financed
laws to meet the challenge posed by black
lung-and there are too many victims of
this dread disease for me not to have
acted.
Therefore, I have moved to pick up the
responsibility that others have neglected—
so that disabled miners and their families
will not be deserted by our society in their
hour of critical and justified personal
need.
The health and safety of coal miners
has been a primary concern of this Ad-
ministration. One of my earliest legislative
recommendations was for more effective
Federal laws in the area of coal mine
health and safety, culminating in the en-
actment of the Federal Coal Mine Health
161
and Safety Act of 1969. Since that law
was enacted, major progress has been
made in improving working conditions in
our Nation's coal mines and in the pro-
tection offered to those who work in them.
The 1969 act established the temporary
black lung benefits program. The legisla-
tion I have signed today will extend Fed-
eral responsibility for this program from
January 1, 1972, to June 30, 1973. In the
latter half of 1973, the Federal Govern-
ment will continue to accept applications
for black lung benefits but beneficiaries
enrolled during this period will be trans-
ferred to the State programs on January 1,
1974.
I urge that all mining States review
their workmen's compensation programs
to make certain that adequate laws exist
for the black lung disease by that time.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9212, approved
May 19, 1972, is Public Law 92-303 (86 Stat.
150).
Statement on Signing Executive Order Providing for
Return of Certain Lands to the Yakima Indian
Reservation. May 20, 1972
IT IS with particular pleasure that I sign
this Executive order [11670] which places
21,000 acres of land in the State of Wash-
ington under the trust jurisdiction of the
Secretary of the Interior for the Yakima
Indian Tribe.
This action rights a wrong going back
65 years.
The U.S. Government lost the treaty
map in its own files and by the time it
was found actions had been taken which
had mistakenly displaced the Indians from
this land.
The Indian Claims Commission has
ruled that the Yakima Tribe has a right-
ful claim, but rather than accept cash
compensation, the tribe, with the permis-
sion of the Commission, sought to have
the land itself restored.
In a comprehensive opinion, Attorney
General Mitchell reviewed the uninten-
tional but mistaken actions of 1907 and
ruled that the executive order [Proclama-
tion 725] of that time did not constitute
a "taking" of the land by the Govern-
ment in the legal sense and that it can be
restored by executive action now.
Ordinarily, of course, Indian land
609
