[199] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
the other loses, clearly then you have a
built-in tendency or incentive for the side
that loses to break the agreement and to
do everything that it can to regain the
advantage.
This is an agreement which was very
toughly negotiated on both sides. There
are advantages in it for both sides. For
that reason, each side has a vested inter-
est, we believe, in keeping the agreement
rather than breaking it.
I would like for you to examine
Dr. Kissinger and our other witnesses be-
fore the committees on that point. I think
you also will be convinced that this was
one of those cases where it is to the mutual
advantage of each side, each looking to its
national security.
Another point that I would like to make
is Presidential intervention in this par-
ticular matter-Presidential coordina-
tion-due to the fact that what we have
here is not one of those cases where one
department could take a lead role. This
cut across the functions of the Department
of State, the Department of Defense, it
cut across, also, the AEC, and, of course,
the Arms Control [and Disarmament]
Agency.
Under these circumstances, there is only
one place where it could be brought to-
gether, and that was in the White House,
in the National Security Council, in which
all of these various groups participated.
There is another reason, which has to
do with the system of government in the
Soviet Union. We have found that in
dealing with the system of government in
the Soviet Union, that where decisions are
made that affect the vital security, in
fact, the very survival of a nation, deci-
sions and discussions in those cases are
made only at the highest level. Conse-
quently, it is necessary for us to have dis-
cussions and decisions at the highest level
if we are going to have the break-throughs
that we have had to make in order to come
to this point of a successful negotiation.
The other point that I would make has
to do with what follows on. The agree-
ment that we have here, as you know, is
in two stages: one, the treaty with regard
to ABM defensive weapons, and second,
the offensive limitation, the executive
agreement, which is indicated as being, as
you know, not a permanent agreement-
it is for 5 years-and not total. It covers
only certain categories of weapons.
Now we are hoping to go forward with
the second round of negotiations. That
second round will begin, we trust, in Octo-
ber. That means that we can begin in
October, provided action is taken on the
treaty and on the offensive agreement that
we have before you at this time, sometime
in the summer months; we would trust
before the 1st of September. I don't mean
that it should take that long, but I would
hope you can finish by the 1st of Septem-
ber so we can go forward with the negotia-
tion in October.
The other point that should be made
with regard to the follow-on agreements is
not related to your approval of these
agreements. It is related to the actions of
the Congress on defense. I know there is
disagreement among various Members of
the Congress with regard to what our de-
fense levels ought to be. I think, however,
I owe it to you and to the Nation to say
that Mr. Brezhnev and his colleagues
made it absolutely clear that they are
going forward with defense programs in
the offensive area which are not limited by
these agreements.
Under those circumstances, since they
678
