Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [327]
you think of the heritage from Asia, from
Europe, from Latin America, from Africa,
all the world is here. But working together,
you have built a great city, a great area,
and it is becoming greater and more beau-
tiful all the time.
Let's put it in terms of the relations
between nations. I am not referring now
to those political areas where we will be
in conflict and where we will have debates
and where necessarily we may not agree.
I recall a conversation I had a few weeks
ago with the Russian Minister of Health.
He, I found, was one of the major open
heart surgery men in the world. He had
just been down talking to Dr. DeBakey
whom many of you know, the great sur-
geon in Texas, one of the best in the
United States. We talked about how
American doctors and Russian doctors
might be able to develop methods to work
together on finding cures for various dis-
eases, in the field of heart, in the field of
cancer, and all the rest.
When I saw Mr. Chou En-lai one
evening, I talked to him about the work
that doctors in China were doing and doc-
tors in our own country were doing and
whether it might not be possible at some
time in the future where we could share
our knowledge and possibly even work
together.
Then I think that tomorrow in Los An-
geles I will be addressing a national cancer
conference. I think of the fact that we in
this country have launched a massive cam-
paign to find a cure for cancer, because
each year cancer takes more lives than
were lost in all of World War II-right
here in America it takes more lives.
Now, our campaign is a good one; it is
a big one. But the genius that may find a
cure or the cures, because there may be
many approaches for cancer or any other
disease, may not be in America. It might
be a Chinese. It might be a Russian. It
might be a woman. It might be a man. It
might be a young doctor. It might be an
old one. It might be one from a small
country in Latin America or Africa.
What we who are the leaders in the
world community must do is to find ways
that, where the common enemies of man-
kind are concerned, like disease and
misery, we work together to fight those
enemies. That is what this colloquy is
about.
I would like to tell all of this audience
today, and particularly our younger visi-
tors, that with these next 4 years, that we
will accomplish all these great goals. We
will make progress toward them, and I
think we will make considerable progress.
The world is going to be safer. Your lives
are going to be better, I trust, because of
what we have done. But in order to do so
we need the chance. We need a mandate.
We need to go before the American elec-
torate and then have the support of the
American electorate, so that in meeting
with leaders of the world, in dealing with
the Congress, they will know that the
American people back what this Adminis-
tration has done.
That is why we say, give us a chance
and we will do the job. That is what we
are asking from the American people and
from you today.
In that connection, may I simply add
one final note with regard to what I said
a few moments ago, to San Francisco, New
York, what has made this country great. I
helped to participate in the dedication of
a museum for the immigrants who have
come to the United States through Ellis
Island, 34 million over about go years. As
I went through that museum I thought
of all the people that came, how strong
931
