Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 20 [355]
355 Statement About the General Revenue Sharing
Bill. October 20, 1972
IN MY State of the Union Address nearly
2 years ago, I outlined a program which I
described as "a new American revolu-
tion-a peaceful revolution in which
power [is] turned back to the people . . .
a revolution as profound, as far-reaching,
as exciting as that first revolution almost
200 years ago."
The signing today of the State and
Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972-the
legislation known as general revenue shar-
ing-means that this new American revo-
lution is truly underway. And it is appro-
priate that we launch this new American
revolution in the same place where the
first American Revolution was launched
by our Founding Fathers 196 years ago—
Independence Square in Philadelphia. It
is appropriate that we meet in this his-
toric place to help enunciate a new decla-
ration of independence for our State and
local governments.
Just outside the Oval Office of the
President at the White House hangs a
picture of the signing of the Declaration
of Independence. It is an unfinished pic-
ture. The artist has sketched in some of
the figures only lightly and left many
spaces blank.
I have always believed there was an im-
portant moral in that picture. For the
American Revolution is also an unfinished
enterprise. Each generation must do its
part to carry on the work which began in
Philadelphia.
As we sign this historic document today,
we are carrying on the work which started
here in Independence Square-where
independence was declared, where the
Constitution was written, and where the
Bill of Rights was formally added to the
Constitution.
Even as we return today to the place
where our Nation was founded, we are
also returning to the principles of the
Founding Fathers.
They came here in the 18th century to
establish the federal system. We return
here in the 20th century to renew the fed-
eral system.
They came here to create a balance be-
tween the various levels of government.
We come here to restore that balance.
They came here "to form a more perfect
Union." We come here to make it more
perfect still.
After many years in which power has
been flowing away from those levels of
government which are closest to the
people, power will now begin to flow back
to the people again-a development
which can have an enormous impact on
their daily existence.
-In many States and localities, it will
mean lower property taxes or lower sales
taxes or lower income taxes than would
otherwise have been the case. Revenue
sharing can provide desperately needed
tax relief for millions of Americans.
-In other places, revenue sharing will
mean better schools or better hospitals.
-In some communities, this money
will be used to put more policemen on the
beat or to start new drug control pro-
grams.
-In still other instances, it will be de-
voted to job training or to recreational
facilities or to public transportation.
But the most important point is this:
In each case it will be local officials re-
995
