Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [267]
the strongest nation or at least with a
defense second to none.
When we talk about who is going to
be first, who is going to be second,
let's put it in terms of what is
sufficient for both countries. In that con-
nection, what we find as we look at the
Soviet Union and the United States, tak-
ing the two strongest powers in the world,
we find that today they are relatively
equal when we balance it all out in terms
of their defenses. We are ahead in some
areas; they are ahead in others. We are
ahead in the areas we believe are neces-
sary for our defense; they are ahead in
the areas that they believe are necessary
for their defense.
At the present time, for example, the
Soviet Union has a much greater army
than we have because they are a land
power. They need more. On the other
hand, in other areas we are ahead. But
now let's look at these various cuts.
If we want to keep the United States
from having the second best defense, we
must recognize that if we should take the
Minuteman III program, the Poseidon
missile program, and if we should halt the
development of those programs, it would
mean that the United States would be the
second strongest country in the world in
missiles. We would be number two, not
number one.
So now we start. We are second in man-
power already. Now we are second in mis-
siles. If we were to cut 60 percent of our
strategic bomber force, which is the sec-
ond recommendation made by some of the
others, and if we cancel development of
the B-1 bomber, it would mean that the
United States would become the second
strongest nation in the world in airpower.
There are no other conclusions you can
reach.
If we cut back on our naval strength, as
some have recommended, and they have
recommended that we can cut carrier
forces from 16 to 6, if we do that at a time
when the Soviet Union is actively engaged
in the greatest naval buildup in history,
the United States would become the sec-
ond strongest nation in the world in naval
power.
What this adds up to, my friends, very
simply is this: We would be second on the
ground; we would be second in air-
power; we would be second in terms of
missiles; and we would be second as far
as the Navy is concerned. That means we
would be hopelessly behind. We cannot let
that happen to America. We have to see
that America always has enough.
So the issue of whether we cut or don't
cut is very simply this: The cuts that I
have mentioned make the United States
the second strongest nation in the world.
That is why I have had to oppose them.
That is why a majority of the Members of
the House and Senate oppose them, and
that is why I ask the American Legion to
oppose them in the interest of strong na-
tional defense for this country.
Let's turn to a couple of other areas.
Many of the Legionnaires here have
served in Europe, either in World War II
or, after that, in our peacetime forces in
NATO. If we would have a major,
unilateral reduction of our forces in
NATO, what it would do would be to
undercut the confidence of our friends,
but more important, it would destroy an
initiative that we are now undertaking
with the Soviet Union and with the War-
saw Pact forces mutually to reduce our
forces.
Let's look at another point, looking to
the future. If we were to cut back the
money going into research and develop-
799
