Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 27 [26]
latter part of the year. In the fourth
quarter real output increased at the an-
nual rate of 6 percent, compared with
about 3 percent in the 2 previous quarters.
Employment rose by about 1.1 million
from July to December, and only an ex-
traordinarily large rise of the civilian labor
force-1.3 million-kept unemployment
from falling.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-two be-
gins on a note of much greater confidence
than prevailed 6 or 12 months ago. Out-
put is rising at a rate which will boost em-
ployment rapidly and eat into unemploy-
ment. There is every reason to expect this
rate of increase to continue. The Federal
Government has contributed impetus to
this advance by tax reductions and ex-
penditure increases. The Federal Reserve
has taken steps to create the monetary
conditions necessary for rapid economic
expansion.
The operation of the new control sys-
tem in an economy without inflationary
pressure of demand holds out great prom-
ise of sharply reducing the inflation rate.
We are converting the fear of perpetual
inflation into a growing hope for price
stability. We are lifting from the people
the frustrating anxiety about what their
savings and their income will be worth a
year from now or 5 years from now.
For the first time in over a decade the
United States is moving decisively to re-
store strength to its international eco-
nomic position.
The outlook is bright, but much re-
mains to be done. The great problem is
to get the unemployment rate down from
the 6-percent level where it was in 1971.
It was reduced from that level in the
sixties by a war buildup; it must be re-
duced from that level in the seventies by
the creation of peacetime jobs.
It is obvious that the unemployment
problem has been intensified by the re-
duction of over 2 million defense-related
jobs and by the need to squeeze down
inflation. But 6 percent unemployment is
too much, and I am determined to reduce
that number significantly in 1972.
To that end I proposed the tax reduc-
tion package of 1971. Federal expendi-
tures will rise by $25.2 billion between last
fiscal year and fiscal 1972. Together these
tax reductions and expenditure increases
will leave a budget deficit of $38.8 billion
this year. If we were at full employment
in the present fiscal year, expenditures
would exceed receipts by $8.1 billion. This
is strong medicine, and I do not propose
to continue its use, but we have taken it
in order to give a powerful stimulus to
employment.
We have imposed price and wage con-
trols to assure that the expansion of
demand does not run to waste in more
inflation but generates real output and
real employment.
We have suspended dollar convertibility
and reduced the international cost of the
dollar which will help restore the com-
petitive position of U.S. workers and
thereby generate jobs for them.
We have instituted a public service em-
ployment program to provide jobs directly
for people who find it especially hard to
get work.
We have expanded the number of peo-
ple on federally assisted manpower pro-
grams to record levels.
We have established computerized Job
Banks to help match up jobseekers and
job vacancies.
We have proposed welfare reform to
increase incentives to employment.
We have proposed special revenue shar-
ing for manpower programs, to make them
113
