Richard Nixon, 1972
May 15 [150]
149 Letter to Congressional Leaders Urging Action on the
General Revenue Sharing Bill. May 13, 1972
THE House Ways and Means Committee,
led by Chairman Mills, has developed a
General Revenue Sharing bill which essen-
tially incorporated the fundamental prin-
ciples I have advocated. Recent reports,
however, suggest that a logjam on appro-
priation bills may develop during June
and July. This prospect, together with the
forecast of a short session, suggests that
the Senate might not have time to act
upon General Revenue Sharing during
this Congress.
The serious fiscal crisis facing State and
local governments requires action by this
Congress. I am confident that the House
will pass General Revenue Sharing by a
large majority, and it is essential that this
be done quickly. If we are to meet the
pressing needs of our nation, I urge you
and other members of the House leader-
ship to call the Committee's bill to the
Floor this month.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker
of the House of Representatives, the Honorable
Hale Boggs, Majority Leader, and the Honor-
able Gerald R. Ford, Minority Leader. The
letters were dated May 11, 1972, and released
May 13.
On May 12, John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs, held a
news briefing on the general revenue sharing
bill, tax reform, and Government reorganiza-
tion. A transcript of the news briefing was re-
leased by the White House on May 13.
150 Statement About Peace Officers Memorial Day
and Police Week, 1972. May 15, 1972
I JOIN with millions of other grateful
Americans in paying tribute to the men
and women of the law enforcement profes-
sion during Police Week, May 14 to
May 20, and in honoring on Peace Offi-
cers Memorial Day, May 15, the sacrifices
of peace officers killed or disabled in the
line of duty.
These observances focus deserved recog-
nition on the quiet but perilous heroism
of the policemen and policewomen in
communities across the land. They pro-
vide an occasion for us to thank these
dedicated professionals for doing an often
thankless job so superbly.
An observation made shortly before his
death by the late J. Edgar Hoover, for so
long America's foremost peace officer,
might well keynote Police Week, 1972.
Despite the special challenge now posed
to police pride and morale by some ex-
treme elements which revile law enforce-
ment, Director Hoover said we must not
ignore the steady improvement in police-
citizen relations over the past half cen-
tury-from the 1920's when "citizens had
only minimal respect" for law enforce-
ment, until today, when "as never before,
our profession is respected and sup-
ported."
87-234-74-41
589
