Richard Nixon, 1972
May 29 [178]
enhancement of man's environment."
Through joint research and joint meas-
ures, the United States and the USSR
hope to contribute to the preservation of
a healthful environment in their countries
and throughout the world. Under the new
agreement on environmental cooperation
there will be consultations in the near fu-
ture in Moscow on specific cooperative
projects.
EXCHANGES IN THE FIELDS OF SCIENCE,
TECHNOLOGY, EDUCATION AND CULTURE
Both Sides note the importance of the
Agreement on Exchanges and Coopera-
tion in Scientific, Technical, Educational,
Cultural, and Other Fields in 1972-1973,
signed in Moscow on April 11, 1972. Con-
tinuation and expansion of bilateral ex-
changes in these fields will lead to better
understanding and help improve the
gen-
eral state of relations between the two
countries. Within the broad framework
provided by this Agreement the two Sides
have agreed to expand the areas of co-
operation, as reflected in new agreements
concerning space, health, the environ-
ment and science and technology.
"The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 917). On May 23, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcripts of two
news briefings on the agreement. Participants
in the first news briefing were Russell E. Train,
Chairman, and Gordon J. F. MacDonald, mem-
ber, Council on Environmental Quality; and,
in the second, were Mr. Petrovsky and Mr.
Gvishiany. On September 11, the White House
released a fact sheet on the agreement and the
transcript of a news briefing on a meeting with
the President to discuss upcoming meetings in
Moscow of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. joint committee
on implementation of the agreement. The news
briefing was held by Chairman Train, head of
the United States delegation to the U.S.-
U.S.S.R. joint committee.
The US side, noting the existence of an
extensive program of English language
instruction in the Soviet Union, indicated
its intention to encourage Russian lan-
guage programs in the United States.
II. INTERNATIONAL ISSUES
EUROPE
In the course of the discussions on the
international situation, both Sides took
note of favorable developments in the
relaxation of tensions in Europe.
Recognizing the importance to world
peace of developments in Europe, where
both World Wars originated, and mindful
of the responsibilities and commitments
which they share with other powers under
appropriate agreements, the USA and the
USSR intend to make further efforts to
ensure a peaceful future for Europe, free
of tensions, crises and conflicts.
They agree that the territorial integrity
of all states in Europe should be respected.
Both Sides view the September 3, 1971
Quadripartite Agreement relating to the
Western Sectors of Berlin as a good ex-
ample of fruitful cooperation between the
states concerned, including the USA and
the USSR. The two Sides believe that the
implementation of that agreement in the
near future, along with other steps, will
further improve the European situation
and contribute to the necessary trust
among states.
Both Sides welcomed the treaty between
the USSR and the Federal Republic of
Germany signed on August 12, 1970. They
noted the significance of the provisions of
this treaty as well as of other recent agree-
ments in contributing to confidence and
cooperation among the European states.
The USA and the USSR are prepared
639
