Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [403]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:30 p.m. at
a rally at Tulsa International Airport. He
spoke without referring to notes.
403 Campaign Statement in Rhode Island.
November 3, 1972
PRESIDENT Franklin Roosevelt once
startled a convention of the Daughters of
the American Revolution by telling them
that we are all "descended from immi-
grants." Indeed, more than any other na-
tion on earth, America is a land of
immigrants.
Being so has not been a handicap. It
has been an asset. It has strengthened the
courage and the idealism of the American
people and driven us on to even greater
endeavors.
No State better typified this great
American tradition than Rhode Island.
Small in size but great in spirit, it has
absorbed immigrants for over three cen-
turies, from the first small group of reli-
gious refugees fleeing persecution to the
massive influx of Italians, Irish, Poles, and
other peoples seeking a new life on these
shores in our own century.
And Rhode Island teaches us all the
important lesson that while we are a
diverse people, drawn from many sources,
there is far more that unites us than
divides us. All of us want the same basic
rights and opportunities; all of us want
the same kind of future for America.
We want a future in which our sons
will not have to go off to another war be-
cause America was weak, or misled, or
unprepared.
We want a future in which we can all
live at peace with the world and with one
another, free to enjoy the fruits of our
own labor.
And we want to achieve something that
this country has not enjoyed since Dwight
Eisenhower served in the White House
more than a decade ago-we want an era
of prosperity without war and without
inflation.
I believe we can do it. I believe we can
do it because I am convinced that, when
it comes down to these vital fundamentals,
we are one Nation, one people-one
America.
The people of Rhode Island have a
crucial role to play in that future. In
your plants and in your commerce, you
are helping to keep the sinews of Ameri-
can industry strong and vibrant. In your
work at the Newport Naval Base, the
Quonset Point Air Station, and the Davis-
ville Construction Center, you are keep-
ing our national defenses first in the world.
And in your patriotism and dedication
to hard work, you are keeping the Nation's
spirit aflame for generations yet to come.
I urge you to continue in that role by
sending a man to Washington who shares
your belief in a strong America—a man
who served with distinction as Secretary
of the Navy, and who has proven his skill
as a vigorous, effective leader who knows
how to get things done-John Chafee.¹
¹ John H. Chafee, Governor of Rhode Is-
land 1963-69 and Secretary of the Navy
1969-72, was the Republican candidate for
the United States Senate.
1105
