Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 27 [421]
out this country who are not elected offi-
cials or people who are appointed by the
elected officials.
It is, however, simply a statement of
fact that it is the responsibility of those
who are elected to the highest office in this
land to see to it that what they consider
to be the directions that the people want
them to follow are followed out and not
that they simply come in and continue to
go along doing things as they have been
done in the past.
I do not consider the election of No-
vember 7, 1972, despite the rather mas-
sive majority, to have been simply an ap-
proval of things as they were. I do not
consider that election to have been an en-
dorsement of the status quo. That is com-
pletely contrary to the American tradition.
This is not a standstill country. It is a go-
ahead country. That is our tradition from
the beginning. The American people are
never satisfied with things as they are.
The American people want change. In my
view, as I have often stated, I think they
want change that works, not radical
change, not destructive change, but
change that builds rather than destroys.
It is that kind of change that I have tried
to stand for, and I will continue to work
for over these next 4 years.
But when we look at the election of
1972, we must recognize that it came after
a year of very significant change: the
Moscow summit, the Peking summit, and
in the domestic field-while we had many
disappointments-the revenue sharing,
which will have such a massive effect on
the relationships between Federal and
State governments. But after that year of
'72 in which we had had very significant
change internationally and to a lesser ex-
tent on the domestic front, the American
people, in voting, I think, for the present
Administration, were not voting to stand
still but to go ahead with that kind of
imaginative change.
So, I think you can expect the next
Administration to be one that will have
some new players. We will have some
new plays, although we will consider this
to be not a game, but very, very serious
public business.
But we feel that we have a mandate, a
mandate not simply for approval of what
we have done in the past, but a mandate
to continue to provide change that will
work in our foreign policy and in our
domestic policy, change that will build a
better life, that will mean progress at
home toward our great goals here, just as
we have been making progress in the
field of international affairs.
I will conclude simply by saying that
Ron Ziegler will make the announce-
ments here from Camp David. I will be
here, of course, at the Camp, meeting
with a number of sub-Cabinet people and
others over the next 2 weeks, and as those
announcements are made, you will have
the opportunity to talk to each of the
members of the Cabinet and the sub-Cabi-
net and to interview them.
Of course, those who have to come up
for confirmation, and there will be several
in that category, will not be able to an-
swer any questions except in a very general
sense.
With regard to specific names, I think
it would be well to remove from the
specu-
lation two names I have noticed in the
press. I did meet, as you know, with Gov-
ernor Connally and with Governor Rocke-
feller. I believe that Governor Connally
and Governor Rockefeller would be very
valuable members of any Cabinet.
1151
