Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
good reason, that if when we had 540,000
in Vietnam that had no effect in getting
the enemy to negotiate on POW's, why
would having 25 or 35 thousand as a
residual force have any effect? And the
answer is: Does the enemy want the
United States to withdraw from Vietnam,
or doesn't it?
PRISONER-OF-WAR NEGOTIATIONS
[7] MR. RATHER. Mr. President,
speaking of POW families, a lady from
Florida called in this afternoon and asked
that I ask you this question. She is Mrs.
Gerald Gartley, from Florida, who is the
mother of a 27-year-old Navy lieutenant
who is a prisoner. Her question, which I
take this opportunity to ask on her behalf,
is: Have we ever asked the North Viet-
namese and the Provisional Revolutionary
Government if they will release the
POW's and guarantee the safety of our
withdrawing troops if we set a date for
withdrawal of all U.S. forces from South
Vietnam? Have we ever asked them that?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Rather, that par-
ticular matter has been one that has been
under discussion at various times in the
Paris peace talks, but you yourself recall,
because you reported it, or at least your
Paris correspondent reported it on CBS,
and I think even NBC and ABC had this
as well, that when that was floated out this
fall, the North Vietnamese totally rejected
it.
In other words, that is the deal of say-
ing that if we set a deadline, then they will
give us back our POW's-
MR. RATHER. Excuse me, that was
publicly done, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. That was publicly
done, that is correct. You remember the
United States Senator had met, he said,
with some of the people from North Viet-
nam.2 He was convinced that in the event
that we set a deadline, that that would
mean that they would release the prison-
ers. The North Vietnamese said deadline
for prisoners was no deal. That was pub-
licly stated.
Under those circumstances, this, of
course, is a very cruel action on their part,
to reject out of hand even the possibility
of that kind of discussion.
I would say this, looking to the future,
that as I have just pointed out, that when
we come down to the end, as far as our
own involvement in Vietnam is con-
cerned, the question of whether or not
they will return our prisoners in exchange
for a total American withdrawal is one
that they will have a chance to answer.
And I could also point out that we have
participated in a great number of dis-
cussions other than those public discus-
sions in Paris. Sitting right here in this
room-as a matter of fact, you are sitting
in my chair, Mr. Gromyko was sitting in
this chair-I raised the subject of POW's
with him. Dr. Kissinger raised the subject
with Chou En-lai on both of his visits to
the People's Republic of China.
MR. RATHER. Excuse me, Mr. Presi-
dent. Did we do that before—
THE PRESIDENT. In the event that at
the time of the meetings that I will have in
China and later on in the Soviet Union,
we have not made progress in this area,
the subjects will again be raised.
Now, I am not suggesting--because, be-
2 On September 12, 1971, Senator George
McGovern of South Dakota announced he had
met in Paris on September 10 and 11 with
representatives of North Vietnam and the
Provisional Revolutionary Government.
5
