Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [402]
noted that some of those who are cam-
paigning across this country are constantly
running America down. Let's speak up
for America and speak up for her on
November 7.
But above all, everybody here in Okla-
homa, like everybody in Illinois where I
was a few hours ago, and everybody in
Rhode Island, where I will be about 3
hours from now, wants the same thing for
their children, and that is a world of
peace. Let me speak to that subject for
just a moment so that you can see what is
really at stake in this campaign, so that
you can see the great difference between
the candidates and what your votes will
do for that great goal of peace in the
United States.
In the first place, we have made great
progress toward our goal of peace with
honor over the last 4 years, I refer, for
example, to the trips that I took to Peking
and to Moscow which mean that those
great nations, instead of being in con-
frontation with the United States, while
we will still have differences, we will have
the opportunities to have a peaceful rela-
tionship with them.
I speak also of the progress we have
made toward peace in Vietnam. I speak
of the fact that we have brought over
500,000 home. I also speak of what you
have all read about, of the fact that we
have finally made a breakthrough in the
negotiations to bring about a peace with
honor. We have already agreed on major
provisions. Listen to these provisions be-
cause they are the ones that I laid down
in my speech of May 8 when, as you re-
member, I ordered the mining of Hai-
phong and the bombing of North Viet-
nam: First, we have agreed, have an
agreement, that all of our prisoners of war
will be returned and all of our missing
in action will be accounted for. Second,
we have an agreement that we will have
a cease-fire throughout Indochina, in
Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. Third,
and this is a very important part of what
we have agreed to, we have agreed that
the 17 million people of South Vietnam
shall have the right to choose their own
government without having a Communist
government or a coalition government im-
posed upon them against their will.
We have not yet signed the final agree-
ment and the reason that we have not is
that some of the details, some of the issues,
are still to be finally worked out. I am
confident that they will soon be worked
out. Let me tell you what the election
has to do with this. As far as the election
is concerned, it will not have any effect
in hastening us to sign an agreement that
would be wrong and it will have no effect
in delaying us from signing an agreement
that is right.
Let me tell you, what is far more im-
portant than this next election is peace
for the next generation, and we are going
to have the right kind of an agreement.
You remember in 1968 when a bomb-
ing halt agreement was made just before
an election. It was made with the best of
intentions, I am sure, by the previous
Administration. But because it wasn't
nailed down in its details the war went on.
We are not going to make that mis-
take. We are nailing down the details.
We are getting an agreement which will
not simply be an interlude between wars,
but which will lay the foundation for
peace in the years ahead. I know that
peace with honor rather than peace with
surrender is what all of the people of this
State want.
1103
