Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
resulted in what I would have thought-
and I thought then and think now-would
have been a disastrous blow to America's
foreign policy leadership in the world, be-
lieve me, I would have done it.
Anyone who signs, as the President does,
letters to the next of kin of men killed in
war has, as his constant thought in his
mind, the first time he wakes up in the
morning and the last time as he goes to
sleep at night, when he goes to bed-he
has in mind what can he do to bring that
war to an end in a way that isn't going to
bring on other wars, or in a way that will
discourage other wars.
So as far as the timing on this is con-
cerned, we haven't, as one Senator even
had the temerity to suggest, delayed the
ending of the war until the election year.
If we could end it tomorrow, we would
end it.
Now, as far as the Peking visit and the
Moscow visit are concerned, we could
have had a Moscow summit when we first
came into office. It would have been a
failure, just as the Glassboro summit was
a failure. When summits are not well
planned, when they have for their purpose
just cosmetics, they raise great hopes, and
then there is a great thud when they fall
down.
In the case of the Soviet summit, both
the Soviet leaders and I—and I have been
in direct correspondence, as you know,
with Mr. Brezhnev on this for some time,
as well as discussions with Gromyko and
Dobrynin-were convinced that until we
had items for the agenda which would
lead to possible substantive agreements, we
should not have a summit.
What broke the back as far as having
the Moscow summit was concerned, and
what brought this timing, was the Berlin
agreement. That historic agreement indi-
cated that the United States and the So-
viet Union, agreeing on that critical area,
might find a possibility of agreeing on
other problems, where our interests might
run in conflict-possibly the Mideast, pos-
sibly arms limitation, certainly trade and
other areas. That is why the Moscow sum-
mit is timed at this point.
Now, the Chinese summit is one that I,
as you may recall, wrote about in 1967.
You may not recall it, because in 1967
there weren't many who thought I would
be sitting here now, and certainly I wasn't
sure.
MR. RATHER. Frankly, I didn't think
you would be.
THE PRESIDENT. And that makes you
not a bad prophet, either. But looking at
the situation in 1967, I wrote an article for
Foreign Affairs. As you know, I traveled
very extensively while I was out of office,
and much more freely than I can travel
now. But in that article, I raised the lid on
what many think was the biggest surprise
in history when I made the 90-second
announcement that we were going to go to
China.³
I said then that the United States, look-
ing to the future, had to find a way to open
communications with the leaders of 750
million people who lived in Mainland
China, and so the long process began. If
we could have had it in 1969 or 1970, if it
could have been properly prepared, we
would have done so; but I can assure you
it wasn't delayed because I was thinking,
"Well, if I could just have it before the
New Hampshire primary, in the year
1972, what a coup."
And the other side of that is, you see,
it takes two to work out this neat little
conspiracy that someone set up. Does any-
See 1971 volume, Item 231.
7
