[173] May 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
an appropriation to the General Services
Administration but then conditions its use
by GSA on that agency's getting the ap-
proval of the public works committees on
revised prospectuses. This reversal of the
normal Public Buildings Act procedure is
found by the Attorney General to be an
unconstitutional "coming into agreement"
provision.
I have no objection to the review and
174 Memorial Day Statement.
May 28, 1972
AS ALL America pauses today to pay
tribute to the brave men and women who
have given their lives in our country's
defense over the past two centuries, and
to pray for a lasting peace, Mrs. Nixon
and I join in that homage and in those
prayers.
Though we observe Memorial Day in
a far country, our hearts are very much.
with our own countrymen, the honored
dead and the hopeful living alike. Our
purpose in the Soviet Union is to open a
new era of negotiation and cooperation
approval of revised prospectuses for the
three buildings in question under the
procedures of the Public Buildings Act,
but I cannot act under a "coming into
agreement" requirement. Accordingly, I
will submit a budget amendment to the
Congress to eliminate the unconstitutional
problem.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14582, approved
May 27, 1972, is Public Law 92-306 (86 Stat.
163).
between our two great powers. We seek a
world where no more men need die for
peace, but where instead all men may live
in peace.
Each American in his way has much to
contribute, through thought and action, to
the building of such a world. We can
make no more fitting resolve on this day,
than a resolve to press forward to that
goal.
NOTE: The statement was released at Moscow,
U.S.S.R.
175 Statement on the Death of the Duke of Windsor.
May 28, 1972
MRS. NIXON and I are both deeply
saddened by the death of the Duke of
Windsor. He was a man of noble spirit
and high ideals, for whom millions of
Americans felt a deep respect and affec-
tion. We join in extending our profound
sympathy to the Duchess, and to the many
others who will mourn his passing.
NOTE: The Duke of Windsor, 77, died at his
home in Paris, France, following a prolonged
illness. He became King Edward VIII of Eng-
land in January 1936 after the death of his
father, George V, and then abdicated the
throne in December 1936 in order to marry
Mrs. Wallis Warfield Simpson.
The statement was released at Moscow,
U.S.S.R.
628
