Richard Nixon, 1972
June 20 [206]
I thank you very much indeed, and my
best wishes to you for a successful meeting
in New Orleans.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message, dated June 17,
1972, was released June 19 at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
206 Statement About the United Nations Conference on the
Human Environment in Stockholm, Sweden.
June 20, 1972
I HAVE just received a report on the
United Nations Conference on the Hu-
man Environment concluded last Friday
at Stockholm from Chairman Train who
headed the large and distinguished U.S.
delegation.
The United States has worked long and
hard over the past 18 months to help make
the Conference a success. Representatives
of
113
nations met together for 2 weeks to
produce an impressive number of agree-
ments on environmental principles and
recommendations for further national and
international action in this important
field.
The United States achieved practically
all of its objectives at Stockholm.
(1) The Conference approved estab-
lishment of a new United Nations unit to
provide continued leadership and coordi-
nation of environmental action, an
important step which had our full
support.
(2) The Conference approved forming
a $100 million United Nations environ-
mental fund which I personally proposed
last February.
(3) The Conference overwhelmingly
approved the U.S. proposal for a mora-
torium on commercial killing of whales.
(4) The Conference endorsed our pro-
posal for an international convention to
regulate ocean dumping.
(5) The Conference endorsed the U.S.
proposal for the establishment of a World
Heritage Trust to help preserve wilder-
ness areas and other scenic natural
landmarks.
However, even more than in the specific
agreements reached, I believe that the
deepest significance of the Conference lies
in the fact that for the first time in history,
the nations of the world sat down together
to seek better understanding of each
other's environmental problems and to
explore opportunities for positive action,
individually and collectively.
The strong concern of the United States
over the fate of our environment has also
been demonstrated in our direct dealings
with individual nations. The Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement which I signed
in Ottawa this April with Prime Minister
Trudeau was evidence of the high priority
this Administration places on protecting
the environment. The Environmental
Agreement which I signed in Moscow on
May 23 is proof of the desire of our Nation
to work together with the others on the
common tasks of peace.
I am proud that the United States is
taking a leading role in international envi-
ronmental cooperation, and I congratu-
late our U.S. delegation on its success at
Stockholm. The governments and people
of the world must now work together to
689
