[260] Aug. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
conditions suggest, with a minimum of
Federal redtape and regulations.
The Planned Variations demonstration
has given local general purpose govern-
ments some of the tools they need in order
to serve their citizens better, and its exten-
sion for another year will give the partici-
pating 20 cities an opportunity to follow
through on the important local-reliance
initiatives begun in the past 12 months.
Some of these tools include:
-freedom to designate their own
priorities,
-greater influence over Federal funds
flowing into their communities,
-substantial simplification of Federal
rules and regulations.
Bringing about changes in patterns of
behavior that have developed over many
years is a difficult undertaking. The past
year's experience in Planned Variations
has highlighted many of the difficulties
in transferring decisionmaking authority
from Federal to local hands. New working
relationships must be established among
local officials and between local and Fed-
eral officials.
But these cities have begun to solve these
problems and in doing so they have veri-
fied my conviction that local government,
given the resources and the authority, is
best qualified to identify and satisfy the
needs of urban America, because it is the
level of government that is in most direct
touch with the people.
In a letter to me dated August 2, 1972,
from all of the mayors of the 20 partici-
pating cities, they stated clearly their
sup-
port for these principles. Their letter
declared:
"We appreciate our good fortune in
having been selected in this effort and we
believe that Planned Variations has amply
demonstrated that the kinds of capacity
building which it embodies are critical to
all cities if they are to make maximum
of the community development
legislation."
Local elected officials have far too long
been held accountable for actions over
which they have little or no authority.
This Administration is dedicated to giv-
ing local officials the authority so that
they can get on with the job.
Therefore, I again call upon the Con-
gress to redouble its efforts to enact the
general revenue sharing legislation now
under consideration. This Nation needs
such legislation now.
The experience of these 20 cities will
be of great value to all local communities
which must accept new responsibilities
under revenue sharing. To further
strengthen the value of this demonstra-
tion during its second year, I am hereby
directing each Federal department and
agency to take the following actions as it
works with Planned Variations cities:
1. Provide units of general purpose
government in the immediate area of
each Planned Variations city with the
opportunity to review and comment on
all applications for Federal funds which
have a direct major impact on their
residents.
2. Intensify efforts to eliminate admin-
istratively imposed Federal regulations
which restrict local government efforts to
meet local priorities.
3. Encourage negotiations between the
cities, represented by their chief execu-
tives, and Federal departments, through
the Federal Regional Council, to develop
annual funding strategies which are re-
sponsive to locally established priorities.
The new federalism is more than a
780
