[270] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
health program and the best school sys-
tem and the best welfare system in the
world, and it isn't going to mean anything
unless you are around to enjoy it. So let's
be sure we have enough to strengthen the
United States and to maintain it.
And that is why-and this is the only
political note I will make in these re-
marks—we will have to do everything we
can to see to it that those who would cut
the strength of the United States Navy by
reducing our carriers, for example, from
16 to 6, those who would do that would
inevitably make the United States Navy
the second strongest Navy because the
Soviet Union is on a navy-building pro-
gram, which we are all aware of, which
will make it first.
So, therefore, looking to the years
ahead, if we really want peace, let me
say, here are the ingredients: First, we
must negotiate with those who might be
our adversaries—the People's Republic of
China, the Soviet Union-so that we can
negotiate differences rather than fight
about them.
But second, in order to be able to nego-
tiate, the United States must be strong,
we must be respected in the world, we
must never reduce our strength unless they
do, too, and that means let's don't go to
the negotiating table unless, in the areas
where we are supposed to be strong, we
are strong enough, and the Navy is
indispensable.
San Diego. Whenever we hear that, it
is the Navy's town. It is a great city, and
as San Diegans, let me say, I pledge to
you, we are going to keep our naval
strength and we are going to stop those,
however well intentioned they may be,
who would cut the strength of the Navy
and make it the second strongest in the
world. We are going to be number one in
our Navy so that America can continue to
be a peaceful nation.
I have delayed you too long. I know you
have been here a long time. I just close
with this final note: I have traveled a
great deal, of course, since going to Wash-
ington as a Congressman 25 years ago.
I have been to 80 countries, and it has
been a wonderful experience. But the best
part of going away is coming home. To
come home, to see you, all of you who
have worked with us over the years, and
to see all of you younger people who will
be working with us and with other candi-
dates of your choice in the future, gives
us certainly a very great feeling of pride
in being Californians and adopted San
Diegans.
We thank you very much for this wel-
come. We are going on now to a campaign
over the next 2 months which will be long,
which will be hard. It will be very vig-
orous. We go into it with no complacency,
but we go into it with confidence. We go
into it with confidence because we are
going after all the American people. We
are not going to concede anybody to the
other side, and particularly we are not
going to concede America's young people
to the other side because they are part
of our new majority.
You know, I have a real treat here. I
didn't realize when I saw Art Linkletter
here that he hadn't just arrived when we
did, because he had been there in Miami
Beach doing a wonderful job of emceeing,
and to have Art Linkletter here and not
to have him on this program-Art, won't
you say something?
Incidentally, don't you ever believe,
when you look at him, that you look at
this young fellow. He is as old as I am.
ART LINKLETTER. You know, I always
get these lovely spots right after the Presi-
816
