Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 26 [375]
of mining the harbors of North Vietnam
and bombing military targets, I laid out
three goals for peace. I thought they were
reasonable goals, and they were these:
First, there should be a cease-fire, stop the
killing. Second, all of America's POW's
should be returned and all of our missing
in action should be accounted for. And
third, the people of South Vietnam, the
17 million people who live in South Viet-
should have the right to determine
their own future without having a Com-
munist government imposed upon them
against their will by force. Those were
the three goals.
nam,
Now, based on the progress that has
been made in the negotiations to date,
I can say with confidence tonight that I
believe that we can succeed in achieving
those goals. I believe that we will suc-
ceed in achieving the goal that I have
heard from those young people sitting
behind us, peace with honor, and not sur-
render, for America. The day has not
yet come. There are still some differences
that must be resolved. I believe that they
will be resolved.
However, let us look back for a moment
about other times in this century. If you
are old enough to have lived through
them, as I was, or if you are old enough,
certainly as all of you are, to have read
about them, you remember the relief-
1918, Armistice Day. I remember at that
time I was only 5 years old, but I can
recall the celebration in our little town
at Yorba Linda, California. What a re-
lief. The war was over.
But it was only an interlude; it was not
peace that lasted. Because before the next
generation grew up, the sons of those
who had fought in World War I were
fighting in World War II.
You remember V-J Day and V-E Day.
I recall that on V-J Day I was in New
York City, in Times Square, with my wife,
and the wonderful elation that we all
felt about the war-it was over. And then
came the United Nations and all the hope
for a new world order, and we thought,
now we are going to have real peace.
And then the sons and the younger
brothers of those who had fought, and
many had died-350,000 in World War
II-were fighting again in Korea.
Then during President Eisenhower's
first year in office, you remember the
headline the war was over. And all of us
had a sigh of relief because the young
men that had died there, certainly their
sacrifice had not been in vain, because
South Korea retained its independence
and its freedom from the North Korean
invading forces.
And yet within a few years the younger
brothers of those who had fought in
Korea and the sons of the older ones who
had fought in Korea were fighting in
Vietnam. And now a day will come, one
day, when the war will be over.
Let me tell you, that, of course, is a
great accomplishment. I can assure you
that
anyone who sits in that Oval Office,
as I do, and writes the letters to the
mothers, to the wives, to the next of kin of
those who have died, anyone who sees the
wounded, the others, the ones who have
served so magnificently, anyone who has
talked, as I have, to the brave wives of
POW's what you want more than any-
thing else is to get the war over.
But also, what you want is to get it over
with honor, not simply because of some
national ego. You want to get it over with
honor because by ending it in an honor-
able way, by ending it in the right way,
87-234-74-69
1037
