Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 24 [103]
have been suggested and I imagine there
are not any that could be classified as new.
The breaking up of these patterns is some-
thing that probably is going to occur over
a period of time as economic considera-
tions and educational considerations come
more into play. I am confident of this:
That we cannot put-as I said, not in my
statement on busing a few days ago but in
my original statement on the whole edu-
cational process of last
of last year-we cannot
put the primary burden for breaking up
these patterns on the educational system.
The purpose of education is to educate.
Whenever a device is used to desegregate
which results in inferior education, we are
doing a grave disservice to the blacks who
are supposed to be helped.
relationships between these three great
power centers now.
I think that is the key to the future.
But we must also, at the same time, have
policies that look to the future of Japan,
the future of Western Europe, because it
will play a major role, and, of course, the
future of Latin America and Africa.
FIDEL CASTRO
[13.] Q. Mr. President, sir, you have
sort of a pattern of making peace with
enemies around the world. Are you next
going to see Fidel Castro?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I have not been
invited.
WORLD POWERS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, is it a prag-
matic observation that the world now is
divided into three parts: the United
States, China, and the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. Some would perhaps
describe the world that way, but I think
the world is much bigger and much more
complicated. I don't think that you can
rule out by such a simplistic observation
the future of Latin America, the potential
in Africa, the potential in South Asia and
the rimland of Asia, the future of Japan,
which is an economic giant even though
it is a mini-military power.
At the present time, it could be said
that the United States and the Soviet Un-
ion are the two major super powers from
a military standpoint, that the People's
Republic of China is the most populous
nation in the world with the potential of
becoming a super power, and therefore
anyone who is interested in trying to build
a structure of peace must deal with the
MARIHUANA REPORT
[14.] Q. Mr. President, do you have a
comment, sir, on the recommendation of
your commission on drugs that the use of
marihuana in the home be no longer con-
sidered a crime?
THE PRESIDENT. I met with Mr.
Shafer. I have read the report. It is a
report which deserves consideration and it
will receive it. However, as to one aspect
of the report, I am in disagreement. I was
before I read it, and reading it did not
change my mind. I oppose the legalization
of marihuana and that includes its sale, its
possession, and its use. I do not believe
that you can have effective criminal jus-
tice based on a philosophy that something
is half legal and half illegal. That is my
position, despite what the Commission has
recommended.
On March 21, 1972, former Governor Ray-
mond P. Shafer, Chairman, Commission on
Marihuana and Drug Abuse, met with the
President at the White House to present the
Commission's first report.
495
