Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [315]
well educated, because he came from a
very poor family, quit school in the fifth
grade, but he worked hard. And he earned
the respect of his sons and he saw to it
that every one of his sons had a chance to
have what he did not have, to go to col-
lege and get an education,
I simply want to say to everyone here
in this class, it is wonderful to be alive in
America and to be 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. You
are going to see your country live at peace
with all the nations of the world in the
years ahead. There are more jobs, more
opportunity, more freedom in America
than in any country in the world.
You will travel abroad, I hope, and
every time you come back you are going to
say how fortunate we are to live in Amer-
ica. But as you do that, as you come home
to America, remember, if you will, what
I have told you. Remember that your
teachers, your fathers, your mothers, your
minister, your priest, all of them have
made a contribution to your life which
you can never repay. Respect them. Re-
spect them and love your country, and
you, this wonderful young, new genera-
tion, will make America the greatest coun-
try in the world, which it is now, but the
best country, a good country, respected in
the world-respected because the people
of the world will know that here in this
country that any boy or girl, whatever his
background, has a chance to go to the top
in whatever occupation he chooses.
That isn't true in most of the world. It
is true here. And as I look back to that day
in the Rose Garden in 1971, as I see the
faces of the boys and girls of the class of
1971, I again say what I said then: I have
never been so proud of America and proud
of our young people as I was on that day
and as I am today as I see you here.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in the
multipurpose center of the high school. He
spoke without referring to notes.
315 Remarks at a Buffet Dinner at the Texas Ranch
of John B. Connally. September 22, 1972
ALONG WITH a few of the others who
are guests here tonight, my wife and I have
had the honor and the privilege of having
been guests before at this ranch, or affairs
like this, where John and Nellie Connally
were our hosts. We have enjoyed them.
We have enjoyed the hospitality, the good
fellowship, meeting their friends.
But I must say that there is one thing
I have a complaint about, and that is that
John Connally is awful hard to follow.
[Laughter]
In following him, I first want to say
something on a purely personal basis that
may be of interest to you. We were trying
to think of something to give you that you
could take back in your luggage without
having it searched at the airport, and so
this is small enough you can carry it in a
purse. But in any event, I hope the men
aren't carrying purses [laughter]—at least
not over your shoulders. [Laughter] A few
of you have these, but we have had de-
veloped by a very good friend of ours,
some new Presidential cuff links. They are
completely nonpartisan. They don't have
my name on them, and there is no party
label. [Laughter] All it has is the seal of
the President of the United States; it is in
living color. And so for the men you have
893
