Richard Nixon, 1972
May 28 [173]
We will remember grand buildings like
this. We will remember the dynamism and
the strength of the people of Leningrad.
I would like to share with you one
memory I will take with me for the rest of
my life. It will be the memory of a little
girl, 12 years old. At the cemetery today
I saw her picture and a few pages
from
her diary. She was a beautiful child—
brown eyes, a pretty face. The pages of
her diary were there for all to see.
She recorded how first her mother died,
her father died, her brothers and her sister,
and then finally only she was left.
As I think of Tanya, that 12-year-old
girl in Leningrad, I think of all the Tanyas
in the world-in the Soviet Union, in the
United States, in Asia, in Africa and
Latin America, wherever they may be. I
only hope that the visit that we have had
at the highest level with the Soviet leaders
will have contributed to that kind of world
173 Statement About Signing
Appropriations Act, 1972.
I HAVE signed H.R. 14582, the Second
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1972.
This act contains appropriations of more
than $4.4 billion, largely for increased pay
costs and for other requirements which are
mandatory under existing law.
I must comment briefly on one provi-
sion in the bill which I am advised by the
Attorney General is an unconstitutional
"coming into agreement" clause, infring-
ing on the fundamental principle of the
separation of legislative and executive
powers.
This provision is in the appropriation
for "Construction, Public Buildings Proj-
ects" of the General Services Administra-
tion. The bill appropriates definite sums
in which the little Tanyas and their
brothers and their sisters will be able to
grow up in a world of peace and friend-
ship among people-all people in the
world.
My glass today will be raised with yours
not only to our distinguished Chairman
of the Presidium, not only to your mayor
and to the other distinguished officials,
but to Tanya, who stands for the heroism
of a great city.
If I could try to say it in your language,
may I also ask that we raise our glasses to
this thought: Vechnaya slava geroiskomu
Leningradu. [Eternal glory to heroic
Leningrad.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:32 p.m. in
Mariinsky Palace, St. Isaac's Square, at a
luncheon hosted by the Executive Committee of
the Leningrad Council of Workers Deputies.
He spoke from a prepared text.
Sizov A. Aleksandrovi was the mayor of
Leningrad.
the Second Supplemental
May 28, 1972
for three public buildings projects but
conditions the availability of the appro-
priation on the approval by the commit-
tees on public works of revised prospec-
tuses for these buildings.
Under the Public Buildings Act of
1959, no appropriations may be made for
public buildings projects until the public
works committees have approved GSA's
prospectuses for such buildings. The Con-
gress regards this "no appropriation may
be made" provision, I understand, as in-
ternal Congressional rulemaking not af-
fecting the executive branch, and this
Administration has acquiesced in that
construction.
On the other hand, H.R. 14582 makes
627
