[162A] May 20-June 1 Public Papers of the Presidents
Navy Secretary Warner and Admiral
Gorshkov.
Mrs. Nixon visited the Bolshoi School of
Choreography and the All-Union Fashion
House for a showing of men's and women's
clothing by Soviet designers.
In the evening, the President and the
First Lady attended a performance of the
"Swan Lake" ballet at the Bolshoi Theater.
Friday, May 26
After discussions on trade matters, a com-
munique was issued on an agreement be-
tween Soviet leaders and President Nixon
to establish a U.S.-U.S.S.R. Commercial
Commission.
Mrs. Nixon, with Mrs. Brezhnev, Mrs.
Gromyko, Mrs. Dobrynin, and Mrs. Jacob
D. Beam, wife of the U.S. Ambassador,
toured the Moscow Watch Factory and
visited with workers there.
In the evening, the President and the
First Lady hosted a dinner in honor of
Soviet leaders at Spaso House, the American
Ambassador's residence.
Following the dinner, the President and
General Secretary Brezhnev signed a treaty
and an interim agreement on the limitation
of strategic arms in a televised ceremony in
St. Vladimir Hall in the Grand Kremlin
Palace.
Saturday, May 27
The President and Mrs. Nixon, with
President Podgorny and other Soviet offi-
cials, flew in a Soviet aircraft to Leningrad.
They visited the Piskaryev Cemetery, ded-
icated to those who died in the Leningrad
siege during World War II, and the Presi-
dent laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Un-
known Soldier.
After a luncheon hosted by the Executive
Committee of the Leningrad Council of
Workers Deputies in the Mariinsky Palace,
the President and the First Lady visited
Pavlovsk, formerly an Imperial summer
palace, almost destroyed during World War
II, and now completely restored as
museum.
They returned to Moscow in the early
evening.
Sunday, May 28
The President and the First Lady at-
tended services at the Baptist Church in
Moscow.
Mrs. Nixon made a walking tour of the
Grand Kremlin Palace, viewing exhibits of
armor, royal regalia, and ceremonial car-
riages, and the Diamond Fund, a collection
of precious stones, minerals, and jewelry
work. She also visited two Kremlin
churches.
At 8:30 p.m., Moscow time, the President
addressed the Soviet people on radio and
television.
Monday, May 29
In a ceremony in St. Vladimir Hall in the
Grand Kremlin Palace, the President and
General Secretary Brezhnev signed the
"Basic Principles of Relations Between the
United States of America and the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics." A joint com-
munique was also issued.
The President and Mrs. Nixon were then
honored at a reception given by the Presid-
ium of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R.
and the Government of the U.S.S.R. before
flying to Kiev aboard a Soviet aircraft.
In Kiev, the Presidium of the Supreme
Soviet and the Government of the Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic hosted a dinner for
the President and the First Lady.
Tuesday, May 30
The President went to Kiev's Park of
Eternal Glory to the Soldiers of the Great
Patriotic War, where he laid a wreath at
the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Mrs. Nixon visited the Young Pioneers'
Palace, a contemporary building with class-
rooms, laboratories, and other facilities for
youth activities.
The President and Mrs. Nixon together
then visited St. Sophia's Cathedral and
Museum, before flying to Tehran.
From the airport at Tehran, the President
and Mrs. Nixon went to the Shahyad Monu-
ment where the Mayor of Tehran presented
a key to the city.
The President and the Shah met for dis-
cussions at the Saadabad Palace.
612
