[270] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
It was a wonderfully exciting crowd,
and as I looked at their faces, I thought
of their future, all of those young people,
just as I thought of the future of America
when I saw those young volunteers down
in Miami Beach, and just as I think of
the future of America when I see all of
the younger people here.
I don't mean that we don't think of
our future, too, but I simply want you to
know that as I put all of those things
together, as I remember returning from
war in the Pacific to San Diego, as I re-
member seeing those wonderful GI's in
Miami Beach this morning, as I remem-
ber speaking to the American Legion-a
fine group of Americans—as I recall those
young people, those boys and girls so
idealistic, so enthusiastic, with so much
to give to their country, so much to live for,
I became even more dedicated than ever
before to the proposition that it is the job
of whoever is President of this country to
do everything that he can to bring peace,
but to do everything that he can to be
worthy of the people of this country and
particularly of that new generation, who
for the first time, are going to have a
chance to vote.
Oh, worthy of the older generation, too,
but let's now talk about the new genera-
tion for just a moment-18 to 21. Here
they are all voting. You know a lot of peo-
ple said, "Oh, we don't know whether we
ought to give them the vote. Are they
responsible enough? Are they going to
vote in a way that is going to consider the
issues? Are they really old enough?"
The answer is: They are bright enough
and they are patriotic enough. And we
can count on young America. I believe in
young America-and we are going to do
very well among them.
Now, as I crossed the country, and as I
came back to San Diego, one final thought
went through my mind: How much times
have changed in the last 4 years—and
they have changed for the better. Every-
thing isn't all right. It never will be in any
country in this imperfect world. Ours is
still, of course, the best country. We know
that and we are so lucky to be here. But
as we look at it we see that our cities are
safer. We see that what was happening
on some of our campuses isn't happening
as much today. People are there for an
education.
We see, too, that we have been able to
cut the rate of inflation in this country
which was nagging so many. We have
made progress in dealing with the prob-
lems of the environment. We have moved
forward on many programs in health and
education for the interest of the American
people.
This country is really a better place
than it was 4 years ago. But looking also
abroad, I was thinking this morning-
I looked out on the Atlantic and today I
am going to look out on the Pacific-how
different it is in both of those areas. In the
Pacific we find that the war that we are in
has had the effect in these past 4 years-
we have been able to move it down in
terms of the American involvement. We
have been bringing men home and we
have reached the point where we can cer-
tainly say that we in the United States of
America are seeing to a conclusion a war
that has been terribly difficult, but we
are seeing it to a conclusion in the right
way rather than in the wrong way.
We have not heeded in the past and
we will not heed in the future those who
say that the United States, which has an
honorable history throughout its history
in terms of those wars in which it has
been involved-that we will end this war
814
