Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 25 [21]
make another attempt to break the dead-
lock. I consulted with President Thieu,
who concurred fully in a new plan. On
October 11, I sent a private communica-
tion to the North Vietnamese that con-
tained new elements that could move
negotiations forward. I urged a meeting
on November 1 between Dr. Kissinger and
Special Adviser Le Duc Tho, or some
other appropriate official from Hanoi.
On October 25, the North Vietnamese
agreed to meet and suggested Novem-
ber 20 as the time for a meeting. On No-
vember 17, just 3 days before the sched-
uled meeting, they said Le Duc Tho was
ill. We offered to meet as soon as he re-
covered, either with him, or immediately
with any other authorized leader who
could come from Hanoi.
Two months have passed since they
called off that meeting. The only reply to
our plan has been an increase in troop in-
filtration from North Vietnam and Com-
munist military offensives in Laos and
Cambodia. Our proposal for peace was
answered by a step-up in the war on their
part.
That is where matters stand today.
We are being asked publicly to respond
to proposals that we answered, and in
some respects accepted, months ago in
private.
We are being asked publicly to set a
terminal date for our withdrawals when
we already offered one in private.
And the most comprehensive peace plan
of this conflict lies ignored in a secret
channel, while the enemy tries again for
military victory.
That is why I have instructed Ambas-
sador Porter to present our plan publicly
at this Thursday's session of the Paris
peace talks, along with alternatives to
make it even more flexible.
We are publishing the full details of our
plan tonight. It will prove beyond doubt
which side has made every effort to make
these negotiations succeed. It will show
unmistakably that Hanoi-not Washing-
ton or Saigon-has made the war go on.
Here is the essence of our peace plan;
public disclosure may gain it the attention
it deserves in Hanoi.
Within 6 months of an agreement:
-We shall withdraw all U.S. and allied
forces from South Vietnam.
-We shall exchange all prisoners of
war.
-There shall be a cease-fire through-
out Indochina.
-There shall be a new presidential
election in South Vietnam.
President Thieu will announce the ele-
ments of this election. These include
international supervision and an inde-
pendent body to organize and run the
election, representing all political forces
in South Vietnam, including the National
Liberation Front.
Furthermore, President Thieu has in-
formed me that within the framework of
the agreement outlined above, he makes
the following offer: He and Vice Presi-
dent Huong would be ready to resign one
month before the new election. The Chair-
man of the Senate, as caretaker head of
the Government, would assume adminis-
trative responsibilities in South Vietnam,
but the election would be the sole respon-
sibility of the independent election body
I have just described.
There are several other proposals in our
new peace plan; for example, as we of-
fered privately on July 26 of last year, we
remain prepared to undertake a major re
construction program throughout Indo.
103
