[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
ments to limit offensive and defensive
systems would be preserved, and the
two agreements would be concluded
simultaneously.
---The impasse over the composition of
strategic offensive weapons was re-
solved by concentrating on an initial
agreement for those offensive systems
having the major impact on the
strategic balance.
The breakthrough on May 20 revital-
ized the negotiations. It was followed by
progress in related areas. On Septem-
ber 30, 1971, the U.S. and USSR signed
two agreements which had been worked
out in parallel with the main arms
negotiations.
-The first established agreed measures
that each side would adopt to reduce
the risk of nuclear war occurring as
a result of an accident or unauthor-
ized acts.
-The second provided that the direct
communications link (Hot Line)
between the U.S. and the USSR
would be made more secure and less
vulnerable by employing satellites in
the communications system.
These agreements demonstrated a mu-
tual willingness to deal seriously with
other strategic issues.
The exact scope of the agreements de-
rived from the commitment of May 20 is
still under negotiation, and I am obliged
to protect the confidentiality of these
talks. I can report that a consensus is de-
veloping on certain essential elements
which provide a basis for further move-
ment toward an agreement that accom-
modates concerns expressed by each side.
-Comprehensive limitations should be
placed on ABM systems. Deploy-
ments should neither provide a de-
fense of the entire national territory
nor threaten the overall strategic bal-
ance. However, reaching agreement
has been complicated because the
existing Soviet system is designed to
protect Moscow in contrast with our
initial ABM deployments which de-
fend ICBMs located in less populous
areas.
-Since an ABM agreement will cover
all aspects of limitations on ABM
defensive systems, it should be a long
term commitment formalized in a
treaty.
-There should be an interim solution
to the question of offensive controls.
Certain offensive weapons should be
frozen to prevent widening of nu-
merical differentials to a point which
would necessitate additional Ameri-
can countermeasures. An interim
agreement would not be as compre-
hensive as the ABM Treaty and
further offensive limitations would be
considered in a second phase of nego-
tiations. Because it is only an interim
measure, it is more appropriately con-
cluded in a formal agreement of a
different type.
-An essential linkage between the sub-
stance and duration of the documents
dealing with offensive and defensive
aspects must be preserved.
The extent of the interim offensive
agreement is still under intensive negoti-
ation, reflecting the greater complexity of
questions related to offensive systems. We
must weigh the advantages of prolonging
the current stage of negotiations in order
to reach agreements on every offensive sys-
tem against the consequences of allowing
the current Soviet buildup to continue,
perhaps for a considerable period. Con-
sidering the overall balance of offensive
systems, including our program of multi-
320
