[131] Apr. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Whaling Commission. In particular, I
hope the delegations to the June meeting
will include officials concerned with envi-
ronmental matters.
My concern for the conservation of
whales is widely shared-both throughout
the Government and throughout the
country. By unanimous votes, both Houses
of the United States Congress have
passed resolutions urging a 10-year inter-
national moratorium on commercial whal-
ing. The Department of the Interior has
placed all eight species of great whales on
the endangered list. As a result, the United
States no longer participates in commer-
cial whaling and does not permit the im-
portation of any whale products.
Our participation in the work of the
International Whaling Commission al-
lows us to pursue these same concerns at
the international level. Mr. Train will
take with him to London my very best
wishes for the success of the Commission's
endeavors.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
132 Statement Following Splashdown of Apollo 16.
April 27, 1972
THE JOURNEY of Apollo 16 has ended,
but the contributions of this mission to
scientific progress have only begun.
Rarely if ever has so much new informa-
tion been made available to science in
such a brief period. As the work of evalua-
tion and analysis goes forward, the impact
of Apollo 16 will be felt for many years
to come.
On behalf of all Americans, I am
pleased to welcome Astronauts Young,
Duke, and Mattingly back to Earth and to
133
salute them for a job well done. Their skill,
their courage, and their enthusiasm have
written another proud chapter in the stir-
ring story of mankind's struggle to unlock
the mysteries of the unknown.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
The President telephoned the astronauts,
Capt. John W. Young, USN, Lt. Col. Charles
M. Duke, Jr., USAF, and Lt. Comdr. Thomas
K. Mattingly II, USN, aboard the U.S.S.
Ticonderoga in the Pacific to express his per-
sonal congratulations on the successful com-
pletion of their mission.
Statement About the Status of Women Within the
Administration. April 28, 1972
ONE year ago this month, I asked an
intensification of this Administration's
efforts to make better use of the talents of
women in Federal Government service.
Now, one year later, I am gratified by
the results. We are making real progress,
not only in striking down barriers to
women serving and advancing in the Gov-
ernment, but in affirmatively reaching out
to encourage and recruit them to do so.
This Administration has appointed and
promoted more women to full-time, pol-
icymaking positions in the Federal Gov-
ernment than ever before. The number
of women we have placed in policymaking
positions paying $28,000 and up has nearly
556
