[163] May 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
them referred to as the "spirit of Camp
David," or the "spirit of Vienna," or the
"spirit of Geneva," or the "spirit of
Glassboro."
range
In this case we are not going there sim-
ply for a better spirit, although that is
important, and we think that may be one
of the results of the trip. But we are going
there for substance, very important sub-
stantive talks. We are not going there to
make headlines today. We are going there
in order to build what we hope will be a
structure that can lead to better relations
between the Soviet Union and the United
States, and a better chance for peace
tomorrow and in all the years ahead.
The negotiations will cover a wide
of subjects. Many of these areas are ones
where we have not agreed in the past and
where we will not find agreement in the
period of discussions that we have on this
occasion. But, on the other hand, we do
expect to make some progress. And the
progress that we make, we trust, will lay
the foundation for more progress in the
future in which two great peoples, the
Russian people and the American people,
can find a way despite philosophical dif-
ferences that are very deep, despite com-
petitive positions in the world that are
quite different, can find ways to live in
peace in the world and to use their great
influence along with other nations to avoid
those situations that lead to conflict any
place in the world.
This is our goal, and it is one that all
of us will be working toward on this trip.
I simply want to say finally that we have
been very touched that over the past week,
as was the case before we took off for
Peking a few months ago, we have re-
ceived so many calls and letters and wires
from people all over the country wishing
us well. We thank you for wishing us well.
We
go
there not in any personal sense, but
we go there representing all the Ameri-
can people and the hopes and aspirations
of all of our people, particularly the hopes
of the children of America, those of gen-
erations to come. And we hope that we
can conduct ourselves in a way that will
be worthy of your hopes and worthy of
your prayers for a better relation between
the Soviet Union and the United States,
between the Russian people and the
American people, between the people of
all the countries that we will visit and the
American people, and your hopes and
prayers for what all people in the world
want, a world of peace, a world of prog-
ress for all.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 a.m. at
Andrews Air Force Base, Md. He spoke with-
out referring to notes.
164 Exchange of Remarks With Reporters and Spectators
at Klessheim Palace, Salzburg, Austria.
May 21, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. How do you do? Nice
to see you. You from here? Vienna? Oh,
it is a lovely city. I have pleasant memories
of Vienna. I have been there four or five
times, once with my daughters in 1963.
We stayed in the Imperial Hotel, in one of
the great suites of the world. But after
seeing this, I am not sure. Everything
here is nice. I see why the tourists all want
to come here. Sometime I will come as
614
