[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
years ago accelerated Vietnamization in
1970.
Last year I recalled the purposes and the
results of the joint U.S.-South Vietnamese
operations against the North Vietnamese
bases in Cambodia in the spring of 1970.
They greatly reduced American casualties,
inflicted extensive material and manpower
losses on the enemy, ended the concept of
immune sanctuaries, dislocated enemy
supply lines and strategy, ensured the con-
tinuance of our troop withdrawal pro-
gram, and bought time and confidence for
the South Vietnamese armed forces.
In many respects the South Vietnamese
incursions into Southern Laos, or LAM-
SON 719, in early February 1971 paral-
leled the Cambodian sanctuary operations
of the previous year.
-Both operations were defensive in
nature. The South Vietnamese pur-
sued North Vietnamese forces only
where they had been camped for
years, attacking South Vietnam with-
out fear of reprisal.
On both occasions the purpose of the
sweep was to cut enemy communica-
tions, destroy enemy supplies, and
thus blunt the possibility of future
enemy offensives during the following
months. Without these operations the
Communists would have had the
option of launching major attacks on
South Vietnamese and U.S. forces in
1970 and 1971.
-In both cases the very substantial im-
pact was measured in following
months by reduced enemy military
activity in South Vietnam, acceler-
ated Vietnamization and increased
U.S. withdrawals. And on both occa-
sions U.S. casualties declined sharply
after the operations. During the six
months before the Cambodian opera-
tions U.S. combat deaths averaged 93
a week; in the six months after they
were 51. U.S. combat deaths before
LAMSON 719 averaged 44 a week;
afterward they averaged 26.
The one major difference between the
Cambodian and Laos operations reflects
the success of Vietnamization. Unlike the
1970 Cambodian sweeps, which included
U.S. combat troops, LAMSON 719 was
entirely conducted by South Vietnamese
ground forces, with the U.S. strictly in a
supporting role. The South Vietnamese
mounted complex multidivision opera-
tions in difficult terrain, in adverse
weather and against a well-prepared
enemy.
LAMSON 719 thus underlined major
progress. Three years previously the South
Vietnamese were fighting enemy units in
and close to South Vietnam's own popu-
lation centers. Now they were dealing with
the enemy threat in remote sanctuary
areas, without the support of U.S. ground
combat forces or advisers, and keeping
their own territory pacified at the same
time. I summed up the impact of the
Laotian operations in my April 7 address
to the Nation when I announced that the
American withdrawal rate would be in-
creased and that 100,000 more American
troops would be brought home from South
Vietnam by December 1.
The trends in South Vietnam since that
time have remained positive. American
casualties have declined further. We con-
tinued to step up the rate of American
withdrawals during 1971. Enemy offensive
activity in South Vietnam stayed low. The
situation in the countryside has continued
to show progress.
In coming months the enemy can be
expected to pose maximum challenges to
Vietnamization. At the turn of the year
282
