[40] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
METRO revenue bonds-the next essen-
tial step to getting the trains running.
TO WELCOME 40 MILLION GUESTS
Both the sheer visitor volume antici-
pated at the height of the bicentennial
observance, and the important goal of
eliminating a "them and us" polarity be-
tween city residents and their guests from
around the world, dictate that past pat-
terns which have made the Mall and its
immediate environs a sort of "tourist
ghetto" must now go. All of Washington
must be made not only hospitable and
attractive to the visitor-which the pro-
posals just outlined should go far toward
achieving-but easily accessible as well.
I have directed the Secretary of Trans-
portation to coordinate interagency ac-
tion plans for supplementing those subway
lines in service by 1976 with a coordinated
network of other public transportation on
which visitors can move from fringe park-
ing areas (to be developed under these
plans) to points of interest nearer the city
center.
At the hub of this network should be a
new National Visitors Center in and
around Union Station. Such a facility, de-
sirable for all years, becomes indispensable
as we look to the Bicentennial. I have
therefore charged the Secretary of the
Interior, in consultation with the Secre-
tary of Transportation, to take immedi-
ate action to move the National Visitors
Center out of the talk stage, and to pre-
pare new proposals for bringing it to com-
pletion by 1976. When Union Station was
built early in this century at the height of
the railroad era, one of its express pur-
poses was to permit removal of an un-
sightly terminal and tracks from the east
end of the Mall. Its rehabilitation in the
seventies as the Capital's principal recep-
tion and orientation point for travelers on
all modes of ground transportation would
be most appropriate, and would once
again relieve the Mall and downtown
areas of much traffic congestion. An “air
rights" parking garage for buses and visi-
tors' cars, convenient public transit con-
nections, and a central information
facility tied in with a citywide tourist
guidance and information system would
be the major features of the project.
Here is an opportunity for public and
private resources to combine to fill a Bi-
centennial need. Notwithstanding the col-
lapse of previous railroad financing plans
for the Center at the time of the Penn
Central bankruptcy, I have asked Secre-
taries Morton and Volpe to seek substan-
tial railroad participation as they for-
mulate the new proposals. I shall submit
these to the Congress as soon as possible,
with hopes of rapid approval.
Another step which should promote
smoother tourist flow to major attractions
is construction of a METRO station at
Arlington National Cemetery. This sta-
tion, for which planning funds are re-
quested in my new budget, would speed
movement from Washington over to the
Arlington shrine, which by 1976 will be
enhanced with numerous improvements
including a new Memorial Chapel and
columbarium. At the same time it would
offer the arriving visitor one more con-
venient transfer point from private to
public transportation on the way into the
Capital itself.
BICENTENNIAL GARDENS
Moving in toward the center of the
city, what will the 1976 visitor find along
the Mall? Most strikingly new and charm-
152
