[111] Apr. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
to serve in this position and as a member of
your Administration. I am most grateful for the
trust you have placed in me.
During my tenure as Secretary of the Navy,
the Navy and the Marine Corps have been
in transition as a result of our winding down
the war in Vietnam and our preparation for the
period beyond Vietnam. We are modernizing
our forces and they are ready to meet the
challenges of the future.
Under your leadership and that of Secretary
of Defense Laird, we in the Department of the
Navy have participated in the development and
implementation of the Nixon doctrine and
the national security strategy of realistic deter-
rence. I take great pride in having been a part
of so vital an enterprise.
I 12
The nation is greatly in your debt for your
untiring efforts to bring a generation of peace
to the world and to promote domestic tranquil-
ity. The Navy and Marine Corps appreciate
your support and have benefitted from your
compassion and interest in the individual Sailor
and Marine.
With deep appreciation for the opportunity
you have given me to be of service to our
country, I wish to you and Mrs. Nixon con-
tinued good health and happiness in the com-
ing years.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN H. CHAFEE
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C. 20500]
Statement About the Death of Buford Ellington.
April 4, 1972
MRS. NIXON and I join in mourning
the death of Buford Ellington.
As Governor of Tennessee for two
terms, he helped to improve the quality
of life in rural areas of his State
and promoted economic development
throughout the region, and as Director of
the Office of Emergency Planning under
President Johnson, he made a significant
contribution to the entire Nation.
Buford Ellington will be remembered
as a fair and independent man who
served his State and Nation well when
they were in need of his service.
NOTE: Mr. Ellington, 64, died of a heart at-
tack in Boca Raton, Fla., on April 3, 1972. He
was Governor of Tennessee from 1959 to 1963
and from 1967 to 1971. He was Director of
the Office of Emergency Planning from 1965
to 1966.
The statement was posted for the press.
113 Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National
Catholic Education Association in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. April 6, 1972
Your Eminence Cardinal Krol, Mayor
Rizzo, all of the distinguished guests on
the platform, and all of the distinguished
attendees at this National Catholic Edu-
cation Association conference:
I am most grateful for the very warm
reception that you have provided, a recep-
tion which I realize is not for just the man
but more for the office that I represent.
And I am most grateful to His Eminence
Cardinal Krol, for his very generous
remarks.
In turn, I can say that we have been
proud that he has come to the White
House to participate in one of our Sun-
day worship services; in addition to that,
516
