Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 15 [124]
morning, Mr. Train and Mr. Ruckelshaus.
This treaty is an example to the world of the
interdependence of all men and women and
of the advantages which flow from coopera-
tive measures. Indeed, Mr. President, your
visit to Canada this week offers an oppor-
tunity to all nations to note the high stand-
ards which Canadians and Americans have
achieved in their neighborhood, of the bene-
fits which flow from their friendly competi-
tion, of the room which exists for their in-
dividuality. In our talks yesterday each of
us assured himself that he understood the
other; each of us dedicated himself to the con-
tinuation of a relationship which has few
parallels in history and which owes as much
to the willingness of the American people to
accept on their northern border an independent
state, with all the differences that that entails,
as it does to the desire of Canadians to pursue
their own destiny. Canadians are happy that
you came, Mr. President. We hope you will
come again. We wish you and Mrs. Nixon a
safe journey home and wisdom and stamina
in the important days ahead.
On the same day, the White House also re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the agreement. Participants in the
news briefing were George Soteroff, Chief In-
formation Officer, Fisheries Service, Hon. Jack
Davis, Minister, and A. T. Davidson, Assistant
Deputy Minister, Policy, Planning, and Re-
search, Department of the Environment, Can-
ada; W. K. Wardroper, Director General, Eco-
nomic and Scientific Affairs, Department of Ex-
ternal Affairs, Canada; Russell E. Train, Chair-
man, Council on Environmental Quality; and
William D. Ruckelshaus, Administrator, En-
vironmental Protection Agency.
124 Remarks at a State Dinner for Representatives of the
Organization of American States. April 15, 1972
President Mora, Your Excellencies, and
ladies and gentlemen:
I understand that during the past week
that all of you have been exposed to a
great number of speeches and tonight
therefore, at this very, shall we say,
friendly occasion, I hesitate to impose
upon you another speech. But I will speak
briefly and then I would like to add a few
words directly in a very personal sense to
those who are members of what I call, and
what I think most of you call, the Ameri-
can family, our family.
First, we want to welcome you here, as
I have welcomed you previously. Yester-
day in the Canadian Parliament, as Sena-
tor Aiken, who is Canada's Senator in the
United States Senate, they told me at least,
in any event, knows, I was told that unless
I spoke some French I would have no suc-
cess in my speech. So I went back 37 years
and picked out a few words and one way
or another managed some French that
some probably misunderstood.
But whatever the case might be, let me
say
that as far as my Spanish is concerned,
it is limited, but it is from the heart when
I say, "Estan ustedes en su casa,” and we
are very honored to welcome you here
again.
As you know, we come from southern
California and we have a strong Spanish
heritage-not only where we lived, but
also our honeymoon was in Mexico and
we have memories that we will always
carry with us of those times. So our home
in San Clemente, California, is one that
we named Casa Pacifica. Casa Pacifica
has two meanings. If you have seen this
home, it is one that has a magnificent view
of the Pacific so it is "The House on the
Pacific" or "of the Pacific." But also it
543
