Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 10 [115]
115 Remarks at the Signing Ceremony of the
Biological Weapons Convention.
Mr. Secretary of State, Ambassador
Cromer, Ambassador Dobrynin, Your Ex-
cellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
First, may I subscribe to the statements
that have been made by the British Am-
bassador and the Soviet Ambassador.ยน
Second, may I congratulate all of those
not here at this head table, but many in
this room and all over the world, repre-
sentatives of our various governments who
for years have worked for the achievement
of these agreements. The contributions
that have been made by the British Gov-
ernment, by the Soviet Government, by
the Government of the United States, and
others concerned, would not have been
possible except for those working for arms
control in each of our countries. We con-
gratulate all of them who have been work-
ing in these activities.
As has already been indicated, we have
been here in this room before. We recall
the nonproliferation agreement ceremony
which occurred in 1970. We recall also
the seabed ceremony, and that treaty will
soon come into force, and now we have
this ceremony today.
The Soviet Ambassador has referred to
the negotiations with regard to the limita-
tion of strategic arms. We are working to-
ward that end, an end, as he has indicated,
which will serve not only the interests of
peace between our two countries, but, we
trust, also will serve the interests of peace
ยน Preceding the President's remarks, the Earl
of Cromer, Ambassador from Great Britain, and
Anatoly F. Dobrynin, Ambassador from the
Soviet Union, spoke. Their remarks are printed
in the Department of State Bulletin (vol.
LXVI, pp. 615 and 616).
April 10, 1972
for all the world.
But as we look at these various agree-
ments, we must understand how much
they mean, and also what they still need
if we are to achieve our ultimate goal.
As far as these agreements are concerned,
they are basically not an end in them-
selves. They limit arms, but they do not
mean the end of war. They are means to
an end, and that end is peace.
In terms of the agreement that is being
signed today, it has very great significance.
It means that all the scientists of the world,
certainly a universal community, what-
ever their language, whatever their race,
whatever their background, instead of
working to develop biological weapons
which one nation might use against an-
other nation, now may devote their entire
energy toward working against the enemy
of all mankind-disease.
For that reason, that agreement is one
of enormous significance to all of those
who have followed its development. But
as we look at these agreements and recog-
nize that they are only means to an end,
we must recognize also what more needs
to be done to achieve our goal: Not just
to limiting arms, but of ending the threat
of war which hangs over the world.
Insofar as that goal is concerned, we
begin with one proposition, and that is
that each nation of the world must re-
nounce the use of force, the use of aggres-
sion against other nations. We must also
recognize another proposition, and that is
that a great responsibility particularly
rests upon the great powers, that every
great power must follow the principle that
it should not encourage directly or in-
87-234-74-37
525
