Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 7 [341]
American taxpayer. I will veto even bills
whose purposes I agree with, if I con-
clude that the price tags of those bills are
so high that they will lead to tax
increases.
I consider the battle against higher
prices and higher taxes to be the major
domestic issue of this Presidential cam-
paign. The issue is clear. I am holding
spending in a range not requiring a tax
increase now or over the next 4 years. I
will not make any promises in this cam-
paign that would require a tax increase
now or in the future.
Our opponents in their platform, in
their campaign promises, are committed
to huge new spending programs that
would add $100 billion to the budget and
would require the largest tax increase in
America's history. The major burden of
those increased taxes would fall on
America's 82 million wage earners.
My goal is not only no tax increase in
1973 but no tax increase in the next 4
years.
To achieve this, we must put a tax-
proof ceiling on spending now and we
must be sure there are no holes in that
ceiling. To buy now and pay later would
be the sure road to higher taxes or higher
prices, or both.
Another reason this spending ceiling is
needed is to enable us to fulfill our firm
commitment to provide relief from prop-
erty taxes. When property tax relief
comes, and it will come if the Congress
cooperates with me now on harnessing
runaway spending, the first to receive
relief will be those who most need it.
Today there are more than one million
retired Americans over 65. They live in
their own homes with an income of less
than $2,000 a year. They pay an average
from $300 to $700 of that $2,000 in prop-
erty taxes. To allow that to happen to
Americans who have worked all their
lives to build this great country and
to earn their retirement is a national
disgrace.
Relief for those Americans is going to
be a first order of business in our next
Federal budget. It has been charged by
some prominent economists that a tax in-
crease in 1973 is unavoidable.
I disagree. There is nothing desirable
and nothing inevitable about a tax in-
crease in 1973 or beyond. But while a
President can promise there will be no tax
increase, as I have, he can keep that
promise only if the Congress cooperates
with him in holding down spending.
I do not point the finger of blame at
the Members of Congress as individuals.
As one who once proudly served in both
the House and Senate, I know how hard
it is for the Congress to join with the
President in achieving a goal which is so
much in the interest of every American
family.
But, let's face it, the Congress suffers
from institutional faults when it comes to
Federal spending. In our economy, the
President is required by law to operate
within the discipline of his budget, just as
most American families must operate
within the discipline of their budget.
Both the President and a family must
consider total income and total outgo
when they take a look at some new item
which would involve spending additional
money. They must take into account their
total financial situation as they make each
and every spending decision.
In the Congress, however, it is vastly
different. Congress not only does not con-
sider the total financial picture when it
965
