[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
allied leaders ensured the harmony of our
diplomacy in advance of these trips. Our
allies have no veto over U.S. policy, just
as we have no veto over theirs, but I was
able to reassure them that I would be mak-
ing no agreements at their expense.
Another principle I have long empha-
sized is that detente will not come about
except through negotiation on concrete
problems. A cordial atmosphere is not
enough. Political conflicts left unresolved
would inevitably flare up again to poison
it. As I said at the 20th anniversary meet-
ing of the North Atlantic Alliance in April
1969: "It is not enough to talk of Euro-
pean security in the abstract. We must
know the elements of insecurity and how
to remove them.”
We allies have therefore addressed the
main issues of East-West relations in
Europe.
-The Alliance proposed that the pros-
pects for detente could be radically
improved if we could alleviate the
tensions surrounding Berlin-a focus
of perennial crisis since 1948.
-We agreed that a more constructive
Soviet-American relationship was an
integral part of a relaxation of Euro-
pean tension; thus the U.S. began
negotiations on SALT, against a
background of close allied consulta-
tion.
-NATO again proposed negotiation
on mutual balanced force reductions
in Europe, and began the careful and
vital preparatory work of analyzing
the issues involved.
-The Alliance consulted on whether
and how a comprehensive European
conference, as proposed by the War-
saw Pact, could be used as a forum
for constructively addressing the sub-
stantive problems of European
security.
Germany and Berlin. Previous periods
of European detente proved illusory
either because nations failed to deal
with the central questions of the divi-
sion of Germany and Berlin, or be-
cause the attempts to deal with them
created further stalemate and con-
frontation. If a relaxation of tension
was to come about in the 1970's—and I
was convinced it could-it would be tested
in new efforts to address these issues. On
my
visit to West Berlin in February 1969,
therefore, I called for an end to the ten-
sions over Berlin. Chancellor Brandt has
proposed to normalize his country's rela-
tions with its Eastern neighbors through
new treaty relationships.
It was for the West German govern-
ment in the first instance to work out an
approach to the German national prob-
lem. At the same time, issues related to the
division of Germany were of natural and
direct concern to all European powers;
the U.S., the U.K., France, and the
USSR, in particular, have special rights
and responsibilities regarding Berlin. The
two key problems-West Germany's rela-
tions with its Eastern neighbors and the
Four-Power relationship in Berlin-were
thus related organically. The Soviet-Ger-
man treaty of 1970 could not in itself
normalize the situation in Central Europe
if Berlin were ignored.
The Berlin negotiators faced a tangle
of two decades' accumulation of conflict-
ing legal arguments, administrative prac-
tices, and political and economic interests.
The ideal solution-reunification of
Berlin-was not feasible. On the other
hand, it was unacceptable to us to treat
West Berlin as a separate political entity
228
