[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
power to people-in real terms, in dollars-
and-cents terms. It is a trend which is ex-
pressed by Federal income tax cuts, by
more State and local participation in pro-
gram administration, and by more Federal
funds going to State and local govern-
ments without restrictions.
This is the right course for the Ameri-
can people; it reflects their will; I remind
the Congress of its power and responsi-
bility to make revenue sharing and other
returns of power to people a reality in this
current session.
Another priority-one upon which so
much of our progress at home depends-
is to create a peaceful world order. We
could never fulfill our hopes for a full
generation of peace from a position of
weakness; we can only negotiate and
maintain peace if our military power
continues to be second to none.
A demagogue may find it easy enough
to advocate that we simply allocate neces-
sary defense dollars to social programs, but
a responsible Congress and a responsible
President cannot afford such easy answers.
Our success in reducing our involve-
ment in Vietnam by 480,000 men before
May 1, 1972, and comparable materiel
reductions will help enable us for the
first time-to spend more in the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
than we spend in the Department of
Defense.
But it would be foolhardy not to mod-
ernize our defense at this crucial moment.
Accordingly, and still within our full-
employment guideline, I propose a $6.3
billion increase in budget authority for
military programs, including vitally
needed additions to our strategic forces
and our naval strength.
In the 1972 defense appropriation bill,
which the Congress did not pass until De-
cember of 1971, the Congress cut my ap-
propriation request by $3 billion. My 1971
defense request was cut by the Congress
by $2.1 billion. These were costly cuts,
especially in the field of research and
development.
We must be prudent in our defense
spending, making certain we get the best
defense for each taxpayer dollar spent.
Productivity here too must be increased,
but we cannot afford to be "penny-wise
and pound-foolish." Nothing could be
more wasteful than to have to pay the
price of weakness. It costs far less to main-
tain our strength than it would cost to fall
behind and have to catch up, even if that
could be done. I urge the Congress not to
make the costly mistakes it has made in
previous years in its defense cuts; the
budget as submitted represents America's
actual military needs, and offers the best
means to secure peace for the coming
generation.
Another priority of this budget is to di-
rect the resources of the Federal Govern-
ment toward those needs the American
people most want met and to the people
who are most in need.
Welfare Reform, with training and
work incentives, with a new fairness to-
ward the working poor and a minimum
income for every dependent family, is a
good idea whose time has come. It has
been proposed and studied; it has been
refined and improved upon; it is ripe for
action now. Further delay in enactment
would not only be unwise in fiscal terms,
but cruel in human terms. The proposed
program is infinitely better than the waste-
ful, demeaning system that now calls itself
welfare. This budget proposes appropria-
tion of $450 million to start the replace-
ment of welfare with "workfare."
Revenue Sharing has been debated at
80
