[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
For most Americans, the school bus
used to be a symbol of hope-of better
education. In too many communities
today, it has become a symbol of helpless-
ness, frustration and outrage of a
wrenching of children away from their
families, and from the schools their fam-
ilies may have moved to be near, and
sending them arbitrarily to others far
distant.
It has become a symbol of social engi-
neering on the basis of abstractions, with
too little regard for the desires and the
feelings of those most directly concerned:
the children, and their families.
Schools exist to serve the children, not
to bear the burden of social change. As I
put it in my policy statement on school
desegregation 2 years ago (on March 24,
1970):
"One of the mistakes of past policy has
been to demand too much of our schools:
They have been expected not only to edu-
cate, but also to accomplish a social trans-
formation. Children in many instances
have not been served, but used-in what
all too often has proved a tragically futile
effort to achieve in the schools the kind
of multiracial society which the adult
community has failed to achieve for itself.
"If we are to be realists, we must recog-
nize that in a free society there are limits
to the amount of Government coercion
that can reasonably be used; that in
achieving desegregation we must proceed
with the least possible disruption of the
education of the Nation's children; and
that our children are highly sensitive to
conflict, and highly vulnerable to lasting
psychic injury.
"Failing to recognize these factors, past
policies have placed on the schools and the
children too great a share of the burden
of eliminating racial disparities through-
out our society. A major part of this task
falls to the schools. But they cannot do it
all or even most of it by themselves. Other
institutions can share the burden of break-
ing down racial barriers, but only the
schools can perform the task of education
itself. If our schools fail to educate, then
whatever they may achieve in integrating
the races will turn out to be only a Pyrrhic
victory."
The Supreme Court has also recognized
this problem. Writing for a unanimous
Court in the Swann case last April, Chief
Justice Burger said:
"The constant theme and thrust of
every holding from Brown I to date is that
state-enforced separation of races in pub-
lic schools is discrimination that violates
the Equal Protection Clause. The remedy
commanded was to dismantle dual school
systems.
"We are concerned in these cases with
the elimination of the discrimination in-
herent in the dual school systems, not with
myriad factors of human existence which
can cause discrimination in a multitude
of ways on racial, religious, or ethnic
grounds. The target of the cases from
Brown I to the present was the dual school
system. The elimination of racial discrim-
ination in public schools is a large task
and one that should not be retarded by
efforts to achieve broader purposes lying
beyond the jurisdiction of school authori-
ties. One vehicle can carry only a limited
amount of baggage.
"Our objective in dealing with the
issues presented by these cases is to see that
school authorities exclude no pupil of a
racial minority from any school, directly
or indirectly, on account of race; it does
not and cannot embrace all the problems
of racial prejudice, even when those prob-
lems contribute to disproportionate racial
432
