[103] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
we were trying to do and what I believe
our proposals, if they are enacted by the
Congress, will accomplish.
In the first place, we have to analyze
what the constitutional problem is. The
Constitution under the 14th Amendment
provides for equal protection of the law.
The Constitution does not provide, as a
remedy, busing or any other device. The
Constitution in the 14th Amendment ex-
pressly grants power to the Congress to set
up the remedies to accomplish the right of
equal protection of the law.
We turn now to busing. Let me relate
this to Brown v. the Board of Education.
Brown v. the Board of Education, as its
name indicates, was about, primarily,
education. Brown v. the Board of Educa-
tion held, in effect, that legally segregated
education was inherently inferior educa-
tion. I agree with that.
On the other hand, how do we desegre-
gate and thereby get better education?
Here is where busing compounds the evil.
Busing for the purpose of achieving racial
balance not only does not produce superior
education, it results in even more inferior
education.
So what I was trying to do was to tackle
the issue by saying we can and should
have desegregation, but we should not
compound the evil of a dual school system,
of legal segregation, by using a remedy
which makes it even worse.
That is why I have concluded that, first,
a moratorium on busing for a year was
the right move to make. I believe, inci-
dentally, that the moratorium is constitu-
tional. I believe it will be so held by the
Supreme Court due to the fact that it deals
with a remedy and not a right. That is the
fundamental difference. Lawyers will dis-
agree on that, but the Court will decide. I
think the Court will decide that the mora-
torium is constitutional.
That is why, also, I moved in another
field. When we talk about education, we
must remember that if we had busing at
the maximum degree suggested by the
most extreme proponents of busing, it
would still leave the vast majority of black
schoolchildren living in central cities,
going to what are basically inferior schools,
a lost generation, as I described it.
I decided that we could not allow that
situation to continue without trying to
move on it. How have we tried to move?
We have tried to move through a program
which has not yet been fully tested-I am
not sure that it will work, but we have
got to do something-and that is in the
field of compensatory education, a pro-
gram in which we, rather than doing it
with a shotgun approach which has
proved ineffective, that we use the "critical
mass" approach, $300 as has been de-
scribed per pupil, for the purpose of im-
proving education in those schools where
no plan for desegregation that anybody
has suggested will ever affect. We cannot
leave those people, those students, there
without having some action and some at-
tention paid to them.
One other thought with regard to this
whole matter of compensatory education.
I noted on one of the networks, not yours,
but NBC's, a very thoughtful series to the
effect that compensatory education is a
failure. We looked into that. As a matter
of fact, on the basis in which it has been
used up to this point of a shotgun ap-
proach where you have $100, $150, $200
a student, it has not worked.
You have an example in the District of
Columbia where over $300 has not helped.
But on the other hand, in California and
492
