Appendix B
July
July
24 Officials responsible for the domestic law
enforcement aspects of the President's drug
abuse prevention program met with the
President at the White House to report on
their activities during fiscal 1972.
25 The President met at the White House with
representatives of the United States Con-
ference of Mayors, the National League of
Cities, the National Association of Coun-
ties, and the National Legislative Confer-
ence to discuss revenue sharing. Present at
the meeting were Mayors Louie Welch of
Houston, Sam Massell, Jr., of Atlanta,
Moon Landrieu of New Orleans, Roman S.
Gribbs of Detroit, Frank W. Burke of
Louisville, Harry G. Haskell of Wilmington,
Henry W. Maier of Milwaukee, John
Driggs of Phoenix, Joseph Alioto of San
Francisco, Wesley C. Uhlman of Seattle,
Lee Alexander of Syracuse, Roy Martin of
Norfolk, William Schaefer of Baltimore,
Norman Mineta of San Jose, E. J. Garn of
Salt Lake City, and Richard G. Hatcher of
Gary; Gladys Spellman of Prince Georges
County, Md., and State Representative
John Conolly of Illinois.
26 Entertainer Johnny Cash, who was in Wash-
ington to testify before a Senate subcom-
mittee on prison conditions, met with the
President at the White House. Senator Bill
Brock of Tennessee joined in the meeting.
28 Representatives Carl Albert, Hale Boggs,
and Gerald R. Ford met with the President
at the White House to discuss the report
by Representatives Boggs and Ford on their
recent trip to the People's Republic of
China.
28 Brazilian Minister of Finance Antônio
Delfim Netto met with the President at
the White House to deliver a letter from
President Emílio Garrastazú Médici. He
was accompanied by Brazilian Ambassador
João Augusto de Araujo Castro.
28 Mayor Jack D. Maltester of San Leandro,
Calif., and John Gunther, executive di-
rector, United States Conference of Mayors,
called on the President to present a medal-
lion commemorating San Leandro's 200th
anniversary.
28 David J. Mahoney, Chairman, American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission, met
with the President to present a status re-
port on the Commission's plans.
28 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
Agreement Concerning Shrimp between
the Government of the United States of
America and the Government of the Fed-
erative Republic of Brazil.
28 The President attended a ceremony in the
Cabinet Room for the signing of a Record
of Discussions relating to the U.S.-U.S.S.R.
Joint Commission on Scientific and Tech-
nical Cooperation. The document was
signed by Dr. Edward E. David, Jr., Science
Adviser to the President, who headed the
U.S. delegation to the discussions in Mos-
cow July 2-8. Soviet Ambassador Anatoly
F. Dobrynin also attended the ceremony.
The document was signed simultaneously
in Moscow.
28 Sir Burk Trend, Secretary of the Cabinet
of the United Kingdom, and the Earl of
Cromer, British Ambassador to the United
States, called on the President at the White
House.
August
I The President met with the president of
the United States Jaycees, Samuel D.
Weiner of New Martinsville, W. Va.
I Entertainers Karen and Richard Carpenter
met with the President at the White House
to discuss their work in raising funds for
cancer research. Karen is the national youth
chairman of the American Cancer Society.
B-13
