[271] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
on to San Diego where we had a mar-
velous crowd at the airport. Then home
again.
All of these places are wonderful places.
I know that I can't select one from the
other, but to come back here and find the
mayor of Whittier, the mayor of Yorba
Linda, the mayor of Fullerton, and the
mayor of San Clemente and all of our
friends from this area means the most
of all. We thank you for that, too.
I want you to know that each brings
back a memory: Yorba Linda, the town
I was born in. I was there until I was
through the fifth grade. Then we moved
over to Whittier, I went to the East Whit-
tier Grammar School from the fifth to the
eighth grade. It was the one, you remem-
ber, in the Long Beach earthquake that
was knocked down and they had to re-
build it. It is still a fine school. Then I
went to Fullerton High School my first 2
years. That is when I met Arky Vaughan,
whom I put on my all-star team for base-
ball. He was a great football player in
Fullerton in those days, and became a
star for the Pittsburgh Pirates. Then I
went to Whittier High School for the next
2, and then to Whittier College for 4 years,
and then after that to law school at Duke,
and back to Whittier where Pat and I
met. We were married, Tricia was born.
Then came the war, and in 1947 back to
Congress.
Since then in those past 25 years we
have been all across this country, every
one of the 50 States. We have been to 80
countries around the world. We have been
to countries that no President of the
United States has ever seen before or
visited before. We have been to the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, to Peking, of
course, as you know. We were in Moscow,
the first President ever to go to Moscow.
We were in Romania-Bucharest-the
first President ever to visit there. We were
also in Warsaw in Poland, the first Presi-
dent to go there.
These travels were extremely interest-
ing. They, of course, had one very great
purpose. What they really were about,
they were about all of you, and particu-
larly this younger generation. Oh, I don't
mean that we in the older generation
don't matter, too, because all of us vote
and all of us care, but what we are trying
to build-and I saw the sign as we came
in here, "House of Peace," that is the
name of our house, Casa Pacifica--what
we are trying to build in the world today
is a world of peace. That is not easy be-
cause there are many differences in the
world between governments.
The Communist governments see the
world very differently from us, and they
always will as long as they are Com-
munists and as long as we are free.
But at a time when we have nuclear
weapons in the world we just have to find
a way where there can be differences be-
tween governments without having people
have to fight wars about them. Because if
the great powers engage in a war there
won't be any more wars, because that is
going to be the last one-there are not
going to be people to fight a war.
Now, to talk in such melodramatic
terms, of course, points up the issue. Let
me put it in a more hopeful note.
As we have gone to these countries, I
have had very, very hard negotiating ses-
sions with the Russians, of course, on the
limitation of nuclear arms and on more
positive things: exchange in the field of
science and cooperation in the field of
health, in space, and other things. The
same is true with regard to an historic
visit to the People's Republic of China.
818
