[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
prepared to have the kind of relationship
with the Chilean Government that it is
prepared to have with us.
In this context, its actions thus far on
compensation for expropriated U.S.-
owned copper companies are not en-
couraging. The application ex post facto
of unprecedented legal rules which effec-
tively nullify compensation is, in our view,
inconsistent with international law. We
and other public and private sources of
development investment will take account
of whether or not the Chilean Govern-
ment meets its international obligations.
The integrity of international law,
moreover, is not something only the
United States has an interest in. On the
contrary, it is a world interest. Smaller
nations in particular are the beneficiaries
of the restraints and obligations which in-
ternational law seeks to impose on the
conduct of states.
It is a challenge to statesmanship to see
to it that nationalism works as a positive
force and not as an obstacle to mutually
beneficial relations between states.
Confrontation and extremism are de-
structive. For this reason the United
States continues to assist the efforts of its
partners to combat subversive violence,
both with material and training support
for security programs and with support
for building the institutions and processes
of democratic, social and economic
progress.
Regrettably, Cuba has not abandoned
its promotion of subversive violence. There
has been some moderation of its rhetoric
and more selectivity in its approach to
exporting revolution, but these seem to be
only a shift in tactics prompted by the
consistent failures of its domestic policy
and revolutionary adventures. Cuba con-
tinues to furnish money, weapons, train-
ing, and ideological leadership to revolu-
tionary and terrorist groups. Similarly,
Cuba has increased, not diminished, its
military ties with the USSR-its receipt of
arms and provision of facilities—and thus
invited a permanent Soviet military pres-
ence into the hemisphere. Cuba isolates
itself by these policies, which are an ob-
vious and direct threat to the rest of the
community. The United States will con-
sider supporting a change in the OAS
sanctions against Cuba only when the evi-
dence demonstrates a real change in
Cuba's policies.
A PROGRAM OF ACTION FOR
DEVELOPMENT
A hemisphere divided by a yawning
gulf between wealth and squalor is no
community. The commitment of the
United States to human dignity implies a
commitment to help our neighbors achieve
their overriding national objective-eco-
nomic and social development.
There is no certainty that development
contributes directly or immediately to
democracy, or peace, or friendlier rela-
tions with the United States. In the long
run, we hope it will. We will assist in the
hemispheric effort with realistic expecta-
tions and with a realistic program of ac-
tion that will have an impact.
Trade opportunities are crucial to Latin
American development. Export earnings
are the most important long term source
of foreign exchange; they are a means of
financing development without depend-
ence on external aid and without the real
or imagined infringement of national
sovereignty that so often complicates bi-
lateral and even multilateral lending and
investment.
The growth of these earnings, however,
264
