[109] Apr. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
nity. We look forward to more compre-
hensive negotiations this year and next.
The eventual results of all these efforts
will be to restore a healthy trade surplus
and a strong financial position for the
United States. This will be not only in
our own interest-but in the interest of a
prosperous world economy, a stable mone-
tary system, and an equitable trading
order.
International discussions have now be-
gun, leading toward the ultimate objec-
tive of a fundamental and overdue re-
structuring of the entire international
monetary and trading system. Conditions
have changed greatly since the Bretton
Woods agreement of 1945, and we must
adapt the system to meet those changes.
The Smithsonian Agreement-in addi-
tion to achieving immediate currency re-
alignments-recognized the need for
long-range change, established a reform
agenda, and provided for continuing dis-
cussions among the nations toward these
longer term improvements.
The United States is committed to work
with other nations to bring about neces-
sary reforms. However, the long-range in-
ΙΙΟ
ternational economic issues we face are
complex and affect fundamental inter-
ests. The ultimate reforms will take, and
should take, time to work out. We seek no
patchwork. We seek responsible arrange-
ments that will withstand the test of time
and which will be fully equal to the
magnitude of the problems and opportu-
nities presented.
This international economic reform is
not a task that we can or should do
alone-it is the mutual responsibility of
the entire free world.
The basic significance of the Smith-
sonian Agreement, and the resulting dol-
lar legislation which I sign today, is that
it provides for continued cooperation
among our allies and ourselves-and thus
strengthens our unity-as we work
toward an "open world" based on a more
balanced monetary system and a more
equitable international trading environ-
ment.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3160, approved March
31, 1972, is Public Law 92-268 (86 Stat. 116).
On April 3, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Paul A.
Volcker, Under Secretary of the Treasury for
Monetary Affairs, on the provisions of the act.
110 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
Operation of the International Coffee Agreement.
April 4, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith my report on the
operations of the International Coffee
Agreement during 1971.
Last year the International Coffee
Agreement proved its continuing value as
an instrument of international economic
cooperation. The 62 members of the In-
ternational Coffee Organization worked
together effectively to stabilize world
coffee trade.
This stability serves the interests of the
United States in two important respects.
First, it benefits the American consumer
by helping to prevent the recurrence of
the extremely high coffee prices recorded
in the years prior to the Agreement. In
1971, for example, the International Cof-
514
