[211] June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
2II
Remarks on Suspending Restrictions on Meat Imports.
June 26, 1972
TO COUNTER recent rises in the cost
of meat, I have today directed removal
of all restrictions on meat imports for the
balance of 1972.
Prices of meat have been rising because
increased demands have not been
matched by increased supplies. This ac-
tion is designed to increase the supply of
meat.
Increased supplies from abroad will
not have an immediate effect in reduc-
ing prices in the supermarkets, but this
action will definitely help in the future.
In the meantime, I intend to take what-
ever further measures are necessary to
prevent increases in the cost of food.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed
in the Family Theater at the White House for
later broadcast on radio and television.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on suspension of restrictions on meat
imports. Participants in the news briefing
were George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treas-
ury, Raymond A. Ioanes, Administrator, For-
212
eign Agricultural Service, Department of Ag-
riculture, and Julius L. Katz, Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary, International Resources and
Food Policy, Department of State.
On June 29, 1972, the President signed
Executive Order 11674 extending economic
stabilization controls to unprocessed agricul-
tural products after the first sale. On the same
day, the White House released the following
related material: a fact sheet, the text of a
Cost of Living Council regulation, and a state-
ment and the transcript of a news briefing by
Donald Rumsfeld, Counsellor to the President
and Director, Cost of Living Council. Mr.
Rumsfeld's statement is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
8, p. 1110).
On June 30, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
Shultz and Mr. Rumsfeld on the President's
meeting with the Cost of Living Council to
discuss meat imports and stabilization of food
prices.
On July 7, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Secretary Shultz
and Herbert Stein, Chairman, Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers, on a meeting with food indus-
try representatives to discuss further actions to
stabilize food prices.
Statement About Suspension of Restrictions on Meat
Imports. June 26, 1972
TO COUNTER recent rises in the cost of
meat, I have today directed the Secretary
of State to remove all quota restrictions
on meat imported into the United States
for the balance of 1972. Nations which
export meat to the United States until
today have been observing voluntary
quotas.
The recent rise in the price of meat is
in part due to an improving economy here
at home causing increased demands for
meat which have not been matched by
increased supplies. This action is intended
to encourage more meat imports into the
United States, thereby increasing the
supply available here.
This action alone may not fully solve
the problem. Further measures will be
taken as necessary and appropriate.
I intend to monitor this situation
closely, and I want to assure every Ameri-
can housewife that this Administration is
firmly determined to prevent unjustified
increases in the cost of food.
704
