Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [90]
so inferior that it is hypocritical even to
suggest that the poor children who go
there are getting a decent education, let
alone an education comparable to that of
children who go to schools in the suburbs.
Even the most extreme proponents of bus-
ing admit that it would be years before
programs could be set up and financed
which would bus a majority of these chil-
dren out of these central city areas to bet-
ter schools in the suburbs. That means
that putting primary emphasis on more
busing, rather than on better education,
inevitably will leave a lost generation of
poor children in the central cities, doomed
to inferior education.
It is time for us to make a national
commitment to see that the schools in the
central cities are upgraded so that the
children who go there will have just as
good a chance to get quality education
as do the children who go to school in
the suburbs.
What I am proposing is that at the
same time we stop more busing, we move
forward to guarantee that the children
currently attending the poorest schools in
our cities and in rural areas be provided
with education equal to that of good
schools in their communities.
Taken together, the two elements of
my proposal-the moratorium on new
busing and the Equal Educational Oppor-
tunities Act, would focus our efforts where
they really belong: on better education
for all of our children, rather than on
more busing for some of our children.
In addition, I am directing all agencies
and departments of the Federal Govern-
ment at every level to carry out the spirit
as well as the letter of the message in all
of their actions. I am directing that the
Justice Department intervene in selected.
cases where the lower courts have gone
beyond the Supreme Court's requirements
in ordering busing.
These are the highlights of the new ap-
proach I propose. Let me now go to the
heart of the problem that confronts us. I
want to tell you why I feel that busing for
the purpose of achieving racial balance
in our schools is wrong, and why the great
majority of Americans are right in want-
ing to bring it to an end.
The purpose of such busing is to help
end segregation. But experience in case
after case has shown that busing is a bad
means to a good end. The frank recogni-
tion of that fact does not reduce our com-
mitment to desegregation; it simply tells
us that we have to come up with a better
means to that good end.
The great majority of Americans, white
and black, feel strongly that the busing
of schoolchildren away from their own
neighborhoods for the purpose of achiev-
ing racial balance is wrong.
But the great majority, black and white,
also are determined that the process of de-
segregation must go forward until the goal
of genuinely equal educational oppor-
tunity is achieved.
The question, then, is "How can we end
segregation in a way that does not result in
more busing?" The proposals I am send-
ing to the Congress provide an answer to
that question.
One emotional undercurrent that has
done much to make this issue so difficult
is the feeling that some people have that
to oppose busing is to be antiblack. This
is dangerous nonsense.
There is no escaping the fact that some
people do oppose busing because of racial
prejudice. But to go on from this to con-
clude that "antibusing" is simply a code
word for prejudice is a vicious libel on
millions of concerned parents who oppose
427
