Richard Nixon, 1972
May 30 [180]
As I think of a way to describe our feel-
ings on this occasion, I noted that in his-
tory-and this city is so full of history-
in the 11th century a golden gate was
erected in the Ukraine, in Kiev. So, in a
way, we can say that Kiev is the City of the
Golden Gate.
In America we have a city, San Fran-
cisco, that is called the City of the Golden
Gate. Many of our friends who have
visited America believe that San Francisco
is our most beautiful city. But at the turn
of the century it suffered a great tragedy,
a tragedy not of war but of what is next
to war-an earthquake followed by fire
which virtually destroyed the city.
And the pessimists said this city would
never come back. They were wrong, be-
cause they failed to recognize the spirit of
the people of the City of the Golden Gate
on the western coast of California.
Then we think of this city-a city with
a much older golden gate. We think of the
enormous tragedy that was visited upon it
during the war, the destruction of build-
ings and, of course, even more tragic, the
destruction of human life on an unprec-
edented scale.
I am sure that there were people then
who said that the city of Kiev would
never come back because of the destruc-
tion that was wrought upon it by war.
My friend on my right, who is an engi-
neer, said there were some who said it
would take 50 years to rebuild this city.
But, again, the pessimists were wrong, be-
cause they did not reckon with the spirit,
the strength, the courage, the determina-
tion of the people of the Ukraine and the
people of Kiev.
So, not in 50 years, but in 7 years, the
city was rebuilt and the Republic of the
Ukraine continues to grow and to prosper.
So, for that reason, on this particular
evening, which is the last occasion that we
will be having dinner on Soviet soil, we
think it is very appropriate that it should
be here in this mother of all Russian cities,
here in the Ukraine among a people who
are so strong and who represent such a
great spirit.
So in responding to the toast, the very
eloquent toast of the Chairman, I would
simply say we should drink tonight to the
heroes who fought in war and the heroes
who have rebuilt this city in peace and,
we trust, to the new leadership to which
our two countries, the Soviet Union and
the United States, may contribute, by
which the world may have a period in
which the tragedy of war will never again
be visited upon this city or any other city
like it in the world.
I would ask you to raise your glasses,
then, to the heroes of the Ukraine in war
and in peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 p.m. in
Mariinsky Palace at a dinner hosted by the
Presidium of the Supreme Soviet and the Gov-
ernment of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic. He spoke from a prepared text.
180 Remarks at the Shahyad Monument in Tehran, Iran.
May 30, 1972
Your Imperial Majesties, Mr. Mayor,
ladies and gentlemen:
Nineteen years ago, Mrs. Nixon and I
were welcomed to this great city after a
long trip around the world. Now we come
again to Tehran, and we see the progress
643
