Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 29 [107]
new Department of Community Develop-
ment created expressly for that purpose.
The conservation and development of
our rivers offers another pointed example.
This important trust, where stakes are
high and mistakes irretrievable, has at
present so many guardians in Washington
that in the crunch it sometimes seems to
have none at all. The Department of the
Interior, the Department of Agriculture,
and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
together with several independent agen-
cies, are all empowered to plan river basin
development, to build dams and im-
pound water, and to control water use.
Elaborate interagency coordination ef-
forts and all good intentions have not
prevented waste and error from thriving
under this crippling fragmentation of re-
sponsibility. Such costly fiascos as the
reservoir built by the Bureau of Reclama-
tion for drinking water supply but severely
polluted and depleted by conflicting Soil
Conservation Service projects upstream
have been repeated too frequently. The
answer? A unified Department of Natural
Resources, where comprehensive author-
ity to develop and manage water resources
would be concentrated under a single
departmental secretary.
Additional examples of dispersed re-
sponsibility could be cited in such areas as
consumer protection, manpower and job
training programs, and economic develop-
ment activities. In each case, obsolete de-
partmental structures have made it diffi-
cult to move forward effectively.
Even the newest of our domestic de-
partments, like Housing and Urban De-
velopment and Transportation, now see
the challenges of the seventies and beyond
outrunning their own relatively narrow
mandates. Departmental missions long
circumscribed by law or historical devel-
opment are suddenly outgrown; depart-
mental preoccupations with limited
constituencies no longer serve the public
interest as reliably as before. Too often the
ability of one department to achieve an
important goal proves dependent upon
the authority and resources of other de-
partments, departments which inevitably
attach only secondary importance to that
goal. The new Federal commitments un-
dertaken year by year are increasingly
difficult to locate in any one department—
usually several can claim partial juris-
diction, but none can show full ability to
follow through and get the job done.
DECENTRALIZATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY
The solution to this rapidly worsening
snarl of problems is regrouping of related
programs by major purpose in a smaller
number of executive departments. Be-
sides opening the way for sharp improve-
ments in government performance, such
a consolidation would make the execu-
tive branch more sensitive to national
needs and more responsive to the will of
the people, in two ways.
First, it would decentralize decision-
making. Far too many matters must now
be handled above the department level
by the Executive Office of the President
or within the White House itself-not be-
cause of the inherent importance of those
matters, but because no single department
or agency head has broad enough author-
ity to make and enforce decisions on
them. But the four new Secretaries cre-
ated by my reorganization proposal would
have such breadth of authority. Their re-
509
