Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 27 [23]
23 Remarks Announcing Changes in the Cabinet and the
Executive Office of the President. January 27, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
As you can see from the three men who
surround me, this announcement is not a
surprise. Having read many of your col-
umns and dope stories I know that you
have been speculating about the change
that would be made in the office of the
Secretary of Commerce.
Secretary Stans is leaving the Cabinet,
and his resignation, of course, will be com-
pleted when his successor is approved. In
his leaving the Cabinet, I, of course, have
very deep regrets, because of all the people
in our official family, Secretary Stans is
one of my closest personal, as well as po-
litical, friends. He has served splendidly in
the position of Secretary of Commerce.
He has initiated a number of new pro-
grams which have been covered in the
15,000-word report that I presented to
the Congress just a few days ago. And he,
I know, in any position that he undertakes,
can be expected to do a very, very com-
petent job.
As you know, I have known him
through the years of the Eisenhower Ad-
ministration, and then in California when
we worked together in an unsuccessful
political campaign, and then finally in
1968 when he was helpful in our cam-
paign to a very great degree, and then
through 3 years in the Cabinet family.
Due to the fact that I do have this rule
that I have announced that I will not
discuss partisan matters until after the
convention, I will not announce directly
the position that he is going to undertake.
I will simply say that the Secretary of
Commerce, once his successor is ap-
proved, will become the chancellor of the
exchequer of one of the two major
parties.ยน I am sure he will be very success-
ful in that operation as he has always
been in handling fundraising activities in
the past.
As a successor, we have Pete Peterson.
One who is known so well to you, who
leaves his present position, I am sure, with
regret, but who will be able to carry on
many of the ideas that he has worked on
in the Council on International Economic
Policy, to carry them on as Secretary of
Commerce.
He is a young man, remarkably success-
ful in business, one who has an under-
standing of world affairs, international
affairs and also what makes the business
community tick. I think-and Secretary
Stans and I both agreed on this when we
selected his successor-we believe we have
here a man who can move into this posi-
tion and will do a very outstanding job as
the new Secretary of Commerce.
And then to replace him, we have
another Pete, Pete Flanigan, who has been
on the White House Staff and one of our
closest associates going back over 15 years.
He has a great deal of experience in pri-
vate business in the international eco-
nomic field.
I should say also that the position that
he undertakes is undertaken with the total
approval of the various Cabinet officers
who will be working with him, the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Commerce, and
others.
ยน On February 15, 1972, Maurice H. Stans
became chairman of the Finance Committee to
Re-Elect the President.
107
