[122] Apr. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
to Peking and Moscow are alike. Neither
visit is directed against anyone-adversary
or ally. Both are for the betterment of
everyone for the peace of all mankind.
However, we must not allow the fact
of summit meetings to create any unreal-
istic euphoria.
The responsibility for building peace
rests with special weight upon the great
powers. Whether the great powers fulfill
that responsibility depends not on the at-
mospherics of their diplomacy, but on the
realities of their behavior.
Great powers must not treat a period of
détente as an interlude between periods
of tension. Better relations among all na-
tions require restraint by great nations--
both in dealing with each other and in
dealing with the rest of the world.
We can agree to limit arms. We can
declare our peaceful purposes. But neither
the limitation of arms nor the declaration
of peaceful purposes will bring peace if
directly or indirectly the aggressive use of
existing weapons is encouraged.
And great powers cannot avoid respon-
sibility for the aggressive actions of those
to whom they give the means for embark-
ing on such actions.
The great powers must use their influ-
ence to halt aggression--and not to en-
courage it.
The structure of world peace cannot be
built unless the great powers join together
to build it, and its strength will grow only
as all nations-of all political and social
systems-come to accept its validity and
sustain its vitality. This does not mean
that the great powers must always agree.
We expect to continue to have profound
philosophical and significant diplomatic
differences with the Soviet Union and with
the People's Republic of China in a num-
ber of areas. But, through opening new
lines of communication, we hope to in-
crease the chance that in the future we
shall talk about our differences and not
fight about them.
As we have prepared for both of these
journeys, the experience of Canada has
been most helpful. I am grateful to both
the Prime Minister and to the Opposition
Leader, Mr. [Robert L.] Stanfield, for
sharing their insights with us as we em-
bark on these endeavors.
As we continue toward our common
quest for a better world order, let us apply
the lessons we have learned so well on this
continent:
-that we can walk our own road in our
own way without moving further
apart, that we can grow closer to-
gether without growing more alike;
-that peaceful competition can pro-
duce winners without producing
losers, that success for some need not
mean setbacks for others;
-that a rising tide will lift all our boats,
that to go forward at all is to go for-
ward together;
-that the enemy of peace is not in-
dependence but isolation, and that
the way to peace is an open world.
And let us remember, too, these truths
that we have found together:
-that variety can mean vitality;
-that diversity can be a force for
progress; and
-that our ultimate destiny is indi-
visible.
When I spoke at the St. Lawrence Sea-
way ceremonies in 1969, I borrowed some
words from the monument there which I
had joined Queen Elizabeth in dedicating
just 10 years before. That monument, as
its inscription puts it, "bears witness to
the common purpose of two nations whose
frontiers are the frontiers of friendship,
540
