[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
have better relations with both countries.
In pursuing this objective we will conduct
our diplomacy with both honesty and
frankness.
THE JOURNEY TO PEKING
The record of the past three years il-
lustrates that reality, not sentimentality,
has led to my journey. And reality will
shape the future of our relations.
I go to Peking without illusions. But I
go nevertheless committed to the improve-
ment of relations between our two coun-
tries, for the sake of our two peoples and
the people of the world. The course we
and the Chinese have chosen has been
produced by conviction, not by personali-
ties or the prospect of tactical gains. We
shall deal with the People's Republic of
China:
-Confident that a peaceful and pros-
pering China is in our own national
interest;
-Recognizing that the talents and
achievements of its people must be
given their appropriate reflection in
world affairs;
-Assured that peace in Asia and the
fullest measure of progress and
stability in Asia and in the world
require China's positive contribution;
-Knowing that, like the United States,
the People's Republic of China will
not sacrifice its principles;
-Convinced that we can construct a
permanent relationship with China
only if we are reliable-in our rela-
tions with our friends as well as with
China;
-Assuming that the People's Republic
of China will shape its policy toward
us with a reciprocal attitude.
These principles will guide my ap-
proach to my forthcoming conversations
with Chairman Mao Tse-tung and
Premier Chou En-lai. The tenor of these
discussions and of our future relations, of
course, does not depend on us alone. It
will require a mutual understanding of
perspectives and a mutual willingness to
combine a principled approach with a
respect for each other's interests.
At this point in history we need talks
at the highest level. Eighteen years of
desultory ambassadorial discussions in
Geneva and Warsaw demonstrated that
subsidiary problems could not be cleared
away at lower levels. Authoritative ex-
changes between our leaders, however,
now hold hope of genuine communication
across the gulf and the setting of a new
direction.
The trip to Peking is not an end in itself
but the launching of a process. The his-
toric significance of this journey lies be-
yond whatever formal understandings we
might reach. We are talking at last. We
are meeting as equals. A prominent fea-
ture of the postwar landscape will be
changed. At the highest level we will close
one chapter and see whether we can begin
writing a new one.
Both sides can be expected to state their
principles and their views with complete
frankness. We will each know clearly
where the other stands on the issues that
divide us. We will look for ways to begin
reducing our differences. We will attempt
to find some common ground on which to
build a more constructive relationship.
If we can accomplish these objectives,
we will have made a solid beginning.
Over the longer term, we will see
whether two countries-whose histories
and cultures are completely different,
whose recent isolation has been total,
whose ideologies clash, and whose visions
220
