Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 26 [373]
everybody who is here. First, Mrs. Nixon.
Pat, will you step up here so they can see
you?
And now Mrs. Moore, the First Lady
of West Virginia.
And next, Arch Moore, the Governor of
West Virginia. Just stay right here, Arch,
because I am going to have something to
say about you.
One thing I said to Arch Moore when
we were moving down the line here was
that I thought this airstrip was a little
bit short. That is why we had to bring
this Convair in. He said you were taking
care of that. I just want you to know that
as soon as you get a long enough strip, I
hope to bring the Spirit of '76, that big
plane, right into this airport.
Also, I think you should know that we
are very proud that this is the second
visit we have been able to make to West
Virginia since assuming office as Presi-
dent. We remember the wonderful day at
the Elkins Forest Festival in 1971, in the
fall. I remember, too, that on that occa-
sion I paid my respects to a great West
Virginian who since that time has traveled
a great number of miles, and we have
traveled with him.
Since that time in '71, as you may
know, and, of course, you all do from hav-
ing followed the papers and the television,
we have traveled to Peking, to Moscow,
to Warsaw-in fact, the first President
of the United States ever to visit these
three capitals of Communist countries.
Let me say the man who flew us—and
would say this is no overstatement-
probably one of the greatest pilots of all
time, is, of course, a West Virginian,
Colonel [Ralph] Albertazzie. Wherever
we went, whether it was to Peking, half-
way around the world, or Moscow, a third
of the way around the world, or Warsaw,
about a fourth of the way around the
world, he was always on time, just as he
was here tonight in West Virginia, his own
State.
Come over here. Come on, so they can
see you.
Here he is-Colonel Albertazzie.
Now, if I could just say a few words to
you about the campaign which now is
drawing to a close, I would like to speak
to you not as a partisan, but as all of you
are and all of us try to be, as an American,
speaking about your State and our
country.
First about your State. I have known
Arch Moore for a great number of years.
I knew him when he was in the House of
Representatives, and in the last 4 years
I have had the privilege of working very
closely with him when he has been the
Governor of the State and I have been
in the White House. I am here to ask the
people of West Virginia, whatever your
politics may be, whether you are Demo-
crats or Republicans or independents-I
am asking you to give us the chance-
Arch Moore and me the chance to work
for 4 more years for the good of West
Virginia and the good of this country.
Now, I was going to go down the list
of things that Arch Moore has talked to
me in these past 4 years about West Vir-
ginia, but it is too long and I wouldn't get
over to Ashland for the speech I am sup-
posed to make there in a few minutes. Let
me tell you one thing, however: I had a
decision to make about the black lung
bill. I know that doesn't affect many of
the people in this audience. However, it
affects many of the people in West Vir-
ginia, Kentucky, all over this part of the
country. It was a difficult decision because
of some technical factors about the bill. I
will never forget, however, the day that
Arch Moore came to the White House.
1031
