[313] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
letters from outraged citizens to personal
appeals from the 40 young lawyers from
the Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforce-
ment with whom I recently met have
called my attention to shocking instances
of convicted heroin pushers who have been
released onto the streets again rather than
sentenced to the long prison terms they
deserve. The rationale sometimes ad-
vanced for such action on a judge's part-
that prison can warp a first offender's life
forever, whereas probation or a very light
sentence may rehabilitate him-is well in-
tentioned. But I believe it is very mistaken.
Above all else, society must be protected
from these despicable narcotics profiteers
314
who spread the drug plague for personal
gain. Far too many heroin victims never
get a second chance at life-and we must
see to it that heroin pushers do not get
an immediate second chance at dealing,
either. Rather, they must get the punish-
ment they deserve.
I have asked the Attorney General to
launch a full and immediate investigation
into this phase of the war on drugs. As
soon as he presents his findings, I shall do
whatever is necessary to halt this danger-
ous permissive trend.
NOTE: The statement was released in connec-
tion with the President's tour of the Laredo,
Tex., Customs facility.
Remarks to the Student Body of Rio Grande
High School, Rio Grande City, Texas.
September 22, 1972
Principal Saenz, President Gebhart,ยน Sen-
ator Tower, Senator Bentsen, Congress-
man-and this is his birthday-shall we
call him "Kika"? [Laughter]
I learned on the plane coming over that
"Kika" [Congressman Eligio] de la Garza
has his 45th birthday today, and as I came
into the hall I asked anybody if there was
a piano here, and they said, "No, there
was a band." But somebody just handed
me a note that there is a piano in the back
of the room.
It seems to me that when you have a
distinguished Congressman from your dis-
trict, one who has proved that you can go
clear to the top if you have the will-and
he certainly has that-that the President
of the United States ought to play "Happy
ยน Ruben Saenz was the principal of Rio
Grande High School, and Donald Gebhart was
president of the student body.
Birthday" for him, and I am going to do
it right now.
[At this point, the President went to the piano
and accompanied the student body in singing
"Happy Birthday."]
Now that we have the Congressman
launched on his 46th year, I want to tell
you what a very great privilege it is for me
to keep that promise that I made in the
Rose Garden just a little over a year ago
on April 16, when this wonderful group of
students from the Rio Grande High School
came there and when I learned from Sen-
ator Tower and his office that they were
there, and Congressman de la Garza, and
I walked out into the Rose Garden and
met them and talked to them.
I am very happy that some of those
students who were there, most of whom
have graduated now, unless some of them
failed-I don't know-but I am sure that
888
