[204] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Further, I am directing that agency to
submit appropriate legislation to the Con-
gress to eliminate the unconstitutional
language in S. 1736.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
As enacted, S. 1736, approved June 16, 1972,
is Public Law 92-313 (86 Stat. 216).
205 Message to the United States Conference of Mayors
Meeting in New Orleans, Louisiana. June 19, 1972
MY warmest greetings, today, to the
United States Conference of Mayors as
you meet in New Orleans. Yours is one of
the most experienced, most able, most
valuable organizations in our struggle to
find new sources of hope, security, dig-
nity-and revenue-for our cities.
For decades in America, of course, our
efforts in this regard seemed to run coun-
ter to tradition. When President Jeffer-
son completed the Louisiana Purchase in
1803, he said it was necessary for us to
think continentally. But he sometimes
thought of the cities, as he had written to
a friend, as "pestilential to the morals, the
health, and the liberties of man."
But I would like all of you to share with
me the beginning of hope that we are re-
versing things. In the revenue-sharing pro-
posals we have sent to the Congress-and
no organization has been more helpful in
shaping and shepherding these than the
Conference of Mayors-we are in fact
setting a new course for America.
For example, I have asked Congress to
approve general revenue sharing legisla-
tion which would provide $3.5 billion to
urban areas this year.
I have also asked Congress to enact
urban special revenue sharing legislation
which would consolidate $2.3 billion of
grants for local development needs, en-
abling local general-purpose governments
to set their own priorities and use
these funds to meet their own develop-
ment needs without interference from
Washington.
have also proposed a sweeping reform
of our discredited welfare system, and we
have secured passage of a 12-year, $10
billion urban mass transit improvement
program.
Let me summarize just a few other
advances:
Since 1969, our Administration has in-
creased housing production for low and
moderate income families fourfold-by
400 percent.
We have increased the budget authority
for municipal waste treatment projects
from $214 million in 1969 to $2 billion in
1973.
We have increased Federal anti-crime
aid since 1969 by 253 percent in affirma-
tive action for law, order and justice for
all.
Your past support of these initiatives,
individually as well as through the Con-
ference, has been most welcome. It has
also been a profound public service. How-
ever, the task has only just begun, and I
urge your continued efforts in behalf of
these long-needed reforms.
Together, we can rebuild and maintain
our cities as desirable, pleasant places in
which to live.
I pledge you my continued personal
commitment to this objective.
688
