Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
emerging European identity. This will
mark a striking change in political as well
as economic relations across the Atlantic.
The United States is realistic. This
change means the end of American tute-
lage and the end of the era of automatic
unity. But discord is not inevitable either.
The challenge to our maturity and politi-
cal skill is to establish a new practice in
Atlantic unity-finding common ground
in a consensus of independent policies in-
stead of in deference to American
prescriptions.
This essential harmony of our purposes
is the enduring link between a uniting
Europe and the United States. This is why
we have always favored European unity
and why we welcome its growth not only
in geographical area but also into new
spheres of policy.
We continue to feel that political and
defense cooperation within Europe will
be the fulfillment of European unity.
European and American interests in de-
fense and East-West diplomacy are
fundamentally parallel and give sufficient
incentive for coordinating independent
policies. Two strong powers in the West
would add flexibility to Western diplo-
macy, and could increasingly share the
responsibilities of decision.
Competitive habits within the Atlantic
world are most natural in the economic
sphere-precisely the field in which in-
tegration in Europe has come first. While
reduction of trade barriers is a major goal
of the Community, this has progressed
more rapidly within the Community than
between it and the outside world. So far,
in practice, protection of certain special
interests within Europe has been a major
concern in the Community's collective
decisions; this is the easiest course for an
economic union that has yet to develop
the political unity needed to make hard
decisions taking account of interests out-
side the Community. As this political will
develops, it will facilitate cooperation in
the wider Atlantic relationship.
Europe's economic recovery has, of
course, been of enormous benefit to U.S.
trade. But it means, also, that the post-
war economic imbalance across the At-
lantic has been redressed. We now face
the additional prospect of a 10-nation
European Community-a giant concen-
tration of economic power-with a com-
mon external tariff and an expanding
network of preferential trading arrange-
ments with other countries in Europe,
Africa, and Asia. This cannot fail to have
an impact on the trading position of the
United States.
There is only one constructive solution:
to face up to the political necessity of ac-
commodating conflicting economic inter-
ests. In the postwar period this came
easily; today, it will come only with effort.
Inertia, which may seem comfortable to
one side, will only lead to strains in our
relations. We must both keep our eyes on
our fundamental shared interest in freer
and expanded trade across the Atlantic, a
foundation of our mutual prosperity. Last
June, under the leadership of Secretary
Rogers, the leading industrialized nations
in the OECD embarked on a major col-
lective effort to address the many trade
and related issues. This will require deter-
mined statesmanship and hard political
decisions. We are prepared.
The 1971 international economic crisis
was a facet of the same problem, and an
example of how cooperation can work.
Twenty years had eroded the predomi-
nance of the U.S. economy and U.S. dol-
lar upon which the trading and monetary
system had been built. In new conditions,
223
