[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
a strategic target, and indirectly a military
target, it would result in an enormous
number of civilian casualties. That is
something that we want to avoid. It is
also something we believe is not needed.
Just let me say that as far as the targets
in North Vietnam are concerned, that we
are prepared to use our military and naval
strength against military targets through-
out North Vietnam, and we believe that
the North Vietnamese are taking a very
great risk if they continue their offensive
in the South.
I will just leave it there, and they can
make their own choice.
In other words, I believe that we can
limit our strikes to military targets without
going to targets that involve civilian
casualties. That is what we have done,
and we can do that in the future, and do
the job.
DOMESTIC AMERICA
[5.] Q. Mr. President, turning to do-
mestic America. You know there are great
misgivings in the press about how America
feels about itself, and where we are going.
I don't think there is anyone better
equipped to tell us how you feel about
where America is going, not today, but
for its future, and about its own con-
fidence in itself, and I would like to hear
your remarks.
THE PRESIDENT. The question relates
to domestic America, the feeling that
many Americans have that possibly we, in
America, are losing confidence in our-
selves. The question asks me to evaluate
how I see the mood of America, as I un-
derstand it, and what the future for
America is in terms of confidence in itself.
That, of course, would allow a rather
extended reply. Let me see if I can get at
the heart of it. First, let me relate it to the
last question.
I know there are those who say that the
trouble with America's confidence, most
of it, is due to the fact that we are involved
in Vietnam, and that once the war in
Vietnam is over that then the trouble on
the campus will go away, the division in
the country, the polarization and all the
rest. That is just nonsense.
Let me say the American people do not
want war. We did not start this war. Let
me say also that when I see people carry-
ing signs saying "Stop the War," I am
tempted to say "Tell it to Hanoi ; they are
the ones that have started the war, not the
United States of America."
Nevertheless, while peace is our goal,
and peace will be achieved-not just
peace in our time, but we hope peace that
will live for a generation or longer-that
is why we went to Peking. That is why we
are going to Moscow. That is why we are
trying to end the war responsibly, in a way
that would discourage those who would
start war, rather than encourage them.
Let us well understand, that if the
United States, as a great nation, fails in
Vietnam as we come to the end of this
long road, and as we see the end, and as
we know that it is not necessary to fail, I
can think of nothing that would destroy
the confidence of the American people
more than that. So I would begin with
that proposition, answering it on the
negative side.
Now, turning to the domestic issue,
what about the attitude of America
toward itself? We often hear it said that
we, in this country, are so divided about
race issues, we are divided between labor
and management, rich and poor, environ-
mentalists, those who are against doing
562
