[393] Oct. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions which I have been urging the Con-
gress to act on for several years.
Let's look at some of the things H.R. 1
will do:
First, nearly 4 million widows and
widowers will get larger social security
benefits the full 100 percent of what
was payable to the individual's late hus-
band or wife. This will mean more than
$1 billion in additional income for these
deserving people in the next fiscal year.
Second, over a million and a half older
Americans who are now working can earn
more income without having their benefits
reduced.
Until today, if you were receiving social
security, every dollar you earned above
$1,680 cost you 50 cents in benefits-and
every dollar you earned above $2,880
cost you a full dollar. But under the new
provision-which I have advocated for
years-you can earn up to $2,100 without
losing a cent of social security, and every
dollar you earn above that $2,100-no
matter how many-will cost you only 50
cents in benefits. This will encourage
more older Americans to work-helping
them and helping the country.
Third, millions of older Americans who
live in poverty, along with the blind and
the disabled, will be helped by a new Fed-
eral floor under their income-a monthly
minimum of $130 for an individual and
$195 for a couple. Free of the inequities
and redtape which plague the present
system, this program will channel an esti-
mated $1 billion in the next fiscal year to
those whose needs are greatest. For mil-
lions of older people, it can mean a big
step out of poverty and toward a life of
dignity and independence.
In addition, H.R. 1 will pay a special
minimum benefit of $170 per month to
150,000 older persons who worked for
long years at low wages. Men who retire
at 62 will also be helped. Medicare cover-
age will be extended to cover 100 percent
and not just 80 percent of home health
services, and to cover more of the cost of
nursing home care, to pay for kidney
transplants, chiropractors, and other serv-
ices formerly not covered at all, and to
cover disabled Americans of all ages. The
patient's fees for Part B of Medicare will
be limited. And steps will be taken to in-
crease the quality and the appropriateness
of services which are paid for by Medicare
and Medicaid.
Altogether, H.R. I will improve the
income position of millions of older
Americans. That, in my judgment, is the
best way to help older people—by pro-
viding them with more money so they
can do more things for themselves.
H.R. I is only the latest in a series of
steps we have taken to improve the in-
comes of older people. In the last 4 years,
for example, social security benefits have
gone up 51 percent. That is the largest
and most rapid increase in history. But
the important thing is not just that bene-
fits have been brought up to date. The
important thing is that they now can be
kept up to date. That is a result of the
automatic increase provisions which I
have been pushing for many years and
which finally became law this summer.
Social security, in short, is now "infla-
tion proof." Payments that keep pace
with the cost of living are no longer some-
thing the elderly have to battle for in the
Congress year after year. They have at
last become a guaranteed right for older
Americans.
There have been other forward steps
as well-proposals to make private pen-
1076
