[424] Dec. II
Public Papers of the Presidents
agement and Budget, answered questions for
reporters. The question-and-answer session was
included in the White House press release.
Secretary Shultz's remarks are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 8, p. 1752).
The text of a letter from Director Wein-
berger to the heads of departments and agencies
about the freeze on hirings and promotions in
the executive branch was also released by the
White House and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8,
p. 1753).
425 Statement on Signing Executive Order Transferring
Operations of the Office of Intergovernmental
Relations to the Domestic Council.
December 14, 1972
I HAVE today signed an Executive or-
der [11690] transferring the operations of
the Office of Intergovernmental Rela-
tions, which I established in 1969 to oper-
ate under the immediate supervision of
the Vice President, to the Domestic
Council, which has been the focal point
for domestic policy formulation since it
came into being 22 years ago under Re-
organization Plan No. 2 of 1970.
This action, which I am taking at Vice
President Agnew's recommendation based
on his extensive experience in inter-
governmental relations, will facilitate
improved two-way communication and
coordination between the Federal Govern-
ment and State and local governments.
The Vice President, who acts as Vice
Chairman of the Domestic Council, will
still be closely informed about the views
and concerns of Governors, State legisla-
tors, mayors, and county officials across
the country and will, of course, continue
to participate in all Domestic Council
decisions.
Under the supervision of Kenneth R.
Cole, Jr., Executive Director, the Domes-
tic Council will assume the following new
responsibilities and functions under the
change effected today:
-to act as my principal point of con-
tact with the executive and legisla-
tive officials of State and local
government;
-to encourage closer cooperation be-
tween the various Federal agencies
and their State and local counter-
parts;
-to keep the Federal Executive con-
tinuously aware of the views of State
and local officials and to serve as a
clearinghouse through which specific
difficulties can be resolved;
-to work closely with the Advisory
Commission on Intergovernmental
Relations;
-to provide State and local officials
with guaranteed access to the highest
offices of the Federal Government-
especially those offices having a di-
rect impact on intergovernmental
relations;
-to strengthen existing channels of
communication and to create new
channels among all levels of govern-
ment;
-to transfer more decisionmaking au-
thority to the Federal regional offices,
and to facilitate an orderly transfer
of appropriate functions to State and
1154
