Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 28 [331]
331 Remarks to a National Cancer Conference in Los
Angeles, California. September 28, 1972
Dr. Rauscher, Dr. Letton, Dr. Clark, all
the distinguished ladies and gentlemen
attending this conference:
I very much, of course, appreciate the
award that has just been presented, but I
think it should be presented to you, each
of you, who have been in the forefront in
this battle for so many years. You are,
after all, the frontline soldiers in the fight
against cancer.
The Government, which I represent in
this particular capacity, can help to pro-
vide the resources, but you are the ones
who do the work. I know that biomedical
research and treatment is a notoriously
uncertain enterprise. I know that when
we talk about a cure for cancer, that it is
not some simplistic answer that you find,
that there are many, many approaches
that are being tried at different times and
many areas in which movement may
occur.
No one can control or even predict how
fast this program is going to go. But we
can control-and this is the reason that I
am here we can control our own con-
tribution to the progress of the program.
We can be sure this progress is not delayed
because of too few resources or too much
redtape, for we know this: Cancer is a
scourge we must fight. That fight deserves,
from all of us, all the money, all the re-
sources, and all the ingenuity that are re-
quired to win it.
That is why, in my State of the Union
Address, January 1971, I called for a total
national commitment to the anti-cancer
crusade. That is why we followed up on
that call for action. As you know, in the
last 2 years we have more than doubled
the Federal budget for cancer, to over
$450 million. We have converted the facil-
ities at Fort Detrick from research on
biological weapons to cancer research, and
the National Cancer Institute has been
strengthened and streamlined, made di-
rectly accountable to the President. We
have established the new National Can-
cer Advisory Board, the President's
Cancer Panel, to help us coordinate our
resources in the Government, and to the
extent we possibly can, to strip away that
inevitable redtape.
But all the money and all the organiza-
tion in the world-and we have the money
and we have lots of organization in Gov-
ernment-but all of it, by themselves, will
not win this fight. I know that and all of
you know that. Whether we win it or not,
and when we win it, depends on you, the
doctors, the scientists, the volunteers who
support them all across America and all
around the world.
What governments can do is to help
mobilize not only this Nation's but the
world's best brains wherever they exist,
and to insure that they have the chance to
make their full contribution to this cause,
because it often occurs to me, as I travel
to various countries around the world-to
Africa and Asia and Latin America, to
the People's Republic of China, to the
Soviet Union-that no one knows where
we are going to find that one individual
who may make a breakthrough in this
field. It might be a woman out studying in
a great university in Europe. It might be
a young boy who sits in a schoolroom in
Asia, or perhaps in the People's Repub-
lic of China. It could be an American doc-
87-234-74-63
941
