[295] Sept. II
Public Papers of the Presidents
large-scale studies conducted by Federal
agencies in national programs such as the
Marine Ecosystems Analysis study of the
New York Bight, and with other nations
in international programs, such as the In-
ternational Field Year for the Great Lakes
and the International Decade of Ocean
Exploration. In these, we are moving out
to the ocean "laboratories" with arrays of
ships, specially designed buoys, aircraft,
earth-orbiting satellites, and submersibles
to apply collective efforts to solve special
problems and to advance knowledge and
understanding.
I am pleased to report, also, the con-
tinued strengthening of Federal ties, both
in scope and level of activity, with in-
dustry, state and local governments, and
universities. I consider this a most es-
sential aspect underlying our marine pro-
grams. As I have stated in the past, private
industry, state and local governments,
296 Message to the Senate
Cooperation Treaty.
To the Senate of the United States:
scientific and other institutions must in-
crease their own efforts if we are to con-
tinue our headway toward solving the
myriad of marine problems.
My budget request for the Fiscal Year
1973 provides $672 million in support of
our programs in marine science, engineer-
ing, and services, an increase of more than
$60 million over last year's request. This
budget will enable us to continue our ad-
vances in all areas of importance to our
vital and increasing national interest in
the seas.
The White House,
September 11, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "The Federal Ocean Program: The
Annual Report of the President to the Congress
on the Nation's Efforts to Comprehend, Con-
serve, and Use the Sea-April 1972" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 121 pp.).
Transmitting the Patent
September 12, 1972
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a copy of the Patent
Cooperation Treaty, signed at Washing-
ton on June 19, 1970, together with the
Regulations under the Patent Cooperation
Treaty annexed thereto. I transmit also,
for the information of the Senate, the re-
port from the Department of State with
respect to the Treaty.
The Patent Cooperation Treaty offers
several major advantages. One is to
simplify the filing of patent applications
on the same invention in different coun-
tries by providing, among other things,
centralized filing procedures and a stand-
ardized application format.
Another advantage offered by the
Treaty is the longer period of time avail-
able to an applicant before he must com-
mit himself by undertaking the expenses
of translation, national filing fees and
prosecution in each country. Today, a
twelve month priority period is provided
by the Paris Convention for the Protec-
tion of Industrial Property, while under
the Patent Cooperation Treaty an appli-
cant will have generally twenty months or
more. This advantage should permit the
applicant to be more selective of the coun-
tries in which he ultimately decides to
866
