[32] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
32
Remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast.
February 1, 1972
Congressman Quie, and all of our dis-
tinguished guests:
Perhaps at no time or no place in Amer-
ica could we find a gathering which more
symbolized the strength of America than
this meeting this morning.
66
Perhaps it says it best in the Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag, as amended,
one Nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all."
Look across this room, look at this head
table, remember those who have spoken
and you will see those words all repre-
sented right here in this meeting this
morning-one Nation under God. There
are different parties here, there are differ-
ent faiths, there are different races and
different colors, there are different philos-
ophies, but it is still one Nation, and it is
under God, with liberty and justice for all.
Then as we hear those words, we realize
that words can mean nothing unless our
thoughts go with them. "Words without
thoughts never to heaven go."
So, we think of our thoughts, and we
realize that, as Mayor Washington ยน has
so eloquently indicated, we have made
great progress, but we have a long way to
go. "Liberty and justice for all" is a mag-
nificent ideal. America has come further
perhaps than most of the nations of the
world. We would like to say perhaps we
have come further than any other nation.
But we also need humility in order to
understand how much further we have to
go.
But what is very important about this
1 Walter E. Washington, mayor of the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
gathering is that we would not be here
unless we all recognized in our hearts that
we were not perfect, that we were seeking
to do the very best that we can in our brief
stay on this earth to achieve goals that are
bigger than all of us, bigger than our dif-
ferences, differences between parties and
faiths and philosophies, all the rest of
which we are aware in this great cosmo-
politan country of ours.
And now that brings us to the moment
that we have now very great responsibility
for.
I spoke at this breakfast 3 years ago
and 2 years ago and now this year. Each
year then, you remember, I spoke of
peace, peace at home and peace in the
world. The year 1972 is the year of op-
portunity for peace such as America has
never had in its whole history. I say "never
had." There might have been a time when
America could have exerted its power for
peace in a very aggressive way.
One of our very distinguished guests
today is the Secretary General of NATO,
the former Foreign Minister of Holland,
Mr. Luns. As I was talking to him yester-
day, he remarked about the fact that im-
mediately after World War II the United
States, because it had a monopoly on nu-
clear weapons, could have imposed its will
on any nation, any place in the world. It
did not do so.
We helped our former enemies until
today they are our major competitors in
the free world. We helped our allies and
we poured out our wealth, too, to all
of the underdeveloped countries of the
world.
We shouldn't stand and brag about
124
