Richard Nixon, 1972
June 23 [208]
view on that, has made a decision on it. I
think it was an appropriate decision. I
will not go beyond that.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press).
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-fourth news
conference was held at 3:01 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House on Thursday,
June 22, 1972. He spoke without referring to
notes.
208 Statement on Signing the Education Amendments
of 1972. June 23, 1972
TODAY I am signing into law the Edu-
cation Amendments of 1972. This legis-
lation includes comprehensive higher
education provisions, authority for a new
effort to revitalize our educational re-
search effort, and authority to provide
financial assistance to school districts to
meet special problems incident to desegre-
gation.
It also contains provisions supposedly
directed at limiting court decisions dealing
with busing. These provisions, however,
are inadequate, misleading, and entirely
unsatisfactory.
In March of 1970, I asked that aid to
students enrolled in postsecondary institu-
tions be expanded and redirected to assure
every qualified student that he would be
eligible for a combination of Federal
grants and subsidized loans sufficient to
make up the difference between his col-
lege costs and what his family is able to
contribute. Congress has provided that
opportunity, to an extent, through a pro-
gram of grants for eligible students and
aid from the existing Educational Oppor-
tunity Grant, College Work-Study, and
National Defense and Guaranteed Stu-
dent Loan programs.
Unfortunately, certain restrictions
placed in the law by the Congress mean
that we will not be able to realize fully
our principles of equity. But as confidence
develops in the new programs, we look for-
ward in the near future to having a set of
Federal student assistance programs de-
voted to the goal of equalizing opportu-
nities for all.
The Congress has also recognized the
need for a new Federal role in encourag-
ing and facilitating reform and innovation
throughout postsecondary education. To
this end, I had proposed a National Foun-
dation for Higher Education. While the
Congress did not create a new agency to
deal with institutional innovation, it has
provided the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare with the authority to
carry out-on a modest scale-the pur-
poses
I had intended for the Foundation.
In future years, we may wish to recon-
sider the need for a statutory foundation
for postsecondary education.
One of the act's most constructive fea-
tures is its establishment--as I had re-
quested-of a National Institute of
Education. In proposing the NIE, I ex-
pressed the expectation that when fully
developed, it would be an important ele-
ment in the Nation's educational system.
The NIE will be a new research institu-
tion within the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, with a Presi-
dentially appointed Director and a distin-
guished national advisory council. A
primary purpose of the Institute is the
initiation of a serious, systematic national
effort to find ways to make educational
701
