[96] Mar. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
a signing ceremony, I have pens for every-
body who is here, and particularly pens
for the Members of the House and the
Senate who are here, just to remind them
that when they support a bill, they get a
pen.
Dr. Jaffe, if I could hand you your pen
now.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:45 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
As enacted, the bill (S. 2097) is Public Law
92-255 (86 Stat. 65).
Following the President's remarks, Dr. Jaffe
spoke briefly as follows:
I don't think I can add very much to what
the President said. I believe with this bill we
have laid the groundwork for truly coordinated
national effort. We have recognized over the
years that law enforcement is not enough;
treatment is not enough. Both sides have to
work together. I am confident that under your
leadership, sir, the various agencies will work
together and we will make some progress in
bringing this very serious problem-perhaps the
most serious of our national health problems-
under control.
97
Statement About the Drug Abuse Office and Treatment
Act of 1972. March 21, 1972
TODAY I am pleased to sign into law the
Drug Abuse Office and Treatment Act of
1972, a bipartisan bill designed to mount
a frontal assault on our number one pub-
lic enemy.
The support which this legislation re-
ceived in the Congress-it passed unani-
mously in both Houses-not only reflects
the wisdom of this measure but also attests
to the determination of all our people to
wipe out drug abuse in America.
The critical feature of this legislation is
the statutory authority which it gives to
the Special Action Office for Drug Abuse
Prevention. This Office is charged with
the responsibility for coordinating all Fed-
eral activities concerned with drug abuse
prevention, education, treatment, rehabil-
itation, training, and research. Thus it will
be at the cutting edge of our attack.
Among the other features of the bill are
these:
-A National Drug Abuse Training
Center will be established to develop, con-
duct, and support a full range of training
programs relating to drug abuse pre-
vention functions.
-On December 31, 1974, a National
Institute on Drug Abuse will be created
within the National Institute of Mental
Health. The new institute will administer
drug abuse programs assigned to the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
-A new formula grant program is au-
thorized to assist States in coping with
drug abuse.
-Authorization is also provided for
$350 million in grants and contracts to be
administered by the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare between
fiscal years 1972 and 1975.
---Four advisory bodies are established
to provide counsel and recommendations
to the President, the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, and the Director
of the Special Action Office on means of
curbing drug abuse. They are the Drug
Abuse Strategy Council, the National Ad-
visory Council on Drug Abuse, a Federal
Drug Council, and the National Advisory
Council on Drug Abuse Prevention.
It was in June of 1971 that I first pro-
454
