Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 29 [276]
On the negotiating front, we have gone
very far, as far as any reasonable person,
I think, would suggest, and under the
circumstances I believe the record is good.
As far as what can happen in the future,
I know that there are those who believe-
I noted some report out of the Air Force
to the effect that we probably would be
bombing in North Vietnam 2 or 3 years
from now. That, of course, is quite ridicu-
lous. As far as the future is concerned, we
believe that our training program for the
South Vietnamese, not only on the ground
but in the air, has gone forward so success-
fully that if the enemy still refuses to nego-
tiate, as we have asked them to negotiate,
then the South Vietnamese will be able
to undertake the total defense of their
country.
At the present time, let the record show
that while we hear a lot about what the
Americans are doing in terms of under-
taking bombing activities, that now ap-
proximately 50 percent of all ground
support air sorties are being made by the
South Vietnamese air force, which is a
good air force and which is growing in
strength.
Q. Is there a possibility that you would
call off the bombing or slacken it even if
there is no all-inclusive agreement on
Indochina?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely not. I have
noted some press speculation to the effect
that since 1968, the bombing halt seemed
to have a rather dramatic effect on the
election chances of Senator Humphrey--
Vice President Humphrey, now a Sena-
tor-that people have suggested that as a
gimmick, or more or less as an election-eve
tactic, that we would call a bombing halt
even though our prisoners of war are not
accounted for. No progress has been made
there, and even though the enemy con-
tinued its activities and was still stone-
walling us in the negotiations, unless there
is progress on the negotiating front which
is substantial, there will be no reduction
of the bombing of North Vietnam and
there will be no lifting of the mining.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask
about a 1968 statement you made and
find out whether you still agree with it. It
is: "Those who have had a chance for 4
years and could not produce peace should
not be given another chance."
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the an-
swer I gave to the other question is as
responsive as I can make it. We always,
of course, set our goals high. We do our
very best to reach those goals. I think
there are those who have faulted this
Administration on its efforts to seek peace,
but those who fault it, I would respect-
fully suggest, are ones that would have
the United States seek peace at the cost
of surrender, dishonor, and the destruc-
tion of the ability of the United States to
conduct foreign policy in a responsible
way.
That I did not pledge in 1968. I do not
pledge it now. We will seek peace. We
will seek better relations with our adver-
saries, but we are going to keep the United
States strong. We are going to resist the
efforts of those who would cut our defense
budget to make us second to any power
in the world, and second particularly to
the Soviet Union, and in order to do that,
it means that we have to continue the
responsible policy that we have carried
out.
Q. Mr. President, if it is, as you say,
"quite ridiculous" that we will be bomb-
ing 2 or 3 years from now-by the way, I
don't know if you mean North Vietnam
or all of Vietnam-then how about a year
from now? Is it likely that bombing
831
