[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
also true that violence of language is
preferable to violence of action.
But the world does not need, and the
United Nations was not created to serve
as, a cockpit in which conflicting national
positions can be made irreconcilable. Nor
is it the purpose of the United Nations to
award "victories" or register "defeats".
It is, rather, the business of the United
Nations to serve as a forum for moderat-
ing disputes, for asserting the larger world
interest in the pacific resolution of conflict.
As we pursue the path of negotiation
rather than confrontation in our national
policies, we shall work in the United
Nations for a spirit of accommodation
and an atmosphere of civility, which even
among enemies encourages reconciliation.
A case in point was the UN's handling
of the Chinese representation issue. A con-
tinuing and consistent policy of this Ad-
ministration has been to encourage the
People's Republic of China to play a con-
structive role in the community of nations.
The time had clearly arrived to welcome
them in the United Nations, and we our-
selves put forward a resolution which
would have accomplished this.
At issue, however, was the status of the
Republic of China, which has a popula-
tion larger than two-thirds of the UN
members, and had been a constructive and
valuable member of the organization since
its founding. We did not believe that the
UN needed to take a position on the
juridical relationship between the People's
Republic of China and the Republic of
China. That could, and should, have been
left to them to work out.
The United States understands ma-
jority rule, and accepts the UN decision.
But that does not change our view that it
was unnecessary and unfortunate that the
UN closed its eyes to one reality, at the
very moment when it was recognizing
another.
3. The UN Financial Crisis. The United
Nations is on the edge of bankruptcy. The
basic cause of this deepening financial
crisis is the long-standing refusal of the
Soviet Union, France, and several other
countries to pay their share of the cost for
UN peacekeeping missions sent to the
Congo and the Middle East. These same
countries also refuse to pay their share of
related "peacekeeping" items in the regu-
lar annual budget of the UN, primarily
retirement of the bonds that the UN was
forced to issue in 1962 to pay its peace-
keeping debts. In addition, the Soviet
Union and some of the East European
nations persist in paying their annual as-
sessed share of the UN's regular technical
assistance programs in rubles, most of
which cannot be utilized by the UN and
must therefore be carried as arrearages.
South Africa also has withheld payment
of its share of certain UN activities which
it opposes.
These practices have created a serious
deficit for the organization, and the simple
fact is that for some years the UN has not
received sufficient revenues to meet its
voted budgets and authorized expendi-
tures. As a result, the UN's working capi-
tal fund has been exhausted and the
organization has become increasingly de-
pendent on emergency stop-gap measures
to meet its daily operating expenses. In the
coming months, even such desperate
measures may not be sufficient.
This is an intolerable situation. The im-
mediate need is to take steps to prevent
further growth of the deficit. During the
past session of the General Assembly, the
United States delegation proposed a series
of measures to prevent UN expenditures
from exceeding cash income. We welcome
328
