Richard Nixon, 1972
[176]
May 28
strong spirit of competition, but we also
have a great love of music and poetry, of
sports, and of humor. Above all, we, like
you, are an open, natural, and friendly
people. We love our country. We love our
children. And we want for you and for
your children the same peace and abun-
dance that we want for ourselves and for
our children.
We Americans are idealists. We believe
deeply in our system of government. We
cherish our personal liberty. We would
fight to defend it, if necessary, as we have
done before. But we also believe deeply
in the right of each nation to choose its
own system. Therefore, however much
we like our own system for ourselves, we
have no desire to impose it on anyone
else.
As we conclude this week of talks, there
are certain fundamental premises of the
American point of view which I believe
deserve emphasis. In conducting these
talks, it has not been our aim to divide up
the world into spheres of influence, to
establish a condominium, or in any way
to conspire together against the interests
of any other nation. Rather we have
sought to construct a better framework of
understanding between our two nations,
to make progress in our bilateral relation-
ships, to find ways of insuring that future
frictions between us would never embroil
our two nations, and therefore the world,
in war.
While ours are both great and powerful
nations, the world is no longer dominated
by two super powers. The world is a better
and safer place because its power and re-
sources are more widely distributed.
Beyond this, since World War II, more
than 70 new nations have come into being.
We cannot have true peace unless they,
and all nations, can feel that they share it.
America seeks better relations, not only
with the Soviet Union but with all na-
tions. The only sound basis for a peaceful
and progressive international order is
sovereign equality and mutual respect.
We believe in the right of each nation to
chart its own course, to choose its own
system, to go its own way, without inter-
ference from other nations.
As we look to the longer term, peace de-
pends also on continued progress in the
developing nations. Together with other
advanced industrial countries, the United
States and the Soviet Union share a two-
fold responsibility in this regard: on the
one hand, to practice restraint in those
activities, such as the supply of arms, that
might endanger the peace of developing
nations; and second, to assist them in their
orderly economic and social development,
without political interference.
Some of you may have heard an old
story told in Russia of a traveler who was
walking to another village. He knew the
way, but not the distance. Finally he
came upon a woodsman chopping wood
by the side of the road and he asked the
woodsman, "How long will it take to reach
the village?"
The woodsman replied, "I don't know.”
The traveler was angry, because he
was sure the woodsman was from the vil-
lage and therefore knew how far it was.
And so he started off down the road again.
After he had gone a few steps, the woods-
man called out, "Stop. It will take you
about 15 minutes."
The traveler turned and demanded,
"Why didn't you tell me that in the first
place?"
The woodsman replied, "Because then
I didn't know the length of your stride."
In our talks this week with the leaders
of the Soviet Union, both sides have had a
chance to measure the length of our
631
