[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
man commands as well the very destiny of
this planet where he lives, and the destiny
of all life upon it. We have even begun to
see that these destinies are not many and
separate at all-that in fact they are in-
divisibly one.
This is the environmental awakening.
It marks a new sensitivity of the American
spirit and a new maturity of American
public life. It is working a revolution in
values, as commitment to responsible
partnership with nature replaces cavalier
assumptions that we can play God with
our surroundings and survive. It is lead-
ing to broad reforms in action, as individ-
uals, corporations, government, and civic
groups mobilize to conserve resources, to
control pollution, to anticipate and pre-
vent emerging environmental problems,
to manage the land more wisely, and to
preserve wildness.
In messages to the Congress during 1970
and 1971 I proposed comprehensive ini-
tiatives reflecting the earliest and most
visible concerns of the environmental
awakening. The new cast of the public
mind had to be translated into new legis-
lation. New insights had to have new gov-
ernmental forms and processes through
which to operate. Broadly-based prob-
lems such as air pollution, water pollu-
tion and pesticide hazards-had to be
dealt with first.
The necessary first steps in each of these
areas have now been taken, though in all
of them the work is far from completed.
Now, as we press on with that work in
1972, we must also come to grips with the
basic factors which underlie our more ob-
vious environmental problems-factors
like the use of land and the impact of in-
centives or disincentives built into our eco-
nomic system. We are gaining an increas-
ingly sophisticated understanding of the
way economic, institutional, and legal
forces shape our surroundings for good or
ill; the next step is learning how to turn
such forces to environmental benefit.
Primary responsibility for the actions
that are needed to protect and enhance
our environment rests with State and local
government, consumers, industry, and
private organizations of various kinds--
but the Federal Government must provide
leadership. On the first day of this decade
I stated that "it is literally now or never"
for true quality of life in America. Amid
much encouraging evidence that it can
and will be "now," we must not slacken
our pace but accelerate it. Environmental
concern must crystallize into permanent
patterns of thought and action. What
began as environmental awakening must
mature finally into a new and higher en-
vironmental way of life. If we flag in our
dedication and will, the problems them-
selves will not go away. Toward keeping
the momentum of awareness and action, I
pledge my full support and that of this
Administration, and I urgently solicit the
continuing cooperation of the Congress
and the American people.
TWO YEARS' AGENDA
FROM CONSIDERATION TO ACTION
In my 1971 environmental message, just
one year ago today, I sent to the Congress
a comprehensive program designed to
clean up the problems of the past, and
to deal with emerging problems before
they become critical. These proposals
included:
Regulation of toxic substances
Comprehensive improvement in pesti-
cide control authority
Noise control
174
