[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
porarily disabled. The loss to our economy
from accidents last year is estimated at
over $28 billion. These are sad and stag-
gering figures-especially since this toll
could be greatly reduced by upgrading our
emergency medical services. Such im-
provement does not even require new
scientific breakthroughs; it only requires
that we apply our present knowledge more
effectively.
To help in this effort, I am directing the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare to develop new ways of organiz-
ing emergency medical services and of
providing care to accident victims. By im-
proving communication, transportation,
and the training of emergency personnel,
we can save many thousands of lives which
would otherwise be lost to accidents and
sudden illnesses.
One of the significant joint accomplish-
ments of the Congress and this adminis-
tration has been a vigorous new program
to protect against job-related accidents
and illnesses. Our occupational health and
safety program will be further strength-
ened in the year ahead-as will our on-
going efforts to promote air traffic safety,
boating safety, and safety on the highways.
In the last 3 years, the motor vehicle
death rate has fallen by 13 percent, but
we still lose some 50,000 lives on our high-
ways each year-more than we have lost
in combat in the entire Vietnam war.
Fully one-half of these deaths were
directly linked to alcohol. This appalling
reality is a blight on our entire Nation-
and only the active concern of the entire
Nation can remove it. The Federal Gov-
ernment will continue to help all it can,
through its efforts to promote highway
safety and automobile safety, and through
stronger programs to help the problem
drinker.
YESTERDAY'S GOALS: TOMORROW'S
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Welfare reform, revenue sharing, exec-
utive reorganization, environmental pro-
tection, and the new national health
strategy-these, along with economic im-
provement, constituted the six great goals
I emphasized in my last State of the
Union address-six major components of
a New American Revolution. They re-
main six areas of great concern today.
With the cooperation of the Congress,
they can be six areas of great accomplish-
ment tomorrow.
But the challenges we face cannot be
reduced to six categories. Our problems-
and our opportunities—are manifold, and
action on many fronts is required. It is
partly for this reason that my State of the
Union address this year includes this writ-
ten message to the Congress. For it gives
me the chance to discuss more fully a
number of programs which also belong on
our list of highest priorities.
ACTION FOR THE AGING
Last month, I joined with thousands of
delegates to the White House Conference
on Aging in a personal commitment to
make 1972 a year of action on behalf of
21 million older Americans. Today I call
on the Congress to join me in that pledge.
For unless the American dream comes
true for our older generation it cannot be
complete for any generation.
We can begin to make this a year of ac-
tion for the aging by acting on a number
of proposals which have been pending
since 1969. For older Americans, the most
significant of these is the bill designated
H.R. 1. This legislation, which also con-
tains our general welfare reform measures,
58
