[257] Aug. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
257 Message to the Congress Requesting Emergency
Legislation for Continuation of the Guaranteed
Student Loan Program. August 16, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In recent years, a major source of aid
to students attending post-secondary
schools has been the Guaranteed Student
Loan Program. During the year ending
this past June 30, over 1,000,000 students
were able to borrow $1.3 billion to finance
their education. Over 8,000 schools and
20,000 financial institutions are currently
participating.
Support of this program has been bi-
partisan. It was created under the Admin-
istration of President Johnson, and it has
been expanded and improved by the pres-
ent Administration.
However, some provisions of the "Edu-
cation Amendments of 1972," because of
ambiguities in the language of the legis-
lation, have had an unintended effect of
raising the possibility that many thousands
of students who have benefitted under the
subsidized loan portion of the program in
the past may not be able to obtain the
loans they are counting on to return to
school this fall.
We are doing everything possible in the
regulations implementing the law to avoid
this result, which was intended neither by
the Administration nor by the Congress.
But uncertainty remains. Because we are
at the peak of the borrowing season under
this program, I request that the Congress
enact emergency legislation that would
delay the implementation of the trouble-
some section of the law-specifically that
it amend Section 132C(1), so that the
lenders could continue to provide loans
on the same basis as they did last year.
This would make it possible for stu-
dents, parents, schools, and lenders to use
a system with which they are all familiar,
and which has served the students well. It
would make it possible for students to
obtain loans in time to go to school-
which after all is the purpose of the
program.
The White House,
August 16, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
258 Veto of the Departments of Labor, and Health,
Education, and Welfare Appropriation Act,
1973. August 16, 1972
To the House of Representatives:
Today, I must return without my ap-
proval H.R. 15417, the appropriations bill
for the Department of Labor, the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare
and certain related agencies. Exceeding
my budget recommendations by $1.8 bil-
lion, this bill is a perfect example of that
kind of reckless Federal spending that just
cannot be done without more taxes or
more inflation, both of which I am deter-
mined to avoid.
Moreover, the bill fails to include a limi-
tation on Federal matching payments for
776
