[73] Feb. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
that gulf, and even now we have some-
thing better than the mere absence of war.
Not only have we completed a week of
intensive talks at the highest levels, we
have set up a procedure whereby we can
continue to have discussions in the future.
We have demonstrated that nations with
very deep and fundamental differences
can learn to discuss those differences
calmly, rationally, and frankly, without
compromising their principles. This is the
basis of a structure for peace, where we
can talk about differences rather than
fight about them.
The primary goal of this trip was to
reestablish communication with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China after a generation
of hostility. We achieved that goal.
Let me turn now to our joint com-
munique.
We did not bring back any written or
unwritten agreements that will guarantee
peace in our time. We did not bring home
any magic formula which will make un-
necessary the efforts of the American peo-
ple to continue to maintain the strength
so that we can continue to be free.
We made some necessary and important
beginnings, however, in several areas. We
entered into agreements to expand cul-
tural, educational, and journalistic con-
tacts between the Chinese and the Ameri-
can people. We agreed to work to begin
and broaden trade between our two coun-
tries. We have agreed that the com-
munications that have now been estab-
lished between our governments will be
strengthened and expanded.
Most important, we have agreed on
some rules of international conduct which
will reduce the risk of confrontation and
war in Asia and in the Pacific.
We agreed that we are opposed to
domination of the Pacific area by any one
power. We agreed that international dis-
putes should be settled without the use of
the threat of force and we agreed that we
are prepared to apply this principle to our
mutual relations.
With respect to Taiwan, we stated our
established policy that our forces overseas
will be reduced gradually as tensions ease,
and that our ultimate objective is to with-
draw our forces as a peaceful settlement is
achieved.
We have agreed that we will not negoti-
ate the fate of other nations behind their
backs, and we did not do so at Peking.
There were no secret deals of
any kind.
We have done all this without giving up
any United States commitment to any
other country.
In our talks, the talks that I had with
the leaders of the People's Republic and
that the Secretary of State had with the
office of the Government of the People's
Republic in the foreign affairs area, we
both realized that a bridge of understand-
ing that spans almost 12,000 miles and 22
years of hostility can't be built in one week
of discussions. But we have agreed to begin
to build that bridge, recognizing that our
work will require years of patient effort.
We made no attempt to pretend that
major differences did not exist between
our two governments, because they do
exist.
This communique was unique in hon-
estly setting forth differences rather than
trying to cover them up with diplomatic
doubletalk.
One of the gifts that we left behind in
Hangchow was a planted sapling of the
American redwood tree. As all Cali-
fornians know, and as most Americans
know, redwoods grow from saplings into
382
