Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 5 [412]
Our eighth goal must be a free and
self-governed America, an America whose
unique system of representative govern-
ment-Federal, State, and local-is a bet-
ter instrument of the people's will, a better
servant of the people's needs, a better
protector of the people's liberties in 1976
than at any time since the birth of our
country in 1776.
To reach this high standard, sweeping
reform will be needed, on the scale of a
new peaceful American revolution. The
sharing of the Federal revenue with our
cities and States, which will begin less
than 4 weeks from today, marks the first
great step in starting the flow of power
from Washington back to the people,
where it belongs. We must keep the power
flowing that way during the years ahead.
It was the genius of the people, not the
mechanisms of government, that built
America. That is why our ninth goal for
1976 must be a pluralist, open America,
where government does not dominate, but
liberates the individual, opening the way
for a new surge of vitality, creative serv-
ice, and civic responsibility on the part of
private enterprise, voluntary institutions,
and individual people across this land.
The tenth and last part of this Ameri-
can birthright, the most important aspect
of all, is our children's right to be born
into a great and a good America—a land
where people's daily lives are guided by
deep moral and spiritual principles, where
families are close and strong, where pa-
triotism flourishes without apology, where
shared ideals forge unity out of diversity,
and where the character of each individ-
ual and of the Nation as a whole meas-
ures up to the high hopes and the dreams
which all mankind invests in America.
As
your President during these past 4
years, I have visited every one of the 50
States, every region of the country, hun-
dreds of American cities and towns, large
and small. I know firsthand that the char-
acter of the American people measures
up to the hopes of the world.
We can be proud that this land of ours
is a great and a good country.
We can be proud of a democratic sys-
tem in which the motive is not to grab
for the spoils of victory, but to pass along
a precious birthright to the generations
who will come after us.
The choice of policies, of principles,
and of candidates in this election is clear-
cut and momentous. I think the people
understand what is at stake. I have con-
fidence in their ability to make a wise
decision. And whatever that decision is on
Tuesday, I intend to support our elected
leaders as I always have done, I intend
to stand up for national unity as I have
always done, because America is bigger
than any one man or any one party.
In the midst of all the commotion of
the final weekend before an election, I
think it is vitally important to remind our-
selves of the great American consensus
which will continue to unite us next
Wednesday morning, far more powerfully
than any vote tallies might seem to divide
us.
Carl Schurz, a German immigrant, who
became a great American statesman, said
100 years ago: "Ideals are like stars; you
will not succeed in touching them with
your hands. But like the seafaring man
on the desert of waters, you choose them
as your guides, and following them you
will reach your destiny."
The 10 birthright goals which I have
outlined today embrace our Nation's
timeless ideals. Let all Americans, of every
1137
