Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
tripled since April 1971-from 36 to 105.
More than half of these hold positions
previously held only by men.
We reached another milestone with the
employment and/or advancement of more
than 1,000 women in middle-management
positions during the past year. This is
particularly noteworthy because it oc-
curred during a time when budget policy
required a 5-percent reduction in the Fed-
eral work force.
We have made an impressive start, but
now we must do even better in giving
women the equal opportunity they have
so long deserved.
I ask the private sector and State and
local governments to follow our lead by
taking a close look at employment prac-
tices which may be discriminatory, and by
134
doing all that can be done to guarantee
women equal opportunity for employment
and advancement as well as equal pay for
equal work.
In this era of great challenges and
potentials, the Nation-in the private sec-
tor as well as in government at all levels——
needs the capabilities and brainpower of
every single American. The full and equal
participation of women is crucial to the
strength of our country.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the status of women in the
Administration. Participants in the news brief-
ing were Jayne B. Spain, Vice Chairman,
United States Civil Service Commission, and
Barbara H. Franklin, Staff Assistant to the
President for Executive Manpower.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Guests Following a Dinner at Secretary Connally's
Ranch in Floresville, Texas. April 30, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Well, I want to say
first of all that we are most grateful for
the welcome that you have given us to
Texas, and speaking in a very personal
sense, I, of course, rather than saying "Mr.
Secretary," would like to say to John and
Nellie Connally that we are particularly
happy that we have had a chance to visit
this ranch, to see a lot of old friends, and
also to make some new friends, as well.
As I listened to John Connally, and as I
listened to some of the things he had to
say about me and my age, and as I thought
back on some of those dope stories sug-
gesting that he was no longer a potential
candidate for anything, I began to won-
der. [Laughter]
I would like to return the compliment,
not simply because it is a case of when one
man scratches your back, you scratch his
in return-and, of course, it is much more
pleasant when it is a lady—but neverthe-
less, whatever the case might be, I would
like to say a word about the appointment
that I made of John Connally as Secretary
of the Treasury; how it was greeted with
such surprise in many quarters, applause
from some, a wonder among others, and
criticism, of course, from many that you
would expect.
Generally speaking, the line was, well,
what does John Connally know about be-
ing Secretary of the Treasury? They
recognized he was a fine lawyer, they
recognized he was a very successful politi-
cal leader in Texas, they recognized he
had been a great Governor of this State,
but what in the world did he know about
87-234-74- +39
557
