Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
the leadership of the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, to ensure that
the concerns of the aging were regularly
and thoroughly considered by this Admin-
istration and that our policies to help older
persons were effectively carried out. To
provide greater opportunity for older
Americans to express their own concerns
and to recommend new policies, I con-
vened the White House Conference on
Aging-which met last December and
which was preceded and followed by
many other meetings at the grassroots
level. I asked the Cabinet-level Commit-
tee on Aging to place the recommenda-
tions of the Conference at the top of its
agenda. And I also asked the Chairman
of the Conference, Arthur Flemming, to
stay on as the first Special Consultant to
the President on Aging, so that the voice
of older Americans would continue to be
heard at the very highest levels of the
Government.
One dimension of our efforts over the
last three years is evident when we look at
the Federal budget. If our budget pro-
posals are accepted, overall Federal spend-
ing for the elderly in fiscal
year 1973 will
be $50 billion, nearly 150 percent of what
it was when this Administration took of-
fice. One particularly important example
of increased concern for the elderly is the
fact that overall Federal spending under
the Older Americans Act alone has grown
from $32 million in fiscal year 1969 to a
proposed $257 million in fiscal year
1973—an eight-fold increase. This figure
includes the $157 million I originally re-
quested in my 1973 budget, plus an addi-
tional $100 million which I am requesting
in this message for nutrition and related
services.
How much money we spend on aging
programs is only one part of the story,
however. How we spend it is an equally
important question. It is my conviction
that the complex, interwoven problems of
older Americans demand, above all else, a
comprehensive response, one which at-
tacks on a variety of fronts and meets a
variety of problems.
This message outlines the comprehen-
sive strategy which this Administration
had developed for bridging the new gen-
eration gap and enhancing the dignity
and independence of older Americans.
That strategy has five major elements:
1. Protecting the income position of
the elderly;
2. Upgrading the quality of nursing
home care;
3. Helping older persons live dignified,
independent lives in their own homes
or residences by expanding and re-
forming service programs;
4. Expanding opportunities for older
people to continue their involvement
in the life of the country; and
5. Reorganizing the Federal Govern-
ment to better meet the changing
needs of older Americans.
A SUMMARY OF MAJOR INITIATIVES
In addition to discussing important ac-
tions which have been taken in the past or
are now underway, this message focuses
attention on the following major items of
new and pending business.
1. To protect the income position of
older Americans,
The Congress should:
-enact H.R. I as soon as possible, thus
providing older Americans with $5½ bil-
lion of additional annual income. H.R. 1
would increase social security benefits by
5 percent, make social security inflation-
463
