[301] Sept. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
of them were received in the United
States. And at that time, many people
in the United States, shortsighted people,
said, “This is a bad thing, because all of
these new immigrants are going to make it
harder for us to get jobs, it is going to make
it more difficult for us to build the kind
of a country we want."
The man who, at the very late years of
his life, was put in charge of that program
was Herbert Hoover-Herbert Hoover,
who went back many, many years, who
had handled refugees for many years. I
asked him about that charge that had
been made, and this is what he said. He
said: "I have studied the whole history of
America and of all of those people that
have made America. And every new group
of people who come from a country
abroad to the United States make Amer-
ica richer, because they help build Amer-
ica, they bring a more diverse culture to
America, they bring music, they bring cul-
ture, they bring religion, they bring
strength." I think that we can say that
about every group, but I can certainly say
it about those who are proud of their
Italian-American background.
Let me tell you what I know about you
and what you have contributed, some
things that are so characteristic of your
homes, your communities, your families.
First, when you run into an Italian-
American community you will find that
there is a strong sense of patriotism. Oh,
they are proud of their Italian back-
ground, but they are proud first to be
Americans all the way.
And in our armed services there is no
group in this country that has a finer
record of volunteering and serving cou-
rageously than those of Italian back-
ground. And we are proud of that.
Second, those of Italian background
are builders. I don't say that just because
John Volpe is a builder and a contractor,
but I say it because all over this land they
have a marvelous record of working hard,
they believe in hard work, they believe in
earning what they get. And that is some-
thing that builds America.
And there is something else they add—
the people of Italian background-as this
event here today demonstrates, they have
a deep religious sense, they have a loyalty
to their church and to their community,
which helps their church and their com-
munity and their Nation as well.
And then finally-and this is the last
point and it tells us a lot about this
event-they love their families, their chil-
dren, and also their parents and the older
people, like the people who are living in
this home. And that is the final message
would leave with all of you today.
I
This is a time when we naturally are
thinking of the future, of our young peo-
ple. We want them to have a better life
than we have had, but let's always remem-
ber that what we have today wouldn't be
here if a lot of people hadn't come to
America, hadn't worked hard and built
America. Let's give our older people, our
mothers and our fathers and our grand-
parents, the respect that they deserve and
the honor that they deserve.
And now with all that, I have been try-
ing to think of something that I could say
in conclusion. I know a few Spanish
words. I know even a few Russian words.
Whenever I travel in Italy I pick up a
few Italian words, but if the pronuncia-
tion is wrong, you blame John Volpe, not
me. Grazie à tutti. [Thank you all.]
872
