Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 4 [40]
ing, perhaps, would be a park and recrea-
tion center called Bicentennial Gardens,
which I propose be developed in the open
land along Constitution Avenue between
the Washington Monument and Lincoln
Memorial. Since the last of the old World
War I "tempos" were removed from the
West Mall in 1970, we have explored
many alternative plans for developing in
their place facilities for people of all ages,
incomes, and interests, residents and tour-
ists alike, to enjoy.
The Bicentennial Gardens plan, which
will soon be ready to present in detail but
which of course remains open to the ideas
and desires of those for whom it is in-
tended, might be called an American
cousin of Copenhagen's beloved Tivoli.
It follows the present contours of the land
on a low profile in keeping with other
Mall developments. A restaurant, smaller
eating areas, an open-air theater, a band-
shell, an area for ice skating, a children's
play area, fountains, gardens, a boating
lake, and walking paths are examples of
the kind of features that might be in-
cluded. There could be underground
parking to accommodate tour buses, a
terminal for the tourist trams, and a visi-
tors center in the middle of the Gardens.
With such a development, the Mall's at-
tractions would be better balanced and
dispersed, evening activities now concen-
trated in the Smithsonian Quadrangle
would have a second focal point, and
mingling of Washingtonians and visitors
in a pleasant year-round setting would be
encouraged. Quality of life for everyone
in the Capital would be enhanced.
THE MALL IN 1976
The three major monuments and me-
morials in easy reach of Bicentennial
Gardens are to be renovated and im-
proved in a 4-year Park Service program
beginning with this year's budget now be-
fore the Congress. Another facelifting
project along the whole length of the
Mall, and on the Ellipse as well, will re-
construct roadways, add walks, bikeways,
plantings, and fountains, and provide for
a new Ceremonial Drive. This work too
is budgeted for fiscal year 1973 and be-
yond, to be completed by 1976.
The Mall east of the Washington Mon-
ument should also have a new look for the
Bicentennial. Besides the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and National Gallery of Art addi-
tion which are now being constructed,
there will be a handsome new building for
one of the Mall's oldest tenants, the
Smithsonian Institution. This structure,
which will house the National Air and
Space Museum with exhibits ranging
from Kitty Hawk to Hadley Rille and
with a former astronaut in charge, can be
ready in 1976 if the Congress will move
now to approve FY 1973 construction
funds for it; the plans are nearly complete.
The Smithsonian also plans restoration of
the historic Arts and Industries Building
to its original 1880s appearance, as a fit
setting for the Nation's Centennial ex-
hibits which it displayed following the
Philadelphia Exposition nearly a century
ago and will display again for the Bicen-
tennial, and construction of a major new
"Nation of Nations" exhibit in the Mu-
seum of History and Technology to illus-
trate America's multi-cultural tradition.
Both projects are the subject of FY 1973
budget requests.
A fourth important undertaking by the
Smithsonian-not on the Mall but rather
a part of the effort to give the Bicenten-
nial activities metropolitan scope-is the
Bicentennial Outdoor Museum planned
153
