[206] June 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
make the objectives of the Stockholm
Conference a reality.
NOTE: The Conference was held June 5-16,
1972, in Stockholm.
On June 20, the White House released a fact
sheet and the transcript of a news briefing on
the Conference. Participants in the news brief-
ing were Russell E. Train, Chairman, Council
on Environmental Quality, and Chairman, U.S.
delegation to the Conference; Senator Howard
H. Baker, Jr., Chairman, Secretary of State's
Advisory Committee on the United Nations
Conference on the Human Environment; and
Robert M. White, Administrator, National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, De-
partment of Commerce.
207 The President's News Conference of
June 22, 1972
THE PRESIDENT. Ladies and gentlemen:
Next week before the Congress recesses,
I am planning to have a general news
conference. Prior to that time, in talking
to Mr. Ziegler, I found that a number of
members of the press, looking back at
previous news conferences, have indicated
that there is a tendency for foreign policy
and defense policy questions to dominate
the conferences so much that questions on
domestic policy do not adequately get
covered.
As a matter of fact, I have noted sev-
eral of you in your commentaries, after
some news conferences, have indicated
that we have not given enough attention
to the domestic issues.
So, subsequently, after discussing the
matter with Mr. Ziegler, I thought it
would be useful this week, on this occa-
sion, to have you here in the office for the
purpose of covering domestic issues only.
The session next week will be open to both
foreign policy-defense policy and domestic
issues.
So, today we will take all questions on
domestic issues, and next week you can
cover all three areas to the extent you
wish to.
QUESTIONS
BUGGING OF DEMOCRATIC HEADQUARTERS
[1] Q. Mr. O'Brien¹ has said that
the people who bugged his headquarters 2
had a direct link to the White House.
Have you had any sort of investigation
made to determine whether this is true?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Ziegler and also
Mr. Mitchell,3 speaking for the campaign
committee, have responded to questions
on this in great detail. They have stated
my position and have also stated the facts
accurately.
1 Lawrence F. O'Brien was chairman of the
Democratic National Committee.
'On June 17, 1972, five men were arrested
for illegally entering the Democratic National
Committee headquarters in an office building
at the Watergate complex in Washington, D.C.
On September 15, they were indicted by a
Federal grand jury on charges which included
conspiracy to use illegal means to obtain in-
formation from the Democratic headquarters,
intent to steal property of another, and intent
to intercept willfully, knowingly, and unlaw-
fully oral and wire communications.
'Former Attorney General John N. Mitchell
was campaign director of the Committee for
the Re-Election of the President.
690
