Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 24 [19]
length. Each day and each State's expe-
rience only confirms the inescapable fact
that it is wanted and needed-now. The
States and cities urgently require this aid;
individual Americans need it for every-
thing from improved law enforcement to
tax relief. This budget allocates $2.5 bil-
lion in 1972 and $5.3 billion in 1973 to
make General Revenue Sharing a reality
now.
Schools need emergency assistance now
to make necessary adjustments to pro-
vide equal educational opportunity. This
budget allocates $500 million in 1972 and
$1 billion in 1973 for this purpose.
Government reorganization is needed
now, to deliver more services for each tax
dollar collected. The pain this change
will bring to special interests and bureauc-
racies is less important than the pain
existing bureaucratic arrangements now
cause the people. A reorganized govern-
ment will be a better, more efficient
government.
Health care must be improved and
made available to all Americans, without
driving up medical costs. This budget pro-
vides for legislative actions and necessary
funding to make better health care avail-
able on the most widespread basis, to em-
phasize preventive medicine, and to
pursue an all-out campaign to eliminate
cancer and sickle cell anemia.
Drug abuse prevention must be intensi-
fied to curb narcotics trafficking and to
expand Federal drug rehabilitation efforts
coordinated by the White House Special
Action Office. The budget allocates $594
million to these and other drug abuse
prevention campaigns.
A new commitment to the aging is long
overdue to add dignity and usefulness to
their lives. This budget provides for total
spending of $50 billion on behalf of the
aging, $16 billion more than in 1969. Most
importantly, $52 billion will be added to
the incomes of older Americans when pro-
posed social security and Welfare Reform
legislation is fully in effect. In addition,
service initiatives will be launched that
will focus on better nutrition and other
services designed to help the elderly live
independently in their own homes.
Scientific research and technology, so
essential to our national security, also must
focus more directly on solving our domes-
tic problems, increasing our productivity,
and improving our competitive position in
international trade. The budget allocates
$17.8 billion for this, an increase of $1.4
billion over 1972.
Veterans of the Nation will receive the
special consideration they deserve, with
particular emphasis on those reentering
civilian life after service in Vietnam. This
budget provides more than $12 billion in
budget authority for veterans benefits,
with an increase of over $1 billion for
modernization, replacement, and record
staffing of VA hospitals, higher compensa-
tion for disabled veterans, and enhanced
job training opportunities, higher GI bill
allowances, and other improved services.
Details on each of these proposals are
given later in this Budget Message.
ECONOMIC SETTING AND FISCAL POLICY
ECONOMIC SETTING.-In January 1969,
the Nation's chief economic problem was
mounting inflation.
Anti-inflationary policies that we
adopted began gradually to lower the rate
of price increases. However, progress was
slower than we had hoped and was ac-
companied by an unacceptable increase
in unemployment. This increase was in
part a result of the transition of 2½ mil-
81
