[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
We must be steadfast in our foreign as-
sistance. We are moving from an era of
confrontation to an era of negotiation and
increased reliance on our allies to defend
themselves. In this setting, I have carefully
weighed our basic assistance requirements
against our domestic priorities, and now
submit a program based on a thorough
assessment of what is essential. We must
not undercut the efforts of developing na-
tions to stand on their own. Nor can we
shortchange the nations now shouldering
the burden of their own defense after
they-and we have given so much.
MEETING HUMAN NEEDS
My Administration has begun wide-
spread reform and has sought to take new
directions in Federal human resources
programs. From 1969 to 1972, outlays for
these purposes grew by 63%, while total
budget outlays grew by only 28%. This
increase is designed to buy such real im-
provements as:
-greater benefits for the aged and
other beneficiaries under
under social
security;
-additional training opportunities for
the disadvantaged;
-reform of the food stamp program to
establish national standards and to
give more help to the most needy;
-better health care for millions of
low-income persons and for the aged;
-expanded and improved veterans
programs;
-increased educational opportunities
for students from lower income fam-
ilies; and
-extension of unemployment in-
surance coverage to more Americans.
As a result, human resources spending
will be 45% of the 1973 budget, while
defense programs will be 32%. Our
policy of ending our involvement in the
Vietnam war has helped make this pos-
sible by freeing resources to keep us strong
externally as well as internally. This ex-
actly reverses the priorities of the prior
administration. In 1968, the defense share
was 45% and the human resources share
was 32%.
While this is a substantial record of
progress, our work is far from complete.
This budget recommends new initia-
tives and emphasizes many reforms pro-
posed last year-on which the Congress
has yet to complete action. These pro-
posals are a necessary part of my efforts
to return more of the power to the people,
to strengthen the capacity of State and
local governments to govern, and—espe-
cially by assuring the civil rights of all our
citizens-to contribute to personal free-
dom and human dignity.
To help overcome the fragmentation in
human services, which so often loses sight
of the whole person and the family, I am
proposing Allied Services legislation that
would assist State and local governments
to respond to human needs more effi-
ciently, more flexibly, and more compre-
hensively. The legislation would authorize
the transfer of Federal funds between De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare programs not included in revenue
sharing, the waiver of cumbersome Fed-
eral program requirements, and limited
funding for planning and administrative
costs.
WELFARE REFORM.-Almost four dec-
ades of experience with the present wel-
fare system is more than enough to teach
us that the system has failed.
It takes away the incentive to work.
It lacks adequate job opportunities
and child care services that would en-
86
