[397] Nov. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
clarified so that all ambiguities will be re-
moved. I have insisted that these be settled
before we sign the final agreement. That
is why we refused to be stampeded into
meeting the arbitrary deadline of Octo-
ber 31.
Now, there are some who say: "Why
worry about the details? Just get the war
over!"
Well, my answer is this: My study
of history convinces me that the details
can make the difference between an agree-
ment that collapses and an agreement
that lasts and equally crucial is a clear
understanding by all of the parties of
what those details are.
We are not going to repeat the mistake
of 1968, when the bombing halt agree-
ment was rushed into just before an elec-
tion without pinning down the details.
We want peace-peace with honor-
a peace fair to all and a peace that will
last. That is why I am insisting that the
central points be clearly settled, so that
there will be no misunderstandings which
could lead to a breakdown of the settle-
ment and a resumption of the war.
I am confident that we will soon achieve
that goal.
But we are not going to allow an elec-
tion deadline or any other kind of dead-
line to force us into an agreement which
would be only a temporary truce and not
a lasting peace. We are going to sign the
agreement when the agreement is right,
not one day before. And when the agree-
ment is right, we are going to sign, with-
out one day's delay.
Not only in America, but all around the
world, people will be watching the re-
sults of our election. The leaders in Hanoi
will be watching. They will be watching
for the answer of the American people-
for your answer to this question: Shall
we have peace with honor or peace with
surrender?
Always in the past you have answered
"Peace with honor." By giving that same
answer once again on November 7 you
can help make certain that peace with
honor can now be achieved.
In these past 4 years, we have also
been moving toward lasting peace in the
world at large.
We have signed more agreements with
the Soviet Union than were negotiated
in all the previous years since World War
II. We have established the basis for a new
relationship with the People's Republic
of China, where one-fourth of all the peo-
ple in this world live. Our vigorous diplo-
macy has advanced the prospects for a
stable peace in the Middle East. All
around the world, we are opening doors
to peace, doors that were previously
closed. We are developing areas of com-
mon interest where there have been previ-
ously only antagonisms. All this is a be-
ginning. It can be the beginning of a
generation of peace-of a world in which
our children can be the first generation
in this century to escape the scourge of
war.
These next 4 years will set the course
on which we begin our third century as a
nation. What will that course be? Will it
have us turning inward, retreating from
the responsibilities not only of a great
power but of a great people-of a nation
that embodies the ideals man has dreamed
of and fought for through the centuries?
We cannot retreat from those respon-
sibilities. If we did America would cease
to be a great nation, and peace and free-
dom would be in deadly jeopardy
throughout the world.
Ours is a great and a free nation today
because past generations of Americans
1086
