[52] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
possibilities considered by the Secretary of
the Interior in his review of roadless areas
of 5,000 acres or more-Martin National
Wildlife Refuge, Maryland, and Wupatki
National Monument, Arizona—were
found to be unsuitable for inclusion in the
Wilderness System. I concur in this find-
ing and in the 18 favorable recommenda-
tions of the Secretaries of the Interior and
of Agriculture, all of which are trans-
mitted herewith.
Timely and farsighted action is impera-
tive if we are to preserve America's irre-
placeable heritage of wildness as part of
our legacy to the future. I urge that pro-
tected status be promptly extended to the
lands covered by these proposals and by
the 31 previous wilderness recommenda-
tions already pending before the Congress.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Spiro T. Agnew,
President of the Senate, and the Honorable Carl
Albert, Speaker of the House of Representatives.
53 Message to the Congress Transmitting a Report of
Negotiations With Canada on Reconstruction of the
Alaska Highway. February 8, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby submit to the Congress a
Report of the negotiations with the Gov-
ernment of Canada concerning the recon-
struction of the Alaska Highway between
Dawson Creek, Canada, and the Alaska
border. Pursuant to Section 119 of Public
Law 91-605, these negotiations were held
in the summer and fall of 1971 between
representatives of our Departments of
State and Transportation and officials of
the respective Canadian Ministries.
Based upon these discussions, the Secre-
taries of Transportation and State have
concluded, and I have agreed, that a U.S.
offer to Canada to undertake this project
on a cost-sharing basis would not be justi-
fied at this time. Our negotiations closed
with an understanding that this would be
the United States position. The Canadian
Government has also indicated that it
does not wish to undertake such a project
with its own resources.
Underlying these conclusions are the
facts that alternative transportation
routes are now being developed, especially
in British Columbia, and that anticipated
traffic volume on the Alaskan Highway
should not be sufficiently heavy to warrant
reconstruction and paving. The enclosed
Report, submitted in response to Section
119(b) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act
of 1970 (P.L. 91-605), spells out these
findings in greater detail.
As a result of these conclusions, no
further action seems necessary at this
time.
The White House,
February 8, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "Alaska Highway
Report" (13 pp. plus attachments).
190
