[329] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
they can work together. Let me give you
an example. As I was meeting a few of
the vice chairmen of this dinner tonight,
one of them told me that his wife was un-
able to come because she had had an
operation for cancer. Fortunately, it was
successful. I was thinking of the fact that
early in the morning I am addressing a
group, right here at the Century Plaza, of
doctors engaged in the fight against can-
cer. I was thinking also, in terms of that
battle, with the great wars that this coun-
try has fought, and that each year more
people die with cancer in the United
States than were killed in all of World
War II.
As I thought of that, I realized how im-
portant our initiative was, which we be-
gan, to put more funds into research
for cancer. Then I thought of my trip to
the Soviet Union and my trip to China
where Chou En-lai discussed the problem
of how we might cooperate in that field of
finding answers to the dread diseases that
afflict mankind, whatever their color or
background or political philosophy.
I remember a meeting just a few days
ago with the Russian Minister of Health.
He is a famous heart surgeon. He does
two open-heart surgery operations a week.
He works regularly and corresponds with
Dr. DeBakey, who is one of the leaders in
our field here. We talked about this prob-
lem. Then I thought in terms of how we
could find the answer, the answer to can-
cer, to the other diseases on which we are
attempting to develop programs. It may
not be found by an American. We have
to search the world. It may be a Russian.
It may be a Chinese. It may be somebody
from Africa or Latin America, a small
country, a large country. It may be a
woman. It may be a man. The main point
is that in attacking this kind of a problem
where we find that the whole of mankind
is affected, let's get all of the people of the
world working together to deal with that
problem.
I want this new generation, voting for
the first time in America this year, not
only to live in a peaceful world, not only
to live in an open world, but to have here
the jobs without war and without inflation
to which they are entitled, an opportunity
to go to the top, without being limited by
a quota, on the basis of their abilities, and
finally, I want them, and this is one, cer-
tainly, of the strongest motivations I think
all of us should have tonight, I want them
to feel about this country the way I feel
about it, the way you feel about it.
I think one of the tragedies of our time,
one of the tragedies of the sixties, was that
so many young people seemingly gave up
on America. Part of the reason was they
could see everything wrong, and they al-
lowed what was wrong to blind them to
what was right; not all, of course, but
many did.
And now we have seen the situation be-
gin to turn. I think one of the good things,
one of the helpful things about this new
generation and its participation in this
campaign is that with that responsibility
they are looking at their country through
new eyes. Oh, that means they are not
uncritical. Because young people, to their
great credit, are idealistic. They are im-
patient. They want change. They want
progress. And may it always be that way.
But on the other hand, they know they
can work peacefully within the system in
America. Just let me say: They know, too,
if they have had the opportunity to travel
abroad, as I have and my wife has, to over
80 countries, that every time you come
938
