Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 2 [397]
met their responsibilities. And we shall
meet ours.
We have made progress toward peace
in the world, toward a new relationship
with the Soviet Union and the People's
Republic of China, not through naive
sentimental assumptions that good will
is all that matters, or that we can reduce
our military strength because we have no
intention of making war and we therefore
assume other nations would have no such
intention. We have achieved progress
through peace for precisely the opposite
reasons: because we demonstrated that
we would not let ourselves be surpassed
in military strength and because we
bargained with other nations on the basis
of their national interest and ours.
As we look at the real world, it is clear
that we will not in our lifetimes have a
world free of danger. Anyone who reads
history knows that danger has always been
part of the common lot of mankind. Any-
one who knows the world today knows
that nations have not all been suddenly
overtaken by some new and unprece-
dented wave of pure good will and benign
intentions. But we can lessen the danger.
We can contain it. We can forge a net-
work of relationships and of interdepend-
encies that restrain aggression and that
take the profit out of war.
We cannot make all nations the same,
and it would be wrong to try. We cannot
make all of the world's people love each
other. But we can establish conditions in
which they will be more likely to live in
peace with one another. Tonight I ask for
your support as we continue to work to-
ward that great goal.
Here at home, as we look at the prog-
ress we have made, we find that we are
reaching new levels of prosperity.
We have cut inflation almost in half.
The average worker has scored his best
gains in 8 years in real spendable earn-
ings. We are creating record numbers of
new jobs. We are well on the way to
achieving what America has not had
since President Eisenhower lived here in
the White House: prosperity with full
employment, without inflation and with-
out war.
We have lowered the level of violence,
and we are finally turning the tide against
crime.
I could go on with what we have
done for the environment, for the con-
sumer, for the aging, for the farmer, for
the worker, for all Americans—but now
we must not look backward to what we
have done in the past, but forward to
what we will do in the future.
It is traditional for a candidate for elec-
tion to make all sorts of promises about
bold new programs he intends to intro-
duce if elected. This year's Presidential
campaign has probably established an all-
time record for promises of huge new
spending programs for just about any-
thing and everything for everybody
imaginable. I have not made such prom-
ises in this campaign. And I am not going
to do so tonight. Let me tell you why.
In the first place, the sort of bold new
programs traditionally promised by can-
didates are all programs that you-the
taxpayer-pay for. The programs pro-
posed by our opponents in this campaign
would require a 50-percent increase in
Federal taxes, in your taxes. I think your
taxes are already too high. That is why I
oppose any new program which would
add to your tax burden.
In the second place, too many campaign
promises are just that-campaign prom-
ises. I believe in keeping the promises I
make, and making only those promises I
1087
