Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 14 [122]
But geography and history alone do not
make a community. A true community
must be a living entity in which the in-
dividuality of each member is a source
of pride to all members, in which the
unity of all is a source of strength to each,
and the great community of the Americas
cannot be complete without the participa-
tion of Canada.
That is why we have been encouraged
by the recent decisions of Canada to up-
grade its participation as an observer in
the Organization of American States to
ambassadorial status and to apply for
membership in the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank, for both of these institutions
make the abstract concept of community
within the Americas a living reality.
A sound concept of community is also
important in another international arena
that we share, the Atlantic Alliance. Just
one month after my inauguration as
President of the United States, I observed
that a new spirit of cooperation within
that Alliance was essential as we began a
new search for cooperation between East
and West. The recent agreements con-
cerning Berlin-the fact, for example, that
thousands of families were reunited this
Easter for the first time in many years-
these are among the first fruits of a new
era of East-West negotiation.
But as we seek better relations with our
adversaries, it becomes all the more im-
portant to strengthen the alliances with
our friends. We must never forget that the
strength and the unity of the West has
been an indispensable element in helping
to bring about the new era of negotiation
with the East. And that is why we began
our round of summit talks last December
by meeting with the Prime Minister of
Canada, and then with the leaders of other
close allies. That is why our East-West
conversations will always be accompanied
by full and genuine consultation within
the Atlantic Alliance.
That Alliance began as a way of pooling
military resources. Today it is a way of
pooling our intellectual and our diplo-
matic resources as well. Like our Federal
approaches to nationhood, like our
Canadian-American brotherhood, like our
inter-American neighborhood, the Atlan-
tic Alliance has achieved a creative unity
in which the individuality of its members
is respected and advanced.
Let us turn now to the world as a
whole for this is where the challenge of
building a true community will be most
difficult-and most important.
We in Canada and the United States
have always been proud to live in what is
called the New World. Today there is a
new world coming for everyone who lives
on this globe. It is our responsibility to
make this new world a better world than
the world we have known.
Canadians and Americans have fought
and died together in two World Wars in
this century. We live now in what has
been called the post-war era. But mankind
has known a long succession of post-war
eras. And each one of them has turned
out to be a pre-war era as well.
The challenge we face today is to build
a permanent post-war era-an era of last-
ing peace.
My visit to Ottawa comes midway be-
tween visits to Peking and to Moscow.
In many respects, these journeys are
very different. In the People's Republic
of China we opened a new dialogue after
22 years of virtually no communication. In
the Soviet Union there is an opportunity to
bring a continuing dialogue to productive
conclusions.
But in their central aim, these journeys
539
