Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 1 [33]
also means that Federal funds now avail-
able must be freed from the inhibiting re-
strictions within which they are now
entangled. Funds which are free of these
restrictions can be used in each locality
where the needs are greatest, eliminating
a great deal of inefficiency and waste.
But Federal grant money provides only
a part of the Federal contribution to rural
America. Adequate credit resources can
also be extremely important in developing
community facilities and in attracting
private investment. In the end it is not
Federal money, nor even the vast sums
spent by State and local governments,
which hold the key to rural development.
The private sector has an enormous role
to play and public efforts must keep this
fact centrally in mind.
HELPING THE FARMER AND PROTECTING
THE ENVIRONMENT
Rural America cannot move forward
effectively into the future unless it respects
those elements which have been the base
of its strength in the past. We cannot build
a stronger rural economy, for example,
unless we also build a stronger agricultural
economy. While we must work to change
the American countryside, we must never
do so at the expense of those who produce
our food and fiber. We must work to
create a better life for American farmers
even as we provide an expanded range of
opportunities for those who are no longer
needed on the farm.
Even as we do more to promote agricul-
tural prosperity, so we must do more to
protect the rural environment. Just as de-
velopment must not come at the expense
of the farmer, so it must not come at the
expense of environmental concerns. We
cannot fully develop the American coun-
tryside if we destroy the beauty and the
natural resources which are so much a
part of its essential value.
BASIC PRINCIPLES
These then are the basic principles
which should guide our new approach to
rural community development:
We must treat the problems of rural
America as a part of a general strategy for
balanced growth.
We must reverse the flow of power to
the Federal Government and return more
power to State and local officials.
We must fight the rigidities of narrowly
focused categorical grants.
We must facilitate more adequate ad-
vance planning.
We must reorganize the Federal Gov-
ernment so that it can more effectively
support planning and execution at the
State and local level.
We must provide adequate resources
and credit, in ways which attract greater
private resources for development.
We must develop rural America in ways
which protect agriculture and the
environment.
On the basis of these principles, we have
prepared the following recommendations
for action-including proposals which
have been submitted earlier and a num-
ber of new initiatives.
PROPOSALS ALREADY SUBMITTED TO THE
CONGRESS
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
One of the most significant barriers to
effective planning and coordination in
rural areas has been the fragmentation of
129
