[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
answer in that way. He thought a moment,
and he said, 'What India needs, what the
world needs, is a generation of peace.""
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring
the Prime Minister of India.
November 4, 1971
The United States made a determined
effort throughout 1971 to prevent a war
in South Asia and to encourage a political
solution. We did not succeed.
A year ago I described the broad ob-
jectives of United States policy in South
Asia:
"Our aim is a structure of peace and
stability within which the people of this
region can develop its great potential and
their independent vision of the future.
Our policy is to help these nations deal
with their own problems, and to bring
our activity into a stable balance with
that of the other major powers with inter-
ests in the area.'
This structure of regional peace broke
down in 1971.
The United States has had an enduring
interest in the security, independence, and
progress of both India and Pakistan. On
my visits to their capitals in the summer
of 1969, in my two previous Foreign
Policy Reports, and on many other oc-
casions, I have expressed my strong per-
sonal interest in warm relations with both
countries. There have been fluctuations
in our political relationships over the
years from our earliest ties with Pakistan
in SEATO and CENTO, to our defense
cooperation with India after the 1962
border war with China, to the Nixon Doc-
trine's posture of balance and restraint.
But our fundamental interests and ties
have been constant.
-India is a great country, a free and
democratic nation, in whose future
as a model of progress for the de-
veloping world the United States has
invested its hopes and resources.
India has been by far the principal
beneficiary of U.S. development as-
sistance to the extent of approxi-
mately $10 billion since its inde-
pendence. In Fiscal Year 1971, this
Administration provided $540 mil-
lion, or approximately two-thirds of
the world's net development aid to
India.
-The United States has long main-
tained a close tie also with Pakistan.
Since its independence we have con-
tributed almost $4 billion to its eco-
nomic development.
In 1971, these constructive relation-
ships and shared hopes for progress were
shaken by war.
UNITED STATES POLICY IN THE
EMERGING CRISIS
The crisis began as an internal conflict
in Pakistan. Pakistan's elections in Decem-
ber 1970 gave a majority in the National
Assembly to the Awami League, a move-
ment seeking substantial autonomy for the
Bengalis of East Pakistan. When negoti-
ations between the Government and the
League on a formula for autonomy broke
down at the end of March 1971, the Gov-
ernment ordered the army to suppress all
separatist opposition. The League was
banned; its leader, Sheikh Mujibur
Rahman, was jailed for treason. As the
army's campaign advanced in East Paki-
stan through spring and summer of 1971,
countless thousands were killed, civil ad-
ministration crumbled, famine threatened,
and millions left their homes and fled to
India.
The United States did not support or
296
