[74] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Centers can develop into a full-service
HMO. I have requested funds in 1973
to expand this support.
To keep this momentum going, I have
included in the fiscal year 1972 supple-
mental budget $27 million for HMO de-
velopment, and requested $60 million for
this purpose in fiscal year 1973.
I will also propose amendments to the
pending HMO Assistance Act that would
authorize the establishment of an HMO
loan fund.
THE NATIONAL NEED FOR H.R. I
One of the greatest hazards to life and
health is poverty. Death and illness rates
among the poor are many times those for
the rest of the Nation. The steady elimina-
tion of poverty would in itself improve the
health of millions of Americans.
H.R. 1's main purpose is to help people
lift themselves free of poverty's grip by
providing them with jobs, job training,
income supplements for the working poor
and child care centers for mothers seeking
work.
For this reason alone, enactment of
H.R. I must be considered centerpiece
legislation in the building of a National
Health Strategy.
But H.R. I also includes the following
measures to extend health care to more
Americans-especially older Americans—
and to control costs:
Additional Persons Covered:
-Persons eligible for Part A of Medi-
care (hospital care) would be automati-
cally enrolled in Part B (physician's care).
-Medicare (both Parts A and B)
would be extended to many disabled per-
sons not now covered.
H.R. I as it now stands, however, would
still require monthly premium payments
to cover the costs of Part B. I have recom-
mended that the Congress eliminate this
$5.80 monthly premium payment and
finance Medicare coverage of physician
services through the social security pay-
roll tax. This can be done within the Medi-
care tax rate now included in H.R. 1. If
enacted, this change would save $1.5 bil-
lion annually for older Americans and
would be equivalent to a 5 percent in-
crease in social security cash benefits.
Cost Control Features:
-Medicare and Medicaid reimburse-
ment would be denied any hospital or
other institution for interest, depreciation
and service charges on any construction
disapproved by local or regional health
planning agencies. Moreover, to strength-
en local and regional health planning
agencies, my fiscal year 1973 budget would
increase the Federal matching share. In
addition, grants to establish 100 new local
and 20 new State planning agencies would
bring health planning to more than 80
percent of the Nation's population.
-Reviews of claim samples and utiliza-
tion patterns, which have saved much
money in the Medicare program, would
be applied to Medicaid.
-The efficiency of Medicaid hospitals
and health facilities would be improved
by testing various alternative methods of
reimbursing them.
-Cost sharing would be introduced
after 30 days of hospitalization under
Medicare.
-Federal Medicaid matching rates
would decline one-third after the first 60
days of care.
-Federal Medicaid matching rates
would be increased 25 percent for services
for which the States contract with HMO's
390
