[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
have often said that it is not well to be coy
about this business of candidacy. Most
assume that a man who has served in the
office of President will be a candidate for
reelection if the Constitution allows him
to do so.
You may recall, however, that President
Johnson, when he was faced with this dif-
ficult choice, decided not to be a
candidate.
MR. RATHER. Frankly, I was thinking
of that when I asked you.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not anticipate
that events such as led President Johnson
to his decision may affect my decision;
however, I do know that it is always wise
to delay until the last possible moment
any very important decision, and, of
course, making the decision to be a can-
didate for President-as I know better
than anybody else-is a very important
decision.
VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW
[4] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, can
you give us assurances categorically and
unequivocally that if you are a candidate
that you want to run again with Vice
President Agnew and that he will be your
running mate, if you have anything to do
with it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Rather,
with regard to the Vice Presidency, the
decision will be made at the convention,
as will be the case with the candidate for
President.
However, to give you an inkling as to
my own thinking with regard to that de-
cision-and if I am a candidate, I obvi-
ously will have something to say about it-
my view is that one should not break up
a winning combination. I believe that the
Vice President has handled his difficult
assignments with dignity, with courage.
He has, at times, been a man of contro-
versy, but when a man has done a good
job in a position, when he has been part of
a winning team, I believe that he should
stay on the team. That is my thinking at
this time.
BOMBING RESUMPTION AND TROOP
WITHDRAWALS
[5.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, as
you enter this election year, there are quite
obviously two central themes that you
have been emphasizing. You have stated
them over again in the phrases, "a genera-
tion of peace" and "a prosperity without
war."
I would like to take advantage of this
opportunity to examine in some detail and
some depth the concepts beneath those
phrases.
First, on a generation of peace. On
everyone's mind is the resumption of the
widespread bombing of North Vietnam.
Other than what we already know from
the authorities in Saigon and what Secre-
tary Laird has said, could you assess the
military benefits of that?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
military benefits, let me say first why we
did it. You were present in the White
House Press Room, as you always are,
when I was there making the last troop
withdrawal announcement¹ which will
bring the troops down to 139,000 by the
first of February. And, at that time, I said
that in the event that the enemy stepped
up its infiltration, or engaged in other ac-
tivities which imperiled, in my opinion,
¹ See 1971 volume, Item 356 [1.].
2
