Richard Nixon, 1972
June 29 [214]
which would involve civilian casualties if
they can be avoided. Military targets only
will be allowed.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE EFFECTIVENESS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, last year, or at
least early this year, General Abrams re-
layed to you his belief that the South
Vietnamese could now hack it on the
battlefield. The invasion from the North
occurred, and we responded with
bombing.
When do you realistically think the
South Vietnamese can do it alone without
massive firepower from us?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Semple [Robert B.
Semple, Jr., New York Times], I think
that is being determined and also demon-
strated at this time.
First, as far as the ground activities are
concerned, they are being entirely under-
taken by the South Vietnamese. Ameri-
can ground combat action has totally been
finished in Vietnam. As far as Americans
in Vietnam are concerned, this war is over
in the future for any future draftees. No
more draftees will be sent to Vietnam.
As far as air action is concerned, as
General Abrams or any military man will
tell you, as they have told me, air action
alone, without adequate fighting on the
ground, cannot stop a determined enemy.
What happened in this case was that the
North Vietnamese launched a massive
offensive with huge tanks, bigger than
those against which they were arrayed,
with new and modern weapons. In order
to provide an equalizer, and it was needed,
we provided air support.
But I should also point this out, some-
thing that has been little noticed, 40 per-
cent of all the tactical air sorties being
flown over the battlefields of South Viet-
nam are now being flown not by Ameri-
cans, but by South Vietnamese.
So we see the South Vietnamese not only
doing all the ground fighting, but increas-
ing their ability to do the fighting in the
air.
Finally, the success of our airstrikes on
the North and on the battlefield, the suc-
cess in turning this battle around hastens
the day when the South Vietnamese will
be able to undertake the total activity
themselves.
I am not going to put a date on it. I can
only say the outcome of the present battle,
how badly the North Vietnamese are hurt,
will determine it, but I am very optimistic
on this point.
VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW
[7.] Q. To change the subject and not
to be flabby, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. You would never be
flabby.
Q. Thank you, sir.
Isn't it time you told us, will Agnew be
on the ticket?
THE PRESIDENT. I know that that is a
question that is very much on the minds
of the delegates who will be coming to
Miami in August. I will announce a deci-
sion on that, my views on it, well before
the convention so that the delegates will
know my views.
As far as the Vice President is con-
cerned, my views with regard to his per-
formance are the same that I reflected
rather generously in my interview with
Mr. Rather in January of this year. I
think he has done a fine job as Vice Presi-
dent. I have very high confidence in him.
But the decision with regard to the Vice
* See Item 1 [4.].
709
