Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 24 [19]
This budget provides for meeting these
future needs.
I am proposing that the Land and
Water Conservation Fund annual au-
thorization be fully funded to provide:
-$197 million in grants for State and
local governments to assist them to
acquire and develop lands for recre-
ation and parks; and
-$98 million for the acquisition of na-
tionally significant natural or his-
toric areas by Federal agencies.
In the period 1970-73, this program
will have provided over $1.1 billion, com-
pared to $535 million provided for this
purpose in 1966-69.
The budget also proposes to continue,
under the Legacy of Parks program, the
transfer of surplus Federal property to
State and local governments for recrea-
tion facilities, parks, and historic sites. In
1973, over 20,000 acres, with a market
value of $120 million, will be transferred
under this program. For the period
1969-73, a total of 47,000 acres of land
with a market value of $245 million will
have been provided to State and local
governments.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND HOUS-
ING. During the past 3 years, solid
progress has been made toward providing
decent, safe, and sanitary housing for
every American. In calendar year 1971,
the volume of new housing construction—
more than 2 million new starts-was the
highest in the history of this country. The
construction of Government-assisted hous-
ing for low- and moderate-income fam-
ilies has also been increased to record
high levels over the past 3 years.
This Administration has taken steps to
decentralize Federal programs that assist
community development and housing
activities to make them more responsive
to local needs and preferences.
Our efforts to aid community develop-
ment and to provide better housing are
still not as productive as they can be. I
have proposed major reforms that would
make them more so:
-a program of urban community de-
velopment revenue sharing that
would replace five categorical grant
programs and provide State and
local governments $2.3 billion in
1973;
-a Department of Community Devel-
opment that would consolidate in
one organization the many programs
and activities that are essential to
community development;
-legislation that would simplify and
consolidate housing programs; and
-a new planning and management
assistance program that would help
States and localities improve their
executive management capabilities.
These reforms, pending before the
Congress, should be enacted promptly.
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT. This Administration has made
major improvements in programs to help
farmers share equitably in the Nation's
progress. In addition, I have proposed a
new program for rural community devel-
opment through revenue sharing. I urge
the Congress to enact this program in time
to be effective on July 1, 1973.
I will shortly recommend further legis-
lation to:
—improve the availability of credit for
both farmers and rural residents; and
-give greater emphasis to our efforts
to encourage community and indus-
trial development in rural areas.
My budget proposals for 1973 will also
93
