Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 13 [299]
our older citizens deserve the chance to
contribute.
I call upon each of you to review your
agency's programs to make sure that the
skills and experience of our older citizens
are being effectively utilized. I also ask
that you review your agency's employ-
ment practices and take immediate steps
to eliminate any which may directly or
indirectly stand as a barrier to equal op-
portunity for older persons. We must not
tolerate any practice that denies older citi-
zens fair and full consideration for
employment and advancement in the
Federal service.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was posted for the
press.
299 Message to the Congress Transmitting the Cost
of Living Council's Quarterly Report on the
Economic Stabilization Program. September 13, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 216 of the
Economic Stabilization Act Amendments
of 1971, I am transmitting with this the
Cost of Living Council's third quarterly
report on the Economic Stabilization Pro-
gram covering the period April 1 through
June 30, 1972.
The report reflects the significant prog-
ress which the country is continuing to
make toward the joint goals of reducing
the rate of inflation and restoring vigorous
health to the economy:
1. In the battle against inflation, the
annual rate of increase in consumer prices
has been cut to 2.9 percent since I an-
nounced the New Economic Policy on
August 15, 1971. During the same period,
real spendable weekly earnings have in-
creased at an annual rate of 3.8 percent.
2. The recovery which the economy is
experiencing is evidenced by nearly all of
the key economic indicators. Last quar-
ter's real GNP grew at an annual rate of
9.4 percent, the greatest increase in seven
years. Productivity increased at a 6 per-
cent annual rate in the second quarter of
1972, with an accompanying decline in
unit labor costs. Employment has in-
creased by 2.6 million workers since the
program began, and the rate of unem-
ployment has declined moderately.
While this encouraging progress has
resulted from the interaction of many
economic factors, the temporary wage and
price controls of the Economic Stabiliza-
tion Program have played an important
role in maintaining price stability during
a period of rapid expansion. The dis-
ciplines of the controls program, together
with responsible fiscal and monetary
policies and the continued support and
cooperation of the private sector, can en-
able us to move into a new era of un-
precedented prosperity for all Americans.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 13, 1972.
NOTE: The report, covering the period April 1
through June 30, 1972, is entitled "Economic
Stabilization Program Quarterly Report-Cost
of Living Council" (Government Printing Of-
fice, 49 pp.).
869
