Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [327]
327 Remarks at a "Victory '72" Luncheon in San Francisco,
California. September 27, 1972
Governor Reagan, Chairman Miller,
Chairman Packard, all of the distin-
guished guests at the head table, and all
of the distinguished guests in the
audience:
I am sure you can see now how far
the Governor and I will go to win the
vote of women's lib, but let me say that
as I stand here, after having flown across
the country today from New York City,
in our home State of California, that it
is really a very, very great privilege to be
received so warmly in the world's favorite
city, San Francisco.
I can assure you, when I talk about
the world's favorite city, as Governor
Reagan will agree, whenever you travel
to the countries of the world you will find
leaders disagreeing about many things,
but it is virtually unanimous-San Fran-
cisco is their favorite city. One of the
reasons is that all the world is here. The
world has made this city, and it is one of
the reasons that today I have selected as
the primary subject the problems of the
world.
Let me say that in discussing that sub-
ject, I first want to say a word with re-
gard to what has been termed the limited
campaigning that I have been doing in
this election year. I am quite aware of
the fact, from long experience, that we
have only 6 weeks, less than 6 weeks, be-
fore election day. Also, I want very much
to win this election. I want very much to
carry California. And there is nothing
I welcome more than the opportunity to
take the case for this Administration, for
the last 4 years and for the next 4 years,
to the American people.
But I believe my first obligation is to
do my job as President of the United
States of America, and that is the reason.
why, whenever it is necessary, when I
feel it is necessary to stay in Washington
to do the job that the people elected me
to do, I will be there. When I can, I will
be campaigning. That is why I ask you
not only to contribute, as you have by at-
tending this luncheon, but to work-do
the work, perhaps, that we won't be able
to do, by being out on the campaign trail.
Let me say, too, that in that same vein,
I feel that Vice President Agnew certainly
made the right decision when he broke off
his campaign to fly back to Washington to
be there when a very close tie vote involv-
ing national security was occurring in the
United States Senate. That is the atti-
tude, in other words, that we are ap-
proaching this campaign in. We want to
win, but we recognize that our first re-
sponsibility is to this country. Our first
responsibility is to carry on the great pro-
grams that we have begun, and in that
connection, I want to direct my remarks
to that area of greatest interest, I think,
to this audience.
I say to this audience-perhaps because
San Francisco is an international city in
every sense of the word, because San
Franciscans generally are international in
their attitudes toward problems and not
parochial, perhaps because Dave Packard,
our chairman in northern California, has
contributed so much to this Administra-
tion's defense policy and also to its success-
ful foreign policy-for these and other
reasons, I want to talk to this audience
today about our foreign policy and our
defense policy.
I do not want to talk to you in partisan
925
