Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
of Commerce, under tne policy guidance
of the Council of Economic Advisers.
These initial studies suggest that pollution
control costs will result in some price in-
creases, competitive trade disadvantages,
and employment shifts. The major im-
pact of these costs will be on older, and
usually smaller plants.
As long as we carefully set our environ-
mental goals to assure that the benefits we
achieve are greater than the social and
economic costs, the changes which will
occur in our economy are desirable, and
we as a Nation will benefit from them.
MAKING TECHNOLOGY AN ENVIRON-
MENTAL ALLY
The time has come to increase the tech-
nological resources allocated to the chal-
lenges of meeting high-priority domestic
needs. In my State of the Union Message
last month, I announced an expanded
Federal research and development com-
mitment for this purpose. There is great
potential for achievement through tech-
nology in the fight against pollution and
the larger drive for quality in our environ-
ment.
The temptation to cast technology in
the role of ecological villain must be re-
sisted-for to do so is to deprive ourselves
of a vital tool available for enhancing en-
vironmental quality. As Peter Drucker has
said, "the environment is a problem of
[the] success" ยน of technological society, by
no means a proof of its failure. The diffi-
culties which some applications of tech-
nology have engendered might indeed be
rectified by turning our backs on the 20th
ยน Peter F. Drucker, "The Age of Disconti-
nuity: Guidelines to Our Changing Society"
(Harper and Row, 1969).
century, but only at a price in privation
which we do not want to pay and do not
have to pay. There is no need to throw out
the baby with the bath water. Technology
can and must be wisely applied so that it
becomes environmentally self-corrective.
This is the standard for which we must
aim.
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT
Chemical pesticides are a familiar ex-
ample of a technological innovation which
has provided important benefits to man
but which has also produced unintended
and unanticipated harm. New technol-
ogies of integrated pest management must
be developed so that agricultural and
forest productivity can be maintained to-
gether with, rather than at the expense of,
environmental quality. Integrated pest
management means judicious use of selec-
tive chemical pesticides in combination
with nonchemical agents and methods. It
seeks to maximize reliance on such natural
pest population controls as predators, ster-
ilization, and pest diseases. The following
actions are being taken:
-I have directed the Department of
Agriculture, the National Science Foun-
dation, and the Environmental Protection
Agency to launch a large-scale integrated
pest management research and develop-
ment program. This program will be con-
ducted by a number of our leading
universities.
-I have directed the Department of
Agriculture to increase field testing of
promising new methods of pest detection
and control. Also, other existing Federal
pesticide application programs will be ex-
amined for the purpose of incorporating
new pest management techniques.
-I have directed the Departments of
179
