[367] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
work shall find it more profitable to go
on welfare than to go to work. That is
the kind that we should have.
Looking to that future too, we are going
to continue to make progress in the field
that I discussed on national radio last
week, and that means in restoring respect
for law and order and justice. That
means in continuing a massive drive on
dangerous drugs and narcotics we need
your help, and in that respect may I sug-
gest something tonight? As I have gone
through Westchester and now tonight, I
have seen many men in blue, the uniforms
of the police. Give them the backing and
the respect they deserve for the job that
they do.
On my part, I will say to you that any
appointments that I have the opportunity
to make to the courts of this land or to the
law enforcement officials of this land, as
has been the case in the last 4 years, you
can be sure that the age of permissiveness
is gone. We are not going to have room
for more permissive judges.
In addition, and I particularly address
this to those of you who have all of your
future ahead, how fortunate you are to
live in this country, in this place, to be
here. It is not just enough to have peace.
It is not just enough to have a job. You
must have a goal. That means you want
this country to be better. You want it to
progress. Let me tell
tell you that in the field
of health, in the field of education, in the
field of welfare, in the field of environ-
ment, we laid before the Congress in
1970, again in 1971, and early this year,
1972, as Governor Rockefeller will agree,
historic new programs of reform. They
are needed. The Congress has not acted.
But I can assure you, give us your vote on
November 7, and we will get the Congress
to act next year.
When the next 4 years end, as all of
you know, America will celebrate its 200th
birthday. It will be the oldest democracy
in the world. It will have lived longer than
any other one. The question is: What will
we be then? What will we have done and
what will we mean to the world? I be-
lieve that we can be and should be
certainly the strongest nation in the
world. I believe that without question we
will be the richest nation in the world.
But we would still possibly not be a great
people unless we had something else.
Let me take you back 196 years. There
in Independence Hall the thought ran
through my mind, what a wonderful
country it was so many years ago, and
yet it was weak and it was poor, only 3
million people and 13 States. But Amer-
ica had something then. Its people loved
this country. It had an ideal and because
its people so loved this country, that ideal
caught the imagination of the world, and
America, from the time of its beginning,
has been the hope of the world.
I just want to say to you, I have been
to 80 countries. I have been to all of the
50 States. You hear what is wrong with
America. Let me say, you and all the
world can be thankful that it is America
that has the power that we have because
we do not threaten the peace of any other
nation and we will never do so.
Let me say to you, too, I see here a
sign, "Croatia." I was in Zagreb. I saw
on a rainy day 500,000 people cheering--
what?—not me as an individual, because
there in Yugoslavia, in Croatia, they did
not know me as an individual. But to them
the United States meant something more
1020
