[315] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Presidential cuff links, and, since ladies
do not wear cuffs-although I have seen
that some of them now are wearing
them--but since you do not have them, we
have for the ladies a seal in a pin. We have
cuff links and a pin for all of you here
tonight, for those who are here with
your
wives. And for those whose wives could
not come, we will give you one of these
to take home to prove where you were.
[Laughter]
Now, if I could say a word about John
Connally before speaking just briefly with
regard to my appreciation of your support
and your friendship.
I was thinking tonight as I read the
morning news summary of how much this
country and this Administration owes to
John Connally. A year ago, on August 15,
as you know, we initiated a new economic
policy.ยน He was the architect of that
policy. If you picked up your newspapers
today you found that in that year since
August 15 we have seen this economy
take off, take off in the right direction, and
we have seen also inflation go down, in-
flation cut in half, real spendable earn-
ings-and that is what really counts for
80 million American wage earners-
finally going up for the first time signifi-
cantly in 5 years.
We have seen our gross national prod-
uct move up. We have seen income for
all Americans move up. We have seen this
economy strong and vibrant and moving
in the direction of becoming less affected
by inflation than it has ever been in recent
years.
If you want to put it comparatively,
when we look at all the great industrial
nations of the world-and I have seen
them all, visited them all, and know
1
ยน See 1971 volume, Item 264.
them all-whether it is Japan and the
Far East or whether it is any of the coun-
tries of Western Europe, of all the free
nations in the world, the United States
today has the lowest rate of inflation. We
have the most jobs at the highest real
wages. We have more opportunity, more
freedom than in any country in the world,
and we have the fastest rate of growth.
And John Connally deserves a great deal
of the credit for that.
Of course, he was the Secretary of the
Treasury, but as the Secretary of the
Treasury he also sat on the National
Security Council. He spoke of decisions.
He was there. He helped in giving his ad-
vice when those decisions were made.
Some of you may have noted another
piece of good news yesterday. For the first
time since 1965, since the long and very
difficult war in Vietnam began, no Amer-
ican was killed in action in Vietnam. But
what is more important is that that has
been accomplished-the withdrawal of
over half a million Americans and the
reduction of our casualties-it has been
accomplished without staining the honor
of the United States of America.
And over this year-it was more than
a year that John Connally was in the posi-
tion as Secretary of the Treasury and
served on the National Security Council-
we had some hard decisions. I will never
forget, however, his participation in one
of the most difficult ones-May 8 this
year, just before the Soviet summit.
In order to stop the Communist in-
vasion of South Vietnam, it was neces-
sary to do something and do it effectively.
I decided that we had to mine the har-
bors of Haiphong and bomb military in-
stallations in North Vietnam. There was
much disagreement within the Admin-
istration, honest disagreement. Some
894
