Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
good offices was not accepted by India.
Following the outbreak of hostilities, re-
sort to the veto thwarted Security Coun-
cil efforts to prevent the use of military
force by one state to change the internal
structure of another. Although the Gen-
eral Assembly voted overwhelmingly for a
ceasefire and withdrawal, resolutions by
that body are not mandatory and are
therefore effective only to the extent that
they constitute an impressive expression
of world public opinion. Even then, they
have effect only if the conflicting parties
are sensitive to such an expression. India,
in fact, ignored the General Assembly
resolution.
It is in the dispatch of peacekeeping
missions to strife-torn areas (the Middle
East, Kashmir, Cyprus, the former
Congo) that the UN has, in the past, been
able to make major contributions. We are
concerned that the use of this device for
controlling international conflict has be-
come increasingly difficult.
The crux of the problem has been the
insistence of the Soviet Union that the
Security Council should exercise direct,
detailed, and day-to-day control over
peacekeeping missions. Such an arrange-
ment would, of course, subject to the veto
almost any aspect of the organization, op-
eration, or activities of a UN peacekeeping
mission.
We think such an arrangement would
be so cumbersome as to preclude effective
operations. We agree with the Soviet
Union that the Security Council should
maintain overall supervision and furnish
policy guidance for peacekeeping missions.
But we think it essential that the Secretary
General have sufficient authority to han-
dle day-to-day problems effectively as they
arise.
Our earnest efforts to resolve this prob-
lem have, thus far, been fruitless. Over
the course of the next year we will make
a further effort to work out a solution.
The presence of the People's Republic of
China in the Security Council will obvi-
ously affect the chances for success, but it
is too early at this stage to know whether
the Chinese presence will facilitate, or
constitute an additional serious barrier to,
a solution.
Nations have shown little willingness to
seek voluntary adjudication of their dis-
putes. In 1971, for example, the Inter-
national Court had before it only two
cases, and one of those for an advisory
opinion.
Despite the apathy shown at the last
General Assembly on this matter, there
may also be an opportunity to reinvigorate
the role of the International Court of Jus-
tice. In the coming year, the United States
will be alert for disputes to which we are
a party which might be resolved through
the use of the International Court. We
are, for example, prepared to place before
the World Court our dispute with Ecua-
dor over fishing rights. It may thus be
possible, by example, to strengthen this
potentially important aspect of the UN
system's dispute-settlement machinery.
2. Confrontation versus Negotiation.
The effectiveness of the UN continued to
be impaired this year by an excessive resort
to the politics of confrontation by mem-
bers who placed group solidarity above the
need for a realistic consensus. Political
debates continued to be long on rhetoric
and short on concrete accomplishment.
When views are strongly held and
widely shared among members, it is natu-
ral and right that they find expression.
It is true that countries will naturally
attempt to further their national objec-
tives inside the UN as well as out. It is
327
