[122] Apr. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
What we seek is a policy which enables
us to share international responsibilities in
a spirit of international partnership. We
believe that the spirit of partnership is
strongest when partners are self-reliant.
For among nations-as within nations--
the soundest unity is that which respects
diversity, and the strongest cohesion is
that which rejects coercion.
Over the years, the people of Canada
have come to understand these concepts
particularly well. Within your
borders, you have been working to bring a
wide variety of peoples and provinces and
points of view into a great national
union-a union which honors the integrity
of its constituent elements.
It was Prime Minister Laurier who said
of Canada's differing components: "I
want the marble to remain the marble; I
want the granite to remain the granite;
I want the oak to remain the oak." This
has been the Canadian way. As a result,
Canadians have helped to teach the world,
as Governor-General Massey once said,
that the "toleration of differences is the
measure of civilization."
Today, more than ever before, we need
to apply that understanding to the whole
range of world affairs. And to begin with,
we must apply it to our dealings with one
another.
We must realize that we are friends not
because there have been no problems be-
tween us, but because we have trusted one
another enough to be candid about our
problems-and because our candor has
nourished our cooperation.
Last December, your Prime Minister
and I met in Washington, and he asked
me if I thought that the United States
would always want a surplus trade balance
with Canada so that we could always ex-
port capital here. My answer then, and
my answer now, is "no."
As I said to him at that time, we in the
United States saw this same problem from
the other side before World War I. We
then depended on European capital for
our development, and we wanted to free
ourselves from that dependence. And so
we fully understand that Canada is in that
same position today.
Canada is the largest trading partner
of the United States. It is very important
that that be noted in Japan, too.
[Laughter] Our economies have become
highly interdependent. But the fact of
our mutual interdependence and our
mutual desire for independence need not
be inconsistent traits. No self-respecting
nation can or should accept the proposi-
tion that it should always be economically
dependent upon any other nation. And so,
let us recognize once and for all that the
only basis for a sound and healthy rela-
tionship between our two proud peoples is
to find a pattern of economic interaction
which is beneficial to both our countries-
and which respects Canada's right to chart
its own economic course.
We must also build a new spirit of part-
nership within the Western Hemisphere
that we share together.
It has been said that Canada is bounded
"on the north by gold, on the west by the
East, on the east by history-and on the
south by friends." We hope that will al-
ways be the case and we hope it will be
the case not only with respect to the
United States, your immediate neighbor to
the south, but with respect to all your
southern neighbors-and ours--who are
bound by the great forces of geography
and history which are distinctive to the
New World.
538
