[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
public and the Congress regarding the
proper size of the U.S. contribution to the
UN budget cannot be ignored. Capacity
to pay is a valid general guide to assess-
ments, but it is not the only guide. Pru-
dence and political realism dictate that
no one country should be assessed a dis-
proportionate share of the expenses of an
organization approaching universality in
which each member, large or small, has
but one vote. That is particularly true
when experience has shown that the major
contributing countries are unable to exer-
cise effective control over the UN budget.
It is, therefore, the policy of this Ad-
ministration to negotiate with other UN
member states an arrangement by which
the U.S. contribution to the assessed
budget of the United Nations and its
Specialized Agencies will be brought down
to the level of 25 percent. In view of the
UN's current financial difficulties, and of
the requirements of international law, we
must proceed in an orderly way in reach-
ing this goal. It is unrealistic to expect
that it can be done immediately.
This 25 percent limitation should not
and will not apply to the voluntary con-
tributions upon which many of the more
important UN functions are now de-
pendent. Current UN activities financed
by voluntary national contributions in-
clude such activities as narcotics control,
disaster relief, major economic assistance
activities (the United Nations Develop-
ment Program), population control, etc.
All these are activities to which individual
nations contribute, or not, as each sees
fit. The size of each nation's contribution
is determined by its own interest in the
program. In most instances, the U.S. share
of the cost of these programs is larger than
our assessed share of the regular UN
budget. That is a matter of national
choice. The United States will continue
to make generous contributions to activi-
ties of this kind which we have a par-
ticular interest in encouraging.
THE FUNDING OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
In a number of the Specialized Agen-
cies of the United Nations and in the UN
itself a substantial portion of their as-
sessed budgets is being devoted to eco-
nomic or technical assistance projects for
less developed countries. Given the voting
realities in these organizations, this means
simply that the United States and other
major contributors have limited con-
very
trol over the degree of financial support
which they are required to give to such
activities.
While the funding of such assistance
out of assessed contributions may have
been understandable before the UN De-
velopment Program was established, it can
no longer be justified. We believe that the
assessed contribution of the UN Special-
ized Agencies should relate to the admin-
istration of the organizations themselves
and to activities of common benefit. As-
sistance which benefits only some coun-
tries, however desirable, should properly
be funded through voluntary national con-
tributions, thus permitting each country
to determine for itself the amount of its
own national resources which should be
applied to these purposes.
We recognize the hope among some de-
veloping nations that their voting strength
in UN organizations can be used to force
an increase in the economic assistance
which they receive from the developed
countries. The aim is not unworthy.
But the means can easily become
self-defeating.
Economic aid programs depend upon
330
