[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
care about a great deal, as you know, be-
cause it was also reported on CBS just 2
weeks ago, came up sharply in the last
month.
I look for the year 1972 to be a very
good year as far as the farmers are con-
cerned in terms of their income, and also
in terms of parity. And I should point out
that in this instance, here is where we are
going to get one of the benefits of our new
international economic policy. As you
know, Secretary Connally has bargained
very hard. He has been criticized for bar-
gaining too hard, for getting some kind of
trade agreements in return for what the
United States is doing in certain other
fields.
Now, this will not come easy, but in
dealing with the European Community,
and in dealing with Japan and other coun-
tries, we believe that one of the areas
where we can get greater trade opportu-
nities is in the field of agriculture. That, of
course, will mean more farm income. It
will deal more effectively with the parity
problem.
We are not satisfied with that number.
Right today we are trying to do better,
and we will do better.
[16.] MR. RATHER. Can we agree that
broken promises, like a bad story, are
pretty hard to explain, and hurt confi-
dence, whether it is a journalist who
doesn't deliver on his story, or whether
it is a man in political office who is un-
able, for whatever reason, to deliver on a
pledge?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly, that is true,
and the difference, of course, is that the
journalist really doesn't have to retract
his story, as you know.
MR. RATHER. But he should, when he
is wrong.
THE PRESIDENT. A few do, and many
would like to. But it is difficult, because
it destroys your credibility. But let me say
that in this respect, that I think the im-
portant thing for the man sitting in this
office is that he must never be satisfied-
never be satisfied with what he is doing.
As far as I see it, at the present time, it
could perhaps well be said that if you
cooled the country, and we have; if we
can now see the end of our involvement in
Vietnam, and we do; that we should set
these particular goals as being a pretty
good accomplishment, particularly when
we combine it with a new economic policy
which has cut the rate of inflation, and
we believe it will continue to during the
next year.
That has resulted in the first real in-
crease in income due to the fact that with
the inflation rate cut down, and our wages,
of course, going up, we find for the first
time, wage earners who were on a tread-
mill for 4 years, from 1967 to 1970, now,
in the year 1971, for the first time in 5
years, began to make some headway.
When we see all of these things, I think
we could well say that that is a pretty good
record. That isn't enough, though. It isn't
enough.
As I tried to say a moment ago, in the
short time that any man is in this office,
he has got to look down that road. He has
got to look down 25 years from now. I get
back to the real reason for the China move.
The real reason is that despite the fact it
would be easier-it is easier not to raise
difficult problems with our friends, and I
have been criticized very strongly from
people of my own party on the China
move, with our friends in the world com-
munity, the Japanese and others who have
been concerned about it--it would have
been easier simply to continue the line that
we have been taking with regard to China
14
