[338] Oct. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would plan to
try to find ways to be as available for pur-
poses of presenting my position as I can.
For example, on the matter of taxes, how
we avoid a tax increase, I know that Mr.
Ehrlichman has represented my views and
Mr. Shultz has and a number of others. I
have tried to cover it here briefly this
morning.
But at Camp David yesterday, I com-
pleted a speech that I had made on the
subject, and while I cannot get away this
weekend, I am going to deliver it by
nationwide radio-we'll buy the time,
incidentally, nationwide radio-on Sat-
urday night. So for the writing press, you
will have it in time for the Sunday papers.
That is only coincidental, of course.
Q. In light of the fact that because
Congress has not adjourned, you cannot
get out, why can't you accept us as a
surrogate for the people you can't see and
have more press conferences between now
and November 7?
THE PRESIDENT. If you would like to
be surrogates, we have plenty
Q. We can ask the questions the public
is asking.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Potter
[Philip Potter, Baltimore Sun], the press
conference, to me, is not basically a chore.
When I say "a chore," it is always a
challenge, and it is one that requires hard
work. I recall, incidentally, in that con-
nection, speaking of the press conference,
I think I have told you once when we
were riding in the back of the plane-it
was not as good as the one we have got
now, but you remember those days, we
had very few good planes, a DC-3. But
I recall that we were talking about speech-
writing and how I hated to write speeches
and I talked to Foster Dulles about it after
he returned from one of his many trips
abroad and he always made a speech,
and I said, "Don't you hate to write
speeches?"
He said, "Yes, I used to. But," he said,
"now I do it. I consider it necessary to
go through the torture, because the writ-
ing of the speech disciplines my mind, it
makes me think through the issue."
I must say the preparation for the press
conference helps to discipline the mind to
talk about the issues. To come precisely
now to your question, I think that the
format of questions and answers, for mem-
bers of the press, can be useful. Certainly
I will consider the possibility of using that
format. Maybe not just here, maybe in
other places as well. But we won't stack
the questions.
WELFARE REFORM
[11.] Q. Mr. President, now that wel-
fare reform appears to be dead, or at least
going, on Capitol Hill, I am wondering,
if after all this, whether you still support
the principle implicit in H.R. 1 of mini-
mum income assistance for poor families
and whether you would push for that
principle in a second term?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes to
both questions. As far as welfare reform
generally is concerned, the Senate yet has
not completed its actions, its considera-
tion. The problem with the Roth amend-
ment,5 of the test, is that it lacks the
trigger device and it means you would
start all over again.
The one point, however, that I want
5 Senator William V. Roth, Jr., of Delaware
sponsored an amendment to H.R. 1 proposing a
2-year pilot test of the major proposals for wel-
fare reform.
960
