Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 2 [245]
the assistance which could be theirs. I first
described this program in my special mes-
sage to the Congress on older Americans
on March 23, 1972.
The Federal Government has increased
significantly the resources available an-
nually from food stamp and food distribu-
tion programs. Outlays for food stamps
alone have increased from $248 million 4
years ago to $1.9 billion in fiscal year
1972-more than an eightfold increase.
Virtually every county in the Nation now
offers one program or the other. Some
15 million persons now receive assistance
from Federal family food programs. These
efforts can do much to help stretch the
fixed incomes of the elderly.
Unfortunately, however, many older
persons who are eligible for assistance are
not enrolled in these programs. Tens of
thousands, perhaps hundreds of thou-
sands, of older persons are unaware of
these and other resources, private and
public, which could do so much to im-
prove the quality of their lives.
It is the objective of Project FIND to
245 Letter Congratulating the
on its 25th Anniversary.
Dear Professor Billington:
As the Board of Foreign Scholarships
marks the close of its 25th year, I congrat-
ulate you and your fellow Board members,
past and present, for your diligence and
resourcefulness in promoting scholarly ex-
changes between the United States and
other countries of the world.
The educational exchange program has
a proud record of achievement in its first
quarter century. In all, more than 100,000
students, teachers and scholars from 110
discover these older persons—and to build
a bridge between them and the society
which stands ready to help them in time
of need. As a part of this effort, a leaflet
describing these programs and how to ap-
ply for them will be available to all persons
receiving social security checks. For those
who feel they need additional help in es-
tablishing their eligibility, personal con-
tacts will be made by tens of thousands
of volunteers recruited and trained by the
American Red Cross.
Project FIND is a cooperative effort
on the part of the public and private sec-
tors to replace despair with hope in the
lives of many older persons. It represents
one more way in which all our people can
honor a generation of Americans which
has given so much to all of us.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on
Project FIND by Arthur S. Flemming, Special
Consultant to the President on Aging and
Cochairman of Project FIND, and Vicki L.
Keller, Staff Assistant to the President.
Mrs. Nixon will serve as Cochairman with
Dr. Flemming.
Board of Foreign Scholarships
August 2, 1972
countries have participated in this pro-
gram, including over 36,000 Americans.
Its contribution to mutual understand-
ing, and ultimately to world peace, is
incalculable.
Looking ahead, I would like to com-
mend the Board for the forward-looking
initiatives in its program for the Seventies
and especially for the Lincoln Lecture-
ships, which are being inaugurated today.
Please convey my deep appreciation to
the four distinguished scholars who will
759
