[245] Aug. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
launch this significant new lecture series-
Professors Franklin, Samuelson and
Townes, and Mr. Updike. The Lincoln
Lectureships typify this country's willing-
ness to share with the rest of the world
the finest in American scholarship and
intellectual achievement. And I am
pleased to know that eminent foreign lec-
turers, in turn, will give Americans the
benefit of their talents and thought.
I also take this opportunity to commend
the wisdom and foresight of the exchange
program's many Congressional founders
and supporters. Their backing, over the
years, has enabled this program to play
an increasingly significant role in our rela-
tions with other countries and cultures.
The Board and the program it super-
vises have my very best wishes for every
success in meeting the new challenges of
the next quarter century.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[James H. Billington, D. Phil., Professor of His-
tory, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs, Princeton University,
Princeton, N.J. 08540]
NOTE: The letter was dated August 1, 1972,
and released August 2.
Dr. Billington was Chairman of the Board of
Foreign Scholarships.
The four scholars chosen to lecture abroad
in the Lincoln Lectureships series were John
Hope Franklin, professor of history, University
of Chicago; Paul A. Samuelson, Nobel prize-
winning professor of economics, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology; Charles H. Townes,
Nobel prize-winning professor of physics, Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley; and John H.
Updike, novelist and poet, Ipswich, Mass.
246 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Advisory Council on Extension and
Continuing Education.
To the Congress of the United States:
The Sixth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Advisory Council on Extension and
Continuing Education is submitted here-
with. The Council is authorized by Public
Law 89-329.
I congratulate the Council on its com-
prehensive study of the Federal role in
community service, extension and con-
tinuing education for adults through the
resources of colleges and universities. The
study points up the need for increased
coordination of the support the Federal
government lends to these efforts.
Several of the Council's proposals are
receiving thorough consideration by the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, including those relating to im-
proved coordination of Federal assistance
August 3, 1972
to extension, community service, and con-
tinuing education programs.
The Council also recommends that ad-
ditional funds be provided for the pro-
gram authorized by Title I of the Higher
Education Act of 1965. I continue to hold
as a basic principle that greater emphasis
should be placed on broad funding ap-
proaches for Federal grant-in-aid pro-
grams, and that narrow categorical grant
programs such as Title I should be relied
on less as a means of channeling Federal
funds to individual institutions.
The White House,
RICHARD NIXON
August 3, 1972.
NOTE: The 112-page report is entitled "A Ques-
tion of Stewardship: A Study of the Federal
Role in Higher Continuing Education."
760
