[397] Nov. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
am confident I can keep. I have prom-
ised that I will do all in my power to avoid
the need for new taxes. I am not going to
promise anything else in the way of new
programs that would violate that pledge.
In the third place, my own philosophy
of government is not one that looks to new
Federal dollars-your dollars-as the
solution of every social problem.
I have often said that America became
great not because of what government did
for people, but because of what people
did for themselves. I believe government
should free the energies of people to build
for themselves and their communities. It
should open opportunities, provide incen-
tives, encourage initiative-not stifle ini-
tiative by trying to direct everything from
Washington.
This does not mean that the Federal
Government will abdicate its responsibil-
ities where only it can solve a problem.
It does mean that after 40 years of un-
precedented expansion of the Federal
Government, the time has come to redress
the balance-to shift more people and
more responsibility and power back to
the States and localities and, most im-
portant, to the people, all across America.
In the past 40 years, the size of the
Federal budget has grown from $4.6 bil-
lion to $250 billion. In that same period,
the number of civilian employees of the
Federal Government has increased from
600,000 to 2,800,000. And in just the past
10 years, the number of Federal grant-
in-aid programs has increased from 160
to more than 1,000.
If this kind of growth were projected
indefinitely into the future, the result
would be catastrophic. We would have
an America topheavy with bureaucratic
meddling, weighted down by big govern-
ment, suffocated by taxes, robbed of its
soul.
We must not and we will not let this
happen to America. That is why I oppose
the unrestrained growth of big govern-
ment in Washington. That is why one of
my first priorities in the next 4 years will
be to encourage a rebirth and renewal of
State and local government. That is why
I believe in giving the people in every
community a greater say in those decisions
that most directly affect the course of
their daily lives.
Now, there will be those who will call
this negative, who call it a retreat from
Federal responsibilities.
I call it affirmative-an affirmation of
faith in the people, faith in the individual,
faith in each person's ability to choose
wisely for himself and for his community.
I call it an affirmation of faith in those
principles that made America great, that
tamed a continent, that transformed a
wilderness into the greatest and strongest
and freest nation in the world.
We have not changed. The American
people have not grown weak. What has
grown weak is government's faith in peo-
ple. I am determined to see that faith
restored.
I am also determined to see another
kind of faith restored and strengthened in
America. I speak of the religious faith,
the moral and spiritual values that have
been so basically a part of our American
experience. Man does not live for him-
self alone, and the strength of our char-
acter, the strength of our faith, and the
strength of our ideals-these have been
the strength of America.
When I think of what America means,
I think of all the hope that lies in a vast
continent of great cities and small
1088
