[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
tente instead of the substance then the
coming decade will bring new dangers in-
stead of new triumphs.
With our partners we face specific tasks,
building on what we have achieved:
-To face squarely the economic issues
between a 10-nation European Commu-
nity and the United States;
-To carry through, vigorously and co-
operatively, the reform of the interna-
tional monetary and trading system;
-To intensify our efforts in NATO's
Committee on the Challenges of Modern
Society and bring other nations into a
joint attack on the environmental and so-
cial problems of the modern world;
-To finish the job of making the force
improvements and equitable sharing ar-
rangements that will sustain our common
defense;
-To draw upon our unity and security
to engage the East in the building of a
broader structure of reconciliation and
peace in all of Europe.
JAPAN
"My Administration shares with the
Government of Japan the conviction that
our relationship is vital to the kind of
world we both want. We are determined
to act accordingly. But the future will re-
quire adjustments in the U.S.-Japanese
relationship, and the issues involved are
too important and their solutions too com-
plicated to be viewed with any complac-
ency on either side."
U.S. Foreign Policy for the 1970's
Report to the Congress
February 25, 1971
Japan is our most important ally in
Asia. It is our second greatest trading
partner. It is an essential participant, if a
stable world peace is to be built. Our se-
curity, our prosperity, and our global pol-
icies are therefore intimately and inex-
tricably linked to the U.S.-Japanese rela-
tionship. The well-being of both countries
requires cooperation and a shared com-
mitment to the same fundamental goals.
Last year was critical for our relation-
ship. It was a year both of stress and of
progress. It brought a sharp awareness of
the divergence of some of our interests-
and in its wake, a better understanding of
the need for the mature and equitable
management of those divergences.
Our China and economic initiatives
were a shock to the U.S.-Japanese rela-
tionship. Both grew out of the new reali-
ties of a changed world situation. For pre-
cisely that reason, they had an unsettling
effect upon Japan, which had become ac-
customed to a U.S.-Japanese relationship
rooted in the postwar period and based on
a bipolar concept of world power. That
relationship, however, had already been
overtaken by time and Japan's phenom-
enal economic growth. The shocks of
1971, therefore, only accelerated an evolu-
tion in U.S.-Japanese relations that was
any event, overdue, unavoidable, and in
the long run, desirable.
in
The U.S.-Japanese relationship is in the
process of inevitable change, not because
the alliance of the past decades has failed,
but because it has succeeded.
-Asian stability was bolstered by our
pledge to work together in the common
defense. Our defense postures together
provided the fabric of Japan's security,
while our forward basing in the area con-
tributed to regional defense.
--Asian development was symbolized
by Japan's economic resurgence and en-
couraged by our fruitful economic links.
232
