Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
has been the basis of our prosperity for so
many years.
Our goals will be to:
-Begin discussions with other nations
to reform the international mone-
tary system so that it can better cope
with the needs of the international
community in the future.
-Work in cooperation with our major
trading partners to set the stage for
major international negotiations
leading to a mutual reduction in
trade barriers.
Continue our efforts to hold down
inflation, to increase the productivity
of our domestic economy and export
sector, and to strengthen our adjust-
ment assistance effort.
-Work toward an improved foreign
assistance program which will merit
increased domestic support and will
enable us to adequately contribute,
along with other industrialized na-
tions, to an international assistance
effort which will ensure that the de-
velopment progress made in the
1950's and 1960's can continue in this
decade.
-Address, and develop effective meth-
ods of dealing with, potential issues
such as the role of the multinational
corporation, foreign investment pol-
icy, and the effects of environmental
control on international trade and
investment patterns.
This is a challenging agenda. Our abil-
ity to deal effectively with the issues it
poses will have a profound bearing on our
future prosperity. It will play a major
role in determining the directions of the
world economy and the prospects for
political cooperation in this decade.
PART III: AREAS OF CONTINUING
TRANSITION
-East Asia
-Latin America
-Africa
EAST ASIA
"... the new strength in Asia is a fact,
and it requires a different and more re-
strained American approach, designed to
encourage and sustain Asian regionalism,
Asian self-reliance, and Asian initiatives.
For those characteristics are essential to
the construction of a stable international
order in the region."
U.S. Foreign Policy for the 1970's
A Report to the Congress
February 25, 1971
Our substantial interests and our deep
historic involvement in Asia assure that
the U.S. will continue to be a Pacific
power. But there is an evident need for a
new form of American participation in
Asian affairs that reflects the growing
national vigor and self-confidence of our
friends. It is no longer either feasible or
desirable that American resources, plans,
and forces be considered the principal
means of guaranteeing Asian security and
progress. It is essential that the currents of
change in Asia be channeled in a positive
direction. It is certain that each of the
major powers concerned with Asia-the
U.S., the USSR, Japan, and the People's
Republic of China-will play a role in
shaping a new structure of regional stabil-
ity. I am convinced that an active
American contribution will hasten that
achievement.
For the past three years, this Adminis-
253
