[81] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
erate fully with the Secretary of State to
meet the above objectives in the most ex-
peditious manner and to the maximum
extent consistent with the requirements of
national security.
RICHARD NIXON
82 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the United States-Japan Cooperative Medical Science
Program. March 9, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress
the Fifth Annual Report of the United
States-Japan Cooperative Medical Sci-
ence Program.
This joint research effort in the medi-
cal sciences, undertaken in 1965 follow-
ing a meeting between the Prime Minister
of Japan and the President of the United
States, continues its sharp focus upon
widespread diseases of great importance
in Asian nations: cholera, leprosy, mal-
nutrition, the parasitic diseases filariasis
and schistosomiasis, tuberculosis and cer-
tain viral diseases.
During 1971 several reports were pub-
lished marking this program's first 5 years
of research progress. Following careful
planning and a review of objectives, it has
been decided to expand the program scope
to include research concerned with pol-
lutant induced cancer, birth defects and
related abnormalities.
This effort remains directed primarily
toward diseases in Asia, however, the re-
search results are clearly relevant to a
much broader human spectrum. I am par-
ticularly heartened by the mutuality of
this joint activity which has been under-
taken so successfully by biomedical scien-
tists in Japan and the United States. We
can find few satisfactions greater than
working effectively together with other
nations for the ultimate benefit of all
mankind.
The White House,
March 9, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 12-page report is entitled "Fifth
Annual Report to Congress: United States-
Japan Cooperative Medical Science Program."
83 Statement About Air Transportation Safety.
March 9, 1972
THREE times in the past 48 hours, trag-
edies that could have taken hundreds of
lives have been narrowly averted. An
explosive device was found aboard a pas-
senger aircraft at New York's Kennedy
Airport Tuesday night and defused only
minutes before it was due to explode.
Early yesterday morning, a bomb shat-
tered a jetliner on the ground at Las
Vegas. Fortunately, no one was aboard;
had the plane been in flight, it would
surely have been lost with all aboard.
Then, later yesterday, a third bomb was
discovered on another jet at Seattle.
Eighteen months ago, I ordered com-
prehensive, forceful action to halt the
wave of criminal incidents on U.S. flag
aircraft. The sky marshal and passenger
408
