Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 17-28 [63A]
63A Chronology of Visit to the People's Republic of
China. February 17-28, 1972
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following chronology of events was prepared from White House
announcements and outlines public activities of the President and Mrs. Nixon during
their visit to the People's Republic of China.
Thursday, February 17
After a departure ceremony on the South
Lawn of the White House, the President and
Mrs. Nixon went by helicopter to Andrews Air
Force Base for the flight to Hawaii, en route to
the People's Republic of China.
Arriving at Kaneohe Marine Corps Air Sta-
tion, Oahu, Hawaii, the President and Mrs.
Nixon motored to the residence of the Com-
manding General, First Marine Brigade, where
they remained until Saturday afternoon, Feb-
ruary 19, reading and preparing for the China
visit.
Saturday, February 19-Sunday, February 20
The President and Mrs. Nixon boarded the
Spirit of '76 at Kaneohe Marine Corps Air Sta-
tion for the 8-hour flight to Guam. Crossing
the International Date Line en route, they ar-
rived at Guam International Airport shortly
after 5 p.m. on Sunday, February 20, Guam
time. They spent the night at Nimitz Hill, the
residence of the Commander, Naval Forces,
Marianas.
Monday, February 21
At 7 a.m., Guam time, the President and Mrs.
Nixon left Guam International Airport for
Shanghai, their first stop in the People's Re-
public of China. They arrived, after a 4-hour
flight, at Hung Chiao (Rainbow Bridge) Air-
port, Shanghai, at 9 a.m., China time, where
they were greeted by officials of the People's
Republic, headed by Vice Minister of Foreign
Affairs Ch'iao Kuan-hua. After refreshments
and a tour of the terminal, the Presidential
party again boarded the Spirit of '76, accom-
panied by Vice Minister Ch'iao, Chang Wen-
chin and Wang Hai-jung of the Foreign Minis-
try, a Chinese navigator, radio operator, and
three interpreters, for the final leg of the flight
to Peking.
At about 11:30 a.m., China time, the party
arrived at Capital Airport near Peking. Premier
Chou En-lai greeted the President and mem-
bers of his party, stood with the President for
the playing of the national anthems of the two
countries, and accompanied the President in a
review of the troops.
The Premier then accompanied the Presi-
dent in a motorcade to Peking, to Taio Yu Tai
(Angling Terrace), the guest house where the
President and Mrs. Nixon would stay during
their visit.
In the afternoon, the President met for an
hour with Chairman Mao Tse-tung at the
Chairman's residence and for an hour with
Premier Chou and other officials in plenary
session at the Great Hall of the People.
The President and Mrs. Nixon were guests
of Premier Chou at a banquet in the Great
Hall of the People in the evening.
Tuesday, February 22
After a morning of staff meetings and at-
tention to other White House business, the
President met for 4 hours with Premier Chou
in the Great Hall.
The First Lady visited the kitchen of the
Peking Hotel, where she toured food prepara-
tion and cooking areas, and talked with cooks
and helpers. She was accompanied by Mme.
Lin Chia-mei, wife of Vice Premier Li Hsien-
nien, Mme. Chi P'eng-fei, wife of the Minister
of Foreign Affairs, and Sun Hsin-mang, head of
the revolutionary committee of the hotel. Dur-
ing the tour, Mrs. Nixon told reporters of plans
for the People's Republic to present to the peo-
ple of America two giant pandas, in apprecia-
tion for the two musk oxen which were to be
87-234-74- -27
365
