Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
there were many signs that the enemy was
preparing for major offensives, especially
in the northern half of South Vietnam. As
U.S. withdrawals cut our presence down
to a minimum level, Hanoi would still
like to discredit the record of these past
three years and shake the widespread con-
fidence that the South Vietnamese can
defend themselves.
Our friends are bound to suffer some
isolated setbacks. But these should not
distort the overall picture of growing self-
sufficiency and security. We and the South
Vietnamese are both confident of their
ability to handle the North Vietnamese
challenge.
By the close of 1971 the U.S. ground
combat role was effectively completed.
The year saw a constant advance toward
the goal I discussed on April 7:
"As you can see from the progress we
have made to date and by this announce-
ment tonight, the American involvement
in Vietnam is coming to an end. The day
the South Vietnamese can take over their
own defense is in sight. Our goal is a total
American withdrawal from Vietnam. We
can and will reach that goal through our
program of Vietnamization if necessary."
The Situation in the Countryside
No aspect of the conflict, and no meas-
ure of Vietnamization, is more important
than the relentless, if unpublicized, strug-
gle for the South Vietnamese living in the
countryside, commonly called pacification.
Pacification involves the situation in
rural areas in all its dimensions-physical
security, popular allegiance, and the
military, administrative, and political
effectiveness of both sides. A successful
pacification effort permits the villager to
return to his land and improve his farm,
confident that he will be able to harvest
and market his crops in security.
During the past year, the South Viet-
namese faced a crucial challenge: to keep
up the momentum of pacification, while
simultaneously taking over an increasing
share of combat responsibilities as U.S.
and other allied forces rapidly withdrew.
In most areas, this challenge was met
successfully.
To measure progress in the countryside
we developed in 1969 complex criteria
which weigh various factors indicative of
control. The basic criterion, which we
measure rigidly, is whether a hamlet has
adequate defense and a fully functioning
government official resident both day and
night. Throughout this Administration we
have also sent teams from Washington to
South Vietnam to make candid on-the-
scene assessments and verify reports from
the field.
In mid-1969, our indicator showed
roughly 40 percent of the rural population
under South Vietnamese control, 50 per-
cent contested, and 10 percent under the
control of the other side. By the end of
1970 these percentages were respectively
65, 30, and 5.
We did not expect pacification to pro-
gress at the same rate in 1971. The re-
maining contested areas are those in which
the other side is most firmly rooted, where
the Communist infrastructure has been
established for as long as two decades, and
where enemy bases and infiltration routes
are closest to the rural population. Never-
theless, in 1971 the South Vietnamese
Government increased its control over the
rural population from 65 percent to 73
percent. At year's end the Government's
control was under 60 percent in only seven
of the 44 provinces, compared with 15
283
