Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [401]
Americans to go as high as their abilities
will take them without being limited in
any respect.
We can have also a new period in this
country of respect for the rights of others,
of civility in our dealings with others, of
decency, of carrying on our campaigns
in a way in which we present the issues,
in which we listen to what somebody else
has to say, and then speak what we have
to say.
Let me say finally to this great crowd
in Chicago, it has been very proud, in
terms of an experience for me, my wife,
my family, to live in that great house that
you saw on television last night. It has
been a very proud experience to travel to
all the 50 States over these last 4 years.
It has been a very proud experience to
travel to 22 countries abroad, including
four capitals that no President has ever
been to before-to Peking, to Moscow, to
Bucharest, to Warsaw. But I want you to
know, in terms of that pride, what is even
greater is the pride that I would feel if
we can move forward on the beginning
that we have made.
We are proud of our record. But we
have so much more to do. We want to
build a real peace. We want to build that
real prosperity, and we need your support.
Let me say finally in that respect, I have
noted that some have said-well, they
look at the polls and they wonder really
if their vote really matters.
You bet it does. First, the only poll that
401
counts is the one that they do on Novem-
ber 7. Second, this is a great decision for
the American people. It is the clearest
choice this country has had in this
century.
I say to the people of Illinois, Demo-
crats, independents, Republicans alike,
don't sit on the sidelines, don't have this
great choice made by simply a minority
that manage or bother to go out to vote.
Everybody vote, and as far as I am con-
cerned, let me tell you this-and this has
always been my attitude in politics-I
have won some elections, I have lost some.
When I have won them, I have tried to
do the best I could. When I have lost
them, I have pledged my support to this
country and I will continue to do so in all
the years ahead.
The important thing for you: Let us
make this vote on November 7 a vote of a
majority of the American people, and let
the new majority in America speak out—
speak out for peace with honor, speak out
for a strong United States, speak out for
prosperity without war, speak out for
progress that means not bigger govern-
ment in Washington, but better govern-
ment, and government that belongs to
you.
Let's make these next 4 years the best
4 years in America's history.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:49 p.m. at
a rally at O'Hare Field. He spoke without re-
ferring to notes.
Campaign Statement in Oklahoma.
November 3, 1972
WHETHER the product is oil, wheat,
aerospace hardware, or football players,
Oklahoma plays a vigorous role in keep-
ing America moving forward.
Yesterday, Agriculture Secretary Earl
Butz announced that we can now expect
1099
