[271] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
them, let's give a hand to those wonderful
bands that have entertained us here to-
night. Haven't they been great? We had
one group, it was a black group, a singing
and dancing group that came from Los
Angeles. They made a big hit. After the
entertainment, which was in the famous
East Room in the White House, I walked
up to the stage and I shook hands with
the leader of the band. I said, "Thank you
very much. We are honored to have you
in the White House." He got up to the
microphone and he said that he and his
group were honored to play in the White
House.
Then he went on to say, "You know,
I never thought it would happen." He
said, "It's a long way from Watts to the
White House." You know, he was right.
But then I got up and I said, "You know
you are right. It is a long way from Watts
to the White House, but it is also a long
way from Whittier to the White House."
I just want to say, let's build a country
in which our young people can grow up
in peace. Let's build a country in which
any young person, a boy or a girl, if he is
an American, an American citizen, what-
ever his background, has a chance to go
to the top. That is what America is all
about. The American dream can never
come true unless it has a possibility to
come true in the lives of anyone who is an
American citizen. That is what we believe
in. That is what we want you to vote for.
That is what that "Four More Years" is
all about.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:17 p.m. in
front of the Western White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
272 Memorandums About the Combined Federal
Campaign. August 25,
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
I am very pleased to announce that
Honorable James D. Hodgson, Secretary
of Labor, has agreed to serve as Chairman
of the Combined Federal Campaign for
the National Capital Area this fall.
This campaign, to begin in the fall, will
combine into one single drive the cam-
paigns of the United Givers Fund, the
American Red Cross, the National Health
Agencies, and the International Service
Agencies. In this one drive we will be
seeking to do our share to meet the needs
of more than 150 local, national, and in-
ternational health, welfare, and social
service agencies.
Because these organizations perform a
1972
vital function in our society, they need our
support. Each of us wants to do as much
as possible to help a neighbor or a friend
who has a special need. While alone we
can do little, together we can do much.
The Combined Federal Campaign
offers us this opportunity to work to-
gether to help persons in our community,
in our nation and in overseas lands. We
can help by making only this one gift-
by wholly voluntary payroll deduction if
preferred-and by making it only this one
time in the year. I am sure that Secretary
Hodgson will have your wholehearted
support and the support of those who work
in your departments and agencies. And I
am certain you will commend the good
purposes of their campaign and its pay-
820
