[302] Sept. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
An advance text of his remarks was released on
the same day.
The 3-day Conference, convened by Secre-
tary of State William P. Rogers, Chairman,
Cabinet Committee on International Narcotics
Control, was attended by some 60 senior U.S.
narcotics control officials from U.S. embassies
abroad, and Federal officials in Washington,
D.C., with responsibility for narcotics control.
303 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report on the Foreign Assistance Program.
September 19, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The fiscal 1971 Annual Report on the
Foreign Assistance Program, which I
transmit herewith, contains much hopeful
news.
-The continuing success of the Green
Revolution was evident in record
crops of food grains, moving such
countries as India, Pakistan, Turkey,
and Indonesia steadily closer to a
goal of self-sufficiency in basic food-
stuffs and giving hope to others that
this goal, considered inconceivable
a few short years ago, can now be
attained.
-Modern technologies in education
are being explored with a view to-
ward reducing the heavy cost of edu-
cation, expanding its availability and
improving its quality.
-Pilot projects for improving the
delivery of health services in remote
rural areas offer great promise.
-Support provided by the Agency
for International Development for
population-related efforts rose to a
record $95.9 million, as developing
countries, recognizing the heavy bur-
den of high population growth rates,
intensified their programs to achieve
effective family planning.
-Developing nations showed increas-
ing awareness of the environmental
impact of proposed projects in their
national planning process.
During the past fiscal year, the United
States Government provided $3.4 billion
in economic assistance to the less de-
veloped world. This aid took a variety of
forms-technical assistance, development
loans, financial grants, concessional sales
of agricultural products, emergency relief,
and contributions to international lending
institutions as well as to the United Na-
tions Development Program, and other
UN-related activities. Just over half the
total $1.9 billion-was authorized by
the Foreign Assistance Act and admin-
istered by the Agency for International
Development. This report is essentially
concerned with these programs.
Viewed in the perspective of the past
decade, the less developed nations have
made excellent progress. Their annual
rate of economic expansion-averaging
about 5.6 percent-exceeded even the five
percent target projected by the United
Nations for the Decade of Development
that ended in 1970, reaching a level of
more than six percent per year in the last
years of the decade. This pace is more
rapid than the growth rate of the United
876
