Appendix E
Announcing Further Decisions on Personnel
for the Second Term
December 19, 1972
The President has asked me to make several
announcements today regarding further changes
on the White House Staff for the second term,
and also relating to the Administration. As I
noted yesterday, I believe you will see in most
of these a continuation of the pattern that
many staff members are leaving to take other
roles in the Government, and some are return-
ing to private life.
Alexander P. Butterfield, Deputy Assistant
to the President, will be named Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration. In that
post, he will succeed John Shaffer, who is re-
turning to private life.
President Nixon has expressed to Alex Butter-
field his deepest appreciation and highest re-
gard for the service he rendered during the
Administration. The President is confident that
the high quality of service will be continued
by Mr. Butterfield at the FAA.
Alex Butterfield, as Deputy Assistant to the
President, has worked extremely close to the
President on a day-to-day basis in the areas
of appointments and other Presidential activi-
ties. Prior to joining the White House Staff,
Alex Butterfield spent 20 years in the Air Force
as a command pilot. We will be giving you a
biography which spells out other details of
Alex's background.
Now that I have been talking about a pat-
tern, I have an announcement that departs
from it and that is in the announcement of a
new member of the White House Staff.
President Nixon is announcing today the
appointment of William Baroody, Jr., to be
Special Assistant to the President. William
Baroody will succeed Chuck Colson, who was
a Special Counsel to the President, and whom
we previously announced would return to
private life after assisting during the transition.
Bill Baroody will take over Chuck Colson's re-
sponsibility for liaison with outside groups and
special groups in the country.
Bill Baroody now is Assistant to Secretary
of Defense Laird and served on Mel Laird's
Congressional staff when the Secretary was
a Member of the House of Representatives.
Q. Does the FAA post require Senate confir-
mation?
MR. ZIEGLER. Yes, it does.
President Nixon today is also announcing
that he will nominate Frank Carlucci to be
Under Secretary of the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare in the new Adminis-
tration. Frank will succeed John G. Veneman,
who has requested that his resignation be ac-
cepted by the President and has expressed a
preference to return to private life.
The President has long been aware of Jack
Veneman's desire at the end of this term to re-
turn to California and return to private life.
In accepting Mr. Veneman's resignation, on
Mr. Veneman's request, the President, of
course, expresses regret that Mr. Veneman
will be leaving, and praised his service as a
deeply knowledgeable and very articulate
spokesman for the Administration on the com-
plex issues which HEW administers.
Frank Carlucci now is Deputy Director of
the Office of Management and Budget. He
formerly served as Director of the Office of
Economic Opportunity. In selecting him for his
new position at HEW, the President wanted a
high caliber of leadership which Mr. Carlucci
displayed in OMB, in OEO, and in such critical
special assignments as coordinating the Pennsyl-
vania flood relief efforts.
We have several other announcements to
make this morning.
The President is announcing today, with a
deep sense of personal regret, that he accepts
the resignation of Harold Finger, Assistant
Secretary for Research and Technology at the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment. Harold Finger was appointed in April
of 1969 and has indicated to the President that
he had a desire to return to private life at this
time. President Nixon commends his excellent
service in the Department and expresses grati-
tude for his contribution and support.
Yesterday we referred to other changes that
were being made in the structure of the White
House Staff. Some members of the White
House Staff, as I pointed out at that time, are
leaving the White House to assume other re-
sponsibilities in the Government, some are re-
E-21
