[214] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Presidency will not be announced until
before the Republican Convention, in
good time for them to make their own
decision.
JOHN CONNALLY'S ROLE
[8.] Mr. Horner [Garnett D. Horner,
Washington Evening Star].
Q. Mr. President, what role do you fore-
see in the future months after he returns
from his present trip and after the elec-
tion, for John Connally?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Horner, first the
reports that we have had on Mr. Con-
nally's trip have been excellent. I think
that his trip to Latin America-and inci-
dentally also the trip that Dr. Arthur
Burns has made to Latin America-came
at a good time and allowed the Latin
American heads of state to express their
views just as vigorously as did Mr. Eche-
verría 6 when he was here in this country.
That is what we want, candid, vigorous
talk between the heads of state in the
American hemisphere.
Also, the discussions he is presently hav-
ing in Australia, in New Zealand, in
Southeast Asia, India, Pakistan, and so
forth, and later in Iran, I know will be
helpful. When he returns he will not
undertake a permanent Government as-
signment, but he has agreed to under-
take special Government assignments at
that time. I have one in mind, a very im-
portant one, but I cannot announce it at
this time. I will announce it when he re-
turns and when he reports to me in San
Clemente.
President Luis Echeverría Alvarez of Mex-
ico paid a state visit to the United States on
June 15 and 16, 1972. See Items 200, 201, and
203.
PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
[9.] Ms. Cornell. [Laughter]
HELEN THOMAS (Mrs. Douglas B. Cor-
nell, United Press International). Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. I said Ms.
Q. Thank you.
Can you tell us what took you back to
the Paris peace table and would you sup-
port a coalition government, formation of
a coalition government, or would you
discuss it in Paris?
THE PRESIDENT. It would not be use-
ful to indicate the discussions that took
place in various places with regard to re-
turning to the Paris peace table.
Let it suffice to say that both sides con-
sidered it in their interests to return to the
Paris peace table. We would not have re-
turned unless we thought there was a
chance for more serious discussions and
more constructive discussions than we
have had in the past, although I must be
quite candid and say that we have been
disappointed in the past with regard to
these discussions. We have had 149 ple-
nary sessions and no significant results. I
do not believe it would be particularly
helpful, in a news conference, to negotiate
with regard to what we are going to talk
about at the conference. That is a matter
that we will negotiate with the enemy.
As far as a coalition government is con-
cerned, no. We will not negotiate with the
enemy for accomplishing what they can-
not accomplish themselves and that is to
impose against their will on the people
of South Vietnam a coalition government
with the Communists.
However, we will be constructive, we
will be forthcoming. An internationally
supervised cease-fire, a total withdrawal
710
