[20] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
20
Statement Urging the Congress To Enact a Ceiling on
Government Spending. January 24, 1972
THE BUDGET I send to the Congress
requires spending more than we will col-
lect in taxes.
It will be a job-creating budget and a
noninflationary budget only if spending
is limited to the amount the tax system
would produce if the economy were op-
erating at full employment.
Those who increase spending beyond
that amount will be responsible for caus-
ing more inflation.
It is vital that the Executive and the
Congress act together to stop raids on the
Treasury which would trigger another in-
flationary spiral.
In submitting this budget I am there-
fore urging the Congress, before it con-
siders any appropriations bills, to enact a
rigid ceiling on outlays that will prevent
the Government spending more than the
$246 billion requested in this budget. That
ceiling on expenditures should apply
equally to the Congress and to the execu-
tive branch.
We urgently need an absolute limit on
Government spending. Only thus can we
end inflation, stabilize the economy, and
provide employment and real prosperity
for all.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
George P. Shultz, Director, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, on the President's statement.
21
Address to the Nation Making Public a Plan for
Peace in Vietnam. January 25, 1972
Good evening:
I have asked for this television time
tonight to make public a plan for peace
that can end the war in Vietnam.
The offer that I shall now present, on
behalf of the Government of the United
States and the Government of South Viet-
nam, with the full knowledge and
approval of President Thieu, is both
generous and far-reaching.
It is a plan to end the war now; it in-
cludes an offer to withdraw all American
forces within 6 months of an agreement;
its acceptance would mean the speedy re-
turn of all the prisoners of war to their
homes.
Three years ago when I took office,
there were 550,000 Americans in Viet-
nam; the number killed in action was run-
ning as high as 300 a week; there were no
plans to bring any Americans home, and
the only thing that had been settled in
Paris was the shape of the conference
table.
I immediately moved to fulfill a pledge
I had made to the American people: to
bring about a peace that could last, not
only for the United States, but for the
long-suffering people of Southeast Asia.
There were two honorable paths open
to us.
The path of negotiation was, and is, the
path we prefer. But it takes two to nego-
tiate; there had to be another way in case
the other side refused to negotiate.
That path we called Vietnamization.
What it meant was training and equipping
the South Vietnamese to defend them-
100
