[317] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
I simply want you to know that I am
grateful for the support that I have had
from you, from 80 million
from 80 million wage earners
in this country, who saw that and saw it
more clearly than some people in business,
some people in the professions, some peo-
ple in the media, some people in the uni-
versities-not all, but some. You saw it
because you helped to build America. You
believed deeply in America and you know
that strength in the hand of America is
not a bad thing. It is a good thing. It is a
necessary thing.
The other point I want to make with
regard to what I would call "Young Labor
for America" is this: You want good jobs,
good jobs for yourselves and better jobs
for your children. You want good jobs
and opportunity for yourselves, a chance
to go up as far as your talents will take
you, an opportunity for everybody in this
country, whatever his background, what-
ever his color, whatever his religion, what-
ever his national origin. We all want that.
You also want your country to be one
that can be generous, generous to those
who can't help themselves, generous to
the poor, generous to the old, generous to
others who, because of some physical dis-
ability, cannot work as you are able to
work, and let me say sometimes we are
bored with our jobs and sometimes I am
sure we think, gee, why do I have to work.
Just let me say, to be able to work, to be
able to take care of yourself, the dignity
of work is something we all ought to ap-
preciate in this country of ours. And every
job is a good job if it puts bread on the
table and provides housing and clothing
for a man's children, or for a woman's,
for that matter. We all must remember
that this is something that we must respect.
Some of us do one thing, some do an-
other, but all help to build America. And
it is because you represent that strength
that has built America from the time of
its beginning that you are here, I believe,
today.
We believe in helping those who can't
help themselves. But just let me make one
thing very, very clear. It seems to me that
a man or a woman should work for what
he gets and get what he works for. It seems
to me, too, that it is wrong for anyone
who works to get less than someone who
may be on welfare.
That does not mean that we do not
want to help those who have to be on
welfare. We should, and we can be thank-
ful that in this country we do take care of
those who cannot help themselves. But do
you realize I am sure all of you do that
those who cannot help themselves, those
who have to have government assistance,
could only get it if other people worked.
That is where you get the taxes. That is
where this government gets the money.
They talk about what the government is
going to do. We have no money. You
produce it, and I say that we in govern-
ment owe an obligation to the working
men and women in America to see that
your money is not wasted, to see to it that
it
goes for good causes and not for waste-
ful causes.
There is one last point that I would like
to leave with you, without going into any
detail with regard to the future, as far as
our foreign policy and the rest is con-
cerned. We are coming to the end of a
very long and very difficult war. It has
been one that has divided Americans.
It is one, however, which we are ending
and ending in a way without staining the
honor of the United States of America. It
is one in which 17 million people of South
Vietnam will not have a Communist gov-
ernment imposed upon them against their
904
