[255] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
provisions of Public Law 91-269. After
reviewing the plans of the sponsor, the
Secretary of Commerce submitted to me
the detailed report required under Sec-
tion 2(a)(1) of Public Law 91-269 and
recommended Federal recognition. A copy
of the Secretary's report is transmitted
herewith. In this report the Secretary in-
dicated that the sponsor had fulfilled all
of the requirements of that law and the
regulations issued thereunder (15 CFR
ยง 667).
The Secretary concluded that the envi-
ronmental theme of the exposition was
relevant to current national concerns and
was appropriate to the exposition site. He
also determined that the sponsors had ob-
tained from the State of Washington, the
local governments involved, business and
civic leaders of the region and others the
financial and other support necessary to
assure the successful development of the
exposition.
The Secretary of State also reported
under Section 2(a) (2) of Public Law
91-269 that the event qualified for regis-
tration by the Bureau of International
Expositions as a Special Category event.
Based on these favorable reports, I ad-
vised the Secretaries of State and Com-
merce on October 15, 1971, that the
exposition warranted Federal recognition
as provided by statute. I also indicated
that it was my intention to extend this
Administration's fullest possible support
to foster a successful event.
On November 24, 1971, upon request
of the United States, the Bureau of Inter-
national Expositions in Paris officially
recognized the event as a Special Category
exposition and approved its General Rules
and Regulations by unanimous vote. At
its meeting on May 16, 1972 the Bureau
also established procedures for sanction-
ing the special rules and regulations for
the exposition.
On January 31, 1972, I issued a proc-
lamation [4103] directing the Secretary
of State to invite such foreign countries
as he may consider appropriate to partici-
pate in this event. The Secretary issued
those invitations through diplomatic chan-
nels on February 15, 1972. Thus far,
Canada, the USSR, and Iran have ac-
cepted-and many other countries are
now expected to accept. In that procla-
mation, I also indicated that I planned to
appoint a United States Commissioner
General to exercise the responsibility of
the United States Government for fulfill-
ment of the Convention Relating to In-
ternational Expositions of November 22,
1928, as modified. Pending this appoint-
ment, I am designating the Secretary of
Commerce to serve in that capacity on an
acting basis. In addition, the Secretary
is currently preparing a plan for Federal
participation under Section 3 of Public
Law 91-269, which I will transmit to the
Congress at some later date.
The White House,
August 15, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On September 22, 1972, the President
transmitted to the Congress a proposal for
participation by the United States Government
in the exposition.
774
