[49] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
second man chose to get down on his
knees and pray. The third man—and I am
sure he was an American businessman-
got busy trying to figure out how to
breathe under water.
Now, as we look ahead to the industrial
world of the future at this White House
Conference, it is well to remember that
there is something to be said for enjoying
life, the power of prayer is very important,
but as we face the future, we must also get
ready to live in it.
In the course of this Conference, you
will be exploring the exciting prospects
that lie ahead for the workingman and
the businessman, and the workingwoman
and businesswoman of America. You will
be examining the new social responsibil-
ities of business, the challenges of the new
technology so vital to the betterment of
the lives of our people, the future of the
economy.
There has really never been a time
when a hard, searching look ahead has
been more essential for America than it is
today.
We cannot really plan for the industrial
world ahead without considering the total
picture of the world of the future. We
have to ask ourselves which way the world
is heading; what we, as a Nation, must
do to influence the course of history
toward more freedom, toward a genera-
tion of peace; and what kind of people
we will have to be to make a difference in
our children's lives and in the world of
tomorrow.
These are profound questions, and the
kind that all too many people consider
themselves just too busy to deal with. But
the American dream is too important to
be left to the dreamers, and that is no re-
flection on your morning speakers. Prac-
tical men have to examine their ideals and
shape the future in the image of their
hopes.
The people of the United States of
America, as we all know, make up ap-
proximately 6 percent of the population
of the world. Let's consider what that fig-
ure means.
First, it means that we have a great deal
to be proud of. When 6 percent of the
people of the world produce one-fifth of
the world's steel, one-third of its electric
power, one-third of all automobiles, then
even our most severe critics will have to
admit that the American economic system
must be doing something right.
The fact that we number only six out of
every 100 people in the world means
something else that must give us pause,
however. It means that we, who believe in
majority rule, are a minority group in the
world. If we are to lead, we cannot lead
by force of arms or by weight of numbers;
we can lead only by the force of our
example and the quality of our vision.
What is it that has brought this 6 per-
cent, this minority of the world that calls
itself America, to the highest standard of
living, the highest expression of human
freedom?
What is it that will propel this Nation
forward in the coming generation to lead
mankind in its search for a better life in a
world of peace?
I am convinced that the answer lies in a
real but intangible quality called the
American spirit.
In today's world, that spirit is being
tested. America is being tested.
We have got to learn once again to com-
pete in the world-and the only way we
can compete is on the basis of our own
productivity.
In the past, America has been able to
pay the highest wages in the world, to en-
168
