[239] July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
all of these things. I don't think he is going
to get sick. He is also in excellent health,
better than I. He plays tennis. But, in any
event, there has been a lot of speculation.
Secretary Connally's name comes to mind.
I should point out that a really great
injustice was done to Secretary Connally
in the suggestion, I think, on one of the
news reports to the effect that I gave Sec-
retary Connally the "bad news" that he
was not going to be the Vice Presidential
candidate when I saw him Friday night.
This was not bad news to him. As a
matter of fact, it was not news at all. He
and I had discussed this problem when he
came to California after his world trip. At
that time, I discussed the Vice Presidency.
After all, not only from the standpoint
of ability to hold the office of Vice Presi-
dent but from the standpoint of ability to
win the election, Secretary Connally,
whose political judgment I respect very
much, strongly urged that Vice President
Agnew be continued on the ticket.
THE MILITARY AND BOMBING POLICY
[11.] Q. Mr. President, on the bomb-
ing of the dikes and dams, would you say
that you have been resisting pressure from
the military to bomb such installations?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The pressure does
not come from the military. I have talked
this over with Admiral Moorer and natu-
rally General Abrams. As a matter of fact,
let me just say one thing about our mili-
tary, because somebody ought to speak up
for it now and then.
We get the idea they are a bunch of
savage flyboys, and they love to get down
and machinegun innocent little civilians
and all the rest.
We can be very proud of our military,
not only the men that are flying, they are
brave and courageous, but the men on the
ground. We can be very proud of the Ma-
rines, all of them have gone now, for what
they have done-the Marines, the Army,
the ground soldiers-for the civilians and
refugees there. It is a story of generosity
in a country that has never been equaled
by American fighting men or anybody else.
As far as our military commanders are
concerned, while they do give me their
judgment as to what will affect the mili-
tary outcome in Vietnam, they have never
recommended, for example, bombing
Hanoi. You have seen some of those signs
"Bomb Hanoi," in fact, they were around
in '68 even, a few, as well as '64.
Our military don't want to do that.
They believe it would be counterproduc-
tive, and second, they believe it is not
necessary. It might shorten the war, but
it would leave a legacy of hatred through-
out that part of the world from which we
might never recover. So our military have
not advocated bombing the dikes; they
have not advocated bombing civilian cen-
ters. They are doing their best to carry out
the policy we want of hitting military
targets only.
When, as a result of what will often
happen, a bomb is dropped, if it is in an
area of injury to civilians, it is not by
intent, and there is a very great difference.
THE VICE PRESIDENT AND POLICY
DECISIONS
[12.] Q. Sir, a similar question was
asked another President in your experi-
ence. Would you please tell us what
The reporter was referring to a question
asked in a news conference held by President
Eisenhower on August 24, 1960. See "Public
Papers of the Presidents, Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, 1960-61," Item 268.
752
