Richard Nixon, 1972
[317]
Sept. 23
will, in which they have developed the
strength to defend themselves with our
help as they have been defending them-
selves, particularly on the ground, in these
past months.
And sometimes when we hear about
good news and bad news, I think one of
the best pieces of news that I have seen in
the almost 4 years I have been here was
that for the first time since 1965, not one
American was killed in action this last
week.
So, I want that war to end, just as
President Johnson wanted to end it be-
fore me. I want it to end. I want it to end
in a way that it will discourage others
who might engage in that kind of
aggres-
sion, but beyond that, I want America to
help to build a new world.
That is what my trip to the People's
Republic of China is about. You can't
have peace in the world and have one-
fourth of all the people of the world-
and one-fourth of the people of the world
live on the mainland of China-you can't
have them without any communication
with the United States of America.
So, we have opened that line of com-
munication. Oh, our philosophies are very
different, and we are going to have our
differences, but there is now a better
chance that they will be settled peace-
fully, without war.
That is why we have started these his-
toric communications with the Soviet
Union in arms control, in the environ-
ment, cooperating in programs in health,
space, and others, not because we don't
recognize that they have a very different
philosophy than we have, but because we
realize that if we are going to have a world
of peace, it is essential that the United
States and the Soviet Union negotiate
rather than confront and eventually break
out into a war that could well be the last
one.
That is why, looking to the future-
because all we have had is a beginning-
what I am really asking for in this election
campaign is a chance to continue, a
chance to continue to build a structure of
peace in the world, so that this young man
and that little girl that was sitting on her
father's shoulders a moment ago-so that
they can grow up in an open world where
they can go to China, they can go to
Russia, where they can learn to know the
Chinese people and the Russian people
and all the peoples of the world, Africa
and Asia, where at last in this last fourth
of the 20th century, there will be no war
any place in the world.
That is what I want. That is what I
want for the world, that is what I want for
America, that is what you want. And I
want an America in which we continue
to have, as we have today, the best jobs,
at the highest real wages, with the great-
est opportunity and the most freedom of
any country in the world.
Oh, there is lots more to be done. There
are inequities in our system. But what is
great about America is that we can change
what is wrong and change it peacefully.
And that is another reason you are here,
because you believe in our system, you
are working through it, rather than at-
tempting to destroy it from the outside.
In that connection, I mentioned a
moment ago that this had been a long and
a very difficult war. I know that one of the
subjects that has been discussed in your
group, as well as in many others in this
country, is that of the question of amnesty
for those who chose to desert America
rather than to serve it.
When you think of it in solely human
terms, in personal terms, I know that
905
