[45] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
eral officials from each of the sixteen
separate grant programs in which his
small city participates.
THE NEW WAY: SPECIAL REVENUE
SHARING
par-
In a series of special messages to the
Congress last year, I proposed Special
Revenue Sharing, a new system of Federal
aid which would serve the purposes of our
State and local governments better than
the system of narrow Federal grant pro-
grams now operating. I proposed that
funds be made available to States and
localities for six broad purposes-man-
power, law enforcement, education,
transportation, urban community devel-
opment, and rural community develop-
ment to be used, for each of these
purposes, as they see fit to meet their
ticular needs. Those proposals, if enacted,
would consolidate over 130 separate pro-
grams into six general purpose areas.
Under our Special Revenue Sharing pro-
posals, in the first full year of operation,
$12.3 billion in Federal funds would be
provided to States and localities for those
six broad purposes. These funds would be
free from matching requirements, mainte-
nance of effort restrictions, presently rigid
prior Federal project approval require-
ments, and, best of all, inflexible Federal
plans. But there are two major stipula-
tions: (1) the money is subject to all the
civil rights requirements of Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and (2) no
government unit would receive less money
under these proposals than it did under
the old system of narrow Federal grants.
Special Revenue Sharing is not a whole-
sale dismantling of the Federal grants
system, as some critics have charged. It is
a careful effort to decide which level of
government can best deal with a par-
ticular problem and then to move the
necessary funds and decision-making
power to that level of government. When
a Federal approach is needed we should
take that road, but when a local approach
is better we should move the resources and
power to that level.
I realize that these are challenging con-
cepts, which have major implications for
the structure of American government-
Federal, State and local-and for the ef-
fectiveness with which government serves
the people. They require us in Washington
to give up some of our power, so that more
power can be returned to the States, to
the localities, and to the people, where it
will be better used. It is appropriate,
therefore, that the Congress give full con-
sideration to all of these proposals for
fundamental reform and move rapidly to
create effective programs to meet today's
needs.
MANPOWER SERVICES FOR THE
SEVENTIES
I recognize that it is incumbent upon
those who propose change to justify the
changes. I believe our experience with
Federal manpower programs over the last
10 years justifies the changes we are
proposing.
All those represented in the current
array of patchwork manpower pro-
grams the schools, private employers,
public agencies, nonprofit groups, not to
mention the unemployed workers-know
that the present system is not delivering
the jobs, the training, and the other man-
power services that this Nation needs and
has a right to expect.
As we begin the second decade of com-
prehensive manpower assistance for our
162
