Richard Nixon, 1972
May 6 [143]
abortion an unacceptable form of popu-
lation control. In my judgment, unre-
stricted abortion policies would demean
human life. I also want to make it clear
that I do not support the unrestricted dis-
tribution of family planning services and
devices to minors. Such measures would
do nothing to preserve and strengthen
close family relationships.
I have a basic faith that the American
people themselves will make sound judg-
ments regarding family size and frequency
of births, judgments that are conducive
both to the public interest and to personal
family goals-and I believe in the right
of married couples to make these judg-
ments for themselves.
While disagreeing with the general
thrust of some of the Commission's rec-
ommendations, I wish to extend my
thanks to the members of the Commission
for their work and for having assembled
much valuable information.
The findings and conclusions of the
Commission should be of great value in
assisting governments at all levels to
formulate policy. At the Federal level,
through our recent reorganization of the
Executive Office of the President, we have
the means through the Domestic Council
and the Office of Management and
Budget to follow up on the Commission's
report. The recommendations of the Com-
mission will be taken into account as we
formulate our national growth and popu-
lation research policies, and our agency
budgets through these processes for the
years ahead.
Many of the questions raised by the
report cannot be answered purely on the
basis of fact, but rather involve moral
judgments about which reasonable men
will disagree. I hope that the discussions
ahead will be informed ones, so that we
all will be better able to face these ques-
tions relating to population in full knowl-
edge of the consequences of our decisions.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Population and
the American Future" (Government Printing
Office, 186 pp.).
Commission Chairman John D. Rockefeller
3d and members Graciela Gil Olivares and
Christian N. Ramsey, Jr., met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to present the report.
143 Statement About Voluntary Restraints by Foreign Steel
Producers To Limit Exports to the United States.
May 6, 1972
I AM pleased to announce that the steel
producers of Japan, the European Com-
munity, and the United Kingdom have
expressed their intention to restrain on a
voluntary basis their exports of steel mill
products to the United States during the
next 3 years.
This welcome development-which will
lead to the preservation of jobs in our
domestic steel industry-successfully con-
cludes more than a year of discussions.
For some time, I have been deeply
concerned about the serious problem that
excessive imports have posed for our steel-
workers and our steel industry. Conse-
quently, I directed that efforts be made to
limit the impact of steel imports.
The Deputy Under Secretary of State
for Economic Affairs, Nathaniel Samuels,
undertook discussions with the Japanese
577
