Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 26 [375]
to produce oil. We have to have the means
of meeting that crisis, and that is why a
State like this has so much to offer.
What I am simply saying is that as we
move from this period of war to a period
of peace, it means enormous opportu-
nities, it means prosperity without war
and without inflation, it means developing
the new markets in a period of peace that
could not develop in a period of war, and
it means also the opportunity to turn the
enormous energies of this country and the
people of this country to the progress that
we all want, with opportunity for every
American to go as high as his talents will
take him-better schools, better housing,
all of those things that we want and that
we have laid forth in such great detail be-
fore the Congress over these past 4 years.
What I am saying to you very simply
is this: I could talk tonight-and it
usually is customary in the closing days of
a campaign-about "we have a great
record over the past 4 years" and "send
us back." But let us not look back, and let
us not be angry at those who oppose us.
Let us look to the future. The future
is a good future. The future can be a
future of peace. The future can be one
in which the United States can play the
role this Nation was destined to play in
building a world of peace and continuing
to raise the standard of living of all of
our people and increasing the opportunity
for all of our people.
One final note: I have mentioned what
Kentucky has meant to me personally, and
to my wife-your hospitality, your friend-
ship, your energy, your coal, your agri-
culture, your industry. But most impor-
tant, what has impressed me as I went
along that street, I must say, I saw those
young people and older people in the
dark. They could only see the light of the
car as we went by. They had their flags
out.
What impressed me was not simply
patriotism. It went further than that. It
was something I call character. I looked
back to the beginning of this country. I
remember then, and Louie Nunn referred
to the fact that the bicentennial of Ken-
tucky is in 2 years, and the Bicentennial
of the United States is in 4 years, as you
know-look at that young country 196
years ago, 13 States, weak, poor, but the
hope of the world. Why? Because we stood
for something other than power, some-
thing other than wealth. We stood for an
ideal, for a moral and spiritual strength
that caught the imagination of the world,
and here in this State of Kentucky I sense
it. I sense it across our country, but I
sense it in this audience tonight. I sensed
it as I went around.
Let me say, as much as your hard
work-and I know you work hard—and
as much as what you produce in your
mines and as much as what you produce
on your farm, what we are most grateful
for is the character and the moral and
spiritual strength of the people of this
State. You have it, and that means a
great deal.
And so I have heard them say "Four
More Years." Let me tell you what my
hope is for these next 4 years. It is a
very simple statement. I want the next
4 years to be the best 4 years of your lives
and the best 4 years America has ever
had.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 p.m. at
a rally in the gymnasium of the Paul G. Blazer
High School. He spoke without referring to
notes.
1041
