[181] May 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
sometimes called treaties, sometimes called
agreements. But what is more important
is that we are proud of the fact that the
relationship goes beyond simply the piece
of paper, that it goes to the personal rela-
tionship which we see exemplified in this
magnificent dinner tonight and which we
trust will always be the hallmark of the
relations between our two countries.
I should like to bring my remarks to a
conclusion tonight by informally referring
to an impression I had as we came into
the city today. It was a glorious day, as all
of you
will remember. The sky was blue,
we could see the mountains in the dis-
tance, the weather was just right, as if it
had been ordered for the occasion. And
then, as the motorcade moved from the
airport out through the suburbs and then
finally into the city, we saw the people on
the streets. We could tell from the expres-
sions on their faces they had not been or-
dered to come because, while you can
order people to get out on the streets, you
cannot order them to smile. You cannot
order them to wave, and particularly, you
cannot do that with the children. It must
come from their hearts, and it had come
from their hearts.
We saw them there, not hundreds, not
thousands, but tens of thousands of girls
and boys, smiling, waving, with their
American flags and the Iranian flags side
by side.
I am sure that through His Majesty's
mind ran the same thoughts that ran
through mine: Our obligation is to them;
our obligation is to their future.
What we have done in the meetings
that we have had in this past week is only
a beginning. It possibly builds a founda-
tion for a better future between two great
nations and a foundation, possibly, for a
better chance for peace for all nations in
the world.
Our meetings here helped to build that
foundation, a foundation of good rela-
tions that already exists between our two
great countries, but a foundation for more
progress in the future-progress which
will benefit not just our generation, but
that generation, one that will make us, as
the leaders of our countries, proud of that
leadership, proud of our people, proud
of our heritage-yours 2,500 years old,
ours so much younger.
But proud as we are of that heritage and
proud as we are of that country, recogniz-
ing that our responsibility is to keep what
is best from the past but also to build for
the future.
As I look at Your Majesty's record,
what you have done for this country in
terms of the progressive actions in every-
thing from land reform to education, so
many other areas, I realize that your
thoughts are, of course, about the proud
past of this great nation and this great
people.
But overriding that are your hopes for
the future-the future of those children
we saw on the streets of Tehran today.
So tonight I would simply conclude my
remarks by saying that there will be many
in the days ahead who will try to evaluate
the so-called summits-the one in Peking
in which the most populous nation of the
world and the most prosperous nation of
the world met for the first time in 20 years,
the one in Moscow where the two most
powerful nations in the world met and
made some very important agreements
which could contribute not only to better
relations between those two but to peace
for all the world.
As the experts evaluate those summits,
646
