Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 12 [254]
detail in the accompanying report of the
Secretary of State.
It was about two years ago that this
Government renounced, unilaterally and
unconditionally, the use of all biological
and toxin weapons and affirmed that we
would destroy our existing stocks and con-
fine our programs to strictly defined de-
fensive purposes. These initiatives re-
flected a deep national conviction and
contributed in a very substantial way to
the ultimate success of the negotiations
leading to this Convention.
At that same time, we looked to the day
when the community of nations would act
together to prohibit biological warfare
and weaponry. We accompanied our
renunciation of these weapons with sup-
port for the principles and objectives of
the United Kingdom's 1968 draft con-
vention in this field. On December 16,
1971, the Convention transmitted here-
with, which would provide a binding in-
ternational prohibition on the weapons
we have renounced, was overwhelmingly
commended by the General Assembly of
the United Nations.
This Convention is the first interna-
tional agreement since World War II to
provide for the actual elimination of an
entire class of weapons from the arsenals
of nations. The safe destruction of biologi-
cal and toxin stocks in this country is
expected to be completed by the end of
this year. All the stocks at Pine Bluff
Arsenal in Arkansas have already been
destroyed, and the former biological war-
fare facility there is now a new national
center for research on the adverse effects
of chemical substances in man's environ-
ment. The former military biological re-
search facility at Fort Detrick, Maryland,
is becoming a center for cancer research.
Other nations are being invited to share
in the humanitarian work at these centers.
I believe this Convention will enhance
the security of the United States and the
world community. It will help ensure
that scientific achievements in the field of
biology will be devoted not to destruc-
tion but to the service of mankind. It rep-
resents a significant advance in the field of
arms control and disarmament and I rec-
ommend that the Senate give it prompt
and favorable attention.
The White House,
August 10, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive Q (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
254 Introduction to a Report by the Council of Economic
Advisers on the New Economic Policy.
August 12, 1972
IT IS now almost exactly a year since the
New Economic Policy was launched on
August 15, 1971. What has happened
since then adds up to solid economic gains
which are a tribute to the public spirit of
the people, as well as tangible pocketbook
progress for the people.
The actions of last August 15 were de-
signed to intensify previous measures that
had reduced the rate of inflation and had
started economic resurgence. They in-
cluded a freeze on wages and prices to
help reduce the inflation further, tax re-
ductions to speed up the expansion and
771
