[265] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
tors, a commentator for the ABC network,
and he asked me as we were trying to
talk over the rather, shall we say, quiet
audience at the moment-he asked me
what was going to happen to the youth
vote.
He said he was beginning to wonder
whether I had concluded that perhaps the
estimates that the youth vote was just
automatically going to go to our opponents
might be a little high. I can say this, and
I want to give you an answer that I want
you to think about a bit. I don't think the
youth vote is in anybody's pocket. I don't
think it ever will be. I think young people
are not likely to vote party label. I think
they are going to vote what they believe in.
They are going to be independent. I think
the young people of America are going to
listen to both candidates. They are casting
their first vote, they want it to be a good
vote.
We have just as good a shot at it as the
other side, and we are going to get it—
with your help.
Now, I want to express appreciation to
all of the celebrities-that is the word we
use for them, for Sammy Davis, Jr., and
the marvelous groups that you have been
hearing here, to Pam Powell—and I want
to ask all of you to realize what it means
for them to be here.
Now, my business is the business of
politics. It is a very honored business. I
hope lots of you get into it, maybe full
time. But I want you to know that when
you are in politics you assume-you have
to under our system-that what you are
trying to do is to get somewhat over half
the vote and the other man, or woman, as
the case might be, is going to get some-
what less than half.
Now, in show business, which is Sammy
Davis, Jr.'s business, and the business of
others who are here, they are not trying
to get half; they are trying to please
everybody. So you see, when somebody in
show business comes and participates in a
political rally, he or she is doing some-
thing that is a very great personal sacrifice
and even a personal risk.
I heard on Monday night one of the
television commentators question Sammy
Davis, Jr., when he was sitting there with
Mrs. Nixon in the Presidential box. He
pointed out what I have known and what
Sammy Davis, of course, quickly agreed
with, that he had been a very enthusiastic
supporter of President Kennedy when we
ran against each other in 1960. He said
he was still a very good friend of the
Kennedy family. Then the commentator
said, "What is your reaction, Sammy, to
the fact that many people who have been
your friends and your supporters, per-
haps many who think you are great in
show business, think maybe that you have
turned against them and that you have
done so❞—as he put it-"you have sort
of sold out because you were invited to
the White House to see the President?"
Well, just let me give you the answer.
You aren't going to buy Sammy Davis, Jr.,
by inviting him to the White House. You
are going to buy him by doing something
for America, and that is what we are
doing.
When Sammy and I and his wife were
chatting there that day, I want you to
know it was one of the most moving ex-
periences for me and I hope it was for
him. We talked about our backgrounds.
We both came from rather poor families.
We both have done rather well. [Laughter]
I know Sammy is a member of the other
party. I didn't know, when I talked to him,
what he would be doing in this election
campaign. But I do know this. I want to
786
