Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 6 [113]
that covers the Federal Government, the
State governments, the city governments,
and county governments, as well as the
private sector, because the solutions we
seek must ultimately involve not just the
Federal Government, but these other units
as well.
When that Advisory Commission-
and, incidentally, it is a totally bipartisan
commission-has completed its study, I
shall make specific legislative recom-
mendations to the Congress that deal
with three great interrelated national
problems:
First, relief of property taxes-the
mainstay of public school support—which
have now become an intolerable burden
upon millions of American homeowners.
Second, development of alternative
sources of finance for public schools.
Third, specific measures designed to
preserve the nonpublic school system in
the United States.
This whole process that I have just de-
scribed takes time. You know and I know
that we do not have much time. The ap-
pointing of commissions, the launching of
studies is sometimes regarded as a stall,
an excuse for inaction. Let me assure you
in the strongest possible terms that is not
my intent.
I am irrevocably committed to these
propositions: America needs her nonpub-
lic schools. Those nonpublic schools need
help. Therefore, we must and will find
ways to provide that help. Yet, at the
same time, I shall not make promises to
you which cannot be kept nor raise hopes
which will later be disappointed. You are
all aware of the grave constitutional ques-
tions which have risen in the past, each
time the States or the Federal Govern-
ment has undertaken to provide aid to
nonpublic schools.
I was talking to His Eminence and to
the Mayor about a case that has just been
decided yesterday dealing with one of
these problems. We are all aware of the
extra difficulties which tax measures en-
counter in Congress any time, but par-
ticularly in an election year. But with
these hard realities in mind, I feel the only
responsible way to proceed is to take the
extra time required to guarantee that the
legislative recommendations which we
finally submit will be equitable, will be
workable, will be constitutional and so
held by the Supreme Court.
Too much is at stake for us to act in
haste. We share a great obligation-to
improve the public school system of this
country and also to preserve the nonpub-
lic schools-and in that obligation we shall
not fail.
Let me put it now in the broader terms
of the Nation at large. What we really
seek in America is an educational free
market.
Nonpublic schools give parents the op-
portunity to send their children to insti-
tutions that they choose. The reasonable
preferences of parents in this matter
should be respected by governmental
authorities.
As we consider the nonpublic schools-
whether they are Catholic or Protestant
or Jewish or even nonsectarian-they
often add the dimension of spiritual val-
ues in the educational process. Children
who attend these schools are offered a
moral code by which to live. At a time
when the trend in education is too often
toward impersonal materialism, I believe
America needs more, rather than less, em-
phasis on education which emphasizes
moral, religious, and spiritual values.
The American people and their govern-
ment cannot remain indifferent to the ac-
521
