[284] Sept. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
But that steady progress does not sat-
isfy everyone. The master planners who
want more power in a central government
believe they know what is best for the
welfare of every locality. They fail to see
how their zeal sets back the cause of good
race relations, of orderly desegregation,
and of quality education.
Busing for racial balance is a mistake
because it runs counter to a basic Ameri-
can value-the interest of parents in send-
ing their children to a neighborhood
school. When an American family thinks
of moving to a different home, when they
think of buying a house, the first question
parents ask is "What are the schools like
in this neighborhood?"
And they ask that question because they
want the best quality education possible
for their children. That's a bedrock
interest. You don't run roughshod over
that interest in a country that values per-
sonal freedom and close family ties.
Our children are America's most price-
less national asset. We must not allow
them to be used as pawns in the hands of
social planners in Washington, many of
whom basically believe that children
should be raised by the Government
rather than by their parents.
That is why I have spoken out so
strongly against involuntary busing, and
why I am making every effort in the Con-
gress and in the courts to put an end to it.
The ruling of Supreme Court Justice
Powell this week clearly demonstrated
that the action Congress has taken to limit
busing is totally inadequate.ยน
1 On September 1, 1972, Associate Justice
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., in Ann Gunter Drum-
mond et al. v. Robert L. Acree et al., denied an
application for a stay on a busing order for the
Richmond County (Augusta), Ga., school dis-
trict.
I call on the Congress as a matter of
the highest priority, to approve, before it
adjourns, the busing moratorium legisla-
tion I have proposed.
The Powell decision leaves no doubt
whatever that only the anti-busing legis-
lation I have proposed will do the job.
We can make the most progress in race
relations not by attacking our basic values,
but by supporting them-not by treating
people as masses, but as individuals.
A third traditional value that is com-
ing under attack today by the welfare
ethic has to do with ability, the great
American idea that a person should be
able to get ahead in life not on the basis
of how he looks or who he knows, but
rather on what he can do.
In employment and in politics, we are
confronted with the rise of the fixed quota
system-as artificial and unfair a yard-
stick as has ever been used to deny oppor-
tunity to anyone.
ues,
Again, as in many attacks on basic val-
the reasons are often well-intentioned.
Quotas are intended to be a shortcut to
equal opportunity, but in reality they are
a dangerous detour away from the tradi-
tional value of measuring a person on the
basis of ability.
You cannot have it both ways: You can-
not be for quotas in limiting political op-
portunity and against quotas in limiting
economic opportunity.
The basic idea of quotas is anti-ability
wherever it is applied. It is just as bad for
the voter as it is for the worker.
And So, which way
shall it be for Amer-
ica? Shall we become a people who place
our individual welfare in the hands of
Government bureaucrats, limiting each
other's opportunity by race, religion, sex,
age, national origin? Or shall we continue
to try to erase false restrictions, judging
852
