Appendix E
I believe all of you are aware of the rumors
that have been abroad in Washington now for
quite some time to the effect that Secretary of
Transportation John Volpe would be taking
an important new assignment for the President
at the conclusion of the first term. Today,
President Nixon is gratified to announce his
intention to nominate Secretary Volpe to be
United States Ambassador to the Republic of
Italy.
Secretary Volpe will succeed Graham A.
Martin, a career Foreign Service officer, who
has held the post since 1969. Ambassador
Martin will be receiving another important
assignment in the Administration in the second
term.
When John Volpe takes up this key Ameri-
can diplomatic post in Rome, I think many of
you are aware of the fact that he will be
retracing a journey that brought his own par-
ents to this country from Italy as penniless im-
migrants at the turn of this century. His
remarkable career in business and public serv-
ice, I believe, is also familiar to most of you
here.
He started at the bottom of the construction
trades as a hod carrier and rose to become
Commissioner of Public Works for the State of
Massachusetts, then Federal Highway Admin-
istrator in the Eisenhower Administration.
Then he became a three-term Governor of the
State of Massachusetts and most recently a
member of President Nixon's Cabinet, and has
served with great distinction in the President's
Cabinet as Secretary of Transportation for the
last 4 years.
As a member of President Nixon's Cabinet,
Secretary Volpe has traveled to more than 20
countries on transportation policy matters and
goodwill trips. He also accompanied the Presi-
dent on a state visit that President Nixon took
to Italy in September of 1970.
During Secretary Volpe's term as Governor
of Massachusetts, he helped to foster exchange
relationships between the cities of Boston and
Rome. For this and other contributions to
Italian-American friendship, he was awarded
the highest decoration which the Republic of
Italy can confer on a foreign national.
John Volpe, when he assumes the post of
Ambassador to the Republic of Italy, will be the
first individual of Italian background ever to
head the United States Mission in Rome.
President Nixon is proud to be able to nominate
as Ambassador to Italy a second-generation
Italian-American whose own life story bears
impressive witness to the close bonds between
our two countries.
In requesting Secretary Volpe to accept the
change of roles within the Administration, the
President had warm praise for the job Secretary
Volpe has done as Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Transportation. When Secretary Volpe
assumed his position in the Cabinet, the De-
partment of Transportation was less than 2
years old. So the task of shaping the identity
of the Department fell largely to Secretary
Volpe from 1969 to the present time.
During this period, a number of steps have
been taken to provide this country with a bal-
anced transportation system which we will
need in the future. The rail passenger service
has been revitalized with the formation of
Amtrak. The Urban Mass Transportation Act
has brought about an eightfold increase in
Federal funding for public transportation. The
Airport and Airways Act has enhanced the
outlook for air travel. The Interstate Highway
System has been brought close to completion.
And transportation safety has been improved
under Secretary Volpe's leadership.
To carry out the efforts which Secretary
Volpe started in the past 4 years, in the second
term the President will nominate Claude
Brinegar, of California, to succeed Secretary
Volpe as Secretary of Transportation.
Those of you who are familiar with the top
rank of business leadership in this country
will recognize Mr. Brinegar's name as one of
the most gifted, young executives in the United
States today.
A member of the management team of the
Union Oil Company of California for the past
20 years, Mr. Brinegar has served since 1968
as senior vice president of the company and as
president of the Union 76 Division. Mr. Brine-
gar was educated at Stanford and completed
his Ph. D. in economics in 1953. He is 45 years
of age.
As we have said before, President Nixon
anticipates that the years ahead will offer the
opportunity for accelerated progress in Amer-
ica's domestic affairs. The President feels that
transportation, in particular, is one area where
E-12
