Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
Let us recognize that the issue of bus-
ing divides many Americans. But let us
also recognize that the commitment to
equal opportunity in education unites all
Americans.
The proposals I am submitting to Con-
gress will allow us to turn away from what
divides us and to turn toward what unites
us.
The way we handle this difficult issue
is a supreme test of the character, the re-
sponsibility, and the decency of the Amer-
ican people.
Let us handle it in a way we can be
proud of-by uniting behind a program
which will make it possible for all the
children in this great and good country of
ours to receive a better education and to
enjoy a better life.
Thank you. Good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
91 Special Message to the Congress on Equal Educational
Opportunities and School Busing.
To the Congress of the United States:
In this message, I wish to discuss a
question which divides many Americans.
That is the question of busing.
I want to do so in a way that will enable
us to focus our attention on a question
which unites all Americans. That is the
question of how to ensure a better educa-
tion for all of our children.
In the furor over busing, it has become
all too easy to forget what busing is
supposed to be designed to achieve:
equality of educational opportunity for all
Americans.
Conscience and the Constitution both
require that no child should be denied
equal educational opportunity. That Con-
stitutional mandate was laid down by the
Supreme Court in Brown v. Board of
Education in 1954. The years since have
been ones of dismantling the old dual
school system in those areas where it
existed a process that has now been sub-
stantially completed.
As we look to the future, it is clear that
the efforts to provide equal educational
March 17, 1972
opportunity must now focus much more
specifically on education: on assuring
that the opportunity is not only equal, but
adequate, and that in those remaining
cases in which desegregation has not yet
been completed it be achieved with a
greater sensitivity to educational needs.
Acting within the present framework
of Constitutional and case law, the lower
Federal courts have ordered a wide variety
of remedies for the equal protection viola-
tions they have found. These remedies
have included such plans as redrawing
attendance zones, pairing, clustering and
consolidation of school districts. Some of
these plans have not required extensive
additional transportation of pupils. But
some have required that pupils be bused
long distances, at great inconvenience. In
some cases plans have required that chil-
dren be bused away from their neighbor-
hoods to schools that are inferior or even
unsafe.
The maze of differing and sometimes
inconsistent orders by the various lower
courts has led to contradiction and uncer-
87-234-7431
429
