[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
further our goal of making all rural resi-
dents first-class citizens living in first-class
communities. Specifically, we will:
-expand the availability of rural
housing;
-strengthen farm incomes through
orderly handling of the bumper 1971
grain crop; and
-help finance critically needed waste
disposal and water supply systems for
nearly 500,000 rural families.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE
SERVICE OF MAN
In this year's budget, and subsequently,
I shall propose how we can accelerate the
effort I began 3 years ago to turn science
and technology to the service of man.
Research and development have been
critical elements of our national life since
World War II. They have been the key
to our national security and health and in-
strumental in the solution of many im-
portant civilian problems. Research and
development also have made significant
contributions to our economy in terms of
jobs, productivity, and foreign trade.
This Administration has continuously
searched for more effective ways to turn
science and technology to the service of
man. Since 1969, funds for civilian R & D
have increased 65%. We have started
new programs and strengthened others
to help focus R & D on priority human
needs.
We have been reordering our research
and development investments in defense
and space. We have reassessed the space
program and placed it on a firm future
footing with increased attention to prac-
tical and economical applications of space
and reductions in the cost of manned
space flight.
At the same time we have strengthened
our defense research and development
capability to insure that the country will
not face the possibility of technological
surprise or lack the deterrent power neces-
sary to protect our national security. To
provide this assurance, budget authority
for Department of Defense research, de-
velopment, test, and evaluation is being
increased $838 million to an all-time high
of $8.5 billion in 1973.
To emphasize this Administration's
strong belief that science and technology
can make significant contributions to the
quality of American life and to economic
growth, I propose additional steps in 1973
to:
-secure the contributions that science
and technology can make to our na-
tional life;
-initiate a series of experiments to find
better ways to encourage private in-
vestment in R & D, including invest-
ment by small entrepreneurial R & D
firms, which have made significant
contributions to the generation and
exploitation of innovative ideas;
-draw more directly on the capabili-
ties of those agencies which have
created the technologies that har-
nessed the atom and conquered
space. AEC and NASA will increas-
ingly use their talents on such prob-
lems as clean, economical energy,
and clean, safe, and fast transporta-
tion systems. For example, this year
we shall have the agency which sent
men to the moon and back begin to
assist the Department of Transporta-
tion in finding better ways to send
people downtown and back; and
-review carefully our policies in areas
of economic regulation, which may
unnecessarily restrict wider utiliza-
94
