Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
The Soviet Union has a right to its own
security. But neither a durable peace nor
an era of cooperation in Europe can be
built on principles that divide the con-
tinent and violate the sovereignty of its
nations and the freedom of its peoples.
Our approach is based on these general
principles:
-Every nation in Europe has the sover-
eign right to conduct independent policies
and therefore to be our friend without
being anyone else's enemy.
-The use or threat of force by the
Soviet Union in Eastern Europe can only
lead to European crises. It is therefore in-
compatible with detente in Europe and
detente in U.S.-Soviet relations.
-We do not want to complicate the
difficulties of East European nations' re-
lations with their allies; nevertheless there
are ample opportunities for economic,
technical, and cultural cooperation on the
basis of reciprocity. The Eastern European
countries themselves can determine the
pace and scope of their developing rela-
tions with the United States.
We have demonstrated these principles in
new constructive relationships between
the United States and Eastern Europe. I
was the first American President ever to
visit Romania and Yugoslavia. We base
our ties with both these countries on mu-
tual respect, independence, and sovereign
equality. We share the belief that this
should be the basis of relations between
nations regardless of divergence or simi-
larity in social, economic, or political
systems:
-Our relations with non-aligned Yugo-
slavia are a factor for peace and stability
in Europe, the Mediterranean, and the
Middle East. In 1971, President Tito
made his first State visit to the United
States. We resolved to continue our high-
level exchanges and to broaden the scope
of our economic relations.
-We are supporting legislation to
grant Most Favored Nation tariff treat-
ment to Romania. Our Export-Import
Bank credits and Romania's new member-
ship in GATT will facilitate our economic
relations.
-Our first exchange of cabinet-level
visits with Poland took Secretaries Volpe
and Stans to Warsaw and brought Polish
Science Minister Kaczmarek to Washing-
ton. Postmaster General Blount visited
Hungary, as part of our developing con-
tacts.
-Our trade with Eastern Europe since
1968 has substantially increased, and we
expect it to continue to grow. Trade pro-
vides a material foundation for further
development of normal relations.
ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE
Intellectually and culturally, the winds
are blowing from the West in Europe.
Western economic and political institu-
tions are flourishing. Western libertarian
values are revered perhaps more strongly
in the East where they are suppressed than
in the West where they are taken for
granted.
The historic duty of the leaders of the
Western Alliance is to preserve the condi-
tions that underpin our successes. The past
year has shown us the hopeful prospects
for the future-the strengthening of Euro-
pean unity, new economic arrangements,
the resolution of East-West issues, a new
mature political relationship among us.
If we allow the independent vigor of our
separate states to pull us apart, if we ne-
glect the prerequisites of security that have
sustained us and kept the peace for 27
years, if we pursue illusory forms of de-
231
