Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 2 [397]
dations for a world at peace-so that the
next generation can be the first in this
century to live without war and without
the fear of war.
Beyond this, I want Americans--all
Americans-to see more clearly and to
feel more deeply what it is that makes
this Nation of ours unique in history,
unique in the world, a nation in which
the soul and spirit are free, in which each
person is respected, in which the individ-
ual human being, each precious, each
different, can dare to dream and can live
his dreams.
I want progress toward a better life for
all Americans--not only in terms of bet-
ter schools, greater abundance, a cleaner
environment, better homes, more attrac-
tive communities, but also in a spiritual
sense, in terms of greater satisfaction,
more kindness in our relations with each
other, more fulfillment.
I want each American-all Ameri-
cans-to find a new zest in the pursuit of
excellence, in striving to do their best and
to be their best, in learning the supreme
satisfaction of setting a seemingly im-
possible goal, and meeting or surpassing
that goal, of finding in themselves that
extra reserve of energy or talent or cre-
ativity that they had not known was there.
These are goals of a free people, in a
free nation, a nation that lives not by
handout, not by dependence on others or
in hostage to the whims of others, but
proud and independent-a nation of in-
dividuals with self-respect and with the
right and capacity to make their own
choices, to chart their own lives.
That is why I want us to turn away
from a demeaning, demoralizing depend-
ence on someone else to make our deci-
sions and to guide the course of our lives.
That is why I want us to turn toward a
renaissance of the individual spirit, to-
ward a new vitality of those governments
closest to the people, toward a new pride
of place for the family and the commu-
nity, toward a new sense of responsibility
in all that we do, responsibility for our-
selves and to ourselves, for our commu-
nities and to our communities, knowing
that each of us, in every act of his daily
life, determines what kind of community
and what kind of a country we all will
live in.
then
If, together, we can restore this spirit,
4 years from now America can enter
its third century buoyant and vital and
young, with all the purpose that marked
its beginning two centuries ago.
In these past 4 years, we have moved
America significantly toward this goal.
We have restored peace at home, and we
are restoring peace abroad.
As you know, we have now made a
major breakthrough toward achieving our
goal of peace with honor in Vietnam. We
have reached substantial agreement on
most of the terms of a settlement. The set-
tlement we are ready to conclude would
accomplish the basic objectives that I laid
down in my television speech to the Nation
on May 8 of this year:
-the return of all of our prisoners of
war, and an accounting for all of
those missing in action;
-a cease-fire throughout Indochina;
and
--for the 17 million people of South
Vietnam, the right to determine their
own future without having a Com-
munist government or a coalition
government imposed upon them
against their will.
However, there are still some issues to
be resolved. There are still some provi-
sions of the agreement which must be
1
1085
