[129] Apr. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the sons of the brave men who have
fought in Vietnam will not have to fight
again in some other Vietnam at some
time in the future.
Any man who sits here in this office
feels a profound sense of obligation to
future generations. No man who sits here
has the right to take any action which
would abdicate America's great tradition
of world leadership or weaken respect for
the Office of President of the United
States.
Earlier this year I traveled to Peking
on an historic journey for peace. Next
month I shall travel to Moscow on what
I hope will also be a journey for peace. In
the 18 countries I have visited as President
I have found great respect for the Office
of President of the United States. I have
reason to expect, based on Dr. Kissinger's
report, that I shall find that same respect
for the office I hold when I visit Moscow.
I do not know who will be in this office
in the years ahead. But I do know that
future Presidents will travel to nations
abroad as I have on journeys for peace.
If the United States betrays the millions of
people who have relied on us in Vietnam,
the President of the United States, who-
ever he is, will not deserve nor receive the
respect which is essential if the United
States is to continue to play the great role
we are destined to play of helping to build
a new structure of peace in the world. It
would amount to a renunciation of our
morality, an abdication of our leadership
among nations, and an invitation for the
mighty to prey upon the weak all around
the world. It would be to deny peace the
chance peace deserves to have. This we
shall never do.
My fellow Americans, let us therefore
unite as a nation in a firm and wise policy
of real peace—not the peace of surrender,
but peace with honor-not just peace in
our time, but peace for generations to
come.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
The White House also released the transcript
of a news briefing on the President's address by
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs.
130 Letters to the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member
of the House Committee on Banking and Currency
About Proposed Minority Enterprise Small Business
Investment Legislation. April 27, 1972
Dear Wright:
On March 18, 1972, when I sent a
message to the Congress on the subject
of Minority Business Enterprise, I urged
swift approval by the Congress of the
Minority Enterprise Small Business In-
vestment Act of 1972.
At that time it was my understanding
that the MESBIC legislation was to be
given early hearings before the Subcom-
mittee on Small Business, of your Com-
mittee on Banking and Currency. I was
most gratified to know that your Commit-
tee would be giving prompt attention to
this vital legislation. As my message indi-
cated, I believe the proposed MESBIC
554
