[59] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
there are more women in it than men.
Part of it is the fact that women may have
more time, but part of it might be the fact
that they may have more heart. But for
whatever the reason, it is America at its
best.
I know many times when I write a
speech and make one my secretary will
say, "Now be sure you don't refer to men
doing this and that; you've got to say
'men and women'." I suppose she is think-
ing of women's lib and all that. All that
I know is this: She is right. She is right
because, as this banquet so well illustrates,
there is no area in which the women of
America can render greater service to
their country and their community than
in the field of volunteerism.
So we are proud of what the men have
done, people like Henry Ford and Ted
Etherington. But we recognize that they
stand up here and they make the speeches
and they may take some of the bows, but
the women do the work, and we thank
you for doing it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:13 p.m. at the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts. He spoke without referring to notes.
He presented plaques to the winners of the
1971 National Volunteer Awards. The group
category award went to SERVE (Serve and
Enrich Retirement by Volunteer Experience)
of New York City, one of the pioneer groups
in mobilizing elderly and retired persons for
volunteer work. Winner in the individual cate-
gory was Mrs. Arnette Giles of Pearlington,
Miss., the wife of a small-town minister, who
has raised more than 40 retarded, abandoned,
and needy children in addition to five of her
own. She also works at a retarded children's
school and helps the elderly in her community.
60 Letter to Representative Robert
Occasion of Lincoln's Birthday.
Dear Bob:
When you represent me at the wreath-
laying ceremony at the Lincoln Memorial,
I hope you will convey my best wishes to
all who pay tribute to the leadership
which this strong yet simple man brought
to a divided nation over a century ago.
He was an open man, genuine, rough-
hewn and full of hope for America. His
abiding faith in God and in the ultimate
wisdom and goodness of the common peo-
ple guided him all the years of his life
and touched the soul of the land. His
forthright and honest words sank deep
into the understanding of every listener,
and what he said of Henry Clay, a man he
McClory of Illinois on the
February 12, 1972
deeply admired, could well be applied to
Lincoln himself:
He loved his country partly because it
was his own country, but mostly because
it was a free country; and he burned
with a zeal for its advancement, pros-
perity and glory, because he saw in
such, the advancement, prosperity and
glory of human liberty, human right
and human nature. He desired the
prosperity of his countrymen partly be-
cause they were his countrymen, but
chiefly to show to the world that free-
men could be prosperous.
Now, one hundred and twenty years
362
