Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
would expect the greatest part to be used
for the purposes I have outlined here. At
the current level of funding of Title I of
the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965, this would provide a total
approaching $2.5 billion annually for
compensatory education purposes.
For some years now, there has been a
running debate about the effectiveness of
added spending for programs of com-
pensatory or remedial education. Some
have maintained there is virtually no cor-
relation between dollar input and learning
output; others have maintained there is a
direct correlation; experience has been
mixed.
What does now seem clear is that while
many Title I experiments have failed,
many others have succeeded substantially
and even dramatically; and what also is
clear is that without the extra efforts such
extra funding would make possible, there
is little chance of breaking the cycle of
deprivation.
A case can be made that Title I has
fallen short of expectations, and that in
some respects it has failed. In many cases,
pupils in the programs funded by it have
shown no improvement whatever, and
funds have frequently been misused or
squandered foolishly. Federal audits of
State Title I efforts have found instances
where naivete, inexperience, confusion,
despair, and even clear violations of the
law have thwarted the act's effectiveness.
In some instances, Title I funds have been
illegally spent on unauthorized materials
and facilities, or used to fund local serv-
ices other than those intended by the act,
such as paying salaries not directly related
to the act's purposes.
The most prevalent failing has been
the spending of Title I funds as general
revenue. Out of 40 States audited between
1966 and 1970, 14 were found to have
spent Title I funds as general revenue.
Too often, one result has been that in-
stead of actually being concentrated in
the areas of critical need, Title I moneys
have been diffused throughout the system;
and they have not reached the targeted
schools-and targeted children-in suffi-
cient amounts to have a real impact.
On the positive side, Title I has effected
some important changes of benefit to dis-
advantaged children.
First, Title I has encouraged some
States to expand considerably the contri-
butions from State and local funds for
compensatory education. In the 1965-66
school year, the States spent only $2.7
million of their own revenues, but by the
1968-69 school year-largely due to
major efforts by California and New
York-they were contributing $198
million.
Second, Title I has better focused at-
tention on pupils who previously were too
often ignored. About 8 million children
are in schools receiving some compensa-
tory funds. In 46 States programs have
been established to aid almost a quarter of
a million children of migratory workers.
As an added dividend, many States have
begun to focus educational attention on
the early childhood years which are so
important to the learning process.
Finally, local schools have been en-
couraged by Title I to experiment and in-
novate. Given our highly decentralized
national educational system and the rela-
tively minor role one Federal program
usually plays, there have been encour-
aging examples of programs fostered by
Title I which have worked.
In designing compensatory programs,
it is difficult to know exactly what will
work. The circumstances of one locality
439
