Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 6 [113]
evidence in our judgment is strong
enough to indicate that we ought to try
it. What we are sure of is that the old
ways have failed and, therefore, we must
move to a new way.
Therefore, today, in this effort to re-
deem the promise of public education, I
come to ask you, as educators, to give us
your support for this purpose. I have also
come for another reason, a reason alluded
to by His Eminence in his introduction:
If public education in America faces a
severe testing time, as it does, nonpublic
education confronts what can only be de-
scribed as a crisis of the first magnitude.
You are familiar with the basic sta-
tistics, but let the Nation now hear what
this crisis is, because this is the problem
not just of those involved here but of the
whole Nation. Taken together, the non-
public schools in this country educate
5,200,000 children. That is more than the
public school system of the whole State of
California. That is more than the public
school system of the whole State of New
York. Eighty-three percent of those chil-
dren are in Catholic schools.
But while that is a very significant num-
ber, 5,200,000, as you all know, the rise in
nonpublic school enrollment has crested.
In the past 9 years, the Catholic schools
alone have lost almost a million pupils.
Every day-and this is something that His
Eminence Cardinal Krol, told me every
day at least one, and sometimes two, of our
parochial schools are forced to close their
doors forever.
It would be misleading to suggest that
Catholic education and nonpublic schools
in general are about to disappear alto-
gether because of that fact. But at the
same time, it would be irresponsible to
pretend that all is well, because it is not.
So let me, therefore, outline hypo-
thetically, not just for this audience but
for the whole Nation, the consequences
of a total collapse of nonpublic education,
since this is perhaps the best way of em-
phasizing the stake that every American
has in preventing any such collapse from
taking place.
Let us begin: The disappearance of all
nonpublic schools in this country would
saddle the American taxpayer with an
additional $3 billion annually in school
operating costs, plus as much as $10 bil-
lion in new school construction. Seventy
percent of that burden would fall upon
seven States: California, New York, Illi-
nois, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, and
Pennsylvania.
And the impact would fall most heavily
upon our central cities, where in some
cases as many as one-third of all children
attend nonpublic schools, and where many
public school systems are on the verge of
bankruptcy today.
Here in Philadelphia, for example, col-
lapse of the nonpublic schools would force
146,000 students into the public schools;
in Chicago the figure would be over
200,000; in New York City over 300,000.
In short, if the nonpublic schools were
ever permitted to go under in the major
cities of America, many public schools
might very well go under with them, be-
cause they simply couldn't undertake the
burden.
I have been speaking of what it would
cost in terms of money. The fiscal ca-
tastrophe, however, would be far from the
only consequence. For many Americans,
allegiance to their nonpublic community
schools is their strongest and sometimes,
perhaps, their only single tie to city life.
If their schools should close, many of these
families would abandon the city and go to
the suburbs. This, in turn, would further
519
