Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
Unless there are firm minimum interna-
tional standards, the search for relative
economic advantage will preclude effec-
tive environmental protection.
These principles underlie the new U.S.
oceans policy which I announced in May
1970 and the detailed proposals we have
made to the world community since then.
Our initiatives have received a ready
response. Following considerable discus-
sion in the fall of 1970, the UN General
Assembly called for a comprehensive
international conference for 1973. A
multination UN Seabed Committee was
given the job of drafting, in the interim,
the agreement required to assure the suc-
cess of that conference.
The U.S. has put forward four detailed
proposals on the seabeds, the breadth of
the territorial sea, transit through straits,
and living resources. The first of these pro-
posals was given to the UN in August 1970
in the form of a draft United Nations
convention on the international seabed
area. I described its essentials in last year's
Report to the Congress.
On August 3, 1971 we supplemented
this initiative by putting forward pro-
posals on the breadth of the territorial sea,
on free transit through and over interna-
tional straits, and on carefully defined
preferential rights over fisheries.
Breadth of Territorial Sea. The U.S.
has adhered to a three-mile territorial sea
for almost two centuries. The claims of
other states vary widely, ranging to a
maximum of 200 miles. There is a clear
need for a uniform territorial sea and a
general sentiment in the international
community that it should be somewhat
broader than three miles. We therefore
proposed that the maximum breadth of
the territorial sea be set at 12 miles.
Straits. Since many straits used for
international navigation, however, are less
than 24 miles wide, and thus would be
completely overlapped by a 12-mile terri-
torial sea, the U.S. put forward, as a con-
dition to our agreement to a 12-mile
territorial sea, a provision for a new right
of "free transit."
That provision is essential because the
ambiguous doctrine of "innocent passage"
would otherwise apply, and states border-
ing straits would be required to decide
which ships and planes should, and which
should not, pass. Domestic and interna-
tional pressures could be brought to bear
on every decision. The oceans are too vital
a highway of communication, and guar-
anteed passage through straits is too es-
sential to our security, to be subject to
such uncertainty. At the same time, the
U.S. recognizes that adjacent coastal
states do have legitimate concerns about
traffic safety regulations and pollution,
and has indicated its willingness to accom-
modate these concerns in a manner not
prejudicing the basic right of free transit.
Living Resources. The question of fish-
eries management and conservation is inti-
mately associated with the world's food
needs. Fish are a primary source of pro-
tein for nations with low nutritional levels,
and they make the difference between
starvation and survival for millions of
human beings. Modern fishing methods
and careless conservation practices have
now made it painfully clear that interna-
tional and regional cooperation is urgently
needed to maintain the productivity of
this valuable, self-replenishing resource.
There is, however, an inherent conflict
between the interests of those who fish off
the coasts of other countries, and the
coastal states themselves. The former seek
to protect what they consider traditional
rights. The latter seek recognition of their
335
