[181]
Public Papers of the Presidents
May 30
the American College of Tehran, founded al-
most 100 years ago. Many distinguished Iranian
personalities had graduated from this school in
the past. The management of this college was
for many years entrusted to that noble Ameri-
can, Mr. Samuel Jordan, who is remembered
very much by our people. It is for this very
reason that one of our largest streets in Tehran
has been named after him in order to keep his
memory alive.
Our people have also unforgettable memories
of another American friend, Mr. Morgan
Shuster, who came to Iran at the invitation of
the Iranian Government in the year 1911 in
order to reorganize our customs and financial
affairs which were at that time disorderly and
confused. Although his tour of duty, due to the
prevailing diplomatic conditions at that time
which were really no concern of the Iranian
Government, did not last more than 9 months,
yet his memory as a noble, humanitarian, and
an honest individual has been recorded in the
contemporary history of Iran and will never be
forgotten.
I deem it necessary to stress the fact here
that the relationship between our two coun-
tries from the very beginning has never been
impaired due to ill intentions, greed, grudge,
revenge, and so forth, but from the time we
can remember the policy of your country
towards ours was respectful, liberal, and based
on the principles of justice and human welfare
and fellowship. I can cite as the best example
of this fact the proclamation issued in the year
1919 by the Government of the United States,
defending the sovereign rights of Iran.
After the Second World War, the financial
assistance granted by the United States of
America to my country was effective in the res-
urrection of the national life of Iran, and we
shall not forget this assistance. During all these
years the ties between Iran and the United
States of America in the various political, eco-
nomic, cultural, and artistic fields have always
continued to expand, and actually serve as an
outstanding example of relations between two
countries.
On numerous occasions, during these past
years, I have had the pleasure of hosting lead-
ers and other high ranking American per-
sonalities, including yourself, Mr. President,
and also on numerous occasions I have per-
sonally traveled to your country, either as an
official guest or for participation in various
university ceremonies. Presently in these univer-
sities and other cultural centers of the United
States thousands of Iranian students are study-
ing in order to gain the latest and most pro-
gressive scientific experiences and technical
knowledge of the present day to bring back to
their homeland.
Mr. President, you, who have come from
your great land to visit our country, have
charge of the leadership of the United States
of America in one of the most grave periods of
its history. It has very rarely happened in the
history of the world that the decisions of a
head of a state has such far-reaching effects on
the destiny of the whole of mankind. Naturally,
under these conditions the enormity of the re-
sponsibilities you shoulder as the head of such
a country, vis-a-vis your nation, the other na-
tions of the world, and history, is commensurate
with the immense abilities and powers at your
disposal.
A real leader under these circumstances and
under such conditions before anything else
needs to have a realistic spirit and foresight, and
we have always admired these qualities which
you possess to the greatest extent.
We have always been and are witnessing,
during your term of office, that in facing all
problems and the grave difficulties, you have
placed the interests of your country over and
above your personal interests, and this is what
history demands from real leaders. We sincerely
wish you every success in performing your im-
portant duties, because your efforts are related
with the destiny of all mankind.
In this regard, within the recent few months
we have witnessed your two historic visits to
China and the U.S.S.R. Certainly these two
visits have had immeasurable bearing on the
international evolution of the world today.
Your visit to China, before anything else, as-
sisted the universal aspect of our present day
world. Your unprecedented visit to the
U.S.S.R., apart from the bilateral aspects of it,
from the point of view of agreements reached
in regard to health, environment, outer space,
science and technology the agreement to set up
a trade commission, and especially the agree-
ment reached on strategic arms limitation con-
trols, is of the utmost importance. I hope the
latter is the first stage in the materialization of
world disarmament under close international
648
