Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 4 [40]
Those attending the conference included
college and professional athletes, the commis-
sioners and heads of the professional sports
leagues, network officials, and representatives
of the Advertising Council, Inc.
40 Special Message to the Congress Outlining Plans for the
Bicentennial Observance in the District of Columbia.
February 4, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
"Seafaring is necessary," says the Latin
inscription on an old building in one of the
great European port cities; "mere living
is not." This same spirit of movement, ven-
ture, and quest animates the whole sweep
of America's story-from its discovery by
men who lived for sailing, to its founding
as a nation by men who lived for liberty,
to its modern maturity as the world's pre-
eminent power-and it will do so still, 4
years hence, when we observe the Bicen-
tennial of American independence. The
Nation could not if it wanted to, and
should not if it could, drop anchor some-
where in 1976 and savor the occasion at
leisure. By its very nature it can only speed
through the year as through any other,
under full sail, on into a new century.
The central challenge of our Bicenten-
nial preparations, therefore, is to plan for
an observance "on the move." Many
groups-public and private, national and
local-have already devoted several years
of creative thought and effort to meeting
this challenge. The common goal to which
all subscribe has nowhere been stated bet-
ter than in the 1970 report of the celebra-
tion's official planning and coordinating
body, the American Revolution Bicen-
tennial Commission (ARBC): "to forge
a new national commitment—a new Spirit
for '76-a commitment which will unite
the nation in purpose and dedication to
the advancement of human welfare as we
move into Century III of American Na-
tional Life."
We can best forge such a spirit, the
Commission went on to recommend, by
approaching the Bicentennial as an occa-
sion both for understanding our heritage
better and for quickening the progress
toward our horizons-not just in one
chosen location or a few, but in every
State, city, and community. The Commis-
sion's goal and the principles deriving
from it have my strongest support, and I
have followed with interest the ARBC's
further work as well as that of the in-
dividual Bicentennial Commissions al-
ready set up or now being formed by each
State and territory, Puerto Rico, and the
District of Columbia,
THE BICENTENNIAL IN WASHINGTON
Since the Federal Government has spe-
cial responsibility for District of Columbia
affairs, my closest contact has been with
the planning effort now underway here
in the District and I have found its prog-
ress thus far most impressive. And so it
should be. For while no one city will domi-
nate this truly national anniversary,
Washington-which was built to be the
Capital of the Republic born in 1776 and
seat of the Government constituted in
1787, and which has been in many ways a
center of the hopes of all Americans in all
generations since has a unique role to
147
