[411] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yesterday we were in Chicago, Illinois,
in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and in Providence,
Rhode Island. And today we were at
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and we
were in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and
now here in Ontario, California.
As you will note, we have covered the
Northeast of the Nation in Rhode Island.
We have been to the center of the Nation
in Chicago. We have been down to the
Southwest in Oklahoma. We have been
in the South in North Carolina, and now
we are in the capital of the West,
California.
I want to tell you something about this
country, and I particularly want all of
you, the many wonderful young people
here who some are not old enough to
vote, but you all will be-let me tell
you
something about this country: There was
a time, and it was not too long ago, when
if you traveled through the country you
would see it deeply divided-the West
against the East, the North against the
South, and so on and so on, the cities
against the farms, and so forth. But let
me tell you, wherever you go, across
America, this Nation is getting together.
I can tell you that whether it is in Illi-
nois, or whether it is in Oklahoma, or
whether it is in North Carolina or Rhode
Island or in California, that across this
Nation we find a phenomenon happening
which is going to change the situation in-
sofar as this country is concerned, and
which is going to make this a better world
for us as well, and it is this: An unprec-
edented number of people in this country
are not thinking in regional terms, they
are not thinking in partisan terms, but
they are thinking in one term only: This
year they are voting for what they think
is best for America. That is what they
are doing all across this Nation.
Everywhere I go, I find that people
are united in what they believe is best for
America. I want to speak about why they
are united, and I want to ask you, my
fellow citizens of California, to join peo-
ple throughout this Nation-Democrats,
Republicans, and independents-in giv-
ing us the support that we need to con-
tinue the work that we have begun. We
have begun, but we have much more to
do.
I want to begin with that subject
which, of course, is on the minds of every-
body everyplace in this Nation. Governor
Reagan has referred to the work that we
have done to try to bring peace to this
world.
We have approached this subject on a
world scale in our trips to Peking and
Moscow, and we have also worked on this
subject in that area that has been nagging
this country for so many years. When I
came into office, we had been in a war
in Vietnam for 5 years. There was no
end in sight. There were 550,000 Ameri-
cans there; 300 were being killed every
week.
You know what has happened, the
number that we have brought home, the
casualties are down. But most important,
finally we have had a breakthrough in the
negotiations, and I can tell you today that
the significant point of that break-
through is that the three principles that
I laid down when, on May 8, I ordered
the bombing of North Vietnam and the
mining of Haiphong for the purpose of
stopping the Communist invasion of the
South, those three principles have now
been agreed to, and they are these:
First, all of our POW's will be returned
and our missing in action will be ac-
counted for; second, it has been agreed
that there will be a cease-fire; and third,
1130
