Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [411]
411
Remarks at Ontario, California.
November 4, 1972
Governor Reagan, all of these very dis-
tinguished celebrities on the platform,
and all of you very distinguished people in
our home State of California:
Earlier today we visited the State of
North Carolina and, of course, in Cali-
fornia there is probably somebody from
every State in the Union, but in North
Carolina, as we were there, where we
had a very great airport rally, I thought
of a book that had been written by one
of the great American novelists, Thomas
Wolfe. Many of you have read it. You
remember the title, certainly, "You Can't
Go Home Again."
When we landed here today, knowing
that it has been a little misty earlier in
the day, knowing that the traffic has been
backed up for miles, and when we look
back on all of the appearances in this
campaign, and when we see this mag-
nificent crowd, we know you can go home
again-to California.
Tonight I want to express appreciation
first to Governor Reagan for not only his
very gracious introduction but for the re-
marks that he made before we arrived,
and for the work he has done in this
campaign in California and across the
Nation.
I want to express, of course, my sup-
port for all of our candidates for the
House, for the Assembly, many of whom
I know have been introduced. I think you
should know when the mayor, Mayor
Snider, presented me with a plaque, that
was because it was 12 years ago we
finished the campaign here in Ontario
at one o'clock in the morning, and we wish
him well in his contest particularly here
in this area.
I want to express appreciation, too, on
this occasion, and I have waited now to do
it because they have traveled all over this
land, to this group of-well, we call them
celebrities, but they are from California.
They are some of the greatest names in
show business; that is one thing. But they
have also the greatest hearts and the great-
est courage in show business, and we are
glad to have them on our side. I think
we should give them a hand.
Could I also express the appreciation
that we all must feel for what, to me, is
the greatest, and I have seen all kinds, of
course, at rallies, bands and massed bands.
Isn't that a marvelous sight, those massed
bands behind us? How about a hand for
them?
And now could I take you back 12 years
and relate what happened then to what
can happen now? Twelve years ago, we
finished a very long day of campaigning
here in California. It was the last ap-
pearance of the campaign, as is this one.
I recall there was an enormous crowd
here, not as big as this one, but it was late
at night, at one o'clock, and it was quite
cold. We were very heartened by it.
That year, in what was the closest elec-
tion in this country, we lost the Nation but
we won California. This year, based on
the crowd I see here, we are going to win
California and the Nation.
Could I tell you just a word about that
Nation as I have seen it in just 2 days?
As President, of course, I have had the
opportunity, with Mrs. Nixon, to travel
to 50 States, all the 50 States, the first
President to have had such a privilege.
But in the last 2 days we have really seen
all parts of the Nation.
1129
