[86] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
86 Special Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation for Funding of Foreign
Assistance Programs in Fiscal Year 1973.
March 14, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am transmitting to the Con-
gress legislation which would authorize
funding for my foreign aid proposals for
the coming fiscal year. This draft bill,
which is entitled the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1972, also contains provisions to
make our military assistance more effec-
tive.
As I have often indicated, our foreign
assistance programs are a central element
in our foreign policy for the 1970s. For it
is as dangerous for this Nation to ignore
the problems of poverty and hunger and
the need for security in other nations as it
is to ignore our own domestic needs.
The Congress, acting after two-thirds
of the current fiscal year had already
passed, drastically reduced my foreign
assistance requests for fiscal year 1972. In
my judgment, the amounts appropriated
for both security and development assist-
ance in fiscal year 1972 are below the
minimum level required to attain our for-
eign policy and national security goals.
These reductions have created difficult
problems in essential programs and in our
relations with several countries. A repeti-
tion of these reductions and delays in
1973 would call into serious question the
firmness of our commitments abroad and
could have a destabilizing effect at a time
when calm confidence in our support and
perseverance will be critically needed. I
therefore urge the Congress to act
promptly to authorize and appropriate
the full amounts requested for foreign as-
sistance in fiscal year 1973.
In forwarding the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1972, I would also underscore the
points I made in my message to the Con-
gress on April 21, 1971. In that message
I addressed the need for fundamental re-
form of foreign assistance and recom-
mended a major reorganization of these
programs. I hope that the Congress will
give closer consideration to these pro-
posals in this session, and that together
we can develop the most effective pro-
gram possible, one that truly merits the
broad bipartisan support that foreign aid
has enjoyed in the past.
SECURITY ASSISTANCE
As I pointed out in my annual Report
to the Congress on Foreign Policy last
month: "Security assistance is a corner-
stone of our foreign policy and of Free
World security. . ." We live today in a
period of transition in world affairs, in a
time in which the United States is taking
bold initiatives to build a new structure
of peace, while asking our friends and
allies to assume a greater responsibility
for their own defense.
As we begin to make adjustments in our
international role, it is especially critical
that we maintain a firm United States
commitment to an adequate level of secu-
412
