[166] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the international exposition in Phila-
delphia. I have also asked the Secretary to
make clear to the Bureau of International
Expositions that the United States, and
its many State and local governments, will
warmly welcome foreign participation—
both public and private-in our Bicen-
tennial. And, I am asking the American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission to
ensure that their plans include encourage-
ment for such participation.
I remain firmly convinced that Phila-
delphia, in commemoration of its unique
place in American history, will and should
play a major role in the Nation's 1976
observances, and that the celebration of
this birthday will reflect the vital and
abundant spirit of our Nation.
The White House,
May 22, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
167 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on Occupational Safety and Health.
May 22, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
On-the-job protection of American
workers continues as a high priority goal
in this Administration's effort to improve
the quality of life for all Americans.
The Occupational Safety and Health
Act of 1970, which I signed into law on
December 29, 1970, is a major step
towards improving workplace conditions.
As I said at that time, this legislation is one
of the most important measures ever taken
in behalf of those American workers who
are covered by the provisions of the act.
The accompanying President's Report
on Occupational Safety and Health de-
scribes what has been done to implement
the act during the first year of its opera-
tion, and it also indicates the magnitude
and direction of the task ahead. The re-
port examines the responsibilities of the
Department of Labor for setting safety
and health standards, and for gaining
compliance with those standards. Another
part of the report explores the activities
of the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare in research and training.
Like
many problems that we face today,
the improvement of job safety and health
cannot be accomplished by simply pressing
a button. If we are to reduce the in-
juries, the illnesses, and the deaths con-
nected with working conditions, we must
take determined actions: we must in-
crease the number of people who are
trained in health and safety techniques;
knowledge of the causes of accidents and
illnesses must be developed; this knowl-
edge must be translated into effective
standards; employers and employees re-
quire adequate instructions; and stand-
ards must be enforced through energetic
and rigorous inspection programs.
Above all else, if we are to be success-
ful, the full collaboration of private indus-
try, the States and the employees must be
enlisted.
The Occupational Safety and Health
Act of 1970 recognizes the need of rein-
forcing the role of the States in resolving
our national problems. As a consequence,
the implementation of the act has em-
phasized cooperative programs with State
Governments. The involvement of the
States in these programs has been gratify-
618
