Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 2 [74]
the deficiencies in our health care sys-
tem. Unfortunately, such deficiencies are
not difficult to identify:
-In inner cities and in many rural
areas, there is an acute shortage of phy-
sicians. Health screening under various
government programs has found that ap-
palling percentages of young people,
mostly from deprived areas, have not seen
a doctor since early childhood, have never
seen a dentist and have never received
any preventive care.
-General practitioners are scarce in
many areas and many people, regardless
of income or location, have difficulty ob-
taining needed medical attention on short
notice.
-Our medical schools must turn away
qualified applicants.
-While we emphasize preventive
maintenance for our automobiles and ap-
pliances, we do not do the same for our
bodies. The private health insurance sys-
tem, good as it is, operates largely as
standby emergency equipment, not com-
ing into use until we are stricken and ad-
mitted to the most expensive facility, a
hospital.
-Relative affluence is no ultimate pro-
tection against health care costs. A single
catastrophic illness can wipe out the fi-
nancial security of almost any family
under most present health insurance
policies.
To remedy these problems, however,
will require far more than the efforts of
the Federal Government-although the
Federal role is vital and will be met by this
Administration.
It is going to take the complementing
efforts of many other units, of government
at the State and local levels; of educa-
tional and health organizations and insti-
tutions of all kinds; of physicians and
other medical personnel of all varieties;
of private enterprise and of individual
citizens.
My National Health Strategy is de-
signed to enlist all those creative talents
into a truly national effort, coordinated
but not regimented by four guiding
principles:
Capitalizing on existing strengths: We
resolve to preserve the best in our existing
health care system, building upon those
strong elements the new programs needed
to correct existing deficiencies.
Equal access for all to health care: We
must do all we can to end any racial, eco-
nomic, social or geographical barriers
which may prevent any citizen from ob-
taining adequate health protection.
Balanced supply and demand: It makes
little sense to expand the demand for
health care without also making certain
that proper increases take place in the
numbers of available physicians and other
medical personnel, in hospitals and in
other kinds of medical facilities.
Efficient organization: We must bring
basic reorganizations to our health care
system so that we can cease reinforcing in-
equities and relying on inefficiencies. The
exact same system which has failed us in
many cases in the past certainly will not
be able to serve properly the increased
demands of the future.
MAJOR ACTIONS AWAITED
Three major programs, now awaiting
action in the Congress after substantial
hearings and study, would give life to these
principles.
-The National Health Insurance Part-
nership Act,
-The Health Maintenance Organiza-
tion Assistance Act,
—and H.R. 1, my welfare reform bill
387
