Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 4 [336]
The Soviet Union is fully resolved, for its
part, to do all that is necessary to that end.
Today when these important documents are
entering into force, it should be noted that in
accordance with the understanding achieved
between our two countries, negotiations will be
continued with a view to deepening and broad-
ening agreements to limit strategic arms.
As is evidenced by the treaty and the interim
agreement entering into force today, vigorous
efforts aimed at removing the threat of war and
at disarmament do yield their concrete positive
results.
We are convinced that the interests of the
Soviet and American peoples and the interests
of the peoples of all the countries of the world
demand that efforts to limit the arms race
should continue unabated.
Thank you.
The texts of the treaty and the interim agree-
ment are printed in United States Treaties and
Other International Agreements (23 UST 3435
and 3462).
On October 2, 1972, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the treaty and the interim
agreement.
On October 3, the White House released the
texts of the instrument of ratification of the
treaty, the proclamation of the treaty, and the
protocol of exchange of instruments of ratifica-
tion of the treaty and notices of acceptance of
the interim agreement.
335 Letter to Chairman Nikolai V. Podgorny of the Soviet
Union Accepting for the United States the Interim
Agreement on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive
Arms. October 3, 1972
Dear Mr. Chairman:
I am pleased to inform you that the
United States of America accepts the
Interim Agreement Between the United
States of America and the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics on Certain
Measures with Respect to the Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms, and the
Protocol thereto, signed at Moscow on
May 26, 1972.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[His Excellency Nikolai V. Podgorny, Chair-
man of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Moscow]
NOTE: The letter was dated October 2, 1972,
and released October 3.
336 Statement About Signing a Bill Providing for
Relief of Certain Prewar Japanese Bank
Claimants. October 4,
I HAVE great pleasure in signing into
law H.R. 8215, for the relief of certain
prewar Japanese bank claimants. This act
will permit Japanese-Americans who
were interned or paroled during the
Second World War under the Alien
Enemy Act to file claims, and to be re-
1972
imbursed, for funds deposited by them
in certain branches of the Yokohama
Specie Bank Ltd., Japan.
The signing of this act, in a very much
larger sense, symbolized how far we have
finally come in our human relationships
in this country since World War II. After
87-234-74-64
949
