Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 23 [365]
If there were no revenue sharing, New
York City would have to increase its sales
taxes from their present level of 3 per-
cent to 4.3 percent in order to raise the
same amount of revenue.
But, on the other hand, the excessive
deficit spending by the Congress at the
Federal level would push prices up or re-
quire new Federal taxes. Either way, it
would cancel the progress that revenue
sharing was providing.
I am not going to permit that to
happen. I oppose higher taxes and higher
prices. There will be neither if the next
Congress will join me in acting responsibly
on fiscal affairs.
NOTE: The statement was released in connec-
tion with the President's brief stop in White
Plains, N.Y., during a motorcade through 13
communities in Westchester County.
364 Remarks on Accepting the Key to the Village of
October 23, 1972
Tuckahoe, New York.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mayor:
I wish to express my very grateful ap-
preciation to you for presenting this key
to me. In the many years that I have
traveled to 80 countries abroad and every
one of the 50 States and literally thousands
of towns and cities, I must say that I have
perhaps over a thousand keys to cities in
America and around the world.
But I want you to know this: Because
of the warmth of the welcome we had
today, from young and old, from people
all over this village, this key from the vil-
lage of Tuckahoe will mean more than, I
think, almost any of them.
I just want to say that several people
have said "Good luck in the election,"
and in return, I want to say good luck to
the Tuckahoe Tigers in their next game.
MAYOR ROBERT D'AGOSTINO. Mr.
President, one more thing before you go.
In this corner is Tuckahoe's urban re-
newal project. With your help these last 5
years, we are rebuilding our small but
adequate village, thanks to you.
THE PRESIDENT. With revenue shar-
ing, you can do even more. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:55 p.m. in the
Village Square. He spoke without referring to
notes.
365 Remarks at a Campaign Reception for Northeastern
Supporters, in New York State. October 23, 1972
Governor and Mrs. Rockefeller-Nelson
and Happy, as most of us, I think, are
privileged to know them—and all of our
very distinguished guests:
I was thinking, as the Governor was
introducing me so generously, of the many
meetings that I have attended, going
back over 25 years. I ran for the House,
and believe me, when I saw Peter Peyser
introduced, and thought of his race, and
Carl Vergari and his race,¹ just let me say
one thing at this point: There is nothing
¹ Representative Peter A. Peyser was the
Republican candidate for Congress from the
23d District of New York; Carl A. Vergari,
district attorney for Westchester County, was
the Republican candidate for Congress from
the 24th District of New York.
ΙΟΙΙ
