[276] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
would no longer be necessary in your pres-
ent plan or thinking?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I would not com-
ment on what the situation will be a year
from now because, with the fact that we
have had negotiation proposals made-I
am not indicating progress, I am simply
indicating they have been made-and
with also the progress that is being made
by the South Vietnamese, very outstand-
ing progress in their ability to defend
themselves and also to undertake the air
effort as well as the ground effort, I am
not going to put any limitation on when
the U.S. activities in the air would stop.
Also, I am not going to indicate they
are going to continue for any length of
time. We are going to continue to watch
the situation month by month. We will do
what is necessary to protect our interests.
We will do what is necessary to assure the
return of our POW's and accounting for
our missing in action. We will do what is
necessary to prevent the imposition,
against their will, of a Communist govern-
ment on the people of South Vietnam.
All this we will do, but on the other
hand, we are not there for the purpose
of staying any moment that is longer than
is necessary.
CAMPAIGN CONDUCT AND GOALS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, the confidence
expressed at the Republican Convention
suggested that many Republicans, per-
haps yourself included, consider the elec-
tion a mere formality. Yet you have said,
at your last press conference, that you ex-
pected this election to be a close one that
goes right down to the wire. Do you still
feel that way?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. That has
always been my theory. I recall the year
that I ran for the first time for Congress
in 1946. I was somewhat of a neophyte,
never having run for public office before.
I talked to someone who had had great
experience in running for office. He gave
me very good advice that has been my
guiding principle in campaigns since. He
said, "Pay no attention to the polls. Pay
no attention to what your friends say about
your chances, or your opponents." He said,
"Always run as if you are one million
votes behind, and then you might win by
one vote."
In 1960 I learned what he meant, be-
cause elections can be very, very close in
this country.
I am conducting this campaign, and I
have urged on my colleagues in the cam-
paign to conduct it, without regard to the
polls. I am not going to comment on polls
one way or the other, when they are good
or when they are bad. We are running on
the basis of the great issues before the
country. We are presenting, we think, a
very clear choice before the country. We
are seeking in this election something that
no President has had since 1956, with
the exception of President Johnson in '64
after his landslide, and that is a majority,
because there was not a majority even in
1960 and of course there was not in 1968
because of third-party candidates. I think
what we need now is a clear majority, a
clear majority of the American people.
That means a clear mandate, a mandate
for what I have described as change that
works, for progress. Because, when I see
what has happened to, for example, rev-
enue sharing, government reorganization,
our health plan, our welfare reform, and
all of our programs-there are 12 dif-
ferent bills on the environment that are
832
