Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 27 [273]
roll deduction feature to Federal em-
ployees and military personnel in your
organization.
I request that you serve personally as
Chairman of the combined campaign in
your organization and appoint a top as-
sistant as your Vice Chairman. Please
advise Secretary Hodgson of the person
you designate as your Vice Chairman.
RICHARD NIXON
Memorandum for All Federal Employees
and Military Personnel:
This year, Federal personnel in ap-
proximately 500 communities across our
nation will have an opportunity to par-
ticipate in a Combined Federal Cam-
paign, which combines in one annual on-
the-job drive the campaigns of the local
United Givers Fund, the American Red
Cross, the National Health Agencies, and
the International Service Agencies.
The spirit of voluntarism, of willingness
to reach out to help another, is an impor-
tant part of the American way of life. This
spirit abounds in our people, and Federal
employees and military personnel have
amply demonstrated this in the past by
their support of voluntary causes.
While we cannot each personally pro-
vide help to all those who need it, we can
combine together and support the volun-
tary charitable organizations who can
provide that help on our behalf. In this
way we can best carry out the spirit of
voluntarism. While alone we can do little,
together we can do much.
Charitable organizations hold out the
helping hand of the volunteer in provid-
ing services to older people, to youths, to
those who are ill, and they help all of us
through programs of medical research as
well as provide assistance to our friends in
overseas lands. These splendid organiza-
tions need our support. I am sure they will
get our support.
I commend to you, therefore, the Com-
bined Federal Campaign which permits
all of us together by our gifts to strengthen
the services of the voluntary charitable
organizations, gifts made easier by the
availability of payroll deductions. Gener-
osity and concern for others have always
been the tradition of those who serve in
the United States Government. I am
proud of the Federal family and feel con-
fident you will continue this great tradi-
tion which is the hallmark of the Federal
service.
My best wishes go to each of you
during this year's Combined Federal
Campaign.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Both memorandums, dated August 22,
1972, were made available to the press August
25 at San Clemente, Calif.
273 Remarks at a Reception for Celebrities of the
Entertainment Industry, San Clemente, California.
August 27, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Governor and Mrs.
Reagan, and all of our very distinguished
guests tonight:
I am not going to impose on you an-
other speech after what many of you had
to endure last week in terms of so many
speeches, but I did not want this oppor-
tunity to go by without expressing, on
87-234-74- -56
821
