[361] Oct. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
361 Radio Address on the American Veteran.
October 22, 1972
Good morning, my fellow Americans:
Veterans Day this year takes on an
added meaning as American troops re-
turn from another distant conflict, be-
cause of the progress we have made this
past year toward our goal of a full gen-
eration of peace.
No group has sacrificed more for this
goal than the men and women who have
proudly worn the American uniform. In
serving their country, they have sought
not glory for themselves, but peace, honor,
and freedom for us all. Today, I ask all of
my fellow citizens to join with me in
honoring them.
The American veteran has expressed
in his service much of what is finest in our
Nation. Courage, selflessness, discipline,
and devotion-these are qualities we will
need as much to build a future at peace
as we have needed in the past in time of
war.
At a time when a small minority has
tried to glorify the few who have refused
to serve, it is more important than ever
that we honor the millions who have
loyally stood by their country when the
challenge to freedom called for service.
Speaking for the American people, I
say today that the vast majority of us
have never been prouder of our country's
nearly 29 million living veterans, what-
ever their service, whether they are the
survivors of World War I or the young
Americans who have served in Vietnam.
To all of them I say that our respect has
never been stronger, nor our gratitude
greater, than on this Veterans Day, 1972.
As President I have done everything I
can to see to it that this gratitude and
respect is reflected by the Government's
treatment of American veterans. Dollars,
health care, educational opportunities can
never fully repay the sacrifices our vet-
erans have made, but they can at least
serve as a beginning.
I am happy to be able to report that
America is doing more for its veterans
today than ever before. Since January
1969:
-We have raised veterans average
compensation benefits by over 20 percent
and pensions by 16 percent.
-We have increased the individual
veteran's education and training benefits
by 34 percent. And when I sign into law
the new GI bill benefits just enacted by
the Congress, they will have risen by
nearly 70 percent, and our total outlays
for veterans education and training
benefits will have quadrupled.
-We have brought hospital and ex-
tended care treatment to over 80,000
more veterans than ever before; VA
clinic-outpatient treatments have in-
creased by 4 million.
-We have doubled the number of GI
bill trainees, from 900,000 in 1969 to over
2 million expected by 1973.
-We have increased the number of
guaranteed housing loans to veterans by
64 percent over the 1969 level.
Each of these achievements is impor-
tant; each has brought a better life and a
more promising future for millions of
American veterans and their families.
But as we approach the end of our long
and difficult military involvement in Viet-
nam, we have also had to recognize the
need for special measures to meet special
problems, and one of these is the problem
of drug abuse. It is a social problem not
1006
