Richard Nixon, 1972
June 9 [190]
cidents frequently receive inadequate
compensation and usually experience
harmful delays in the courts.
The best-known alternative to this in-
efficient and inequitable reparations sys-
tem is the "no-fault" automobile insur-
ance concept-which provides, in general,
that an accident victim's losses are covered
by his own insuring company no matter
who caused the accident.
I have endorsed this system because I
consider it to be a vast improvement and
a genuine reform for the benefit of the
consuming public.
No-fault insurance is an idea whose
time has come. The concept has been gain-
ing wide acceptance, despite the fact that
some powerful groups-with a special in-
terest in maintaining the present system-
have arrayed themselves against reform.
The achievement of real automobile in-
surance reform through adoption of the
no-fault principles would be a particu-
larly effective way of demonstrating the
responsiveness and farsightedness of State
governments. I commend
I commend those States
which already have moved on this impor-
tant question. I urge that the other States,
building on the experience gained so far,
make the enactment of no-fault auto-
mobile insurance a matter of top consumer
priority.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The telegram, dated June 6, 1972, was
addressed to Gov. Arch A. Moore, Jr., of West
Virginia, Chairman of the National Gover-
nors' Conference. The text was released June 7.
190 White House Statement on
John Paul Vann. June 9,
IT IS with a profound sense of sorrow
that the President learned today of the
tragic death of John Paul Vann.
The President feels John Vann was one
of America's finest citizens-and a truly
extraordinary public servant. For more
than a decade, he worked tirelessly in the
forefront of our efforts to achieve an
honorable peace in Southeast Asia and to
bind up the wounds of its ravaged peoples.
After his initial service as a military officer
in Vietnam, he returned to that country
to continue his devoted work as a civilian.
There he has now given "the last full
measure of devotion."
The President wants to say that, as
honest and outspoken as he was com-
mitted, John Paul Vann did nothing in a
half-hearted manner. For him, any work
that was worth his undertaking was worth
the Death of
1972
his very best-and that always meant a
truly exceptional effort.
John Paul Vann will be deeply missed,
by the people of Vietnam who came to
know and love him, and also by his fellow
Americans who have taken such pride in
his contributions. His fervent dedication
to peace and freedom will be a continuing
inspiration to all of us.
On behalf of all Americans, the Presi-
dent and Mrs. Nixon extend to Mr.
Vann's family and friends their deepest
sympathy.
NOTE: Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler read
the statement at his regular news briefing at the
White House on June 9, 1972.
Mr. Vann, 47, died in a helicopter crash near
Kontum in the Central Highlands of South
Vietnam. He served in the military from 1942
to 1963, attaining the rank of lieutenant
colonel, and was senior adviser for the Army to
667
