[404] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
America, have it within our power, that
we have it within our leadership capabil-
ity, to lead the way, the whole world, to
a peaceful world. That is why the trip
to Peking took place. That is why one-
fourth of the world's people now, who had
had no communication with the United
States for 20 years, now have communi-
cation.
That is why we have negotiated with
the Soviet Union. That is why we are
working for peace in the Mideast. That
is why in all of these areas I say, keep
America strong, be sure that we see that
the United States remains respected in the
world. And we can do that by electing
to the Congress, to the Senate of the
United States, men like John Chafee, who
understand peace through strength, and
that is the message I leave with you today.
One final thought: On this last ap-
pearance that I will be able to make in
this New England area, as somebody was
saying as I went along the fence there, I
asked a 13-year-old what he was going
to do. He said, "I am going to go into
politics." I said, "What are you going to
run for?" He said, "President." I said,
"Fine. You should shoot high." But then
I gave him another bit of advice. "The
main thing," I said, "to remember is, you
don't win them all. I know. You win
some; you lose some. But the important
thing to remember is that particularly
where the Presidency is concerned, Amer-
ica is bigger than any man and it is bigger
than any party."
I want to tell you, if I receive your
votes and the votes of this Nation, I will
serve as well as I can. If on the other
hand, my friends, if on the other hand, the
verdict of the people of this Nation should
go to our opponents, then I will support
what is best for America and not take the
position that only if I win are we going to
support whoever is President of the
United States of America. The President
comes first in the policies that he will be
advocating.
This does not mean we will not have
differences, but it does mean that in our
system we debate those differences in-
telligently. We listen when others speak.
We try to do everything that we possibly
can to do the best job that we can in cam-
paigning, and then in serving in office.
But once the campaign is over, let us
have the statesmanship, let us have the
ability to pull this country together and
to work together for a cause that is big-
ger than any party and bigger than any
man, and that is to make the next 4 years
the best 4 years in America's history.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8 p.m. at a rally
at Theodore Francis Green State Airport. He
spoke without referring to notes.
The remarks of Mr. DeSimone and Mr.
Chafee are printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1638).
405 Radio Address on Foreign Policy.
November 4, 1972
Good afternoon:
Through the long years of America's
involvement in Vietnam, our people's
yearning for peace has largely been
focused on winning an end to that difficult
war. As a result, there has often been a
tendency to lose sight of the larger pros-
pects for peace in the rest of the world.
IIIO
