Appendix E
policies of August 1971, and has been a leading
spokesman for those policies in literally hun-
dreds of public forums over the past years.
President Nixon hopes to be able to continue
drawing on the Deputy Secretary's counsel and
expertise in the time ahead.
Assistant Secretary Eugene Rossides has been
one of the ablest and most dedicated sub-Cabi-
net officials in the President's Administration
since early 1969. In accepting with regret
Mr. Rossides' decision to leave government
service, the President indicated his gratitude for
the Assistant Secretary's outstanding leadership
in two fields which have commanded top im-
portance in the efforts of this Administration,
namely, law enforcement and international
trade.
The Treasury Department's strong and
effective role in combating the drug trade,
organized crime, and air piracy during the past
4 years has been developed under the command
of Assistant Secretary Rossides. Mr. Rossides
has also been responsible for significant progress
in the area of countervailing duties and anti-
dumping regulations aimed at curbing unfair
trade practices which can harm American in-
terests in world markets.
The departure of both of these distinguished
public servants, Deputy Secretary Walker and
Assistant Secretary Rossides, is an occasion for
gratitude for the services they have rendered to
the Administration and the country over the
past 4 years. So the President, with regret, is
accepting the resignations of Dr. Walker and
Eugene Rossides today.
I should add that the President will be meet-
ing with Charls Walker later this week at
Camp David, either tomorrow or Thursday.
The President wants to meet with him further
before he returns to private life. The President
is pleased that Dr. Walker will be available to
the President for counsel and his expertise in
the time ahead.
Announcing the President's Decisions on
Additional Personnel Changes for the Second
Term
December 6, 1972
Continuing our announcements about the
President's decision on key personnel at the
Cabinet and sub-Cabinet levels, I have the fol-
lowing information to provide to you today:
President Nixon takes great pleasure in an-
nouncing that Secretary Earl Butz will be re-
maining as Secretary of Agriculture. Secretary
Butz, as you remember, joined the Cabinet in
December of 1971 after a distinguished career
in both education and government service.
President Nixon feels that considerable progress
has been made in American agriculture during
the past 4 years, both in terms of securing
better rewards for the farmer through higher
farm income, and also in terms of opening new
markets for the American farmer around the
world. The President looks to Secretary Butz
to build on this solid base with continuing prog-
ress in the second term.
Also, this morning I have an announcement
to make regarding the Department of Com-
merce. First, regarding Secretary Peterson,
there has been a great deal of speculation over
the past few weeks about Pete Peterson's plans.
Pete Peterson plans to return to private life.
However, I should mention to you that in the
course of the discussions that the President has
held with Secretary Peterson over the last few
weeks, there was considerable discussion regard-
ing various assignments that Pete Peterson
might undertake before returning to private
life, as he plans to do.
Initially, there was some discussion that
centered on establishing a Special Ambassador-
ship for Pete Peterson which would have
been especially tailored to meet Pete Peterson's
capabilities, and discussion in this regard cen-
tered on Pete Peterson assuming a special am-
bassadorship which would deal with foreign
economic policy and foreign trade matters.
This assignment, however, as it was discussed
at the outset, would have required Pete Peter-
son to live in Europe. Pete Peterson felt, for
personal reasons, that he could not assume a
post which required him to live abroad.
However, the President does want the benefit
of Pete Peterson's further views on international
economic policy before he leaves the Adminis-
tration. Therefore, I would like to announce
today that Pete Peterson will be appointed
the President's Special Representative. In that
capacity, the President has asked Mr. Peterson
to travel to Europe, to Japan, and other Asian
countries besides Japan, and very likely to
E-10
