[388] Oct. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
peace in that situation, where nuclear
threats would have been powerless to do
so. That is why, for the sake of Israel and
other small nations we are committed to
defend, as well as for our own sake, we
must never give up our superiority on the
sea and in the air in the name of false
economy.
The time has come to stand up and an-
swer those of our own countrymen who
complain that American power is an evil
force in the world, those who say that our
foreign policy is selfish and bad.
We can be proud of the fact that in four
wars in this century the United States has
fought only to defend freedom, never to
destroy it; only to keep the peace, never
to break it.
The men and women who have fought
in those wars deserve the highest respect
this Nation can pay them, as do those who
serve in our peace forces today and those
who will serve in years to come as we end
the draft next summer and move to a
volunteer armed force. They are the real
heroes of our time.
Rather than talking about amnesty for
a few hundred who chose to desert
America, let us honor the millions who
chose to serve America in Vietnam. As
this long and difficult war draws to an
end, it is time to draw the line on this
issue once and for all. There will be no
amnesty for draft dodgers and deserters
after the war.
Millions of Americans chose to serve
their country in Vietnam. Many gave
their lives for their choice. The few hun-
dred who refused to serve, or who deserted
their country, must pay a penalty for
their choice.
A few days before I left for Peking last
February, I had as a guest at the White
House the brilliant French thinker and
statesman André Malraux. Let me share
with you a comment which he made to
me that night.
"The United States," he said, "is the
only nation ever to become the most
powerful in the world without seeking
to."
Think for a moment of how true this
statement is and what it means. This
country did not push its way to the posi-
tion of world leadership which we have
occupied for a generation. That position
came to us unsought, but we have borne
it nobly and well, guided not by ambition
or greed or ideology, but only by the high
ideals of human liberty and lasting peace.
Uniquely among the great powers of
the world in our own time or in any
previous time, the United States is trusted
with power by all the peoples of the earth.
No nation which refrains from aggres-
sion against its neighbors has anything
to fear from America, and all nations
know that is true.
For the United States to abdicate its
leadership role in the world, or to attempt
to meet its responsibilities through good
intentions alone, without the backing of
a strong defense, would be one of the
greatest tragedies of history.
Let us never go down that road. That
is the road which led an unprepared
America into two world wars earlier in
this century.
Let us remain instead on the high road
of peace through strength, the road
mapped out by five successive Presidents
in our time, Democrats and Republicans
alike-by Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry
Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John Ken-
nedy, Lyndon Johnson.
As long as I am your President, I shall
keep America on that road. I shall keep
this country strong militarily, strong eco-
1068
