[356] Oct. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
paternalism. In a business, when an em-
ployer tells workers he knows what is
best for their future, that is called pater-
nalism. And in government, when a cen-
tral authority in Washington tells people
across the country how they should con-
duct their lives, that, too, is paternalism.
In each of those cases, the motive of
the man in charge may be to do what he
sincerely thinks is best for the people un-
der his control. But the trouble is this:
Most Americans don't like to be under
anybody's control, no matter how benev-
olent that control may be. It is one thing
to be well taken care of, but for those
able to take care of themselves, it is far
more important to be free.
At the root of all of our rights is an
idea of justice and genius, the idea that
government derives its power from "the
consent of the governed."
Of course, every politician since Jef-
ferson's time pays lip service to the con-
sent of the governed, along with "major-
ity rule" and "the will of the people."
But the truth is that a great many peo-
ple in politics and elsewhere believe that
the people just do not know what's good
for them. Putting it bluntly, they have
more faith in government than they have
in people. They believe that the only way
to achieve what they consider social jus-
tice is to place power in the hands of a
strong central government which will do
what they think has to be done, no mat-
ter what the majority thinks.
To them, the will of the people is the
"prejudice of the masses." They deride
anyone who wants to respond to that will
of the people as "pandering to the
crowd." A decent respect for the practice
of majority rule is automatically de-
nounced as "political expediency." I
totally reject this philosophy.
When a man sees more and more of the
money he earns taken away by govern-
ment taxation, and objects to that, I
don't think it is right to charge him with
selfishness, with not caring about the
poor and the dependent.
When a mother sees her child taken
away from a neighborhood school and
transported miles away, and she objects
to that, I don't think it is right to charge
her with bigotry.
When young people apply for jobs-in
politics or in industry-and find the door
closed because they don't fit into some
numerical quota, despite their ability, and
they object, I do not think it is right to
condemn those young people as insensi-
tive or racist.
Of course, some people oppose income
redistribution and busing for the wrong
reasons. But they are by no means the
majority of Americans, who oppose them
for the right reasons.
It is time that good, decent people
stopped letting themselves be bulldozed
by anybody who presumes to be the self-
righteous moral judge of our society.
There is no reason to feel guilty about
wanting to enjoy what you get and get
what you earn, about wanting your chil-
dren in good schools close to home, or
about wanting to be judged fairly on your
ability. Those are not values to be
ashamed of; those are values to be proud
of. Those are values that I shall always
stand up for when they come under
attack.
We will change America for the better
by attacking our real problems, and not
by attacking our basic values. We will
improve the quality of our public dia-
logue by respecting, not impugning, the
motives of the people that the winning
candidate will ultimately represent.
998
