[192] June 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
be convinced that such negotiations are in
the best interests of all parties.
I am firmly convinced that the achieve-
ment of our purposes-in Vietnam and
elsewhere will be far more likely if this
bill is passed in substantially the form in
which I submitted it. As brought to the
floor, however, the bill is incompatible
with these objectives.
I have always appreciated the assistance
you have given me in formulating pro-
grams to ensure this nation's welfare and
security. We seek the same ends-the
maintenance of our strength and will, a
lessening of tensions and an amelioration
of the plight of the less privileged. I am
confident that I can count on your firm
support in the further pursuit of the goals.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Identical letters, dated June 9, 1972,
were addressed to the Honorable Mike Mans-
field, Majority Leader, United States Senate,
and the Honorable Hugh Scott, Minority
Leader, United States Senate. The text of the
letters was released by the White House on
June 10.
193 White House Statement About Floods in Rapid City,
South Dakota. June 10,
THE PRESIDENT has been follow-
ing closely the reports from Rapid City,
and is deeply distressed at the loss of life
and the widespread destruction. He has
directed General Lincoln, the Director of
the Office of Emergency Preparedness, to
keep personally in touch with the situa-
tion and to ensure that all appropriate
help is given. The President feels that the
hearts of Americans everywhere will go
out to the families of those who have been
lost, to those who have been left homeless,
and to the many others who have suffered
from this sudden and terrible disaster.
1972
NOTE: Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler made
the statement available to the press on June 10,
1972.
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of disaster declaration and
Federal assistance for South Dakota following
heavy rains and flooding. The announcement
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 8, p. 1007).
On June 12, Robert H. Finch, Counsellor
to the President, visited Rapid City to confer
with the mayor on disaster assistance following
the floods. The White House also announced
a series of activities of Federal and private
agencies engaged in assistance efforts.
On June 18, Mrs. Nixon attended memorial
services for flood victims in Rapid City.
194 Remarks at the Swearing In of New Cabinet Officials.
June 12, 1972
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabi-
net, Members of the Congress, and all of
our distinguished guests:
We, of course, are delighted to have all
of you here today, but we are particularly
delighted and proud to have the Chief
Justice of the United States. We have a
number of swearings in from time to time,
but we seldom impose on him. Since this
is one of those occasions when three mem-
bers of the President's Cabinet are going
to be sworn in, the Chief Justice was able
to work it into his schedule, and we are
very happy that he will be the presiding
670
