Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 27 [273]
bad movies being shown in various places,
and so forth, but in all the countries that
my wife and I have visited, about 80, I
can assure you that Hollywood, in most of
them, has been there before. We go along
streets in the cities of Africa and Asia and
Latin America, everyplace, and on that
marquee you will see the Hollywood
names that we are so familiar with. It
makes us feel at home as we see those
names.
Just to give you an idea of how what
Hollywood produces has such a great
effect abroad-we have a wonderful cou-
ple working for us, a Spanish couple,
Manolo and Fina Sanchez. The other day
at Camp David we were looking over the
movie list, and there wasn't anything that
had been made recently that particularly
appealed, so we wanted to get something
that could be shown to younger people
safely, and consequently, we ended up by
selecting a John Wayne movie. I asked
Manolo, my very wonderful aide, I said,
"Manolo, do you think this would be a
good movie?" He said, "Oh, yes, sir. I
saw it 30 years ago in Spain." Now, that
dates either John Wayne or me or Manolo.
But what I am going to suggest is that
he said that movie played for 2 months--
I mean in La Coruña, the town in Spain
in which he lived-and he had seen it on
that occasion. So here we have Hollywood
projecting America to the world.
Let me say a word, too, about what
Hollywood says in the United States. We
talk about the influence of politicians on
America, and we do have influence on
America, and we must always remember
it. We talk about the influence of ministers
on America, and a man like Billy Graham,
and the priests, the rabbis, the ministers,
do have a great influence on America, an
influence for good.
We talk about the influence of teachers,
and we all remember great teachers that
we have had and how much they have
meant to us. We have to realize that today,
because of the advent of television, you in
motion pictures and television have per-
haps more time of the children of America
than the preacher, the teacher, the politi-
cian, or even the parents.
That shows you how very important
what you do is to the future of America.
They see you. They look up to you. They
want to be like you. I am not suggesting
that every movie, therefore, must be edu-
cational. I am not suggesting that every
television production must be educational
or have a lesson. As a matter of fact, on
the contrary, I think when we see a movie
or when we see a television program, that
sometimes we need to laugh, maybe some-
times we need to cry. Sometimes we need
to be taken out of the humdrum life that
we live. Sometimes we need to dream.
So make the movies, and as you do
make them, or the television shows, that
do give us that lift, that little extra dimen-
sion in our lives, that also serves the future
of this country in a very, very great way.
But what I am suggesting is this: That
you who make and produce the motion
pictures and the television shows, do have
an enormous influence on America, and I
think it has been, I think it will continue
to be in the future with your help, an
influence for good.
Now, if I can turn, in conclusion, very
briefly, to the field of politics. I have often
said that I wonder why people who are
enormously successful in motion pictures
or television will take time for politics. I
think I know why. It is because you have
show business. It is because you are inter-
ested in that, but you realize that the
bigger business is the business of America.
823
