Richard Nixon, 1972
May 16 [153]
153 Remarks Announcing Changes in the Cabinet
and White House Staff. May 16, 1972
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS ON GOVERNOR
WALLACE'S CONDITION
I have an announcement today, but be-
fore making the announcement, I would
like to refer briefly to the reports I have
received in regard to Governor Wallace.
I have been keeping in close touch with
the hospital through Dr. Lukash, as you
know, who is the specialist in this area.ยน
I talked to him last night around 11:30,
and then around 8 o'clock this morning
again.
I have nothing to add to the bulletins
that have been publicly made in this re-
spect. I know that all of us certainly wish
that Governor Wallace, in this very diffi-
cult time, will have not only the very best
medical care, but that he can recover from
the wounds that he has received. I can
assure you the best medical care is being
provided.
One point that has been raised is where
the Governor would like to go for his
recuperation period. At the present time
he has told Dr. Tkach, the chief White
House doctor, that either he would like
to go to Alabama or to possibly Walter
Reed here in Washington. I have in-
structed Dr. Tkach to inform Mrs. Wal-
lace that if he does want to go to Walter
Reed that, of course, he would be most
welcome there and have all the facilities
of the hospital available there, and, of
course, the Presidential suite would be
made available for him at Walter Reed
Hospital.
ยน Dr. William M. Lukash, Assistant Physi-
cian to the President, was head of the Gas-
troenterology Clinic and Research Branch,
Internal Medicine Service, Naval Hospital,
National Naval Medical Center, Bethesda, Md.
If the decision is for him to go to
Alabama, a decision which he, of course,
and his family must make, we will provide
an Air Force plane, hospital plane, which
will, of course, provide the necessary facil-
ities to transport an individual who is un-
der medical care. That is all I have to
report on Governor Wallace's situation as
far as the condition is concerned.
One point I should make is that the
Secret Service agent [Nicholas J. Zarvos]
who was injured, I have learned from
Secretary Connally today, and also from
talking directly to the head of the Secret
Service, as well as the doctor, his condi-
tion has substantially improved. The
major concern we have is whether there
is damage to his larynx, which might
affect what is called the voice box.
At the present time, they think there
is a better than even chance, the doctors
say, that he has not suffered such dam-
age. The wound that he received, the
wound also that the officer from the State
of Alabama [Capt. Eldred C. Dothard of
the Alabama State Police] received, re-
minds us all that the security men who
guard the Presidential candidates and, of
course, who guard the President and other
officials, and those in law enforcement
generally, take very great risks and deserve
our support and our sympathy at this time.
With that, ladies and gentlemen, I do
have an announcement to make. It in-
volves three people, and I will ask all of
them to step up here on this rather nar-
row platform for the announcement.
We are sorry, we don't have room for
the ladies on this occasion, but there will
be another occasion when we will have
all the ladies on the platform with us.
593
