[276] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
when we are involved in a war, for a
President in the heat of partisan debate
to make policy would not be in the na-
tional interest. So I have decided that
there will be no debates between the
President and the challenger in this year
1972.
Now, with regard to my own plans.
You have often heard me describe that a
President wears two hats. Well, he wears
three actually, but we put the Commander
in Chief off here. We have already dis-
cussed those questions. The other two hats
he wears are that as President of the
United States and as leader of his party,
and as candidate after the nomination.
Now, I am a candidate in the one sense
and the President in the other. What
comes first? Putting priorities where they
belong, I shall always have to put my
responsibilities to conduct the Presidency
first. I had hoped that the Congress would
be out of here with a record, which they
have not yet made. Incidentally, this Con-
gress, in order to avoid being called a very
inept Congress, one that never talked as
much and did less, to avoid that, is going
to have to do 4 months work in 4 weeks,
and it will be a real issue in this campaign,
the fact that the Congress has not acted
on revenue sharing and on government
reorganization and on health and on
welfare.
But, since the Congress is going to be in,
I understand, until October 10, or the
15th, or maybe the 1st, or whatever it is, as
long as the Congress is there, my responsi-
bilities as President will require that I stay
in Washington except for perhaps an oc-
casional trip to the country, but only for a
day. I could perhaps over a weekend, I
haven't figured it out yet, but we will, of
course, inform you so that you can pack
your bags. None of those will be overnight
trips, you will be glad to know.
After the Congress adjourns, then I, of
course, still have my responsibilities as
President, and I cannot go out and spend
6 to 7 days a week. I realize that some
Presidents have done that. Harry Truman
did in 1948. But the problems that we had
then, great as they were, are not as great
as those we have now. It will be necessary
for me to continue to spend a great deal
of time in Washington, but I don't want
to leave the impression that the one-day
trips that I will make between now and
the time Congress adjourns, and then the
time I will be able to devote to campaign-
ing in the last 3 weeks, means that it will
be a leisurely, complacent, take-it-easy
campaign.
As I have indicated in my answer to Mr.
Lisagor, I consider this campaign enor-
mously important. It provides the clearest
choice that certainly I have seen in my
political lifetime. I believe we have to hit
hard on the issues; in other words, hit
hard on the problems, and not on the per-
sonalities. And we are going to do that,
and I would assume that the other side
would do likewise. In order to do that, we
are going to cover the whole country. We
are not going to take any State for granted.
We are not going to concede any State,
and more than that, we are going to cover
all groups.
One thing I should mention when I
speak of the new majority, I reject the
idea of a new coalition. A coalition is not
a healthy thing in a free society. Coalition
automatically adds up the young against
the old, the black against the white, the
Catholics against the Protestants, the city
people against the country people, et
cetera, et cetera.
834
