[159] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the steps will be, you ladies and gentle-
men will have to evaluate. We hope that
it can be a significant step. It will not end
all differences, but it could mean cer-
tainly that the United States and the So-
viet Union, building on this very careful
structure that we have developed over the
past, could have a constructive relation-
ship in which both great nations will use
their influence, not only between each
other, but in other areas of the world
where we have influence, to discourage
aggression, and to encourage the forces
of peace.
This is our goal. We trust and hope that
it will be, too, the Soviet goal, because
for these two great nations to come in con-
flict, either directly, or to be drawn into
conflict because of disputes in other parts
of the world where they are indirectly
affected, is a threat to the peace of the
world which none of us can certainly look
forward to without very great concern.
So my remarks deliberately are not with
the overblown rhetoric for which you have
properly criticized me in the past.
[Laughter] This is a trip with very sober
objectives. I intend to be very sober, but
you don't have to be. [Laughter]
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Earlier in the afternoon, the President met
at the White House with the bipartisan leader-
ship of the Congress to discuss his forthcoming
trip.
160 Statement About Signing the Black Lung Benefits
Act of 1972. May 20,
TODAY I have signed H.R. 9212, the
Black Lung Benefits Act of 1972.
This legislation extends for 18 months
the Federal responsibility for operating a
transitional program enacted in 1969 to
provide cash benefits for coal miners dis-
abled by black lung disease.
Under the original law, lifetime
monthly benefits have been awarded to
more than 260,000 miners, widows, and
dependents at a Federal cost of more
than $600 million.
The Black Lung Benefits Act of 1972
will mean that tens of thousands of addi-
tional miners and their dependents will
be eligible for lifetime benefits from the
Federal Government, because of its ex-
tension of filing time and because it
provides for generous liberalization of
eligibility requirements.
1972
I am heartened that this legislation pro-
vides benefits for orphans of black lung
victims, who are excluded in the present
law through legislative oversight. Other
dependents are covered but not orphans.
Under the new law, some 2,000 orphans
of black lung victims-and all such
orphans in the future-will receive the
benefits to which they should be fully
entitled.
Nevertheless, I sign this legislation with
mixed emotions, not over whether miners,
widows, and their dependents need this
assistance they do but because of the
precedent it tends to establish.
This legislation departs from the U.S.
tradition that compensation for work-
related accidents and diseases should be
provided by State workmen's compensa-
tion laws, financed by the owners of the
608
