[63A] Feb. 17-28
Public Papers of the Presidents
given to the Peking Zoo on behalf of the peo-
ple of the United States.
In the afternoon, Mrs. Nixon visited the
Summer Palace, an imperial residence and gar-
den during the Ching Dynasty. She toured
rooms used by the Empress Tzu Hsi and walked
in the gardens, viewing the lake Kun Ming and
Longevity Hill. She then went to the Peking
Zoo and saw the zoo's pandas.
In the evening, the President and First Lady
attended a cultural program with Premier and
Madame Chou and Chiang Ch'ing, the wife of
Chairman Mao Tse-tung. They saw a perform-
ance of the ballet, "The Red Detachment of
Women."
Wednesday, February 23
The President and Premier Chou met in
the afternoon for 4 hours of discussions at the
guest house where the President was staying.
The First Lady visited the Evergreen Peo-
ple's Commune on the west edge of Peking. In
her hour-long tour, she visited the commune's
clinic, where she observed acupuncture treat-
ments, second- and third-grade classrooms, a
commune home, agricultural areas and green-
houses, and a dry goods store.
In the afternoon, Mrs. Nixon visited the
Peking Glassware Factory and talked with
workers making glass flowers and animals.
In the evening, with Premier Chou En-lai,
the President and Mrs. Nixon attended a public
exhibition of gymnastics, badminton, and table
tennis at the Capital Gymnasium.
Thursday, February 24
The President and Mrs. Nixon, accompanied
by Vice Premier Li Hsien-nien, drove 35 miles
north of Peking to visit the Ba Da Ling portion
of the Great Wall of China, and then the tombs
of the emperors of the Ming Dynasty.
In the afternoon, the President and Premier
Chou met again for 3 hours of discussion. The
President and Mrs. Nixon later attended an in-
formal private dinner hosted by Premier Chou
in the Great Hall.
Friday, February 25
In the morning, the President and Mrs.
Nixon went to the Forbidden City, the site in
Peking of the residence of the emperors for
some 800 years prior to the early 20th century.
They were accompanied by Marshal Yeh
Chien-ying, Vice Chairman of the Military Af-
fairs Commission.
In the afternoon, the President met again
with Premier Chou for an hour.
The First Lady toured the Peking Children's
Hospital.
Marking the final evening of their Peking
stay, the President and the First Lady hosted
a banquet honoring Premier Chou and other
Chinese officials in the Great Hall.
Saturday, February 26
At the Peking Airport, the President and
Premier Chou and other officials of the United
States and the People's Republic met in plenary
session for approximately one hour.
The President and the First Lady, with
Premier Chou, then boarded the Premier's
plane for the flight to Hangchow, People's
Republic of China. From Hangchow Airport,
they drove to a guest house on West Lake,
a park and recreational site, where they were
to spend the night.
In the afternoon, they joined in a walking
tour of Flower Fort Park and a boat tour of
West Lake, stopping briefly at the Island of
Three Towers Reflecting the Moon. Mrs. Nixon
also visited the Temple of the Great Buddha.
They were entertained in the evening at a
banquet given by the Chekiang Province Rev-
olutionary Committee.
Sunday, February 27
With Premier Chou, the President and the
First Lady flew in the Premier's plane from
Hangchow Airport to Shanghai. From Shang-
hai Airport, they motorcaded to the Shanghai
Industrial Exhibition, where, with Premier
Chou, they toured exhibits of heavy machinery
and electronic equipment, handicrafts, surgical
techniques, textiles, light industry, musical in-
struments, toys, and arts and crafts.
Mrs. Nixon also visited the Shanghai Munic-
ipal Children's Palace, where she watched
demonstrations of dancing, gymnastics, a pup-
pet show, theatrics, swordplay, and art by
students at the center. Her guide was Chang
Hong, a fifth-grade student.
In the late afternoon, the joint communique
agreed upon by the President and Premier
Chou was released.
In the evening, the President and First Lady
were guests at a banquet in the Shanghai Ex-
366
