Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [267]
those who whine and whimper about our
frustrations and call on us to turn inward.
Let us not turn away from greatness.
The chance America now has to lead
the way to a lasting peace in the world
may never come again.
With faith in God and faith in our-
selves and faith in our country, let us
have the vision and the courage to seize
the moment and meet the challenge be-
fore it slips away.
On your television screen last night, you
saw the cemetery in Leningrad I visited
on my trip to the Soviet Union-where
300,000 people died in the siege of that
city during World War II.
At the cemetery I saw the picture of a
12-year-old girl. She was a beautiful child.
Her name was Tanya.
I read her diary. It tells the terrible
story of war. In the simple words of a
child she wrote of the deaths of the mem-
bers of her family. Zhenya in December.
Grannie in January. Then Leka. Then
Uncle Vasya. Then Uncle Lyosha. Then
Mama in May. And finally-these were
the last words in her diary: "All are dead.
Only Tanya is left."
Let us think of Tanya and of the other
Tanyas and their brothers and sisters
everywhere in Russia, in China, in Amer-
ica, as we proudly meet our respon-
sibilities for leadership in the world in a
way worthy of a great people.
I ask you, my fellow Americans, to join
our new majority not just in the cause of
winning an election, but in achieving a
hope that mankind has had since the
beginning of civilization. Let us build a
peace that our children and all the chil-
dren of the world can enjoy for genera-
tions to come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:27 p.m. in
Convention Hall, Miami Beach, Fla. His re-
marks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his remarks was released
on the same day.
267 Remarks at the American Legion's Annual National
Convention in Chicago, Illinois.
Commander Geiger, my comrades in the
American Legion, those who are here
from the Legion Auxiliary, all of our very
distinguished guests, and all of the past
commanders and others who are distin-
guished guests here on the platform:
It is indeed a very great honor for me
to appear before this convention. It seems
that this is my week to appear before con-
ventions. But having first addressed a
Legion convention when I was a junior
Senator from the State of California back
in the year 1951, I know that we do not
discuss partisan politics, so I won't tell you
which party nominated me.
August 24, 1972
What I would like to say today is
that, first, I am aware of the magnificent
tradition of the Legion, the fact that we
think in terms of our country; we recog-
nize that partisan differences really don't
matter where the national defense is in-
volved and where the peace and security
of America is involved. We are not Re-
publicans, we are not Democrats, we are
Americans. And that is what the Legion
feels.
My friend Don Johnson-I was saying
to Commander Geiger that he was the
tallest man who had been commander of
the Legion since Johnson, and they are
795
