[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
There are now a number of proposals
before the Congress, with strong support,
to amend the Constitution in ways de-
signed to abolish busing or to bar the
courts from ordering it.
These proposals should continue to re-
ceive the particularly thoughtful and
careful consideration by the Congress that
any proposal to amend the Constitution
merits.
It is important to recognize, however,
that a Constitutional amendment-even if
it could secure the necessary two-thirds
support in both Houses of the Congress-
has a serious flaw: it would have no im-
pact this year; it would not come into
effect until after the long process of ratifi-
cation by three-fourths of the State legis-
latures. What is needed is action now; a
Constitutional amendment fails to meet
this immediate need.
Legislation meets the problem now.
Therefore, I recommend that as its first
priority the Congress go forward immedi-
ately on the legislative route. Legislation
can also treat the question with far greater
precision and detail than could the neces-
sarily generalized language of a Constitu-
tional amendment, while making possible
a balanced, comprehensive approach to
equal educational opportunity.
CONCLUSION
These measures I have proposed would
place firm and effective curbs on busing-
and they would do so in a Constitutional
way, aiding rather than challenging the
courts, respecting the mandate of the 14th
Amendment, and exercising the responsi-
bility of the Congress to enforce that
Amendment.
Beyond making these proposals, I am
directing the Executive departments to
follow policies consistent with the prin-
ciples on which they are based-which
will include intervention by the Justice
Department in selected cases before the
courts, both to implement the stay and to
resolve some of those questions on which
the lower courts have gone beyond the
Supreme Court.
The Equal Educational Opportunities
Act I have proposed reflects a serious and
wide-ranging process of consultation-
drawing upon the knowledge and experi-
ence of legislators, Constitutional scholars,
educators and government administrators,
and of men and women from all races and
regions of the country who shared
with us the views and feelings of their
communities.
Its design is in large measure the prod-
uct of that collaboration. When enacted
it would, for the first time, furnish a
framework for collaborative action by the
various branches of Federal and local gov-
ernment, enabling courts and communi-
ties to shape effective educational solu-
tions which are responsive not only to
Constitutional standards but also to the
physical and human reality of diverse
educational situations.
It will create more local choice and
more options to choose from; and it will
marshal and target Federal resources more
effectively in support of each particular
community's effort.
Most importantly, however, these pro-
posals undertake to address the problem
that really lies at the heart of the issue at
this time: the inherent inability of the
courts, acting alone, to deal effectively
and acceptably with the new magnitude
442
