[266] Aug. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
millions of Americans, we won a great
victory in 1968.
Tonight, I again proudly accept your
nomination for President of the United
States.
Let us pledge ourselves to win an even
greater victory this November, in 1972.
I congratulate Chairman Ford. I con-
gratulate Chairman Dole, Anne Arm-
strong¹ and the hundreds of others who
have laid the foundation for that victory
by their work at this great convention.
Our platform is a dynamic program for
progress for America and for peace in the
world.
Speaking in a very personal sense, I
express my deep gratitude to this conven-
tion for the tribute you have paid to the
best campaigner in the Nixon family-
my wife Pat. In honoring her, you have
honored millions of women in America
who have contributed in the past and will
contribute in the future so very much to
better government in this country.
Again, as I did last night when I was
not at the convention, I express the ap-
preciation of all of the delegates and of
all America for letting us see young
America at its best at our convention. As
I express my appreciation to you, I want
to say that you have inspired us with your
enthusiasm, with your intelligence, with
your dedication at this convention. You
have made us realize that this is a year
when we can prove the experts' predic-
tions wrong, because we can set as our goal
winning a majority of the new voters for
our ticket this November.
¹ Representative Gerald R. Ford was perma-
nent chairman of the 1972 Republican National
Convention; Senator Robert Dole was chair-
man of the Republican National Committee;
and Anne Armstrong was secretary of the
convention.
I pledge to you, all of the new voters
in America who are listening on television
and listening here in this convention hall,
that I will do everything that I can over
these next 4 years to make your support
be one that you can be proud of, because
as I said to you last night, and I feel it
very deeply in my heart: Years from now
I want you to look back and be able to
say that your first vote was one of the best
votes you ever cast in your life.
Mr. Chairman, I congratulate the dele-
gates to this convention for renominating
as my running mate the man who has just
so eloquently and graciously introduced
me, Vice President Ted Agnew.
I thought he was the best man for the
job 4 years ago.
I think he is the best man for the job
today.
And I am not going to change my mind
tomorrow.
Finally, as the Vice President has indi-
cated, you have demonstrated to the Na-
tion that we can have an open convention
without dividing Americans into quotas.
Let us commit ourselves to rule out
every vestige of discrimination in this
country of ours. But my fellow Americans,
the way to end discrimination against
some is not to begin discrimination against
others.
Dividing Americans into quotas is
totally alien to the American tradition.
Americans don't want to be part of a
quota. They want to be part of America.
This Nation proudly calls itself the United
States of America. Let us reject any
philosophy that would make us the di-
vided people of America.
In that spirit, I address you tonight, my
fellow Americans, not as a partisan of
party, which would divide us, but as a
partisan of principles, which can unite us.
788
