[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
modernizing, and projecting Soviet power
in new areas of the globe, we have taken
steps to strengthen American and allied
capabilities.
In ensuring the continuing viability of
our national defense, we are establishing
a sound basis for our strategic and gen-
eral purpose forces that is compatible with
our arms control efforts, our political ob-
jectives, and the potential threats to our
security.
The chapters that follow set forth our
defense policies and the challenges we
face.
STRATEGIC POLICY AND FORCES
"We must be more resourceful than
ever in the pursuit of peace, and at the
same time more determined than ever in
the maintenance of our defenses. For even
as many things are changing in the world
of the 1970s, one fact remains: American
strength is the keystone in the structure of
peace."
Address to the
U.S. Military Academy
May 29, 1971
Of the many elements that constitute
military power in the nuclear age, stra-
tegic nuclear forces are most crucial.
Strategic forces:
-Are the primary deterrent to nuclear
attacks against the United States or
its allies;
-Compel an aggressor contemplating
less than all-out attacks to recognize
the unacceptable risk of escalation;
and
-Reduce the likelihood of intimidation
or coercion of the U.S. or its allies.
When this Administration took office,
the United States for the first time faced
the prospect of a rough parity with the
USSR in strategic forces. While the Soviet
Union had moved forward with great
energy, the U.S. had held its strategic mis-
sile launchers at existing levels for nearly
four years.
Assessing the implications of the emerg-
ing balance was an urgent task. Rather
than simply adding up the relative size or
capabilities of Soviet and American stra-
tegic forces, we had to address broader
underlying questions.
-Would parity in strategic power in-
crease or decrease the probability of
nuclear war?
-Would the continuing momentum of
Soviet strategic programs give them
political advantages?
-What actually were the new capa-
bilities of our adversaries? What
trends in deployments and doctrines
were implicit? What were their stra-
tegic alternatives?
Only by examining such questions could
we make rational decisions on the size and
composition of American strategic forces
and evaluate the alternative postures we
might adopt in the future.
A fundamental factor in determining
the quantitative and qualitative charac-
teristics of our strategic posture was the
development of a doctrine for employ-
ment of these forces in the environment
of the 1970's. In the 1950's, when the
U.S. had a near monopoly in strategic
nuclear forces, it was felt that deterrence
could be maintained by a doctrine of all-
out massive response.
As Soviet strategic capabilities devel-
oped early in the last decade, a more
flexible range of responses was believed
necessary. Emphasis was placed on the
ability to destroy selectively an enemy's
military forces while sparing the civilian
306
