[208] June 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
opportunity truly equal-the study of
what is needed, both inside and outside
the school, to ensure that our compen-
satory education efforts will be successful.
In the amendments dealing with the
busing of public school children, however,
this measure is most obviously deficient.
Had these disappointing measures alone
come to this office-detached from the
higher education reforms-they would
have been the subject of an immediate
veto.
Some months ago, Congress was called
upon to make a joint commitment with
the Executive, to resolve the spreading
social crisis that has arisen in this Nation
as a result of massive court-ordered busing
of public school children for the purpose
of racial integration. One city after an-
other-South, North, East, and West-
has been confronted with court orders re-
quiring an enormous price, not simply in
the well-being of the children involved but
in educational funds, community tensions,
and community division. Because, by and
large, these orders have been handed
down by Federal courts, the American
people looked to the Federal Government
for clarification, for guidance, for relief.
Congress has provided virtually none.
We asked the Congress to draw up new
uniform national desegregation standards
for all school districts-South, North,
East, and West. The Congress determined
to allow the existing inequities and in-
justices to remain.
We asked the Congress to provide uni-
form guidance to Federal judges so that
court-ordered busing to integrate public
school systems would be used only as a
last-never a first-resort. The Congress
apparently declines to provide such
guidance.
We asked the Congress to put a limit
on any future court-orderd busing of
schoolchildren from kindergarten through
the sixth grade. Congress refused to act.
As a result future court decisions may
treat the kindergarten children in the
same fashion as they treat seniors in high
school. That is wrong, but the Congress
has thus far refused to correct the situa-
tion.
We asked the Congress for legislation
granting relief for those many school
districts already operating under court
orders that require busing far in excess
of reasonable standards. Congress has
thus far provided those dozens of districts
with no hope, and no relief.
We asked the Congress for a mora-
torium-no more Federal court-ordered
school busing until such new standards
were set up and applied equally to cities
South and North. Congress refused-
providing instead only a temporary stay,
pending appeal, and applied only to a
very limited type of court order, and only
so long as litigants can manage to keep
an appeal alive. It applies only to certain
kinds of court orders. An adroit order-
drafter may be able to prevent any effec-
tive application of this law. This action
by the Congress can be construed, not
unfairly, as a breathing spell designed less
for the harassed school districts of this
country than for Congressmen them-
selves.
Congress has not given us the answer
we requested; it has given us rhetoric. It
has not provided a solution to the prob-
lem of court-ordered busing; it has pro-
vided a clever political evasion. The
moratorium it offers is temporary; the
relief it provides is illusory.
Confronted with one of the burning
social issues of the past decade, and an
unequivocal call for action from the vast
702
