[338] Oct. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
election with the thought that defeating
me was more in their interest than elect-
ing my opponent.
I do not claim that that was the case.
I must say that both Senator Humphrey
and I, I think, were quite responsible in
that election campaign in refusing to com-
ment on what were then only preliminary
negotiations, recognizing that any com-
ment by one who might be President
might jeopardize
the success
negotiations.
of
Now, as far as Hanoi's putting their
eggs in that basket, that only indicates
that the American political scene is one
that no one can predict. Despite what the
polls say and despite some indications on
our side that we believe we have a good
chance to win, there are many in this
country and many abroad who think that
there is a chance the other side might
win.
Under those circumstances, they obvi-
ously could conclude, with some justifica-
tion, that my insistence that we will never
agree to a settlement which would impose
a Communist government directly or in-
directly on the people of South Vietnam,
as compared with the statements of our
opponents to the contrary on this par-
ticular point, might be influencing them.
On the other hand, we are talking. If
we have the opportunity, we will continue
to talk before this election and we will
try to convince them that waiting until
after the election is not good strategy.
THE BOMBING OF NORTH VIETNAM
[4.] Q. Mr. President, there are those
of your critics who say that the bombing
is really serving no useful purpose and it
is needless. What purpose is the bombing
now serving in view of the fact that the
negotiations have not resulted in a settle-
ment and in view of the fact that there
still seems to be a good deal of military
activity in the South?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think, Mr.
Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily
News], you could really go further. There
are those who say that the bombing and
the mining have served no useful purpose
and are serving no useful purpose. Those
same critics, however, as I pointed out in
San Clemente, and have since had an
opportunity to review, on May 1, that
weekend, all had reached the conclusion
that South Vietnam was down the tube.
Time, Newsweek, the New York Times,
the Washington Post, the three television
network commentators-I am not refer-
ring, of course, to you ladies and gentle-
men who are reporters-all in varying
degrees wrote and spoke of the specter of
defeat and the hopelessness of the South
Vietnamese cause.
On May 8, I acted to prevent that
Communist takeover, which all of these
same critics then predicted. After I took
that action of mining and bombing, the
same critics predicted that the summit
was torpedoed. Some even went so far as
to say we were risking World War III.
Those predictions proved to be wrong.
Now these same critics say that the bomb-
ing and mining was not necessary, it has
accomplished no purpose, and is not neces-
sary for the future. Well, I would say,
based on their track record, I would not
give much credence to what the critics
have said in this respect.
I will only say the bombing and mining
was essential to turn around what was a
potentially disastrous situation in South
Vietnam. The back of the enemy offensive
has been broken. They hold no provincial
capitals now at all.
954
