Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 5 [412]
million boys and girls, young men and
women-will not be old enough to vote
on Tuesday, but they will live for the rest
of their lives with the consequences of
the decision we, the voters, make. Addi-
tionally, during the 4 years of the next
Presidential term, nearly 15 million new-
born children will begin their lives in
America--in a nation and in a world not
of their making, but of our making.
I would like to spend a few minutes
thinking with you this afternoon about
the birthright we ought to guarantee for
them. I would like to look beyond the
election and focus on the things which
I believe all Americans, no matter how
they vote on Tuesday, will want their
Nation to achieve in the 4 years between
now and 1976.
The 10 goals in this birthright are not
intended to be my campaign promises to
you, for they are not something which any
one man, by himself, could hope to de-
liver. To achieve them, all Americans
must join hands and work together.
So we might think of these goals as
campaign promises which America should
make to itself, promises to be honored in
the next 4 years, no matter who wins in
the next 2 days.
First, let us give tomorrow's children
the birthright of an America at peace in
a world at peace-not peace with sur-
render, but peace with honor-not just an
interlude between wars, but a time of last-
ing friendship and cooperation among all
peoples, a time when mankind can unite
in a new alliance against our common
enemies-poverty, misery, and disease.
The recent breakthrough toward a ne-
gotiated settlement in Vietnam points to
that kind of peace. So does the new re-
lationship which the United States has
begun to develop with the Soviet Union
and the People's Republic of China. But
there is much more to do the further
limitation of nuclear arms, the easing of
tensions in Europe, the healing of tragic
divisions in the Middle East, the con-
tinued strengthening of our alliances, the
forging of new trade patterns and the con-
tinued development of our volunteer
armed forces, which will be the indispen-
sable linchpin of America's peace forces
in the years ahead.
Peace, more than anything else, can
enrich the lives of the children of the
seventies. It is for their sake that we have
worked so hard to give peace a chance
and for their sake we must continue to
do so.
Some of these new children will be
girls, some will be boys. Some will be
white, some black, some brown. Will dis-
crimination and quotas limit their
horizons? Let us resolve that they will not.
As our second goal for the next 4 years,
let us seek a more just America—an
America in which every human being,
regardless of race or religion, age or sex,
wealth or national origin, enjoys equal
rights before the law and unlimited op-
portunities for realizing his or her fullest
potential.
Will the new children enjoy sound
health, adequate nourishment, good
medical care? Or will they have to con-
tend with the hazards of a society where
infant mortality is still higher than in
numerous other countries of the world,
and where cancer still strikes one Ameri-
can in four sometime during his lifetime?
Let us make our third goal a healthy
America, where all our people enjoy
steadily better health and increasing lon-
gevity, where hunger is unknown, and
1135
