[28] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Action Office for Drug Abuse Preven-
tion, which helped in the development
of this new law enforcement program, has
assured me that we will be able to meet
an increased demand in the treatment
field if the Congress passes its new
legislation.
Drug abuse, as I said in my message
on the State of the Union, saps our Na-
tion's strength and destroys our Nation's
character. The Federal Government can-
not meet this menace alone-but it can
take a strong leadership position. I be-
lieve we have developed a Federal pro-
29
gram for combating drug abuse which is
both firm and compassionate. With the
cooperation of the Congress, the State and
local
governments, and the American peo-
ple, that program will continue to grow
in effectiveness.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the new drug abuse law en-
forcement program. Participants in the news
briefing were John N. Mitchell, Attorney Gen-
eral, and Myles J. Ambrose, Special Assistant
Attorney General, Office for Drug Abuse Law
Enforcement, Department of Justice.
Remarks on Presenting the Presidential Medal of Freedom
to DeWitt and Lila Acheson Wallace. January 28, 1972
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace and ladies and
gentlemen:
This is a birthday party, as you all
know, for the Reader's Digest, which is 50
years old. We have tried to pay a tribute
to the Digest and to the founders of the
Digest a little earlier in the State Dining
Room, but since we have some special
guests who were not able to join us there,
but who we understand were able to be
with us at another room that was available
and also some special guests from the
press, I think that all of us in this room
would like to pay tribute to our honored
guests.
I do not want to repeat here what I
said in the Dining Room. And I have been
trying to think of something that would
perhaps express the feelings of everybody
here who knows the Wallaces on this spe-
cial day.
I think of the Digest, the years that I
have read it and all the special articles,
"How to Increase Your Word Power,"
"Life in These United States," but I think
of all the special articles that I remember,
the features, the one that perhaps made
the most indelible impression was the
series, "The Most Unforgettable Char-
acter I Ever Met."
Tonight we could speak of Lila and
DeWitt Wallace in terms of by far the
biggest circulation of any publication in
the world. We could speak of them as
having created a publication that is now
read by over 100 million people in the
world. We could speak of them also as
people who have created a publication
which has perhaps, in the deepest sense,
done more good in creating a feeling of
idealism in this country and among people
abroad, understanding of this country,
than any publication we have ever had.
All of those things have been said and
can be said by anyone. But I think for us,
and everybody in this room is in that cate-
gory tonight, who consider ourselves to be
the Wallaces' special friends, I think we
would say that in that 50 years of that
wonderful series, "The Most Unforget-
118
