Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 24 [103]
in four other States which came to our
attention, we have found that there is sub-
stantial evidence to indicate that if we can
get $300 a student or more into those
schools, it will raise the level of education
in those areas. That is why we are going
down this road.
Another point I should cover, inciden-
tally, since this subject has been raised, is
the matter of new money. Let me say there
is certainly a great deal of new money in
this program. First, you must remember
that the Congress has not yet passed and
has not yet sent to my desk a request for a
billion dollars in emergency school aid
funds that I have asked for; that billion
dollars will go into this program.
Second, we have asked not only that
that billion dollars come here, but that the
program be 4 years, rather than simply
one year, because our proposal, as you
know, was simply a one-shot proposal for
a billion and a half. So that means that
you have $22 billion in new money.
I would say in conclusion, I would like
to be able to assure everybody here that
this program of compensatory education,
concentrating money in some of these
areas on students who will never be helped
by any program of busing at all, no matter
how extreme, I would like to say that it
will succeed. I am not sure, but I do know
that we cannot go on with the present
situation where we leave them there grow-
ing up in inferior schools with no chance
for hope.
I know Mr. Shultz believes-and others,
experts that I have talked to-this "criti-
cal mass" approach will get at the prob-
lem. I just want to say, however, that as
far as desegregation is concerned, this Ad-
ministration has made great progress in
desegregation. There are more black stu-
dents that go to majority white schools in
the South than in the North at the present
time. The dual school system has been
virtually eliminated.
What we were trying to get at is the
problem of busing, busing which is a bad
means because it compounds the evil
which Brown v. the Board of Education
was trying to get at. Also it poisons rela-
tions between the races, its creates racism,
and it was time for somebody to move on
it in what I thought was a responsible way.
MR. FLANIGAN
[7.] Q. To go back to the ITT case
for a moment, since you have said that you
see nothing improper in Mr. Flanigan's
activities in the various cases that you
mentioned, will you permit him to testify
before the Senate Judiciary Committee if
he is invited to do so?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Ziegler answered
that question, I will not respond further.
PRE-CONVENTION POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
[8.] Q. Would you care to comment on
the primaries and do you expect Con-
gressman Ashbrook to go right down to the
wire to the convention and go for the
nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. I realize that a lot of
you have political questions. You may re-
member, as, I think, the first president of
the Press Club that I ever introduced at
one of your meetings many, many years
ago, that I stated several months ago that
in Presidential press conferences I would
not answer questions on partisan political
matters until after the Republican Con-
vention. That includes the Republicans.
That includes the Democrats. That in-
cludes those who may leave the Republi-
cans or leave the Democrats.
87-294- -74- -35
493
