Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 23 [266]
Six weeks ago our opponents at their
convention rejected many of the great
principles of the Democratic Party. To
those millions who have been driven out
of their home in the Democratic Party,
we say come home. We say come home not
to another party, but we say come home
to the great principles we Americans be-
lieve in together.
And I ask you, my fellow Americans,
tonight to join us not in a coalition held
together only by a desire to gain power.
ask you to join us as members of a new
American majority bound together by our
common ideals.
I ask everyone listening to me tonight—
Democrats, Republicans, independents,
to join our new majority-not on the basis
of the party label you wear in your lapel,
but on the basis of what you believe in
your hearts.
In asking for your support I shall not
dwell on the record of our Administration
which has been praised perhaps too gen-
erously by others at this convention.
We have made great progress in these
past 4 years.
It can truly be said that we have
changed America and that America has
changed the world. As a result of what
we have done, America today is a better
place and the world is a safer place to
live in than was the case 4 years ago.
We can be proud of that record, but
we shall never be satisfied. A record is not
something to stand on; it is something to
build on.
Tonight I do not ask you to join our
new majority because of what we have
done in the past. I ask your support of the
principles I believe should determine
America's future.
The choice in this election is not be-
tween radical change and no change. The
choice in this election is between change
that works and change that won't work.
I begin with an article of faith.
It has become fashionable in recent
years to point up what is wrong with what
is called the American system. The critics
contend it is so unfair, so corrupt, so un-
just, that we should tear it down and
substitute something else in its place.
I totally disagree. I believe in the Amer-
ican system.
I have traveled to 80 countries in the
past 25 years, and I have seen Communist
systems, I have seen Socialist systems, I
have seen systems that are half Socialist
and half free.
Every time I come home to America, I
realize how fortunate we are to live in this
great and good country.
Every time I am reminded that we have
more freedom, more opportunity, more
prosperity than any people in the world,
that we have the highest rate of growth of
any industrial nation, that Americans have
more jobs at higher wages than in any
country in the world; that our rate of in-
flation is less than that of any industrial
nation, that the incomparable produc-
tivity of America's farmers has made it
possible for us to launch a winning war
against hunger in the United States, and
that the productivity of our farmers also
makes us the best fed people in the world
with the lowest percentage of the family
budget going to food of any country in the
world.
We can be very grateful in this country
that the people on welfare in America
would be rich in most of the nations of
the world today.
Now, my fellow Americans, in pointing
up those things, we do not overlook the
fact that our system has its problems.
Our Administration, as you know, has
87-234-7454
789
