[101] Mar. 23 Public Papers of the Presidents
finish, and, with the support of the Ameri-
can people, we shall win it.
force. All Americans, including particu-
larly the 80 million wage earners in this
country, have a stake in winning the fight
against inflation. This is a fight to the
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
102
Statement About New Composition of Pay Board
Membership Following Resignations of Certain
Labor Members. March 23, 1972
THE SPIRIT of voluntary cooperation
is the key to victory in the battle against
inflation. I emphasized this point when I
first announced my new economic policy
last August and repeated it last October
outlining the price stabilization program.
I described at that time some of the sacri-
fices which millions of Americans were
making in the fight against rising prices.
And I indicated that our success in this
struggle would ultimately depend on the
willingness of all our people to "put the
public interest ahead of the special in-
terest"-and thus to continue that good
fight.
That is why the decision of three of the
five representatives of organized labor to
resign from the Pay Board is a disservice to
the American people.
Since it was established last October-
at the specific urging of organized labor—
this tripartite Board has been a central
part of the Phase 2 program.
There has been much strong evidence
that this program is succeeding. In the 6
months from August 1971 to February
1972, the rise in the Consumer Price Index
was cut to an annual rate of 3.3 percent,
down from a 4.1 percent increase in the
previous 6 months. Real, spendable
weekly wages after taxes rose 5.4 percent
in the last 6 months, compared to a 1.3
percent increase in the previous 6 months.
In the last 6 months, seasonally adjusted
employment rose 1,123,000, while unem-
ployment declined by 234,000.
Any program of controls in a free econ-
omy will have its ups and downs. But
what is important is that we are moving
in the right direction. The wage and price
control system is working. But continued
cooperation of all Americans is needed
if we are to win the battle against
inflation.
In these circumstances, the decision of
three of the labor representatives to walk
off the job of fighting inflation is totally
selfish and irresponsible.
The west coast longshoremen's settle-
ment was the only specific case referred to
in yesterday's statement by the executive
council of the AFL-CIO, a statement
which severely criticized the general pat-
tern of Pay Board decisions. The Pay
Board disallowed a 20.6 percent compen-
sation increase which Mr. Meany and his
colleagues supported but approved a 14.9
percent increase, even though it was more
than double the general limit which the
Board had set.
The Pay Board was right and Mr.
Meany was wrong on this issue.
The general pattern of decisions of the
Pay Board is one with which the labor
representatives have largely agreed. Of
the 54 Pay Board decisions to date, labor
486
