[58] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
tal Relations to study this problem as to
how general tax reform might be under-
taken which would meet the objections to
the property tax and perhaps mitigate the
inequities and find another source of
revenue to replace it.
Now we come to the value-added tax.
The value-added tax should be put in
perspective. We have not recommended
a value-added tax and at the present time
it is one of a number of proposals being
considered by the Treasury Department,
by the Domestic Council, and the others
with responsibility, as part of a general
tax reform.
But one point that should be made is
this: The property tax is regressive. In the
event that we finally decide, after hearing
from these two Commissions, that tax re-
form is necessary for the future, and it will
have to be next year and not this, we are
certainly not going to replace one regres-
sive tax with another regressive tax.
That is why when you discuss value-
added-and Secretary Connally and I
have had a long discussion about this just
2 days ago and we are going to discuss it
again in Florida tomorrow, along with
other problems of that type-when you
discuss value-added, it can't even be con-
sidered unless the formula can be found
to remove its regressive features, if you had
it across the board. I don't know whether
such a formula can be found.
But to sum up, we have made no deci-
sion with regard to a value-added tax. At
the present time, we have not yet found
a way, frankly, that we could recommend
it to replace the property tax. But, with
the obligation to face up to the need to
reduce or reform property taxes, the
Treasury Department necessarily is con-
sidering other methods of taxation.
And I emphasize again, there will be no
new taxes this year and, second, whenever
any tax reform is recommended by this
Administration, it will not be one which
will replace one form of regression with
another form of regression. It will not be
one that increases the tax burden for
Americans. It will be one that simply re-
forms it and makes it more equitable.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press).
Thank you, Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, we haven't had a
press conference with you for 3 months. I
wonder if we could have one or two more
questions.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, sure. Go ahead.
U.S. POSITION ON INDIA-PAKISTAN WAR
[13.] Q. I would like to ask you, Mr.
President, about the statements that were
made by the Administration officials dur-
ing the India-Pakistan war. Mr. Kissinger
told us, during that war, that this Admin-
istration had no bias toward India. Sub-
sequently, papers came to light quoting
Mr. Kissinger saying that he was getting
hell from you every half hour because the
Government wasn't-
THE PRESIDENT. Every hour. [Laughter]
Q.- -because the Government wasn't
tilting enough toward Pakistan.
THE PRESIDENT. Keep your good hu-
mor, otherwise you lose your colleagues.
Q. I am wondering from a credibility
standpoint, how do you reconcile these
two things?
THE PRESIDENT. I remember being in
this office on what I think was one of
the saddest days of President Eisenhower's
Presidency. At the time we had come out
against the British, the French, and the
Israelis in the Suez crisis. We did so be-
cause we were against the war, not because
we were anti-British, anti-French, or anti-
356
