[239] July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the 800,000 refugees who came south,
there were at least a half million who died
in slave labor camps in North Vietnam.
Now, I do not relate this series of in-
cidents for the purpose of saying, because
they did something bad, we can do some-
thing bad.
What I am simply saying is, let's
not have a hypocritical double standard.
The United States has been restrained-
greater restraint than any great power has
ever shown-in handling this war. We
will continue to be restrained. We have
to do what is necessary against military
targets in order to accomplish the objec-
tives that I have described in my goal in
my speech of May 8.
But on the other hand, as far as this
particular matter is concerned, I can only
say that if damage did occur that we are
making every possible effort to see that it
will not occur again, which gets to your
question. Military commanders, aircraft
commanders, and so forth, in terms of
where military targets are, are instructed
to avoid civilian damage where they can.
That is why some targets in the heart
of Hanoi-for example, major power in-
stallations, fuel installations, in the heart
of Hanoi-have not been hit, because I
have not wanted to have civilian casual-
ties if we could possibly avoid it.
I will simply close by saying that this
is a major propaganda campaign; it is one
that does concern us. But let us keep the
record straight. In the event that the
United States followed the course of ac-
tion recommended by some of those who
have voted for the so-called End the War
Resolution in the Senate of the United
States, it would mean that there would
be visited upon South Vietnam the same
atrocities that were visited upon North
Vietnam, with perhaps at least a million
marked for assassination because they had
fought against the North Vietnamese at-
tempt to conquer South Vietnam.
I will add one other thing. As far as
the negotiations are concerned, we are
negotiating. We have negotiated in public.
We have had one private conference a
week ago, lasting approximately 6 hours.
We hope to continue to negotiate.
We have made fair offers on with-
drawal, on cease-fire, on political settle-
ment. We have not made them on a take-
it-or-leave-it basis.
We made fair offers on exchange of
prisoners of war and accounting for miss-
ing in action every place in Southeast Asia.
But having done this, there is one thing
that we have not offered-and this is the
one hangup in the settlement today—and
that is the demand of the enemy indirectly
or directly to do what they cannot accom-
plish themselves: impose a Communist
government in South Vietnam. That
would be the height of immorality, to
impose on the 17 million people of South
Vietnam a Communist government with
the bloodbath that would follow.
POLITICAL SETTLEMENT IN VIETNAM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you mentioned
a political settlement. What do you fore-
see as a possibility without necessarily elec-
tions-do you see the two factions in
South Vietnam coming together in some
kind of an agreement without an elec-
tion as one possible solution in the Paris
talks?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very percep-
tive question, but it is one that I think
any of you here would agree that I should
not comment upon for the reason that
negotiations are now underway. I have
read these long negotiating sessions-the
746
