[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
must respond to the call which has been
a central theme of this message--the call
to reason and to realism.
To meet the challenge of complexity
we must also learn to disperse and decen-
tralize power-at home and abroad-
allowing more people in more places to
release their creative energies. We must
remember that the greatest resource for
good in this world is the power of the
people themselves-not moving in lock-
step to the commands of the few-but
providing their own discipline and dis-
covering their own destiny.
Above all, we must not lose our capacity
to dream, to see, amid the realities of to-
day, the possibilities for tomorrow. And
then-if we believe in our dreams-we
also must wake up and work for them.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 20, 1972.
NOTE: The President handed his written mes-
sage on the State of the Union to Speaker of
the House Albert and President of the Senate
Agnew at the conclusion of his spoken address.
16 Letter to the Chairman of the Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations About a School Finance
Study. January 20, 1972
Dear Bob:
One of the greatest challenges this Na-
tion faces today is the need to reform our
system of financing public education
which, as you know, primarily depends
on local property taxes. The President's
Commission on School Finance, which I
appointed in 1970, will be transmitting its
recommendations to me in March on the
over-all directions in which we should be
moving.
Any major shift in current reliance on
local school property taxes is likely to have
a significant effect on the relationships
among the Federal government, the states,
and local governments. In our discussion
last week with Neil McElroy,ยน I requested
the Advisory Commission on Intergovern-
mental Relations to undertake a study on
this subject.
ยน On January 13, 1972, the President and the
Vice President met with Robert Merriam,
Chairman, Advisory Commission on Intergov-
ernmental Relations, Neil H. McElroy, Chair-
man, President's Commission on School Fi-
In particular, I would like the Commis-
sion to examine:
(1) the impact on intergovernmental
relations of a tax reform proposal
which would replace residential
school property taxes with a Fed-
eral value added tax;
(2) whether a Federal value added tax
is the best substitute for residential
school property taxes;
(3) if a value added tax is to be utilized
as a substitute for residential school
property taxes (a) what should be
the size and nature of the base of
expenditures subject to the tax,
and (b) what should be the type
of income tax credit or other
method which is utilized to elimi-
nate otherwise regressive aspects of
the tax;
nance, and Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary,
and Sidney P. Marland, Jr., Commissioner
of Education, Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, to discuss school finance
recommendations.
74
