[418] Nov. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
418 Letter to Ambassador Gerard C. Smith on the Opening of
the Second Round of Strategic Arms Limitation
Talks in Geneva. November 21, 1972
Dear Mr. Ambassador:
Three years ago you and your col-
leagues embarked on one of the most
critical negotiations in our history. At that
time there was little assurance that we
could find common ground for discus-
sion, let alone agreement on issues that
had not been fully faced in the post-war
period and that affected the vital security
of the United States and the Soviet Union.
The successful conclusion of the agree-
ments signed on May 26 was a milestone
not only in Soviet-American relations, but
in the larger effort to create a more peace-
ful world.
These agreements, important as they
are, cannot be a cause for complacency.
We have taken the first step and the foun-
dation for new agreements has been
created. Now you face a task which in
many respects is even more complex and
more difficult, for both sides will now be
obligated to make long term commit-
ments, in a permanent agreement, to a
stable strategic relationship for this decade
and beyond.
In my letter to you three years ago ¹ I
1 See 1969 volume, Item 444.
observed that no one could foresee the
outcome of the negotiations, but I also
expressed my conviction that arms con-
trol was in the mutual interest of our
country and of the Soviet Union. We have
learned in the last three years that such
mutual interests do, in fact, exist. The
achievement of the SALT agreements, as
well as the Basic Principles governing our
relations with the USSR, lead me to be-
lieve that your current efforts will meet
with new success.
As you and your Soviet colleagues be-
gin a new round of discussions, you have
with you the hopes of all the American
people and indeed the hopes of all
mankind.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Gerard Smith, Director, Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20451]
NOTE: The letter was dated November 20,
1972, and the text was released November 21
at Camp David, Md. Ambassador Smith, Chair-
man of the United States delegation to the
strategic arms limitation talks, read the letter
at the opening session of the talks at the Soviet
Mission in Geneva on November 21.
419 Telephone Conversation With President Félix
Houphouet-Boigny of the Ivory Coast.
November 27, 1972
PRESIDENT HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY. Mr.
President, the inauguration of our land
station for communications, following the
example set by your great country, gives
me the occasion to reiterate our gratitude
for the contribution you have made to our
1144
