Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [271]
dent talks. When I was in Washington a
few weeks ago, they introduced me right
after Billy Graham prayed, and I had to
do that. But actually, I was in Miami to
do the opening gala there, and I was so
excited about being there that my open-
ing remarks were: "Good evening, ladies
and gentlemen. Welcome to San Diego."
Then I realized we had moved. But it was
a wonderful evening and it was a great
breakfast the next morning.
You know, I had dinner with your wife
Sunday night, and breakfast with your
wife Monday morning, and I hope that
both you and Lois [Mrs. Linkletter] will be
understanding. It was a marvelous con-
vention. I flew down to introduce Ronnie
Reagan, who was going to introduce the
President, and all of a sudden here you
were. You didn't need any introduction.
They knew who you were. Isn't this re-
markable? But we have been friends for
30 years. This is no new alliance for me.
Breakfast Club and programs back when
the President was running for Congress,
and I have seen his family grow up, and
the finest, not just the First Family, the
best American family, and they will be
there another 4 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Incidentally, when
Art talks about all that business of break-
fast and dinner with Pat, I just want to
keep the record straight. He has also slept
in the White House. He slept in the
Queen's Room. When Pat's room is being
painted or anything, she sleeps there, so
we can say that Art Linkletter has slept
in Pat's bed. [Laughter]
ART LINKLETTER. Well, you have my
vote.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:04 p.m. at
San Diego International-Lindbergh Field. He
spoke without referring to notes.
271 Remarks on Arrival in San Clemente, California.
August 24, 1972
WE WANT to express our very great ap-
preciation to all of you for this very won-
derful welcome. When we were flying in
here by the helicopter I was told, that after
we had had a crowd of about 15,000 down
at San Diego, that a few friends were
going to visit us here at San Clemente.
I am glad we have so many friends right
at home. We thank you very much for
coming.
Also you have seen Pat, my wife, and
here is Tricia, born in Whittier, and Ed
Cox.
I know that the hour is late. I know,
too, as I saw all those cars parked, how
hard it was for you to get here and how
long you have been here. I want to say
to everybody here that, as you know, I
have done a lot of traveling over the past
few years. I was just thinking of today. I
started this morning in Miami at the
Homestead Air Force Base where I saw
about 500 GI's who were from Fort Bragg
and shook hands with a lot of them before
they went back to duty up there.
Then we flew to Chicago where we had
a great crowd with the American Legion,
5,000 at McCormick Place. Then we flew
over to Detroit. Then by helicopter, an-
other 20 minutes, to a city about the size
of Whittier where I dedicated a new high
school, the Dwight Eisenhower High
School. We had an opportunity to see
there 2,500 inside, 10,000 outside. Then
817
