[371] Oct. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
creases GI bill education allowance rates
by 25.7 percent for able and disabled vet-
erans and dependents. It also increases
by 48 percent the rates paid to GI bill
trainees taking on-the-job or apprentice-
ship training, and, for the first time, per-
mits the advance payment of allowances
to trainees.
The second of the two bills which I
am signing addresses a separate but re-
lated concern of our veterans. It au-
thorizes Federal grants for the purpose
of founding new medical schools and
training facilities as well as the expansion
of existing schools affiliated with Vet-
erans Administration hospitals.
Not only will this bill assist the VA
medical care system to stay in the fore-
front of medical research, but it will also
permit the expansion of training for
much-needed health manpower.
No group is more deserving of fair
treatment than the gallant men who serve
their Nation in time of conflict. No
measures are more deserving of the full
support of the American people than this
legislation which pays a small part of the
debt we owe to them.
As our involvement in Southeast Asia
has wound down, as the overall troop
strength of our Armed Forces has been
reduced, and as we shift to an all-volun-
teer army, increasing numbers of GI's are
returning to civilian life. They must not
come home to indifference; they must not
come home to an America that ignores
the sacrifices they have made.
They deserve the respect of us all, and
they deserve every opportunity we can
offer them to develop promising civilian
careers. For many of them, the amended
GI bill is a special key to that oppor-
tunity.
The significant increases in benefits in-
cluded in H.R. 12828 will make it easier
for more returning veterans to take full
advantage of the GI bill, but the whole-
hearted cooperation of the private sector
is also needed to develop the fullest po-
tential of this measure.
The time to act is now. There are col-
lege openings-veterans should be filling
them. The economy is expanding-vet-
erans should get first crack at the new
jobs. And, for veterans enrolled in school
under the GI bill, employers should con-
sider splitting some jobs to provide part-
time employment for two or more vet-
erans, as is being done by the Federal
Government. If the Government and the
private sector both do their share, every
GI bill veteran who needs a part-time job
can soon have one.
By giving our veterans the gratitude
and the opportunity they deserve, we are
not only doing the right thing for them-
we are also doing the right thing for all
of us. Each returning veteran is a human
resource, a mature, highly motivated
young citizen who has proven his capac-
ity to serve and to achieve. These young
men and women form one of our strong-
est hopes for the future.
We can never fully repay, in dollars, in
training, and in medical service, the
patriotic sacrifices of the American vet-
eran. But we can, and we shall, use this
means of reaffirming our respect and
gratitude towards them, and it is in this
spirit that I am delighted to sign these
two bills into law.
1026
