Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 14 [122]
I22
Address to a Joint Meeting of the Canadian
Parliament. April 14, 1972
Monsieur l'Orateur de la Chambre des
Communes, Monsieur le Président du
Sénat, Monsieur le Premier Ministre,
Messieurs les Membres des Chambres du
Parlement Canadien, éminents hôtes et
amis:
J'apprécie vivement votre aimable invi-
tation ainsi que votre accueil chaleureux.
To all of you who have welcomed Mrs.
Nixon and me so warmly on this occasion,
I trust you will give me allowances for
trying to speak in the language that I
studied 37 years ago. When I tried it, the
day before I came, on the top linguist in
the American Government, General Wal-
ters,¹ he said, "Go ahead. You speak
French with a Canadian accent."
I will have to admit that I am not very
much at home in the French language,
but as a former parliamentarian in my
own country, I feel very much at home in
this chamber. I am grateful for the high
privilege which your invitation represents.
I am grateful for this chance to return
to Canada, for the opportunity of signing
here an historic agreement to restore and
protect forever the quality of the Great
Lakes we share together. That agreement
testifies to the continuing vitality of our
unique relationship, which has been de-
scribed so eloquently by the Prime Minis-
ter. In discussing that relationship today,
I wish to do so in a way that has not
¹ Lt. Gen. Vernon A. Walters, USA, fre-
quently served as interpreter for United States
officials on foreign trips. He was Defense and
Army Attaché at the American Embassy in Paris
from 1967 until April 1972 when he became
Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency.
always been customary when leaders of
our two countries have met.
Through the years, our speeches on such
occasions have often centered on the
decades of unbroken friendship that we
have enjoyed and our 4,000 miles of un-
fortified boundary. In focusing on our
peaceful borders and our peaceful history,
they have tended to gloss over the fact that
there are real problems between us. They
have tended to create the false impression
that our countries are essentially alike.
It is time for Canadians and Americans
to move beyond the sentimental rhetoric
of the past. It is time for us to recognize:
--that we have very separate identities;
-that we have significant differences;
and
--that nobody's interests are furthered
when these realities are obscured.
Our peaceful borders and our peaceful
history are important symbols, to be sure.
What they symbolize, however, is the
spirit of respect and restraint which al-
lows us to cooperate, despite our differ-
ences, in ways which help us both.
American policy toward Canada is
rooted in that spirit. Our policy toward
Canada reflects the new approach we are
taking in all of our foreign relations—an
approach which has been called the Nixon
Doctrine. That doctrine rests on the
premise that mature partners must have
autonomous, independent policies:
--each nation must define the nature of
its own interests;
--each nation must decide the require-
ments of its own security;
-each nation must determine the path
of its own progress.
537
