[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
from the ILO unless the Congress sees fit
to provide our assessed contributions to
that organization.
AN AREA OF PROGRESS-THE NEW
DIMENSION IN DIPLOMACY
A candid recognition of the problems
which we see in some aspects of the cur-
rent UN performance should not lead us
to lose sight of the fact that it continues,
in other areas, to make significant progress
and to contribute mightily to the well-
being of mankind.
General public knowledge of the UN
is limited to the major conflicts in which
it becomes involved. But the UN is also
deeply engaged in a wide range of con-
structive activities in what I have called
the "quiet side" of the UN. These activ-
ities never make headlines, but that is no
measure of their importance. The UN is
irreplaceable and indefatigable in foster-
ing international cooperation in science,
health, agriculture, navigation, commu-
nications, and many other fields. The fact,
for example, that we no longer need small-
pox vaccinations is largely due to the
patient, worldwide work of the World
Health Organization.
In earlier reports to the Congress and
in my appearances before the UN Gen-
eral Assembly, I have commended to the
attention of the UN a series of urgent
global problems. This is the new dimen-
sion of diplomacy, brought about by the
technological revolution. It consists of
problems which by their very nature in-
volve all the nations of the world, and can
be satisfactorily met only in a context of
the broadest international cooperation
and agreement. All men share an interest
in clean air and water, though they may
differ on how the costs of achieving these
benefits should be allocated. The vast
majority of men wish to preserve them-
selves and their fellowmen from drug ad-
diction and to protect international travel
from air piracy. They wish to see the
frontiers of space and ocean so regulated
as to minimize the potentialities for hu-
man conflict, and to see an effective or-
ganization to provide disaster relief.
These problems constitute a major op-
portunity for the United Nations system.
At a time when political realities inhibit
the UN's ability to meet some of its
original purposes, the new dimension of
diplomacy gives to the UN an agenda of
urgent tasks. Their successful accomplish-
ment will not only be a significant con-
tribution to the well-being of mankind,
but will also serve to inculcate and nurture
among nations the habit of cooperation
for the general good-and for the ultimate
acceptance of the rule of law to govern
international relations. That, after all, is
the heart of the purpose for which the
UN was founded.
The UN possesses special and unique
capacities for dealing with these problems.
It has in being a trained Secretariat. It
can attract the expert talent required. It
can direct attention to the transcendent
global interest in these problems, to which
national interests must be accommodated.
Finally, it can use its moral authority to
stimulate international action.
The progress made in the past year is
described in the following chapter of this
message, but it is gratifying to report here
that the world community has begun to
act vigorously in these areas, and that the
United Nations is playing a central role.
332
