[336] Oct. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Pearl Harbor,
Harbor, more than 100,000
Japanese-Americans were uprooted from
their homes and moved into evacuation
centers, whether they were citizens or
aliens. Even during the war, there was
considerable sentiment that we had over-
reacted. President Franklin D. Roosevelt
said, "Americanism is a matter of mind
and heart; Americanism is not, and never
was, a matter of race or ancestry."
Japanese-Americans were recruited for
the United States Armed Forces, and their
442d Regimental Combat Team became
famous as the "Go For Broke" outfit that
was one of the most highly decorated units
in the United States Army in World
War II.
Not until the enactment of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act in 1952, how-
ever, were lawfully admitted alien Japa-
nese permitted to become naturalized
citizens of the United States. And not for
many years were the Congress and the
courts able to redress one particularly
unfair aspect of the treatment of the
Japanese-Americans. Only gradually were
more than 15,000 Japanese-Americans
who had been evacuated, but not interned
or paroled, permitted to recover their
money which had been deposited in
United States branches of Japanese banks.
The assets of these banks had been seized
along with all other Japanese assets under
the Trading with the Enemy Act during
the war.
Now, this act finally permits between
1,000 and 2,000 Japanese-American
depositors who were interned or paroled
during the war, or their heirs, to file claim
for their assets-31 years after Pearl
Harbor.
The House Interstate and Foreign
Commerce Committee has stated: ". . .
It is the opinion of the committee that the
predominant legal and moral right to
these funds belongs to the Americans of
Japanese ancestry who are the bene-
ficiaries of this legislation."
I agree and I now take this opportu-
nity to express my gratitude for the
contributions Japanese-Americans have
made, and make today, to our country of
which we say, E Pluribus Unum, one out
of many.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8215, approved Octo-
ber 3, 1972, is Public Law 92-458 (86 Stat.
763).
337 Veto of Railroad Retirement Benefits Bill.
October 4, 1972
To the House of Representatives:
I today am returning without my ap-
proval H.R. 15927, a bill which would
jeopardize the fiscal integrity of the rail-
road retirement system and hasten its
bankruptcy.
This bill would provide a "temporary"
increase of 20 percent in railroad retire-
ment benefits, matching the recent in-
crease in social security benefits-but
without any provision for financing the
new benefits.
It would be the third railroad retire-
ment benefit increase in three years-
totaling 51.8 percent in all-to be made
without an accompanying increase in
taxes to finance the benefits.
I am in favor of increased railroad re-
tirement benefits. I would sign a measure
which was adequately financed. But H.R.
950
