Appendix B
February
3 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to acceptance an
amendment to the Statute of the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency.
3 Soviet poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko met with
the President at the White House.
7 The President received a telephone call
from President Alejandro A. Lanusse of
Argentina.
7 The President met with 30 U.S. attorneys
from key cities of the Nation who were in
Washington for a discussion of the drug
problem and related enforcement matters.
7 Ambassadors Moulaye el Hassan of Mauri-
tania and Witold Trampczynski of Poland
presented their credentials to the President
in ceremonies at the White House.
8 The President hosted a reception for par-
ticipants in the United States Jaycees Gov-
ernmental Affairs Leadership Seminar
being held in Washington February 6-9.
9 The President has asked Secretary of Trans-
portation John A. Volpe to be his personal
representative at funeral services for for-
mer Secretary of Commerce Sinclair Weeks.
10 In letters to the President of the Senate
and the Speaker of the House, the President
forwarded proposed legislation to author-
ize appropriations for the United States
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
for 2 years after the expiration of the cur-
rent authorization on June 30, 1972.
11 At Key Biscayne, Fla., the White House an-
nounced that the President welcomes a
new agreement between the United States
and the Soviet Union for a cooperative
program in the field of health. Letters of
agreement signed in Washington and Mos-
cow established a U.S.-U.S.S.R. Joint
Committee for Health Cooperation and
recommended research on cancer, heart dis-
ease, and the environmental health sciences
as the initial areas for the program.
February
14 Senators Howard H. Baker, Jr., Bill Brock,
Robert C. Byrd, Robert P. Griffin, and
John G. Tower and Representatives
Thomas N. Downing, Norman F. Lent, and
Tom Steed met with the President at the
White House to discuss school busing.
14 Ambassador Slaheddine El Goulli of
Tunisia called on the President at the White
House.
14 Senator James L. Buckley of New York
met with the President to report on his
recent trip to eight Asian nations.
16 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification a
partial revision of the radio regulations
(1959) relating to space telecommunica-
tions, with a final protocol, dated at
Geneva, July 17, 1971.
29 The President met separately with the bi-
partisan leadership of the Congress and
with the Cabinet to report on his visit to
the People's Republic of China. Prior to
his meeting with the leadership, the Presi-
dent informed Senators Mike Mansfield
and Hugh Scott that Premier Chou En-lai
had suggested that since they had expressed
interest in visiting the People's Republic,
he would invite them for a visit at a mu-
tually convenient time.
March
6 Members of the Cabinet Committee on
Education who have been studying the
matter of school busing met with the Presi-
dent. Joining in the meeting were key black
Presidential appointees, including Samuel
C. Jackson and Samuel J. Simmons, Assist-
ant Secretaries of Housing and Urban
Development; William H. Brown III,
Chairman, Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission; James E. Johnson, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy; Samuel R. Pierce,
Jr., General Counsel, Department of the
Treasury; and Robert J. Brown, Special
Assistant to the President.
B-3
