[323] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Latin America and Africa, whatever the
case might be—we have begun.
I think it is not an overstatement to
say that over these past 4 years we have
been part of a great movement. We have
changed the world, and the world will
be better for it. But it will be better for
it only if we can follow through. And what
we ask tonight from you is not just your
contributions, but your work, so that we
can finish the job, so that we can con-
tinue the work that we have begun.
To say "finish the job" is really an over-
statement because the job will never be
finished. Whoever is President of the
United States of America in the next 4
years, or the next 4 years after that, will
have to continue to do as well as he
possibly can in the field in which he has
responsibility, primary responsibility, as
the Vice President has pointed out-the
field of foreign policy-to provide the
kind of leadership that will make the
world a more peaceful world and that
will preserve freedom in the world.
That is why one of the major issues
of this campaign, one in which we want
a mandate from the American people,
involves the position not only of the next
President but of Presidents after him.
One of the reasons we have been able
to lead the world in a more peaceful di-
rection over the past 4 years is because
the United States was strong. And I
simply say to all of you, let us never send
the President of the United States to
the conference table with anybody as the
head of the second strongest nation in the
world.
I make this statement in no belligerent
sense, because I know the American
people. I know we have made mistakes
in foreign policy, as all peoples have. But
I say it is time that we be proud of the
fact that in four wars in this century we
have always fought to preserve freedom,
not to destroy it; to defend the peace, not
to break it. Let us remember that the
power of the United States is not a threat
to the peace of the world; it is the guard-
ian of peace in the world.
So let's keep America strong, and re-
ject the advice of those that would make
us weak.
At home we have similar goals, goals
that in a way may not appear quite as
exciting as these great global issues that
we talk about, but goals that affect the
lives of every American family.
I refer, for example, to the new pros-
perity, the new prosperity which we be-
lieve received enormous impetus from
the programs that we announced on
August 15 of last year. Just 2 days ago,
or, as a matter of fact, just yesterday
morning, speaking in Washington, D.C.,
before 124 nations in the world, I was
proud to be able to say that the United
States of America today has the lowest
rate of inflation, the highest rate of
growth, the highest real income for its
workers of any industrial nation in the
world. That is what we have.
But here, again, we say "That is not
enough." We are never satisfied because
we have a goal out there, one that we
must achieve. I will tell you what it is:
We want full prosperity, without war and
without inflation, and that is something
we have not had in this country since
the days of President Eisenhower in 1955
and '56.
We can get it, and we will have it again.
But in order to build that kind of prosper-
ity, we must continue the sound policies in
the economic field. We must reject that
kind of philosophy that would penalize
those who produce the jobs that make
918
