Richard Nixon, 1972
May 30 [181]
have had the opportunity during the
period that I have served in office-8 years
as Vice President, when Mrs. Nixon and I
first had the opportunity of visiting
Tehran, and then over 3 years as Presi-
dent of the United States-and even some
years out of office, the opportunity of visit-
ing over 70 nations. I have met the heads
of state and the heads of government of
most of those nations, and I think that all
of this company should know that in
evaluating those that I have met, heads
of state and heads of government, His
Imperial Majesty is one who has an un-
derstanding not only of the bilateral prob-
lems that our two countries sometimes
have-fortunately relatively small ones--
but beyond that, an understanding of the
area in which he lives and of the interna-
tional problems.
His advice and counsel have been in-
valuable through the years, and it was for
that reason that, after my visit to the
Soviet Union, I was glad that the op-
portunity was provided, through Your
Majesty's invitation, to come here, to con-
sult with you, and to get the benefit of
your wisdom in terms of the future policies
of the United States of America.
Speaking now of what these visits mean,
and what the future is, I think it is im-
portant for us to bear in mind that while
we have been at what is called the sum-
mit, that there has been no intention on
the part of the two governments repre-
sented at that summit conference-no in-
tention to divide the world into two
spheres of influence, no intention to set
up a condominium. Certainly on our
part and I express here the policy of the
United States in the past and the present,
and I know what will be the policy in the
future—we consider it important and vital
that as a great nation and a powerful
nation, that we seek good relations with all
nations in the world.
But we also recognize that as we begin
a dialogue with some nations with
which we have had no dialogue at all--
I refer to the visit that we paid earlier
this year to the People's Republic of
China-and when we begin conversations
that can, and we trust will, develop a bet-
ter relationship with a nation that from
time to time since the great World War II
has been an adversary on occasion-that
as we do both of these things, we have not
overlooked a very fundamental fact of
international life, and that is that it is
vital that we build our policy on the
alliances and the friendships that we have
had in the past, that we have now, and
that we hope to have in the future.
That is one of the things that this visit
symbolizes. We are proud that Iran is a
friend of the United States, that the
United States is a friend of Iran.
We are proud of the fact that we have
some bonds between us-bonds that have
been formalized by treaty. But I would
point out to this audience, those who are
here, that bonds that are formalized by
treaty can be one thing; what is more im-
portant are those bonds that are further
underscored by a personal relationship, a
personal respect, a personal esteem, be-
tween the leaders of the countries
involved.
I value the friendship that it has been
my privilege to have with His Majesty
over these years. I believe that all Ameri-
can Presidents have valued the friendship
that they have had on their part with the
leaders of this country.
What I am saying, very simply, is this:
We are proud to have the official relation-
ships with the Government of Iran, which
have been set down on pieces of paper
645
