Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [405]
a century under six Presidents we have
met the responsibilities of a great and free
nation. We have not retreated from the
world. We have not betrayed our allies.
We have not fallen into the foolish illusion
that we could somehow build a wall
around America, here to enjoy our
comforts, oblivious to the cries or the
threats of others. We have maintained
our strength.
There are those today who condemn
as a relic of a cold war mentality the idea
that
peace requires strength. There are
those who ridicule military expenditures
as wasteful and immoral. Our opponents
in this campaign have even described the
great bipartisan tradition of negotiating
from strength as one of the most damag-
ing and costly cliches in the American
vocabulary. If the day ever comes when
the President of the United States has to
negotiate from weakness, that will be
a dangerous day, not only for America
but for the whole world.
Those who scoff at balance of power
diplomacy should recognize that the only
alternative to a balance of power is an
imbalance of power, and history shows
that nothing so drastically escalates the
danger of war as such an imbalance. It is
precisely the fact that the elements of
balance now exist that gives us a rare
opportunity to create a system of stabil-
ity that can maintain the peace, not just
for a decade but for a generation and
more.
The years ahead will not be easy. The
choices will not be simple. They will re-
quire an extra measure of care in dis-
tinguishing between rhetoric and reality,
between the easy temptation and the
hard necessity. We will be told that all
the things we want to do at home could
be painlessly financed if we slashed our
military spending. We will be told that we
can have peace merely by asking for it,
that if we simply demonstrate good will
and good faith, our adversaries will do
likewise, and that we need do no more.
This is dangerous nonsense.
A heavy responsibility lies on the
shoulders of those who hold or seek power
in today's world, a responsibility not to
court the public favor by fostering il-
lusions that peace can be either achieved
or kept without maintaining our strength
and meeting our responsibilities.
As we approach the end of the war in
Vietnam, the great question is whether
the end of that war will be only an inter-
lude between wars or the beginning of a
generation of peace for the world.
Five months ago, I delivered the first
television address to the Soviet people
ever made by an American President. I
tried to tell them something about
America, about the people of America,
about our hopes, our desire for peace and
progress, not only for ourselves but for
all the people of the world. In that talk, I
repeated an old story told in Russia about
a traveler who was walking to another
village, who stopped and asked a woods-
man how long it would take him to get
there. The woodsman replied he did not
know. The traveler was angry, because he
was sure the woodsman lived in the village
and knew how far it was. But then as
soon as he had gone a few steps further
down the road, the woodsman called out
to him to stop. "It will take you 15
minutes," the woodsman said. "Why
didn't you tell me that in the first place?"
the traveler demanded. And the woods-
man answered, "Because then I didn't
know the length of your stride."
In these past 4 years, we and the other
nations of the world have had a chance
1113
