Richard Nixon, 1972
June 26 [210]
majority of the American people, the 92d
Congress has apparently determined that
the better part of valor is to dump the
matter into the lap of the 93d. Not in the
course of this Administration has there
been a more manifest Congressional
retreat from an urgent call for
responsibility.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 659) is Public
Law 92-318 (86 Stat. 235).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the act by
Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary of Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare, and John D. Ehrlichman,
Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs.
209 Remarks on School Busing in Connection With the
Education Amendments of 1972.
THIS bill contains a wholesale retreat by
the Congress from responsibility on school
busing. Congress has refused to put a limit
to court orders busing small children un-
der II out of their neighborhoods. Con-
gress has granted no relief whatsoever to
school districts which have been ordered
by the courts to institute massive busing
programs. This is not good enough.
Cross-city and cross-county busing is
wrong; it is harmful to education; it does
not unite races and communities; it divides
210
June 23, 1972
them. If Congress continues to refuse to
act on the proposal I have made to solve
this problem-a moratorium on all busing
orders-we will have no choice but to seek
a constitutional amendment which will
put the goals of better education for all
of our children above the objective of mas-
sive busing for some children.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed in
the Family Theater at the White House for
later broadcast on radio and television.
Letter to the Secretary of State Directing
Suspension of Restrictions on Meat Imports.
June 26, 1972
Dear Mr. Secretary:
After careful study of the changed con-
ditions in the U.S. and world markets in
beef, I have determined that we should
now take action to increase the importa-
tion of meat into the United States for
the remainder of this year.
I request that you take steps immedi-
ately with our foreign suppliers to remove
restraints established under present ar-
rangements with these suppliers. I ask
that you indicate to them that since we
have now moved toward a freer market
in meat for the remainder of this year, it
is my hope that the effect of this action
will be to increase the amount of imports
entering the United States.
I further
request that you collaborate
as closely as possible with the Secretary
of Agriculture to insure that the steps I
have taken are implemented with all pos-
sible speed.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable William P. Rogers, Secretary of
State, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: The text of the letter was made avail-
able to the press.
703
