[40] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
for old Fort Foote, Maryland, on the
Potomac in Prince Georges County. The
restored fort is to serve as the scene for re-
creation of Revolutionary events such as
encampments, war-time life, and parades
for 1976. I ask prompt congressional ac-
tion on legislation to approve the Bicen-
tennial Outdoor Museum and to author-
ize appropriations for planning it.
REALIZING A VISION: PENNSYLVANIA
AVENUE
As L'Enfant's majestic expanse of Mall
provides an axis along which Washington
visitors can honor and relive the Ameri-
can past, so Pennsylvania Avenue, leaving
the Mall by the new reflecting pool in front
of the Capitol and angling away from
it a long mile up to the White House,
forms the main axis of government activity
shaping the American present and future.
This avenue, then, also demands attention
as we move to dress up the heart of the
city for our two hundredth birthday. By
1976, let us complete the great Federal
Triangle office complex in the spirit of the
McMillan Commission's original vision
70 years ago. Let us build at its center a
Grand Plaza worthy of the name, by
transforming what is now a parking lot
into a people-oriented park for gov-
ernment workers and visitors to enjoy.
(Visitors will also benefit from the new
information and orientation center to be
opened in the Great Hall of the Com-
merce Building by 1976, intended to in-
troduce citizens to the activities of all the
executive departments and agencies.) I
have requested funds in my budget for
fiscal year 1973 to move forward on the
Federal Triangle and Grand Plaza proj-
ects; with the cooperation of the Congress
the work will begin in the near future.
The north side of Pennsylvania Ave-
nue, and with it many blocks of the down-
town area, can also be revitalized or well
on the way by the time we celebrate the
Bicentennial. The FBI building now ris-
ing north of the Avenue symbolizes half
of the answer-Federal construction-
and can stand completed and in use by
1976 with continued congressional sup-
port. A further appropriation for this
project is included in my new budget
requests.
The other half of the answer for Penn-
sylvania Avenue is coordinated develop-
ment planning which will mobilize the
private sector and help bring commercial
and residential activity back to this part
of the city. The heart of Washington must
not become so dominated by Federal
buildings that it sits abandoned and life-
less on evenings and weekends. The two
Presidents before me initiated steps to
prevent this, and to make the Avenue
instead a corridor of lively and varied
activity, public and private-and my Ad-
ministration has continued to press this
effort. In September 1970 I announced my
strong support for a legislative proposal to
establish a development corporation to ac-
complish the needed revitalization. Since
then the proposal has been substantially
modified in a good faith effort to accom-
modate all interests and segments of opin-
ion. Once again, I urge the Congress to act
quickly and favorably on the Pennsylvania
Avenue Bicentennial Development Cor-
poration bill.
When I first expressed support for the
154
