Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
Secretary General Waldheim's decision to
take a number of austerity measures as one
of his first acts upon taking office. Auster-
ity will lead to criticism, but it should not
be directed at the Secretary General but
at those UN members whose failure to
meet their obligations has made it
necessary.
Urgent as it is, however, the prevention
of the further growth of the deficit is not
a sufficient response to the UN's financial
problems. As long as the accumulated
deficit remains, the day-to-day financing
of UN operations must be considered
precarious.
The solution should go beyond the im-
mediate problem to the reconstruction of
an effective instrument of international
cooperation deserving our confidence.
The United States is prepared to play a
constructive role in the search for such a
solution. We will not, however, take the
initial or major responsibility for making
up a deficit created by the policies of other
countries.
4. The Need for a Wider Sharing of the
Costs of the UN. There is another aspect
of the UN financial arrangements which
requires candor. It is fashionable to dis-
miss the cost of the United Nations as a
pittance compared with the cost of other
activities, such as defense. However, this
does not relieve us of responsibility to
scrutinize those expenditures carefully to
determine that the costs are equitably
shared and that the benefits justify them.
The total expenditures of the UN system
in 1971, including the Specialized Agen-
cies and voluntary programs, exceeded
$1.1 billion. The contribution from U.S.
public funds was $462 million (including
about $150 million for East Pakistan re-
lief). It is self-evident that expenditures
and budgets of such magnitude must be
subject to the same careful review which
other uses of public money undergo.
The UN's regular assessed budget is
about one-fifth of the costs of the whole
UN system. The General Assembly de-
cides both the size of this budget and the
percentage which each member state is
required to contribute. This percentage
is based primarily on capacity to pay.
When the UN was founded, the U.S.
yearly assessment would have been about
49 percent on a strict capacity-to-pay
basis. We thought then, and we think
now, that it is unhealthy for a world orga-
nization to be excessively dependent upon
the financial contribution of any one mem-
ber state. Accordingly, the first U.S. as-
sessment was set at 39 percent, and over
the years we have succeeded in reducing
our assessed contribution to its current
level of 31.52 percent.
Last year, I appointed a distinguished
group of Americans under the chairman-
ship of our former Ambassador to the UN,
Henry Cabot Lodge, to study U.S. partici-
pation in the UN. Among its recommen-
dations to improve the UN and our role
in it, the Commission concluded that the
United States should seek to reduce its
contribution to not more than 25 percent
of the assessed budget of the United Na-
tions, using this saving to increase our
voluntary contributions to other UN
programs.
We are fully aware that an assessed
contribution of that level would mean
that many UN member states would be
paying a greater proportion of their Gross
National Product to the UN than would
the United States. Indeed that is the case
now, and has been since the foundation
of the United Nations. However, the im-
plications for the health of the organiza-
tion and the views of the American
329
