Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [89]
of Government-sponsored technologies is
the lack of incentive which results from
the fact that such technologies are
generally available to all competitors. To
help remedy this situation, I approved
last August a change in the Government
patent policy which liberalized the private
use of Government-owned patents. I di-
rected that such patents may be made
available to private firms through exclu-
sive licenses where needed to encourage
commercial application.
As a further step in this same direc-
tion, I am today directing my Science
Adviser and the Secretary of Commerce
to develop plans for a new, systematic
effort to promote actively the licensing of
Government-owned patents and to obtain
domestic and foreign patent protection for
technology owned by the United States
Government in order to promote its trans-
fer into the civilian economy.
IMPROVING THE CLIMATE FOR
INNOVATION
There are many ways in which the
Federal Government influences the level
and the quality of private research and
development. Its direct supportive efforts
are important, but other policies—such as
tax, patent, procurement, regulation and
antitrust policies-also can have a signifi-
cant effect on the climate for innovation.
We know, for instance, that a strong
and reliable patent system is important
to technological progress and industrial
strength. The process of applying tech-
nology to achieve our national goals calls
for a tremendous investment of money,
energy and talent by our private enter-
prise system. If we expect industry to
support this investment, we must make
the most effective possible use of the in-
centives which are provided by our patent
system.
The way we apply our antitrust laws
can also do much to shape research and
development. Uncertain reward and high
risks can be significant barriers to progress
when a firm is small in relation to the
scale of effort required for successful proj-
ects. In such cases, formal or informal
combinations of firms provide one means
for hurdling these barriers, especially in
highly fragmented industries. On the other
hand, joint efforts among leading firms in
highly concentrated industries would
normally be considered undesirable. In
general, combinations which lead to an
improved allocation of the resources of
the nation are normally permissible, but
actions which lead to excessive market
power for any single group are not. Any
joint program for research and develop-
ment must be approached in a way that
does not detract from the normal com-
petitive incentives of our free enterprise
economy.
I believe we need to be better informed
about the full consequences of all such
policies for scientific and technological
progress. For this reason, I have included
in my budget for the coming fiscal year
a program whereby the National Science
Foundation would support assessments
and studies focused specifically on bar-
riers to technological innovation and on
the consequences of adopting alternative
Federal policies which would reduce or
eliminate these barriers. These studies
would be undertaken in close consultation
with the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent, the Department of Commerce and
other concerned departments and agen-
cies, so that the results can be most ex-
peditiously considered as further Govern-
ment decisions are made.
421
