[150] May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
This is a trend which augurs well for
the future of ordered freedom in the
United States. It is a trend which all
Americans must work to sustain-by
making sure that the enforcement process
and the laws themselves are worthy of
respect, and then by rendering them the
full respect they deserve.
After a long, hard battle against rising
crime and lawlessness in our society, we
have begun to win some victories, slowing
the tide overall and even reversing it in
some categories. The lion's share of the
credit for this important breakthrough
certainly belongs to the people on the
front lines: the men and women of the
Nation's peace forces.
I wish it were possible for me to meet
with representatives of the police forces in
every American community and extend
my personal thanks to them, as I was able
to do recently with a group of officers from
the District of Columbia Metropolitan
Police Department, which has spear-
headed a 50 percent reduction in major
crime in the Capital over the last 3 years.ยน
1 See Item 126.
What is possible is for local leaders across
the land to foster similar recognition of
their communities' "finest"-and I hope
many of them will do so this week and in
the future.
Finally, this Peace Officers Memorial
Day, let us deepen our resolve to do a
better job of protecting those who risk
so much in protecting us. The increase in
physical attacks on police officers, and the
rise in police killings (up 26 percent last
year to 126), must be reversed. This Ad-
ministration has extended FBI assistance
to local authorities in bringing police kill-
ers to justice; we have sought the estab-
lishment of Federal survivors benefits for
the brave wives and families bereaved by
these tragedies; and we shall continue
seeking measures not only to deal with the
aftermath of police killings but, most im-
portantly of all, to deter and prevent their
occurrence. I appeal once again for deter-
mined efforts by citizens and public offi-
cials everywhere to counter this vicious
threat, which by menacing the safety of
our peace officers menaces the safety of
us all.
151
Statement About Attempt on the Life of Governor
George C. Wallace of Alabama.
I JOIN Americans everywhere in deep
concern for Governor Wallace's condi-
tion. I ask all Americans to join me in
praying for his speedy and full recovery,
and also for that of the others who were
wounded in this senseless and tragic
incident.
Our Nation has suffered more than
enough already from the intrusion of
violence into its political processes. We
May 15, 1972
must all stand together to eliminate its
vicious threat from our public life; we
must not permit the shadow of violence
to fall over our country again.
NOTE: The statement was read to reporters by
Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler.
On May 15, 1972, Governor Wallace was
shot and seriously wounded while attending
a political rally at Laurel Shopping Center,
Laurel, Md.
590
