Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 19 [13]
13 Statement Announcing United States Policy on
Economic Assistance and Investment Security
in Developing Nations. January 19, 1972
WE LIVE in an age that rightly attaches
very high importance to economic devel-
opment. The people of the developing
societies in particular see in their own
economic development the path to fulfill-
ment of a whole range of national and
human aspirations. The United States
continues to support wholeheartedly, as
we have done for decades, the efforts of
those societies to grow economically-out
of our deep conviction that, as I said in my
Inaugural Address, "To go forward at all
is to go forward together"; that the well-
being of mankind is in the final analysis
indivisible; and that a better fed, better
clothed, healthier, and more literate world
will be a more peaceful world as well.
As we enter 1972, therefore, I think it
is appropriate to outline my views on some
important aspects of overseas develop-
ment policy. I shall discuss these matters
in broader compass and greater detail in
messages to be transmitted to the Congress
in the coming weeks. Nineteen seventy-one
saw great changes in the international
monetary and trade fields, especially
among the developed nations. A new
economic policy was charted for the
United States and a promising beginning
was made on a broad reform of the inter-
national monetary system, starting with a
realignment of international exchange
rates. Now, in 1972, the problem of how
best to assist the development of the
world's emerging nations will move more
to the forefront of our concern.
Any policy for such assistance is
prompted by a mutuality of interest.
Through our development assistance pro-
grams, financing in the form of taxes paid
by ordinary Americans at all income levels
is made available to help people in other
nations realize their aspirations. A variety
of other mechanisms also serves to transfer
economic resources from the United
States to developing nations.
Three aspects of U.S. development as-
sistance programs received concentrated
attention during the past year. These
were:
-Continuing a program of bilateral
economic assistance
-Meeting our international undertak-
ings for the funding of multilateral
development institutions
-Clarifying the role of private foreign
investment in overseas development
and dealing with the problem of
expropriations.
As to our bilateral economic program,
it is my intention to seek a regular and
adequate fiscal year 1972 appropriation to
replace the present interim financing ar-
rangement which expires February 22. I
urge that this be one of the first items ad-
dressed and completed by the Congress
after it reconvenes. Looking beyond this
immediate need, I hope the Congress will
give early attention to the proposals which
I submitted last year to reform our foreign
assistance programs to meet the challenges
of the seventies.
In regard to our participation in multi-
lateral institutions, I attach the highest
importance to meeting in full the financial
pledges we make. In 1970, the United
States agreed with its hemispheric part-
ners on replenishing the Inter-American
31
