Appendix B
May
4 The President has appointed John S. D.
Eisenhower as his personal representative
with the rank of Special Ambassador to
the May 20 inauguration of President
Chiang Kai-shek of the Republic of China.
4 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
protocol amending the Single Convention
on Narcotic Drugs, 1961.
5 The President met with members of his For-
eign Intelligence Advisory Board at the
White House.
5 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
International Convention on the Estab-
lishment of an International Fund for
Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage
(Supplementary to the International Con-
vention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution
Damage of 1969).
9 Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott
had breakfast with the President and re-
ported on their recent trip to the People's
Republic of China.
9 The President and the First Lady hosted
a reunion dinner for members of the Duke
University Law School class of 1937.
II Representatives Wilbur D. Mills and John
W. Byrnes and Secretary of the Treasury
John B. Connally had breakfast with the
President and discussed tax reform.
II Nikolai Patolichev, Minister of Foreign
Trade of the Soviet Union, met with the
President at the White House. Also par-
ticipating in the meeting were Anatoly
F. Dobrynin, the Soviet Union's Ambassa-
dor to the United States, Peter G. Peterson,
Secretary of Commerce, Peter M. Flanigan,
Assistant to the President for International
Economic Affairs, and Henry A. Kissinger,
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs.
15 Brazilian Ambassador João Augusto de
Araujo Castro called on the President at
the White House to present a letter from
President Emílio Garrastazú Médici.
May
15 Ambassadors Kifle Wodajo of Ethiopia,
Jacques Kosciusko-Morizet of France, Sul-
tan Mohammad Khan of Pakistan, and
Andrés Aguilar of Venezuela presented
their credentials to the President in cere-
monies in the East Room at the White
House.
15 The White House released the report of
the emergency board created by Executive
Order 11664 on March 31, 1972, to in-
vestigate the dispute between the Penn
Central Transportation Company and cer-
tain of its employees represented by the
United Transportation Union.
16 Enayet Karim, Chargé d'Affaires of Bang-
ladesh, called on the President at the
White House to deliver a message from
Prime Minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman
which completed the formal exchanges
establishing diplomatic relations at the em-
bassy level.
16 Toma Granfil, Yugoslav Ambassador to the
United States, called on the President at
the White House.
16 John Cardinal Krol, Archbishop of Phila-
delphia, met with the President at the
White House.
19 En route to the White House from Camp
David, the President visited Gov. George
C. Wallace of Alabama at Holy Cross
Hospital in Silver Spring, Md., and Secret
Service Agent Nicholas J. Zarvos at Walter
Reed Army Medical Center in Washington.
19 The President announced the selection
of the 1972 Presidential Scholars, 121 high
school seniors chosen by the Commission
on Presidential Scholars for outstanding
academic achievement and le
and leadership
potential.
20 The President declared a major disaster
in the State of Texas following heavy rains
and flooding early this month. The Presi-
dent authorized use of Federal funds for
relief and recovery efforts.
B-8
