Richard Nixon, 1972
May 31 [185]
a "journey for peace." And to our Polish
friends here tonight, I would say that to
have Warsaw as the last stop of that
journey is altogether appropriate.
America knows, the world knows, the
fortitude, the character, the courage of
the Polish people. And America knows
and the world knows that no country in
the world has suffered more from war
than has Poland.
And so, in a very real sense, peace in
the world means peace for Poland and,
therefore, it is fitting that we should end
in this capital what we hope will be re-
corded in history as a Journey for Peace.
Niech zyje przyjazn Polsko-Amerykan-
ska. [Long live Polish-American friend-
ship.]
To the health of all our Polish friends.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:27 p.m. in
the Palace of the Council of Ministers. He
spoke from a prepared text.
Eduard Gierek was First Secretary of the
Central Committee of the Polish United Work-
ers' Party and Henryk Jablonski was President
of the Council of State of the Polish People's
Republic.
Chairman Jaroszewicz spoke in Polish. A
translation of his toast was made available by
the White House Press Office as follows:
Mr. President, Madame Nixon, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am very glad to have the honor to wel-
come you Mr. President, Madame Nixon, and
members of your party.
We hope that the first visit of a United States
President in Poland's history will exert a
profound influence on the development of our
bilateral relations, and at the same time will
make it possible to discuss a number of im-
portant international issues of interest to Po-
land and the United States.
Mr. President, the ties between our two na-
tions have behind them agelong, fine traditions.
Many eminent Poles had fought for independ-
ence of the United States. Millions of Polish
hands and minds have participated in building
the American statehood, American society, and
American economy.
Neither will we ever forget that in a lifespan
of a single generation we have fought twice on
the same side in two World Wars. This imposes
on us an obligation to cooperate in the building
of peace, too.
People's Poland which has bound her fate to
socialism and which is an unflinching, impor-
tant unit in the community of socialist coun-
tries, has been lifted by a selfless effort from
war ravages and has now considerable achieve-
ments in peaceful construction. At present, in
liberating the creative energies of the Polish
people, she finds herself at a stage of dynamic
economic, social, scientific, and cultural devel-
opment. This permits Poland to look into the
future with confidence, and to assign herself
new ambitious tasks on her way to modernity,
mindful of the people, their prosperity and per-
sonal advancement. In carrying out our pro-
gram we assign an important place-over and
above our own capabilities-to development of
cooperation with foreign countries. A crucial
part in this cooperation is being played by
socialist countries, especially
tested
friend-the Soviet Union. Simultaneously we
are actively advancing our relations with all
countries willing to do so. We see great oppor-
tunities for substantially expanding Polish-
American bilateral relations.
We welcome with satisfaction the United
States interest in developing these relations. We
are convinced that great possibilities exist for
substantially developing Polish-American eco-
nomic, scientific, and technical cooperation
which has, incidentally, a good, long past
record. We believe that development of eco-
nomic cooperation between our countries may
bring about in the near future mutual benefits
in the form of multiplying our trade turnover.
May I be allowed to express the hope, Mr.
President, that your visit here and our talks
will greatly contribute to mutual knowledge of
our standpoints and to major progress in our
bilateral relations.
Mr. President, Poland's development and
future are inseparably bound to world peace.
From this results our activity aimed at strength-
ening peace and security in Europe, at holding
a European Security and Cooperation Confer-
ence.
655
