[103] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Moscow trip, at the present time,
will be very different from the P.R.C. trip
in the sense that it will be primarily de-
voted to a number of substantive issues of
very great importance. One of them may
be SALT, if SALT is not completed be-
fore Moscow. It does not appear now
likely that they can complete SALT be-
fore Moscow, because in my conversations
with Ambassador [Gerard C.] Smith be-
fore he left, I find that while we are
agreed in principle on the limitation of
offensive and defensive weapons, that we
are still very far apart on some funda-
mental issues-well, for example, whether
or not SLBM's [submarine launched bal-
listic missiles] should be included, matters
of that sort.
Mr. Smith went back to the meetings,
this time in Helsinki, with very full in-
structions from me, both written and oral,
to do everything that he could to attempt
to narrow those differences. I believe there
is a good chance at this point, particularly
in view of Mr. Brezhnev's quite construc-
tive remarks in his speech the other day,
that we may reach an agreement on SALT
in Moscow on defensive and offensive lim-
itations, and also agreements in a number
of other areas.
This is our goal, and I would say that
at this time the prospects for the success
of this summit trip are very good.
NORMAN KEMPSTER (United Press In-
ternational). Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-third news
conference was held at 3:03 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House on Friday, March
24, 1972. He spoke without referring to notes.
104 Statement About Signing a Bill Creating the
Oregon Dunes National Recreation Area.
March 24, 1972
I HAVE signed S. 1977, which creates a
32,000-acre Oregon Dunes National Rec-
reation Area within the Siuslaw National
Forest in Oregon.
The Oregon Dunes are one of the larg-
est areas of active coastal dunes in the
world. Sand from the natural erosion of
extensive sandstone formations in the
coast range to the east is carried by rivers
and streams to the sea, where coastal cur-
rents distribute it along about 40 miles of
beach. Prevailing westerly winds blow the
sand inland where it is formed into shift-
ing dunes as high as 300 feet through the
interaction of wind, precipitation, and
vegetation.
The Dunes are as beautiful as they are
unique a mix of desolate whiteness with
sparkling blue lakes and bright green
foliage.
Now this beauty may be preserved for
all Americans for years to come. Since they
are located just a few hours drive from the
major population centers of the North-
west, the Dunes will truly be a preserve of
the people.
This legislation adds another page to
the long story of wise use and conservation
of the Oregon Dunes as it provides a care-
ful blending of Federal, State, and private
responsibilities for the public benefit. The
Agriculture Department's Forest Service
and the State of Oregon will work closely
to manage the areas they control in a way
that will benefit the greatest number. Pri-
vate individuals may continue to own por-
498
