Richard Nixon, 1972
[26]
Jan. 27
ductivity and full employment. It will not
be easy but, with a revitalization of Amer-
ica's competitive spirit, it can and will be
done. I have every confidence that Mr.
Peterson will do much to help bring our
Nation closer to these goals.
NOTE: On February 29, 1972, Mr. Peterson
was sworn in as Secretary of Commerce in a
ceremony at the White House.
26 Annual Message to the Congress: The Economic Report
of the President. January 27, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The American economy is beginning to
feel the effects of the new policies
launched last August.
I undertook the New Economic Policy
because it was becoming clear that not
enough was being done to meet our am-
bitious goals for the American economy.
The new measures are designed to bring
the Nation to higher employment, greater
price stability, and a stronger interna-
tional position.
The essence of the New Economic
Policy is not the specific list of measures
we announced on August 15; it is the de-
termination to do all that is necessary to
achieve the Nation's goals.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-one was
in many ways a good economic year. Total
employment, total output, output per per-
son, real hourly earnings, and real income
after tax per person all reached new highs.
The inflation which had plagued the
country since 1965 began to subside.
In the first 8 months of the year the rate of
inflation was 30 percent less than in the
same months of 1970.
But I did not believe this was enough
to meet the Nation's needs. Although the
rate of inflation had declined before
August, it was still too high. Although un-
employment stopped rising, it remained
near 6 percent. In the first part of the
year, our international balance-of-pay-
ments deficit-the excess of our payments
to the rest of the world over their pay-
ments to us—had risen far too high.
The conditions called for decisive ac-
tions. On August 15, I announced these
actions.
First, I imposed a 90-day freeze on
prices, wages, and rents.
Second, I suspended conversion of dol-
lars into gold and other reserve assets.
Third, I imposed a temporary sur-
charge on imports generally at the rate of
10 percent.
Fourth, I proposed a number of tax
changes intended to stimulate the econ-
omy, including repeal of the excise tax on
automobiles, a tax credit for investment,
and reduction of income taxes on individ-
uals. At the same time I took steps to
keep the budget under control.
The package of measures was unprec-
edented in scope and degree. My Admin-
istration had struggled for 22 years in an
effort to check the inflation we inherited
by means more consistent with economic
freedom than price-wage controls. But the
inflationary momentum generated by the
policy actions and inactions of 1965-68
was too stubborn to be eradicated by these
means alone. Or at least it seemed that it
could only be eradicated at the price of
persistent high unemployment-and this
was a price we would not ask the Ameri-
can people to pay.
Similarly, more than a decade of bal-
ance-of-payments deficits had built up an
III
