[353] Oct. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
reimburse State and local governments
for work already completed on sewage
treatment plants between 1956 and 1966.
The precedent this would set for retro-
active reimbursement in other matching
grant programs is an invitation to fiscal
chaos. Another provision would raise the
Federal share of the cost of future facil-
ities from 55 percent to 75 percent. Nei-
ther of these costly actions would, in any
real sense, make our waters any cleaner:
they would simply increase the burden on
the Federal taxpayer.
There is a well-worn political axiom
which says that any election year spend-
ing bill, no matter how ill-advised, defies
veto by the President. But I say that any
spending bill this year which would lead
to higher prices and higher taxes defies
signature by this President. I have nailed
my colors to the mast on this issue; the
political winds can blow where they may.
I am prepared for the possibility that
my action on this bill will be overridden.
The defeat of my proposal for a spend-
ing ceiling showed that many Senators
and Congressmen are simply AWOL in
our fight against higher taxes. And some
have been lured to the wrong side of the
fight by the false glitter of public works
money for their districts or states. They
seem to forget that it is their constituents'
pockets from which the higher taxes must
come as a result of their votes this week.
Others, to their great credit, voted for the
spending limit to try to hold taxes down.
Taxpayers must be sad to learn that a
majority are charge account Congress-
men.
If this veto is not sustained, however,
let the issue be clearly drawn. As with
the spending ceiling, so with this bill, a
vote to sustain the veto is a vote against
a tax increase. A vote to override the veto
is a vote to increase the likelihood of
higher taxes.
Even if this bill is rammed into law
over the better judgment of the Execu-
tive-even if the Congress defaults its ob-
ligation to the taxpayers-I shall not
default mine. Certain provisions of S.
2770 confer a measure of spending dis-
cretion and flexibility upon the President,
and if forced to administer this legislation
I mean to use those provisions to put the
brakes on budget-wrecking expenditures
as much as possible.
But the law would still exact an unfair
and unnecessary price from the public.
For I am convinced, on the basis of 26
years' experience with the political reali-
ties here in Washington, that the pres-
sure for full funding under this bill would
be so intense that funds approaching the
maximum authorized amount could ulti-
mately be claimed and paid out, no mat-
ter what technical controls the bill appears
to grant the Executive.
I still hope, with millions of taxpayers,
that at least one third plus one of the
members in one House will be responsible
enough to vote for the public interest
and sustain this veto. It should be noted
that doing so would by no means termi-
nate the existing Federal water quality
programs, because the Environmental
Protection Agency will continue to op-
erate those programs until the merits of a
new water bill can be dealt with as a first
order of business in the new Congress.
I look forward to cooperating with the
next Congress on a prudent bill, to achieve
ends on which we are mutually agreed,
and by means which I trust will take
better account than S. 2770 did of the
working men and women who must ulti-
992
