[327] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
political terms. I want to talk to you, in
terms that are far more important, about
this Nation: Where it is going, where it
has been, and what the next 4 years can
mean, because this is what is important.
I know these luncheons and dinners
that we are having across the country are
called Victory 1972, and that sounds real
good; that is fine. But the question is:
Victory for what? I say to you today, not
victory for a man, or a man and his run-
ning mate, and not just victory for a
party, but victory for America. I want
this to be a victory for all the people of
America. I want this to be a victory for
what is best in America, and, particularly
in this field of foreign policy, it is impor-
tant that we recognize what the stakes
are,
how important it is, in our view, that the
policies that we have begun be continued
for 4 more years.
Let me go back, if I can, to the time
that we came into office. It is rather hard
to realize what some of the problems were
that we faced in the United States and in
the world at that time. But you will recall
there were 550,000 men in Vietnam; there
were 300 killed in action every week, on an
average. You will recall, too, that there
were no negotiations going on that had,
certainly, any indication of progress or
movement, and certainly at that point
there was no American peace plan on the
negotiating table.
You will also recall that, looking at the
world scene, the world seemed to be
frozen into hostile confrontation. Here in
the Pacific, in which you in San Fran-
cisco, we in California, have such an enor-
mous interest, we looked across this broad
Pacific; we realized that three times in
this century war has come to America
from the Pacific. World War II for the
United States started in the Pacific. Korea
started in the Pacific. Vietnam came in
the Pacific. Therefore, we know that the
policies of the United States that are de-
veloped toward the Pacific are going to
have an enormous effect in determining
whether we have war or peace in the
years ahead-not just ending the war in
which we presently are involved, but pre-
venting such wars in the future.
As I looked at that problem, I saw that
for over 20 years the United States and the
leaders of the Government, over one-
fourth of all the people in this world, the
People's Republic of China, had been
without communication. I knew, of
course, that the philosophies, as far as we
were concerned and they were concerned,
were totally different. That was the case
then. That is the case now.
But I also realized that if we did not
do something to thaw that out, something
to establish some communication with the
leaders of one-fourth of the most able
people in all the world, that we were going
down the road to an inevitable confron-
tation which might bring a war not only
in the Pacific, but a war which could be
destructive to all of civilization.
We look across to the other side of the
world, as far as our relations with the
Soviet Union were concerned, we find
that 4 years ago negotiation was really at
a standstill in all areas. There was no
progress in arms control. There was no
progress in the field of trade. No one
thought of a possible cooperation in the
field of space or environment or health
or in the other areas that we have heard
so much about in recent weeks and recent
months. That was the world we found
4 years ago.
And here, again, we found an interest-
ing situation. Dave Packard will remem-
ber, as he attended the meetings of the
926
