Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 13 [121]
me win it or I might lose it." I said, "What
is the bet?" He said, "I bet him $5 that
you are Vice President Nixon."
I said, "Well, call him over and we will
confirm it." So the bartender came over
and said, "Is it true?" I said, "Yes." He
said, "I would never have believed it."
He gave him the $5, and as we started
to move on, I heard him mumble to the
waiter, "You know, he doesn't look near as
bad in person as he does in his pictures."
Now, that little story tells us something
about why this trip is important and why it
is quite necessary. Maybe none of us look
quite as bad in person as we may in our
pictures, and we Canadians and Ameri-
cans, because we are only an hour and 10
minutes apart by air, must never miss the
opportunity to see each other in person,
to discuss our differences, maybe to con-
tinue them but at least to discuss them,
and to maintain the individual dignity, the
parallel courses to which the Governor-
General has referred so eloquently just
a few moments ago.
I said, when I arrived at the airport,
that the example that we in Canada and
the United States have set is one which all
the world could well look to and perhaps
in years ahead might well follow: Two
nations, very much alike but also very dif-
ferent, and very proud-proud of what
we are like and proud of how we are dif-
ferent-but two nations living together in
peace, discussing differences, not fighting
about them.
And as I thought tonight of how I could
relate that particular thought to this occa-
sion, I looked at this room-in this respect
I must admit I am a bit old-fashioned, I
like a room like this, the high ceilings, the
sense of history, all that has happened
here and I think of other great rooms
around the world where this same sense
of history fills us.
I had the privilege in 1958 of speaking
in Guild Hall in London, and I remem-
bered tonight some of the great speeches
that have been made there: one by Presi-
dent Eisenhower at the end of World War
II, and many others. Perhaps the most
eloquent speech, and the briefest speech,
ever made in Guild Hall was one made by
a British Prime Minister 150 years ago.
After Nelson's victory at Trafalgar, Wil-
liam Pitt was toasted as the savior of
Europe. He rose to respond. He answered
in these words: "For the honor you have
done me, I return you many thanks. But
Europe will not be saved by any single
man. England has saved herself by her
exertions, and will, I trust, serve Europe
by her example."
Tonight I think we could well say the
world will not be saved by any single na-
tion, but Canada and the United States,
by their example, can contribute enor-
mously to a new world in which nations
can live together in peace, friendship, and
understanding, maintaining their dignity,
maintaining their individuality. This is
the example which Canadian-American
friendship stands for, and it is one that all
of us can be very proud of.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
10:40 p.m. in Rideau Hall, Government House,
Ottawa in response to a toast proposed by the
Governor-General. He spoke without referring
to notes.
The Governor-General's remarks were as
follows:
Mr. President:
When such good friends as your charming
wife and yourself come to dinner, and from a
long distance, it would be a poor return of
535
