[39] Feb. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the field of dangerous drugs, then you
have to have some compassion; then you
have to take care of the addicts. That
doesn't mean you excuse them from break-
ing the law. It does mean that once they
break the law, you have to find a way to
get them back into productive society, to
take what would otherwise be a totally
destroyed human being and make him or
her whole again.
That is why we have Dr. Jaffe here, who
is the top expert in this country in the
field of the treatment of drug addicts. He
will tell you something about what we are
doing, about how we treat them; not only
prevent it, but then, once a person be-
comes addicted, to treat that particular
situation.
So we have named three of the great
offensives: One, stop it at the source. That
is the Secretary of State's primary respon-
sibility, and, of course, the Secretary of
the Treasury, through the Customs and
the rest, works in this field as well.
Second, we have the law enforcement,
and that is, punish the pushers and the
peddlers, and there you will hear from the
responsible people in that area.
Then, third, you have the treatment of
people once they go over the wall and
finally become addicts. Dr. Jaffe and
others will talk to you about that.
But now comes your part. The law can
be the best enforced law; we can try to
stop it at the source; and we can treat the
addicts. But most important, what we
have to do is to try to educate, particu-
larly, young Americans, so that there
won't be the demand. We have to stop
them before they start. And that, of course,
is where you the champions on the foot-
ball field and the baseball field and the
basketball court-where you have really
done a marvelous job, a job which we
could not possibly pay you for adequately
if we had to pay your television fees com-
mercially. But you have done a marvelous
job of handling this problem.
I know, incidentally, having done a
little television myself through the years,
and having done a few spots, what a chore
it must have been; you know, they keep
going over it, "Another take, please, an-
other take." And you must have said, "Oh,
why do I have to do it again? Is it
worthwhile?"
I just want you to know, and I want
your wives to know, who are here with
you: We have looked at the situation, we
have looked at the results; I know of no
program that has paid off more, that has
been more effective, than what the athletes
of America have done in this field, and
we are here to thank you for it.
Later, at 5 o'clock, when the briefings
are completed, Mrs. Nixon will be down-
stairs and we would like to welcome all
of you and your wives in the dining room
for some refreshments and meet and greet
you each personally.
At this time I will turn the program
over to the experts, and will simply close
by saying: As a sports fan I admire what
you have done in the sports field, but also,
as one who has the responsibility to do
everything that I can to deal with one of
the major problems America faces today,
drug abuse, we want to thank people who
can reach young people such as a preacher
can't reach them, a politician can't reach
them, a teacher can't reach them. You
can, because they admire you. They re-
spect you. They want to be like you, and
that is why you get across.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2: 10 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. He spoke with-
out referring to notes.
146
