Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 5 [338]
to emphasize with regard to welfare re-
form, the program that we have presented
for welfare reform, with its strong work
requirements and with its assistance to
the working poor, with the purpose of pro-
viding a bridge for them to get, and an
incentive to get, off of welfare and into
work, from a fiscal standpoint, stretches
the budget as far as it can be stretched.
We can't add anything to it.
And, from the standpoint of the amount
to be provided, it goes as far as it should
go, and I would oppose any program that
would add more people to the welfare
rolls, millions more, as would all three of
the programs advocated by our opponents,
whichever one you want to pick. I would
oppose any program that would add more
to the welfare rolls than H.R. 1.
What we need are programs that will
move toward moving people off of wel-
fare and not raising the ante so that
people are encouraged to go on it.
So, I would take H.R. 1. I would very
greatly strengthen the work require-
ments in it. If the Senate and the House,
as appears possible now, not certain, I
hope not certain, fail to act, we will
grapple with it in the new term and try
to get the support for it.
SCHOOL BUSING
[12.] Q. Mr. President, there is an
anti-busing bill on the Senate calendar
that I believe you support. Its passage is
problematical, as I understand it. If it is
not passed, I wonder if you would sup-
port a constitutional amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated that,
first, I am against busing. This is, of
course, one of those clear-cut issues in this
campaign. When people wonder what
they are: I am against amnesty. I am
against busing. I am against massive in-
creases in spending that would require a
tax increase. I am against cutting our de-
fenses by $30 billion, which would make
us second to the Soviet Union.
I am for the domestic proposals that I
set forth in such great detail in the '72
State of the Union, and that, incidentally,
Mr. Semple [Robert B. Semple, Jr., New
York Times], you recall, was in it. I en-
dorsed all of those. Those are part of the
program for the future-health, govern-
ment reorganization, welfare reform, and
the rest-and we hope to have a Congress
that will be more responsive in getting
them through.
Now, the question of what to do about
busing is now right in the Congress' lap. If
the Congress fails to act in a way that pro-
vides some relief from these excessive bus-
ing orders that have caused racial strife,
and primarily in Northern cities as distin-
guished from Southern cities, then I in-
tend to find another way.
There are two ways we can go: With a
new Congress, which might be very much
more responsive on this issue after they
have found out what people think on the
hustings, with a new Congress we might
get very quick action on the legislative
front. That I would prefer.
If we cannot get Congress to act on the
legislative front, then we would have to
move on the constitutional amendment
front.
I would point out that, however, the
legislative front is preferable, and also
easier and quicker, because it requires only
a majority and not a two-thirds and also
can move quickly on the issue.
961
