[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
assembled under one roof 40′ by 60' all the
friends I had. But in all seriousness, everybody
by the name of Connally, or married into or kin
to the family, so far as I am concerned, is grate-
ful to all of you for so much.
Years ago I said to many of you, as I traveled
about this State, that I hoped that no occasion
ever presented itself where I had a microphone
and the opportunity to do so, when I did not
express our profound thanks for the kindness,
for the generosity, for the thoughtfulness, for
the support, and, above all, for the confidence
which all of you have so clearly shown over
the years, and I am grateful for that.
But if I am grateful for the occasion for
those reasons, think how doubly pleased we are
that on this particular evening we have the great
and rare privilege of hosting the President and
the First Lady of the United States.
You rose, you applauded, you manifested
your confidence and your support and your
feeling about the President, his lovely wife, but
before we go further, let me impose upon your
time just a moment or two to say to you that I
have been privileged to serve in the Cabinet of
President Nixon for a number of months. Dur-
ing those months, I have had an opportunity
to see him in moments of satisfaction, in
moments of serenity, in troubled moments, and
moments of decision. And I must say to you
that I respect the office of the President of the
United States, but I want to go much further
than that and say to all of you, my dear friends,
that I respect this particular President of the
United States for the manner in which he con-
ducts himself, and the First Lady-the pride
and the dignity which she so obviously has in
maintaining the role that is so unique in Amer-
ican society and culture and political life-and
to the President, who is a scholar in the affairs
of this Nation and the foreign affairs of this
country, who is as disciplined a man as I have
ever known, mentally and physically. He is trim
and slender and boyish looking. You wouldn't
think he was older than I, would you?
But part of it, at least, is because he is
physically disciplined, but more importantly, he
is mentally disciplined. He understands the role
of the President of the United States. He under-
stands the role that this Nation plays among
the nations of the world in conducting its for-
eign affairs, the foreign policy of this country.
He disciplines his time among the many duties
that he has as head of government, head of
state, as head of party, and he allocates to each
of those grave responsibilities and great respon-
sibilities the time which he feels he can devote to
them without sacrificing the more responsible
task that the President of the United States has.
I think, above all else, he studies the difficul-
ties that he has. He has the ability and the in-
telligence to perceive those problems. He has
the tenacity and the perseverance to seek a solu-
tion to them, but above all else, he has the cour-
age to do what he believes to be right in the
interest of this Nation.
At this point, Nellie, would you join me here,
and we are going to ask all our friends to join
us in a toast to the President of the United
States and Mrs. Nixon.
You know, I don't know how the press is
going to particularly handle this gathering, but
I am going to find out, and I trust their judg-
ment, at times, but you know, it is a social
occasion, I suppose, by any standards, and
it was designed to be such, but I always try to
put myself in the position of other people, on
an occasion of this kind, and Nellie and I are
grateful that we were hosts and got to sit at
this head table up here, if this is a head table,
we got to sit with President and Mrs. Nixon at
any event, and the distinguished former mayor
of Dallas, Mayor [J. Eric] Jonsson, and his
lovely wife, Margaret, and the former mayor
of San Antonio and his lovely wife, Mayor and
Mrs. W. W. McAllister, and if you think this
is just a party of "ex's," you couldn't be more
wrong.
I never learned much in politics, but I always
learned that you had to fish with live bait, and
we are not without some in this gathering this
evening. But be that as it may, I try to put my-
self in other people's positions.
We have been here, we have sat, we had an
occasion to talk with Mrs. Nixon and the
President. We heard him early this afternoon,
on the ride, talk about some problems of this
country, and some of his ideas about those
problems that range all the way from foreign
affairs, the war in Vietnam, the forthcoming
trip to Russia, ITT, and busing, and a few
other things in between. I think I know some-
thing about those views, but those of you
sitting at these other tables have not been
privileged to talk to them in that light or in
that vein to discuss these matters, and it has
570
