[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
forms to increase savings and investment,
to raise domestic tax collections, and to
encourage exports, industrialization and
private foreign investment. The program
included a major devaluation of the
piaster, a difficult but essential step.
It is a courageous undertaking to move
forward rapidly on development when
almost half of the country's able-bodied
men are needed for the military effort and
the costs of security impose a tremendous
burden on the economy. The Vietnamese
look to their friends to assist them in their
development efforts.
We had hoped to respond promptly by
diverting some assistance funds in 1972 to
support Vietnamese development. The
unwise Congressional reduction of foreign
assistance funds has hampered this effort.
In the current budget, I am requesting
funds specifically for economic develop-
ment in Vietnam.
South Vietnam will continue to need
substantial U.S. support to fill the gap
between government revenues and de-
fense costs. This form of U.S. assistance
can be reduced over the next several years
as the program for internal development
takes hold and the economic and tax re-
forms yield larger revenues. We must not
expect instantaneous results, however, so
long as the South Vietnamese are forced
to devote a major portion of their national
effort to defending against North Viet-
namese aggression.
South Vietnam has been plagued with
war for three and a half decades. It re-
mains a poor country with per capita
income of less than $150. But it has rich
potential and an industrious people. The
ending of hostilities would allow the full
utilization of these resources. We stand
ready to assist all Vietnamese in peaceful
development.
Remaining Problems
Each of the past three years has shown
accelerating progress in Vietnam. How-
ever, we are under no illusions about the
stubbornness and gravity of the remaining
problems.
-Breaking the Negotiating Impasse.
A negotiated settlement remains the
quickest and most humane way to
end the conflict. It holds out the only
real promise that the war will soon
cease for Asians as well as for Amer-
icans, for Laos and Cambodia as well
as for Vietnam. However, three years
of unilateral moves, secret talks,
negotiating proposals, and Vietnami-
zation progress have failed to induce
the other side to join with us in set-
tling the struggle at the conference
table. We have reduced the issues to
a single crucial question: will the
political future of South Vietnam be
imposed by outsiders or will it be
competitively shaped by the South
Vietnamese? The other side has con-
sistently been unyielding on this po-
litical issue. We will nevertheless
continue our efforts, in any promis-
ing forum.
-Retrieving Our Men. Either as part
of an overall settlement, or through
other means, we shall secure the re-
lease of American prisoners held
throughout Indochina. The other
side continues to exploit this issue
and to manipulate the sentiments of
the American people. Hanoi has
demonstrated that it will try to ex-
tract maximum advantages by using
286
