Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
stated requirements of the other side; and
we have made clear in our communica-
tions that we remain prepared to listen to
additional suggestions from them. The
following are new elements of our
proposal.
-The U.S. and the other countries
allied with the Republic of Vietnam
offer a fixed date of six months for
total withdrawal either as part of an
overall agreement or an agreement
on military issues alone.
-These withdrawals would take place
before the withdrawal of other out-
side forces and before the new presi-
dential election.
-President Thieu's secret offer to step
down one month before the new pres-
idential election is unprecedented;
his willingness to make that offer
public is an important political fact
in itself.
-We are ready to accept limitations
on military and economic aid to
South Vietnam if North Vietnam will
accept limitations on the nearly one
billion dollars of aid it receives an-
nually from its allies.
-We are prepared to undertake a mas-
sive 72 billion dollar five-year recon-
struction program in conjunction
with an overall agreement, in which
North Vietnam could share up to two
and a half billion dollars.
I believe the record of secret negotia-
tions and our new peace proposals make
unmistakably clear that we have been and
are ready to conclude a fair settlement.
The stubborn reality is that the North
Vietnamese have blocked all possible
openings so far. They have continued to
insist not only that we withdraw uncon-
ditionally but that as we do we replace the
present leadership in South Vietnam.
They offer no political process except one
that will ensure in advance that the Com-
munists rule the South.
In our view, there is only one funda-
mental issue left-will we collude with
our enemies to overturn our friends? Will
we impose a future on the Vietnamese
people that the other side has been unable
to gain militarily or politically? This we
shall never do.
So long as the other side insists on a
settlement that is a thinly veiled formula
for their takeover with our assistance,
negotiations cannot succeed. If instead
they are willing to compete fairly in the
political arena in South Vietnam, they
will find our side forthcoming in meeting
their concerns.
Prisoners of War
No single issue has received greater at-
tention or been the subject of more intense
efforts in this Administration than the
plight of our prisoners of war in Indo-
china.
About 1,500 of our armed forces and
some 40 U.S. civilians remain captured
or missing in territory held by North Viet-
nam and its allies. The other side is hold-
ing the prisoners of war under circum-
stances which violate humanitarian
principles and the Geneva Conventions
on POW's agreed to by North Vietnam.
The enemy has refused to allow interna-
tional inspection of its prisoner camps. It
has refused to furnish to the International
Red Cross or to other impartial agencies
complete lists of the prisoners it holds.
Moreover, it has provided no lists at all for
the prisoners it holds in South Vietnam,
Laos and Cambodia. It has curtailed the
regular flow of mail between the men and
their families.
At the end of 1971 the other side finally
279
