Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 1 [33]
through commercial and industrial devel-
opment. Since some equity would be re-
quired, these business decision-makers
would be far more likely to make realistic,
workable development decisions than far-
removed Federal bureaucrats can now
do. It is also likely that these market-
oriented decisions would provide sounder,
long-term employment opportunities.
This combination of Federal funding,
local initiative and statewide planning
utilizing the private market economy
should produce a far more productive use
of our resources.
I am proposing an authorization level
for this credit-sharing program, which in-
cludes the existing Farmers Home Admin-
istration water and sewer program, of $1.3
billion in fiscal year 1974.
My new proposals also involve addi-
tional features and technical improve-
ments which would streamline and im-
prove the effectiveness of farm and rural
loan programs now administered by the
Department of Agriculture. Among these
are proposals to increase the farm operat-
ing loan limit to $50,000 and to increase
the limit on new loans to be held in the
agricultural credit insurance fund from
$100 million to $500 million. This latter
provision would provide adequate levels
to ensure that the expanded loan and
guarantee program would have a substan-
tial impact on rural areas.
In summary, this new approach to
credit assistance contains several advan-
tageous features:
(1) It would establish a direct link
between credit assistance and revenue
sharing since both programs would be
administered according to the same state-
wide plan.
(2) It would expand the role of priv-
ate lending institutions. Firms otherwise
unable to obtain credit would have a
chance to mature under this plan so that
they could borrow from private lending
institutions at a later time without Federal
guarantees.
(3) The plan could work through a
delivery system for servicing loans which
is already in operation-the Farmers
Home Administration, which has offices
in more than 1,700 counties. There is an
office within a relatively short distance of
practically every rural community in the
United States. This whole system, more-
over, could be readily transferred to a new
Department of Community Development.
(4) Projects could be jointly financed
by a number of Federal agencies, such as
Small Business Administration, the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and the Environmental Protection
Agency, as well as by other private and
public State and local agencies.
(5) Improved planning and program
coordination would be possible under
statewide plans which grow out of the
needs and suggestions of multi-jurisdic-
tional planning districts already estab-
lished in more than half of the States.
These planning bodies would also provide
expertise for communities that are too
small to employ their own development
experts.
IMPROVING THE RURAL ENVIRONMENT
To help carry out our environmental
concerns, I propose that the Secretary of
Agriculture be authorized to share the
costs of long-term conservation in water-
shed areas. Such an authorization has
worked most successfully under the Great
Plains program. This measure would
133
