[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
international attention on the funda-
mental problems confronting the world
trading system, and moved ahead with a
major effort to improve our competitive
position.
The Setting. World trade affects the
standard of living and the welfare of citi-
zens of this and every other country. For
this reason, the removal of barriers to the
free exchange of goods in the interna-
tional market has been a major corner-
stone of U.S. policy since the 1930's.
The results have been impressive.
Tariffs of industrialized countries have
been reduced to roughly one-third of their
immediate postwar level. Between 1950
and 1970, U.S. exports quadrupled from
$11 billion to $43 billion. U.S. workers,
farmers, and businesses have gained
greater access for their products in world
markets, while American consumers have
benefited from an increasingly wide vari-
ety of products from other nations. The
postwar prosperity of this country and its
allies has been enhanced by a rapid growth
in trade between us. These trading rela-
tionships have provided a solid under-
pinning for our strong political bonds.
In recent years, however, international
trading relationships have changed sig-
nificantly. The European Community and
Japan are now centers of economic power
and strong international competitors. The
Community is today the largest trading
area in the world. Japan has made rapid
advances in productivity and become a
vigorous exporter. But discriminatory
trading arrangements are assuming
greater importance. Additional trade bar-
riers have been erected. And past reduc-
tions in tariffs have exposed other barriers
to trade, which have not been adequately
addressed.
Within the world trading system, the
United States recently has experienced
its own particular problems. The produc-
tivity of American labor and industry has
not increased as rapidly as that of some of
our important trade partners; our rate of
inflation in recent years has been unac-
ceptably high; and the dollar had become
overvalued. The combined effect has been
a reduction in the competitiveness of
American products in domestic and for-
eign markets. Our balance of trade has
eroded to the point that in 1971-for the
first time since 1893-we experienced a
trade deficit. Our problems have been
complicated by the fact that our major
trading partners maintain barriers-in
many cases both unwarranted and out-
moded-which are detrimental to our ex-
ports. These have been focal points of
political friction and have held back
growth in employment in specific U.S.
industries.
Trade Policy. Our objectives in 1971
were:
-To curb inflation and realign ex-
change rates, thereby increasing
the competitiveness of American
products;
-To seek removal of specific barriers
to U.S.exports;
-To set the stage for further interna-
tional negotiations leading to a more
fundamental attack on trade barriers;
-To strengthen the export competi-
tiveness of American industry;
-To facilitate adjustment of domestic
industries to the pressures of exces-
sively rapid import increases, and to
assist in some cases with measures to
cushion the impact of these pressures;
-To broaden and increase opportu-
nities for trade with Communist
countries.
The Measures of August 15. Our com-
244
