Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 13 [121]
very much at home in this country, in
which we truly have felt at home on many
occasions in the past. And I can only say,
in view of the political reference, that it is
a very great pleasure to have at this head
table at least two or three people who are
not running for the office which I now
hold.
This trip to Canada has been one which
has been very much in our minds, and to
which we have been looking forward for
many months; as a matter of fact, since
entering office. It has given us a chance
already to see old friends like former
Prime Minister Mr. Diefenbaker-we met
in Washington when I was Vice President
of the United States-and renew ac-
quaintances with others whom we have
worked with during the period that I
have served as President of the United
States. And I would say one of the real
pleasures of this trip has been the opportu-
nity to know better-I have met him once
before--His Excellency, our host tonight,
the Governor-General.
He speaks, of course, of the fact that he
has no political power, but I would only
say that when I look back on his distin-
guished career, his service at the bar, his
service in India, and in other posts of very
great importance, the Speaker of the Par-
liament, of the Lower House, and I think
now of his service to his country in the post
he presently holds, that we made only one
mistake in planning this trip. It was a
week too early. Next week he celebrates
his birthday and his fifth anniversary as
Governor-General. So in advance, we con-
gratulate you, Mr. Governor-General.
The Prime Minister and I have had an
opportunity to have chats on several occa-
sions, and we had one particularly inter-
esting interlude on the last occasion that I
visited Canada very briefly, when we cele-
brated the tenth anniversary of the inau-
guration of the St. Lawrence Seaway.
Governor Rockefeller 1¹ was our host on
the American side that day. A few of you
here were there; Secretary Rogers and
Mrs. Rogers will remember that occasion.
Governor Rockefeller, with his great,
expansive charm, was introducing the
various guests. He said, "Secretary and
Mrs. Rogers," and they stood up, "the
President of the United States and Mrs.
Nixon," "the Prime Minister and Mrs.
Trudeau." That was in 1969.2
Fortunately, I spoke after he did, and I
I was able to save the situation somewhat
by saying that the Governor was simply
meaning to be prophetic. I didn't realize
what a good prophet the Governor was.
But I think that as far as the Prime
Minister is concerned, and Mrs. Trudeau
whom we have had the privilege and
honor of meeting for the first time to-
night-that the Prime Minister has proved
that he is a very effective political leader.
He has shown his devotion by his marriage
to the great interest in beautification in
Canada. And also, he is doing something
about underpopulation.
Could I say just a few words now that
will not be in the formal sense that I will
be speaking tomorrow when I will be priv-
ileged to address the Parliament, but
which will try to let those here in this com-
pany, and those who may be hearing what
we say over this electronic device, pro-
vided the unions are not boycotting it—
that is another thing we have in com-
mon-but in any event, may I tell you
what one American and his wife, what
1 Nelson A. Rockefeller was Governor of New
York.
2 Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau was
not married until March 1971.
87-234-74- -38
533
