[318] Sept. 25 Public Papers of the Presidents
toward its resolution through peaceful
means. The experienced people gathered
in this room are not so naive as to expect
the smoothing out of all differences be-
tween peoples and between nations. We
anticipate that the potential for conflict
will exist as long as men and nations have
different interests, different approaches,
different ideals.
Therefore, we must come to grips with
the paradoxes of peace. As the danger of
armed conflict between major powers is
reduced, the potential for economic con-
flict increases. As the possibility of peace
grows stronger, some of the original ties
that first bound our postwar alliances to-
gether grow weaker. As nations around
the world gain new economic strength,
the points of commercial contact multi-
ply along with the possibilities of
disagreements.
There is another irony that we should
recognize on this occasion. With one
exception, the nations gathered here
whose domestic economies are growing so
strongly today can trace much of their
postwar growth to the expansion of inter-
national trade. The one exception is the
United States-the industrial nation with
by far the smallest percentage of its gross
national product in world trade.
Why, then, is the United States-seem-
ingly with the least at stake-in the fore-
front of those working for prompt and
thoroughgoing reform of the international
monetary system, with all that will mean
for the expansion of trade now and in the
future?
One reason, of course, is our national
self-interest. We want our working men
and women, our business men and women,
to have a fair chance to compete for their
share of the expanding trade between na-
tions. A generation ago, at the end of
World War II, we deliberately set out to
help our former enemies as well as our
weakened allies, so that they would
inevitably gain the economic strength
which would enable them to compete
with us in world markets. And now we
expect our trading partners to help bring
about equal and fair competition.
There is another reason, more far-
reaching and fundamental, that motivates
the United States in pressing for economic
and monetary reform.
Working together, we must set in place
an economic structure that will help and
not hinder the world's historic movement
toward peace.
We must make certain that interna-
tional commerce becomes a source of
stability and harmony, rather than a cause
of friction and animosity.
Potential conflict must be channeled
into cooperative competition. That is why
the structure of the international mone-
tary system and the future system of world
trade are so central to our concerns today.
The time has come for action across the
entire front of international economic
problems. Recurring monetary crises such
as we have experienced all too often in the
past decade, unfair currency alignments
and trading agreements which put the
workers of one nation at a disadvantage
with workers of another nation, great dis-
parities in development that breed resent-
ment, a monetary system that makes no
provision for the realities of the present
and the needs of the future-all these not
only injure our economies, they also create
political tensions that subvert the cause of
peace.
908
