Richard Nixon, 1972
May 8 [147]
147 Address to the Nation on the Situation in Southeast
Asia. May 8, 1972
Good evening:
Five weeks ago, on Easter weekend, the
Communist armies of North Vietnam
launched a massive invasion of South
Vietnam, an invasion that was made pos-
sible by tanks, artillery, and other ad-
vanced offensive weapons supplied to
Hanoi by the Soviet Union and other
Communist nations.
The South Vietnamese have fought
bravely to repel this brutal assault. Cas-
ualties on both sides have been very high.
Most tragically, there have been over
20,000 civilian casualties, including
women and children, in the cities which
the North Vietnamese have shelled in
wanton disregard of human life.
As I announced in my report to the
Nation 12 days ago, the role of the United
States in resisting this invasion has been
limited to air and naval strikes on military
targets in North and South Vietnam. As
I also pointed out in that report, we have
responded to North Vietnam's massive
military offensive by undertaking wide-
ranging new peace efforts aimed at end-
ing the war through negotiation.
On April 20, I sent Dr. Kissinger to
Moscow for 4 days of meetings with Gen-
eral Secretary Brezhnev and other Soviet
leaders. I instructed him to emphasize our
desire for a rapid solution to the war and
our willingness to look at all possible ap-
proaches. At that time, the Soviet leaders
showed an interest in bringing the war to
an end on a basis just to both sides. They
urged resumption of negotiations in Paris,
and they indicated they would use their
constructive influence.
I authorized Dr. Kissinger to meet
privately with the top North Vietnamese
negotiator, Le Duc Tho, on Tuesday,
May 2, in Paris. Ambassador Porter, as
you know, resumed the public peace nego-
tiations in Paris on April 27 and again on
May 4. At those meetings, both public
and private, all we heard from the enemy
was bombastic rhetoric and a replaying
of their demands for surrender. For ex-
ample, at the May 2 secret meeting, I au-
thorized Dr. Kissinger to talk about every
conceivable avenue toward peace. The
North Vietnamese flatly refused to con-
sider any of these approaches. They re-
fused to offer any new approach of their
own. Instead, they simply read verbatim
their previous public demands.
Here is what over 3 years of public and
private negotiations with Hanoi has come
down to: The United States, with the full
concurrence of our South Vietnamese al-
lies, has offered the maximum of what
any President of the United States could
offer.
We have offered a deescalation of the
fighting. We have offered a cease-fire with
a deadline for withdrawal of all American
forces. We have offered new elections
which would be internationally supervised
with the Communists participating both
in the supervisory body and in the elec-
tions themselves.
President Thieu has offered to resign
one month before the elections. We have
offered an exchange of prisoners of war
in a ratio of 10 North Vietnamese prison-
ers for every one American prisoner that
they release. And North Vietnam has met
each of these offers with insolence and
insult. They have flatly and arrogantly
refused to negotiate an end to the war and
583
