[74] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the tragedy of 28,000 victims of al-
cohol-related highway deaths every year.
The recently established National In-
stitute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
will soon launch an intensive public
education program through television and
radio and will continue to support model
treatment projects from which States and
communities will be able to pattern pro-
grams to fight this enemy.
Meanwhile, the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare and the Depart-
ment of Transportation are funding proj-
ects in 35 States to demonstrate the value
of highway safety, enforcement and
education efforts among drinking drivers.
The Veterans Administration will increase
the number of its Alcohol Dependence
Treatment Units by more than one-third,
to 56 units in fiscal year 1973.
DRUG ABUSE
Drug abuse now constitutes a national
emergency.
In response to this threat and to the
need for coordination of Federal programs
aimed at drug abuse, I established the
Special Action Office for Drug Abuse
Prevention within the Executive Office of
the President. Its special areas of action
are programs for treating and rehabilita-
ting the drug abuser and for alerting our
young people to the dangers of drug abuse.
I have proposed legislation to the Con-
gress which would extend and clarify the
authority of this Office. I am hopeful that
Senate and House conferees will soon be
able to resolve differences in the versions
passed by the two branches and emerge
with a single bill responsive to the Nation's
needs.
The new Special Action Office, how-
ever, has not been idly awaiting this leg-
islation. It has been vigorously setting
about the task of identifying the areas of
greatest need and channelling Federal re-
sources into these areas.
The Department of Defense, for ex-
ample, working in close coordination with
the Special Action Office, has instituted
drug abuse identification, education, and
treatment programs which effectively
combatted last year's heroin problem
among our troops in South Vietnam. In-
dications are that the corner has been
turned on this threat and that the inci-
dence of drug dependence among our
troops is declining.
The Veterans Administration, again in
coordination with the Special Action Of-
fice, has accomplished more than a six-fold
increase in the number of drug depend-
ency treatment centers in fiscal year 1972,
with an increase to 44 centers proposed in
fiscal year 1973.
In fiscal year 1972, I have increased
funds available for the prevention of drug
abuse by more than 130 percent. For fiscal
year 1973, I have requested over $365
million to treat the drug abuser and
prevent the spread of the affliction of drug
abuse.
This is more than eight times as much
as was being spent for this purpose when
this Administration took office.
SICKLE CELL DISEASE
About one out of every 500 black in-
fants falls victim to the painful, life-short-
ening disease called sickle cell anemia.
This inherited disease trait is carried by
about two million black Americans.
In fiscal year 1972, $10 million was
allocated to attack this problem and an
392
