[243] Aug. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
days have passed without final Congres-
sional action on the Disaster Recovery Act
of 1972. I again urge the Congress to act
immediately, because the victims of these
disasters desperately need the help these
measures would provide. And they need
it now.
Today, I am transmitting an amend-
ment which would make private, non-
profit educational institutions eligible for
disaster relief grants under the Act. I urge
that the Congress consider and enact
promptly this amendment, which would
authorize reconstruction relief for these
institutions comparable to the disaster re-
construction relief already available to
public educational institutions.
The Office of Emergency Preparedness
estimates that property loss and damage
at private non-profit educational institu-
tions in the storm affected areas has
exceeded $19 million. Many of these insti-
tutions have undergone damage so exten-
sive that they would be unable to rebuild
facilities or reopen without extraordinary
assistance. For example, at one alone,
Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, Penn-
sylvania, which is not a large or wealthy
institution, the storm caused havoc and
destruction estimated at several millions
of dollars.
The proposal I am transmitting today
would provide financial assistance to re-
store, reconstruct or replace disaster-
damaged education facilities, supplies and
equipment used primarily for nonsectar-
ian educational purposes. I believe this
temporary authority is required if we are
to meet our public responsibilities equita-
bly and in a just manner.
Again, I cannot stress too strongly that
it is essential that the Congress immedi-
ately enact the pending disaster relief
legislation I have proposed. It is impera-
tive that this massive recovery program
begin at once. Millions of Americans-in-
dividual homeowners, farmers and city
dwellers, small businessmen-are strug-
gling to rebuild their lives in the wake of
these natural disasters. They need their
Government's help. And they need it now.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
August 2, 1972.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the proposed amendment.
Participants in the news briefing were Frank C.
Carlucci, Deputy Director, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and George A. Lincoln,
Director, Office of Emergency Preparedness.
244
Statement on Launching Project FIND To Provide
Food Assistance for Older Americans.
August 2, 1972
THE THOUGHT that any older citi-
zens after a lifetime of service to their
communities and country-may suffer
from hunger or malnutrition is intolerable.
The White House Conference on Aging
last December underlined the particular
nutritional problems of the elderly-the
problems of living on a fixed income and
problems arising from isolation. The dele-
gates called for action programs to help
the malnourished aged.
In response to this call, I am today
launching Project FIND, a program to
seek out the elderly who are not receiving
758
