Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 29 [388]
strong man in voting against more spend-
ing in Washington so that you can spend
more here in Michigan. We are for that,
and I hope that you will send him back so
he can continue to work for that cause.
Finally, let me say a word on another
subject that is of great interest to every-
body here in this State-I know that it is
not one of particular concern in this
area—and it is that of education, to which
I addressed myself just a few days ago on
radio. The best education is the education
you get in the school that is closest to your
home. The Senate needs Bob Griffin
standing against any kind of program that
would bus children away from their homes
across town. We need him in the United
States Senate for that kind of leadership.
We also need him because we can have
peace abroad, we can have good jobs, and
it isn't going to mean anything if our
cities are ridden over with crime and
drugs and all the other things which are
part of modern life.
Let me tell you, there is no man in this
country today who, with his legal back-
ground, gives us better leadership, as he
does in the United States Senate, than
Bob Griffin, in developing that kind of
support we need for strong judges that
will strengthen the peace forces as against
the criminal forces in this country. We
need him in the Senate for that.
If he would step up here for one mo-
ment-let me just close with one word. In
speaking of him, I speak of all of those
388
who support these principles that I have
spoken of. These are not partisan prin-
ciples. Democrats as well as Republicans
want peace in the world. Democrats as
well as Republicans want jobs and pros-
perity, without war and without inflation.
Democrats as well as Republicans want
good education, education close to home
and not clear across town. Democrats as
well as Republicans want progress, prog-
ress for their children and their children's
children in the years to come.
One of the things that impresses any-
one who runs for any office, and particu-
larly for President, is to see the wonder-
ful young people that we have seen by the
hundreds of thousands today, and the
thousands here today, let me tell you what
I feel at a moment like this. I know many
of you have been here for almost 4 hours.
I know that you didn't even know that
we were going to have a meeting here
until yesterday. Thank you for coming.
Thank you for coming.
Let me tell you, I realize that for many
who are here, who are 18, 19, and 20, this
is the first time you will have had an op-
portunity to vote. I want your first vote
to be remembered as one of your best
votes. I want the next 4 years and Bob
Griffin wants the next 4 years to be the
best 4 years in this country's history.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:30 p.m. at a
rally at the Tri-City Airport which serves
Saginaw, Bay City, and Midland. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Radio Address on Defense Policy.
October 29, 1972
Good afternoon:
I want to talk to you this afternoon
about national defense. Defense policy is
the most important single issue in this
election. It represents a choice which
must be made not on the basis of name-
1065
