Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 21 [96]
we may increase crime, increase crime
because of the inability of those who are
unable to obtain drugs to feed their habit,
and so this means that on the treatment of
addicts we must go parallel with the pro-
gram which was strong in this field, and
here is where the Jaffe Office, as we now
call it, comes into play and this bill comes
into play.
As we increase our efforts in law en-
forcement, as we reduce the supply, what
we must do is to increase our efforts to
treat the addicts, to treat them and also to
reduce the demand, through a program
of education and prevention across this
'country. We feel that a lot of progress has
already been made in this field, but with
this legislation now funding what we have
been doing previously from other funds
that we had to scratch to find from time to
time, it means that this Office can go
forward in a major program across the
country where we can make some new
breakthroughs in treating drug addiction.
I simply want to say in conclusion that
the country owes a debt of gratitude to all
the Members of the Congress, and par-
ticularly the members of the committee
who have worked for this legislation and
who have helped to get it to the President's
desk.
Now the task goes to Dr. Jaffe.
One final thought: Why do we have
him here, and why do we have this Office
in the White House?
The reason is that this particular pro-
gram of drug abuse, and the particular
program, also, on the side of enforcing the
law against those who violate it in terms
of trafficking and arrest, has the direct
interest in and the President assumes
direct responsibility for it.
There is another reason for it. When
Dr. Jaffe took over this Office, I asked
him to find out how many Government
agencies were involved in these programs.
He said there were nine. I asked him yes-
terday how many Government agencies
he had found were involved in it, and he
said, "I was wrong. There were 13." In
other words, there were 13 Government
agencies, all of which had a bit or a piece
of the drug prevention program.
Now this doesn't mean this was neces-
sarily bad, because in some instances the
agencies were working together. But in
other instances the inevitable had hap-
pened: Petty bureaucrats seeking credit,
empire building, were more interested in
what they were doing in terms of building
up their bureau than in dealing with the
problem.
I have given Dr. Jaffe-when I made
the appointment of him for this Office-
the responsibility of knocking the heads
together, and unless the people in this
Government and all of the agencies-and
all of them are represented here today-
are willing to cooperate and work together,
then instead of the heads being knocked
together, the heads will roll. That is his
responsibility.
The reason we do that is that this is a
cause that is bigger than who is going to
get the credit, bigger than whether this
agency or that agency is going to be the
more important agency. This is a cause
we have all got to work on together, and
under Dr. Jaffe's leadership and his co-
ordination, I am sure that this bill will pro-
vide the means for us to do it and make a
major breakthrough in this area.
Thank you.
Now, as is usually the custom, I will
sign this with one pen, but in spite of the
fact that this is one of the larger groups for
453
