[40] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
play. As its plans are made known, they
may well serve as a stimulus and an ex-
ample for the equally important plans be-
ing made in thousands of other com-
munities. Both to ensure that Washington
itself is ready for 1976 and to spur Bicen-
tennial activity all across the country, I
shall outline to the Congress today an
action plan for Federal partnership in the
District of Columbia's Bicentennial
observance.
My proposals follow two basic themes.
One is the quest for quality of life-today's
name for the age-old aspiration which
Jefferson at the Nation's birth called "the
pursuit of happiness." Here is the very es-
sence of a Bicentennial celebrated "on the
move." The past success of this quest, its
present vigor, and its future prospects will
provide a telling measure for our self-
assessment as the great milestone nears.
Such a theme's immediacy will call up
exertion as well as congratulation-not
only a birthday party but an actual rebirth.
The second theme which I would stress
is dual excellence for Washington. In
choosing which Bicentennial projects to
pursue among myriad worthy possibilities,
an old question arises again and again:
Washington for Washingtonians, or Wash-
ington for all Americans? A kind of civic
schizophrenia has troubled this city from
the earliest days of its double existence as
both a national capital and a community
in its own right. Solutions going to both
extremes have had their advocates—yet
there is a better answer than either mak-
ing thousands of people reside neglected
in a strictly Federal city that is "a nice
place to visit," or making millions of other
people receive their governance from a
narrowly provincial and self-centered
capital where officials and visitors are
classed as outsiders.
The Bicentennial Era, I am convinced,
is the right time for Washington to gain a
new and more expansive sense of itself,
and to find in its dual identity an oppor-
tunity for dual excellence unparalleled
among American cities. The seat of gov-
ernment can excel as an exemplary living
city, at the same time the home of 750,000
local residents excels as a gracious host to
fellow citizens and foreign visitors who
may number 40 million during 1976 alone.
The projects proposed in this message,
then, treat quality of life in the Nation's
Capital as indivisible. They aim for dual
excellence, in the conviction that a more
liveable city is a more visitable one, and
vice versa. For the most part, they em-
phasize physical construction-not by any
means because public works are the sum
total of our Bicentennial intentions for the
District, but only because building time is
already becoming critically short. Activ-
ities of many other types, such as com-
memorative events, pageantry, and social
and cultural programs, which will of
course be essential to the human dimen-
sion of the Bicentennial but which require
somewhat shorter lead-times, are also
being planned. Reports on these activities
and, in many cases, requests for approval
and funding will be submitted to the
Congress as we move toward 1976.
One further note on Bicentennial con-
cerns not mentioned here but certainly not
forgotten: It is my feeling that nothing we
could do for the District of Columbia dur-
ing the next 4 years would be more mean-
ingful or more appropriate to the Spirit of
'76 than granting this city and its people
first-class status: voting representation in
the Congress. I am encouraged by the ap-
parently warmer climate for this reform
on Capitol Hill in 1972, and it will con-
tinue to have my support.
148
