Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 15 [124]
has visited every country in Central Amer-
ica and every country in South America,
and I know that what the State Depart-
ment tells every visitor to these parts of the
world before he goes, and what they told
me is true. That the greatest mistake a
traveler in Central America and South
America and, for that matter, the Carib-
bean can make, is to assume that it is
just one great part of the world that is
very much alike. It is alike in many ways,
but very different in other ways. They are
proud peoples, they are different peoples.
Many speak the same language, many
have the same ideals, but, on the other
hand, the important thing for us in the
United States to do is to recognize and re-
spect each country in Latin America for
what it is and what it stands for and to
know them for what they are and what
they stand for. This I know from having
traveled to all of these countries.
We recognize that diversity has resulted
in different kinds of government within
Latin America, with varying national
goals and methods, and we realize that all
of this presents problems.
The United States is no stranger to
policy differences and to the efforts needed
to forge strengths from the fires of discord.
Consequently, we stand prepared to
work as a mature and equal partner on
the inevitable differences that have arisen
and have continued to arise because of the
developing new realities in the American
hemisphere.
Let us all recognize that when we talk
about differences there are some things
that will not change as far as U.S. policy
is concerned. We will continue to give a
special priority to our unique relation-
ships with Latin America.
say that here; I could say it also with
regard to all of the American hemisphere,
to the Americas generally, to Canada, and
to the American family in its largest sense.
We have special relationships with many
countries in the world, but priority must
necessarily go to our closest friends and
our closest neighbors in the American
hemisphere.
We will deal realistically with govern-
ments as they are, not seeking to impose
our political structure on other nations.
We recognize that each nation must seek
its own way and we respect the right of
all people in the various countries with
whom we deal in the American family to
seek their own way, and we shall continue
to demonstrate our deep humanitarian
concern for the people of the hemisphere.
If I could interject here just a sense of
the feeling that Mrs. Nixon and I have for
the countries that you the Foreign Minis-
ters, the Ambassadors, and the others
represent here today.
We think of you as representatives of
government and we respect you as repre-
sentatives of government. But also, we
think of you as representatives of people.
When I think of Latin America I remem-
ber, for example, the friends I have met
there. I remember a very handsome,
vigorous, young man from the Foreign
Office-he was young then, in 1955. He
had gone to the University of California,
had played football, had been a great star
and was back in his country of El Salva-
dor, his name means nothing to you. It was
Quinones. But he was such a good man
and strong man and spoke so fervently
about his small country that I realized
and sensed from him the sentiment that
the people in the countries to the south
have for their countries, the patriotism
they feel for their countries, large or small.
I remember a ride one night, as we were
going to a state dinner in Bolivia. We were
545
