[331] Sept. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
tor, a Russian biologist, a Chinese chemist,
or maybe the breakthrough will come
through from an African or Latin Amer-
ican scientist, or it might come from some-
one sitting in this room.
But perhaps more likely, from what I
have learned in my rather brief acquaint-
ance with the intricacy of this problem,
there will not be any single cure, it will not
come suddenly. It may be that many peo-
ple will each contribute partial cures-
progress for various forms of this dread
disease. But whenever and wherever the
answers come, what they are going to
represent is the final steps of a long jour-
ney, a journey that many of you in this
room have been on for many, many years.
And those who took all the other steps, the
first very difficult early steps when govern-
ment did not provide as much support,
when it was harder to get the volunteers
to put up the money that was necessary,
those of you who took those steps, who
carried the fight then, when it was diffi-
cult, you are going to deserve the credit
when the victory finally comes.
It is somewhat like the relays that we
watched in the Olympics. One runner
would break the tape. He was the winner,
but all four stood there to receive the
victory gold medal. Scientific progress is
like a vast relay race in which thousands
of men and women in every part of the
world carry the baton for a distance be-
fore they pass it on, pass it on from one to
another, from one generation to another,
until finally they break the tape; the race
is won.
That is why the agreement we signed in
Moscow last May to cooperate with the
Soviet Union in medical research can be
so important. When most people think
of the Moscow summit and the many
agreements that were signed there in the
field of cooperation in space and trade,
medical research, et cetera, there is a tend-
ency naturally to put first on the list of
importance, and naturally this should be
the case, the agreement to limit strategic
nuclear arms.
I sincerely hope that what is called the
SALT agreement will be remembered as
a great turning point in the control and
limitation of nuclear arms, and perhaps
eventually in their reduction and thereby
in reducing the risk of war in the world.
But it may well be 20, 40, maybe 100
years from now that another moment in
Moscow will be remembered with that
moment when Mr. Brezhnev and I signed
the nuclear arms control agreement, for
our agreement to cooperate in the field of
medicine could mark another great turn-
ing point in the struggle against disease.
It is like drug abuse, or hijacking, ter-
rorism. Cancer is not just a national, it is
an international menace, and we must
confront it with an international alliance.
The barriers between nations are very
great. They are very great, for example,
from a philosophical standpoint, despite
the visits that we have taken between the
People's Republic of China and the
United States, between the Soviet Union
and the United States.
The fact that the leaders of the two na-
tions meet, that we have days of conver-
sations, and that we reach agreement, does
not mean that those deep philosophical
differences have basically changed. They
have not. They probably will not.
What we have tried to do, of course, is
to find a way to have disagreements with-
out fighting about those disagreements,
and what we have tried to do also is to
find areas where we can agree and where
we can cooperate.
In fighting disease, I have found that
942
