Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [268]
its foreign policy, an idealistic thrust
which has been very unusual in the history
of great nations. That is why strength in
the hands of the United States means
safety for the world. Keep America strong.
Be proud of what America has done in
fighting its wars and how it is now fighting
to bring about generations of peace for the
years ahead.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:01 p.m. in
the McCormick Place convention center.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his remarks was released
on the same day.
268 Remarks at the Dedication of the Dwight David
Eisenhower High School in Utica, Michigan.
August 24, 1972
THANK you very much, Suzanne,¹ and
thank all of you for this wonderfully warm
welcome. I thought I left the warm
weather in Florida, but I am not so sure.
Outside, incidentally, I think, listening
on the public address system are even
more than are inside.
My wife and I are very, very flattered
that so many of you would welcome us on
this occasion, an occasion which we want
to share with you because it is a memo-
rable one in terms of the dedication of this
school to General Eisenhower. Partici-
pating in that dedication ceremony, we
would like to have the president of the
senior class, and it is Bill-we will get his
name here-Bill Hellebuyck.
Before we show you this plaque, I am
aware of the fact that we now have the
18-year-old vote, and I think of Bill and
Suzanne, these wonderfully attractive
young people—and I just want to say to
Congressman O'Hara and to my good
friend, Senator Griffin, they better watch
out, they will be running some day.
WILLIAM C. HELLEBUYCK. On behalf
¹ Suzanne M. Jaroszynski, chosen for her
citizenship and scholarship as a student repre-
sentative of the high school, introduced the
President.
of the entire student body of Dwight D.
Eisenhower, it gives me great honor being
able to say thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. And thank you, Bill
Hellebuyck.
Now I have just a few remarks that I
would like to make to everybody here, but
particularly to the students, those that are
going to be attending this school in the
years ahead and those who will be at-
tending it in this next year.
Occasions like this are ones in which
it is quite difficult to find the right words,
particularly when a school is named for
one of the very great men of our time.
Now, the usual thing that you do, of
course, is to talk about the man, but every-
body here knows about General Eisen-
hower: that he was the man who led the
forces of freedom to victory in World War
II, and then was President of the United
States who ended one war and kept the
peace for 8 years.
We know of that. We know of his back-
ground and also of his great service to the
country after he left the Presidency. I am
not going to go into that for another rea-
son. I would like to tell you a little story
about General Eisenhower.
As I was trying to think, coming over
803
