Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 3 [39]
have come in. That means you got
through. People were listening. They were
paying attention.
What I am saying to you is that, as a
sports fan, I admire those here for your
great achievements in your chosen profes-
sions at this time in your lives; but as an
American, I am just deeply grateful for
this free time you have been giving, be-
cause you can command a little pay for
that time-don't give it away free, inci-
dentally, except to us-for the free time
you have been giving in making these
commercials, in getting at a subject in
which every American concerned about
the future of his country, and particularly
the future of our children, has a very, very
great interest.
Now, as far as the briefing is concerned,
to show you how broad our interest is, and
how we are attempting to wage a battle
against drug abuse, which is not limited
to just one section, but it is total, it is
what we might describe as total warfare
against drug abuse in the United States
and in the world.
An indication of how it is total are the
people who will be addressing you: John
Ehrlichman, the head of our domestic
staff, will be the master of ceremonies. But
we have the Secretary of State, the top
ranking member of the Cabinet. Why is
he here? Because we want to try to stop
drugs coming into this country at the
source. We don't produce heroin, for
example, in the United States. They
do produce it-the poppy that grows
heroin-in Turkey. They produce it in
some parts of Southeast Asia. We have
made remarkable progress in this respect.
And this is a result of the cooperation of
the State Department, our ambassadors
abroad working with the Governments of
Turkey, France, and several other foreign
governments. The Secretary of State will
fill you in on those activities: stopping
drugs from coming in at the source, mak-
ing it more difficult for them to come in.
Of course, any program is not going to
be completely successful. Some are going
to get in. They are smuggled in, and there
are a variety of ways they can get around
anything that we do.
The other thing that we have been try-
ing to do, and this is the second phase of
the program, is: Once they get in, then we
want to have laws effectively enforced
that will punish the pushers. Now, we have
set up several programs in this field, the
Congress has cooperated, and you are
going to be briefed by the top people in our
Government who have the responsibility
for law enforcement at the Federal level
and who, of course, are working with
State and local and city governments in
seeing that we punish the pushers.
There are many reprehensible crimes,
in my opinion, in this country. I can think
of no crime, including even the crime of
murder, burglary—you name it—which is
more reprehensible than for an individual
to destroy the life of a young person by
pushing drugs. It is a terrible thing to do.
We are having an all-out offensive waged
all over this country to punish the pushers.
Now, there is another side to it. You
know, many times in the field of crime-
and I speak now as a lawyer and, of course,
the Secretary of State is a lawyer, and so
is John Ehrlichman, we all will have this
same view-many times in the field of
crime there is a tendency to think all you
need is a law with a strong enough penalty
and there will be no crime. Not true, be-
cause that is only one side of it. No matter
how strong the penalty is, there are some
who are going to break the law.
Once they break the law, particularly
145
