[21] Jan. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
is the implementation of the principle that all
armed forces of the countries of Indochina must
remain within their national frontiers.
6. There will be a general cease-fire through-
out Indochina, to begin when the agreement is
signed. As part of the cease-fire, there will be
no further infiltration of outside forces into any
of the countries of Indochina.
7. There will be international supervision of
the military aspects of this agreement including
the cease-fire and its provisions, the release of
prisoners of war and innocent civilians, the
withdrawal of outside forces from Indochina,
and the implementation of the principle that
all armed forces of the countries of Indochina
must remain within their national frontiers.
8. There will be an international guarantee
for the fundamental national rights of the Indo-
chinese peoples, the status of all the countries in
22
Indochina, and lasting peace in this region.
Both sides express their willingness to par-
ticipate in an international conference for this
and other appropriate purposes.
On January 26, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the secret
negotiations in Paris by Henry A. Kissinger,
Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs. Dr. Kissinger's news briefing is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 8, p. 126). On the same day,
the White House also released the transcript
of a news briefing on the President's plan for
peace by Republican Congressional Leaders
Senator Hugh Scott and Representative Gerald
R. Ford following a meeting with the President.
Statement About the Death of Former Senator
Carl Hayden. January 26, 1972
FOR 57 years, the energy and devotion
of Carl Hayden strengthened and en-
riched the Congress of the United States.
In the Congress-and in the country-he
helped to keep alive the spirit and the
character of the old West.
Senator Hayden told generations of
newcomers to the Congress that it was
better to be a workhorse than a show-
horse-and he followed that adage in
every aspect of his life. As a result, his in-
fluence for good reached into every corner
of our national experience. Quietly, but
firmly, he made his lasting imprint on our
history.
Carl Hayden entered the Congress a
year before I was born. The first man to
represent Arizona in the House of Repre-
sentatives, his name became synonymous
with the development of that State. With
his death, Arizona and the Nation have
lost another great link with our pioneering
past.
Carl Hayden became a legendary figure
for his countrymen even before his active
years were over. Today, the entire Nation
mourns his passing. But we know that as
long as the Nation lives his legend will live
on.
NOTE: Senator Hayden, 94, died after a pro-
longed illness in Mesa, Ariz., on January 25,
1972.
He served in the House of Representatives
from 1912 to 1927, and in the Senate from
1927 to 1969 when he retired. He was President
pro tempore of the Senate from January 1957
until his retirement.
Deputy Attorney General Richard G. Klein-
dienst represented the President at the funeral
services.
106
