[33] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
European nations are at present. Our
problems are not so much those of num-
bers as of distribution. And their solution
requires the revitalization of the American
countryside.
CHANGING OUR APPROACH
In seeking to solve the problems of rural
areas, we must not simply seek more
money from the Congress and the tax-
payers. In the past decade we have seen
the folly of pouring money into projects
which were ill-considered and lacking in
local support. What we must now seek
instead is a fundamental change in the
way government approaches the entire
developmental challenge.
The Federal Government has spent
considerable sums on rural development.
Programs which we have recommended
for inclusion in our rural development
Revenue Sharing plan alone are spending
almost $1 billion this year and this is only
a small part of our overall rural develop-
ment spending. And yet, despite this sub-
stantial funding, the problems have con-
tinued to grow. What is it that has been
missing from our rural development
programs?
MORE CONTROL AT THE STATE
AND LOCAL LEVEL
I believe that a major missing ingredi-
ent has been effective control of develop-
ment programs at lower levels of
government. Because we have relied so ex-
clusively on Federal funds-handed out
through bureaucratic processes and
through narrow categorical grants-too
many decisions have been made in Wash-
ington and too few have been made in
rural America. I believe this is wrong. I
believe we should return power to officials
who are selected at the State and local
levels.
As long as the Federal Government sets
rigid rules, both through legislative and
administrative guidelines, there is little
room for local initiative. Under our pres-
ent system, a project that does not meet
Federal standards does not get funded.
This means that the talents of local gov-
ernment officials, of leaders in the private
sector, and of public-spirited citizens can-
not be fully utilized. Almost all of the suc-
cess stories that can be found in rural eco-
nomic development have occurred
because local officials and private leaders
have entered into a public-spirited part-
nership and have taken the initiative. We
must do all we can to encourage such
partnerships.
IMPROVED PLANNING
Even as we seek to decentralize, we
must also work to improve planning. In
many respects these goals represent two
sides of the same coin. For plans which are
developed at levels close to the people are
likely to be more realistic, more imagina-
tive and more useful than abstract blue-
prints which are drawn up far away from
the scene of the action or which are altered
to meet rigid Federal rules. Effective de-
velopment does not require plans that can
survive the scrutiny of Washington. Effec-
tive development requires plans that peo-
ple believe in and will work to accomplish.
MORE ADEQUATE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
RESOURCES
More adequate development also re-
quires more adequate resources. This does
not simply mean more Federal money; it
128
