Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
have deteriorated further, speculation
would have intensified, and distortions in
the international economic system would
have become even more difficult to cor-
rect. Domestic pressure for precipitate
withdrawals of our troops in Europe
would have increased, and the risk of a
relapse into short-sighted protectionism
would have become overwhelming. It
would have caused enormous economic
uncertainty and instability in the free
world and seriously threatened the
perity of many nations.
pros-
If we had chosen merely to continue to
patch up the system, the strong domestic
measures I took on August 15 might have
ended the crisis for the moment. But then
we certainly would have been faced with
the recurrence of such crises in the future.
We concluded, after full review, that
these alternatives were unacceptable.
Strong unilateral measures were required
to address both the immediate crisis and
the fundamental structural problems of
the system. On August 15 I suspended
convertibility of the dollar into gold and
other reserve assets. At the same time I
imposed a temporary 10 percent surcharge
on dutiable imports to raise their price and
thereby reduce their level. And I specified
that while the surcharge remained in
effect, the Job Development Credit which
I was proposing to the Congress was not
to be applied to give tax credit for im-
ported capital goods.
My objectives were to create conditions
for a realignment of exchange rates and to
stimulate progress in the areas of trade
and burden sharing-in order to bring
about a sustained turn-around in our bal-
ance of payments. And I wanted to set
the stage for negotiations leading to a
reformed international monetary order.
The August 15 measures were not in
themselves a lasting solution. Such a solu-
tion would depend on two factors. First,
we would need major improvements in
our domestic economy. The wage/price
freeze and subsequent controls are meas-
ures which we expect to reduce our high
rate of inflation. The Job Development
Credit and other tax reductions which I
proposed are designed to stimulate domes-
tic growth and productivity, reduce unem-
ployment, and encourage new investments
which will make U.S. industry more
competitive.
Second, we needed a major interna-
tional cooperative effort to help us im-
prove our balance of payments position,
and ultimately to reform the system itself.
When some countries are in balance of
payment disequilibrium because of deficit,
others are in disequilibrium on the sur-
plus side. What we faced, therefore, was
an international problem requiring a
multilateral solution.
The Road to Agreement. The strong
August 15 measures were necessary to em-
phasize the seriousness of the problem and
the urgent need for international action.
There was a temptation then for us to
approach a multilateral solution primarily
by making advantageous separate arrange-
ments with particular nations and then
putting pressure on certain others. But
we chose another course. We placed para-
mount importance on avoiding tactics
which would weaken confidence and
political unity among free world nations.
It was essential that the final outcome
be arrived at in a spirit of international
unity and cooperation and serve the inter-
ests of all concerned. Only such a solution
would be durable. For these reasons, we
gave priority to international forums and
multilateral discussions.
In the weeks following August 15, we
241
