Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [411]
We also ask you today for approval
from my fellow Californians and for sup-
port in what we are doing in the field of
fighting the rise in crime in this country
and fighting dangerous drugs. It has to be
done on all fronts, but one that is par-
ticularly important is in the appointment
of judges to all the courts, and particularly
to the Supreme Court.
Four years ago when I campaigned,
I said that I would appoint judges
who would recognize the necessity to
strengthen the peace forces as against the
criminal forces in this country. I have
done so, but I have only had a beginning.
We need 4 more years to strengthen the
courts so we can have the peace forces
strong, backed by the judges of this coun-
try, and if I could respectfully suggest
you can help in this field, too.
I know that sometimes in recent years,
in the late sixties, it became rather fash-
ionable always to run down those who
wore the uniform, whether it was a uni-
form serving their country abroad or the
uniform of someone who was keeping
our streets safe at home. Let me say: Back
up the men on our peace forces in the
United States, whether they are abroad
or whether they are home. Give them the
respect that they deserve.
There is one other great goal that I
refer to today, and that is the goal of
opportunity for all Americans. We in
California feel so strongly about that be-
cause while we are the biggest State and
the most populous State, we come from
all the States and all the nations of the
world. We believe in equal opportunity
for everybody-an equal chance for the
best education, an equal chance for good
health, a chance for everybody to have a
job, to go just as high as his talents will
take him.
87-234-74-75
We want that. We can help in Wash-
ington in working toward that. We need
your support to continue to develop that
equal chance for every American, with
ceiling unlimited as high as he or she
wants to go.
And finally, may I say that as I look at
this great crowd, I think of something
else that we would like to leave during
this next 4 years, something else in ad-
dition to peace which could last for a
generation or longer, something in ad-
dition to prosperity without war and with-
out inflation, to progress and opportunity
for all Americans, and that is this:
I mentioned the fact that we have been
to 50 States. Mrs. Nixon and I have
traveled to 80 countries as Vice President
and then as President. And in those
travels as President of the United States
I have visited four capitals that no Presi-
dent has ever been to before-Peking,
Moscow, Bucharest, and Warsaw.
These were journeys for peace, but as
those journeys took place, and as we saw
those 80 countries, each time we came
back to the United States and we saw this
country, and we realized when we re-
turned how very fortunate anyone is to
live in the United States of America.
My fellow Californians, this is a great
State, and this is a beautiful country. Oh,
we have our problems, and we have those
faults that we are trying to correct, but
the wonder of it is, and the glory of it is
that we have a system in which we can
correct them in a peaceful way without
resorting to violence, and that is the way
we are going to do it.
I want you to know that as I look at
America over these next 4 years and I
think of your future, I believe that we
have the chance-and this is our goal-to
make the next 4 years the best 4 years in
1133
