[373] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
He sat there in the Oval Office. You
know, he doesn't pound the table. He
doesn't shout. But, boy, does he come
across. So I signed the bill, and, Arch
Moore, we thank you for coming in for
that.
Could I now say a word—and this is
something I could say in West Virginia,
Ohio, Kentucky, California, Maine, New
Hampshire, anyplace in this country-a
word about this election and what it
means in terms of the younger generation
particularly, and all of us, whatever our
age may be. I know that in our hearts
tonight, above everything else we want a
world of peace. As all of you have read
or heard on your television tonight, there
has been a significant breakthrough in the
negotiations with regard to Vietnam.¹
Tonight I can say to you with confi-
dence that because of the progress that
has been made, I am confident that we
shall succeed in achieving our objective,
which is peace with honor, and not peace
with surrender, in Vietnam.
There are still differences to be worked
out. I believe that they can and will be
worked out. But let me go on beyond that.
America has been in wars and has
ended wars before in this century, but the
great tragedy is that we end one war and
then, before a generation is over, we are
in another one. And the goal that I have
sought, the goal that all of you want, that
all Americans want, is not just a peace
1 Earlier the same day, Henry A. Kissinger,
Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, held a news briefing on progress in the
Vietnam peace negotiations. The transcript of
the news briefing was released by the White
House and is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p.
1565).
that is simply a period of rest between
wars but real peace that will last.
Did you know that in this whole century
we have never had a full generation,
young people growing up for a full gen-
eration without war? We had World War
I, and then World War II, and then Ko-
rea, and then Vietnam. I think that is
enough. What I want is a generation of
peace, and beyond that, another genera-
tion of peace. And that is why not only
are we ending the war in Vietnam in a
way that will promote the interest of last-
ing peace, but that is why we went to
Peking, that is why we went to Moscow.
The differences between the Govern-
ment of the United States and the philos-
ophy that we hold to, and the Govern-
ment of the People's Republic of China
and the Government of the Soviet Union
are very great. The Communist and our
systems will always be different. But in
the world in which we live it is essential
that we build a system in which we can
have differences between governments,
but in which the people of those nations
can be friends.
It is important that the Russian peo-
ple and the American people not be
enemies. It is important that the Chinese
people-and that is one-fourth of all the
people in this world-not be enemies of
the United States. I am not suggesting
tonight that in this past year in which these
historic journeys have taken place that
we have achieved the millennium. There
is much more to be done. What I am
telling you is that if you give me the
chance in the next 4 years, we are going
to make more progress building that gen-
eration of peace that everybody wants for
all Americans and all the world.
And beyond that, we want to do some-
1032
