[103] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
AGENDA FOR CANADIAN VISIT
[15.] Q. Mr. President, on your trip to
Canada, do you intend to try to do some-
thing about getting us in a better trade
position and, also, do you intend to take
up the matter of cleaning up the Great
Lakes?
THE PRESIDENT. We are working out
the agenda for our Canadian trip at the
present time. I would have to say quite
candidly that we have had very little suc-
cess to date in our negotiations with our
Canadian friends, which shows, inci-
dentally, that sometimes you have more
problems negotiating with your friends
than with your adversaries. But that is as
it should be. They have a right to their
position; we have a right to ours. But we
will discuss certainly trade, and we will
discuss the Great Lakes and the environ-
ment. I am sure we will also discuss the
world situation in which Prime Minister
Trudeau has some, based on my previous
visits with him, some very constructive
ideas to suggest.
In addition, on my trip to Canada, I
will, of course, brief Prime Minister Tru-
deau personally on the results of my visit
to China and also brief him, prior to my
going to the Soviet Union, on my visit to
the Soviet Union.
I think it is a very helpful thing that at
this point we are meeting with our friends
from Canada, although we will find that
we have some very basic disagreements,
probably, after the meeting as well as
before.
THE CHINA TRIP AND VIETNAM
[16.] Q. Mr. President, when you went
to China there were a lot of people in this
country who sincerely hoped that your trip
would be helpful in terms of settling the
Vietnam war in some fashion or another.
Did you find that trip helpful in that re-
spect and, if so, can you tell us how?
THE PRESIDENT. At the time that we
went to China, I indicated that the pur-
pose of that trip was to discuss relations
between the two countries, and that its
purpose was not to discuss the situation
with regard to other nations.
As far as the discussions that did take
place, the agenda did include the whole
range of problems in the world in which
the People's Republic of China is inter-
ested, as we are interested.
As far as Vietnam is concerned, I don't
think it would be helpful to indicate what
was discussed, what was not discussed.
Only time will tell what is going to hap-
pen there.
AMBASSADOR ARTHUR K. WATSON
[17.] Q. Mr. President, there has been
some question raised about Ambassador
Watson's qualifications to negotiate with
the Chinese in Paris." Do you still have
confidence in his ability to negotiate ex-
change agreements with the Chinese?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor [Peter
Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], the best
test of that—and I should know-is how
the negotiations are going. They are going
very well. Mr. Watson is conducting them
with great competence and, I understand,
total sobriety.
I realize that there are those who raise
'On March 10, 1972, the White House an-
nounced that the primary channel for further
communication between the United States and
the People's Republic of China would be the
Ambassadors of the two countries in Paris.
Arthur K. Watson was the United States Am-
bassador to France.
496
