[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
the best new approach is to strengthen
Career Education.
Career Education provides people of all
ages with broader exposure to and better
preparation for the world of work. It not
only helps the young, but also provides
adults with an opportunity to adapt their
skills to changing needs, changing tech-
nology, and their own changing interests.
It would not prematurely force an individ-
ual into a specific area of work but would
expand his ability to choose wisely from a
wider range of options. Neither would it
result in a slighting of academic prepara-
tion, which would remain a central part
of the educational blend.
Career Education is not a single specific
program. It is more usefully thought of
as a goal-and one that we can pursue
through many methods. What we need
today is a nationwide search for such
methods-a search which involves every
area of education and every level of gov-
ernment. To help spark this venture, I will
propose an intensified Federal effort to
develop model programs which apply and
test the best ideas in this field.
There is no more disconcerting waste
than the waste of human potential. And
there is no better investment than an in-
vestment in human fulfillment. Career
Education can help make education and
training more meaningful for the student,
more rewarding for the teacher, more
available to the adult, more relevant for
the disadvantaged, and more productive
for our country.
MANPOWER PROGRAMS: TAPPING OUR
FULL POTENTIAL
Our trillion dollar economy rests in the
final analysis on our 88 million member
labor force. How well that force is used
today, how well that force is prepared for
tomorrow-these are central questions for
our country.
They are particularly important ques-
tions in a time of stiff economic challenge
and burgeoning economic opportunity. At
such a time, we must find better ways to
tap the full potential of every citizen.
This means doing all we can to open
new education and employment oppor-
tunities for members of minority groups.
It means a stronger effort to help the
veteran find useful and satisfying work
and to tap the enormous talents of the
elderly. It means helping women—in
whatever role they choose to realize their
full potential. It also means caring for the
unemployed-sustaining them, retraining
them and helping them find
employment.
This administration has grappled di-
rectly with these assignments. We began
by completely revamping the Manpower
Administration in the Department of
Labor. We have expanded our manpower
programs to record levels. We proposed-
and the Congress enacted-a massive re-
form of unemployment insurance, adding
9 million workers to the system and ex-
panding the size and duration of benefits.
We instituted a Job Bank to match jobs
with available workers. The efforts of the
National Alliance of Businessmen to train
and hire the hard-core unemployed were
given a new nationwide focus. That orga-
nization has also joined with our Jobs for
Veterans program in finding employment
for returning servicemen. We have
worked to open more jobs for women.
Through the Philadelphia Plan and other
actions, we have expanded equal oppor-
tunity in employment for members of
minority groups. Summer jobs for dis-
advantaged youths went up by one-third
70
