Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [271]
But the reason that I could take this
trip as the President of the United States
was that the United States was respected,
respected for what it stood for and re-
spected because it was strong. Now, as
long as the world does have in it, as it does
now and as it will for the foreseeable
future, governments that do disagree, as
we disagree, and many others in the free
world, with the Communist governments,
it is essential that the United States, as
the only nation in the free world with the
power to keep the peace, it is essential that
the United States be strong.
The only way that you can negotiate
is to be sure that the President of the
United States is respected and that he does
not represent a country that is weaker than
whoever is on the other side of that nego-
tiating table.
Let me just say one thing: I have great
respect for the Chinese people. I have
great respect for the Russian people. I
have respect for their leaders. I don't agree
with their leaders, and they don't agree
with me. But I don't want to have the
President of the United States, whoever he
is, to sit down across the table from the
leaders of those countries representing—
as the President of the United States-I
don't want to see him ever representing
the second strongest nation in the world.
So, you see, that is why I told the Amer-
ican Legion, and that is why I told those
young GI's who were from Fort Bragg that
I was proud of them. I think we have had
enough of running down our men who
have served their country rather than de-
serting it and running off to Canada. I
think we ought to stand up for those who
have served.
I can tell you we are going to do every-
thing we can in the cause of peace. We
have traveled hundreds of thousands of
miles, and we will travel more, in the
cause of peace. We have already made
this a safer world. It means these young
people right here-I see one here is about
the age I was when I finished the fifth
grade in Yorba Linda. I want them to be
able to go to the mainland of China, as I
did. That could not have happened when
I was a youngster, but you are going to
be able to do it.
The world is going to be more open.
You are going to know people, wonderful
people all over the world. That is one of
the things we have been able to do.
I have heard a lot of you say something
about "Four More Years," I simply want
to say why. Why do we want four more
years? So that we can continue to make
this breakthrough for peace. I think I
have learned how to negotiate. I think I
know what we want and what they want.
I think I know the next steps that can be
taken. I know that we have to be strong,
and yet I know that we have to negotiate.
With that experience, I want to have
the chance to continue the work that we
have done so that the world can be safer,
so that we can reduce the burden of arms,
so that we can have a real peace in the
world that will last longer than
generation.
This is what the goal is all about: so
that we can have here in America an
America in which we can have jobs with-
out inflation, without war, in which we
can have an attack on all the problems of
the environment and health and educa-
tion that we want to work on, make this
a better country, a freer country, and one
primarily of opportunity.
That allows me to conclude with a little
personal note. We have many wonderful
people who come to the White House to
entertain-incidentally, before I mention
819
