Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [45]
-Expansionary budget policies for
fiscal years 1972 and 1973 to help move
us toward full employment.
There is more that can and should be
done: One thing needed is to improve the
quality of our manpower development
programs, and to make them more respon-
sive to the particular needs of particular
localities.
On Monday, I will be sending to the
Congress a message on manpower special
revenue sharing. In that message I will
again propose a way to improve the train-
ing and job placement service which we
can offer to the unemployed American.
44
For too long there has been a gap be-
tween Federal manpower programs'
promise and their performance for the
jobless individual. It is time that we give
our communities the flexibility they need
to design programs better suited to their
own special employment conditions. The
Manpower Revenue Sharing Act which I
will again propose in my message on
Monday can help to do all of these things.
It is clearly time that we do a better job
of getting the jobless worker trained and a
better job of getting him off the unem-
ployment rolls and onto a payroll.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
Statement About the Death of Marianne Moore.
February 6, 1972
MRS. NIXON and I join the Nation
today in mourning the loss of one of our
most distinguished poets, Marianne
Moore. Admired for her imaginative style
and adored for her love of man and ani-
mal, she was an endearing companion to
her readers for a half century. In her, as
she said there should be in all poetry, was
truly "a place for the genuine."
We can be grateful that the splash of
color and enchantment which she added
to the Western World will brighten our
landscape for many years to come.
NOTE: Miss Moore, 84, died in her sleep at
her home in New York City on February 5,
1972.
The statement was made available to the
press at Key Biscayne, Fla.
45 Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
February 7, 1972
Sharing for Manpower.
To the Congress of the United States:
There are few issues of greater concern
today, to the Congress and to the Presi-
dent, than the state of the American econ-
omy. We are passing from a period when
the economy was inflated by the strains of
war to a time when it will be challenged
by the needs of peace.
Adding to the inevitable problems of
transition has been the increasingly vigor-
ous economic competition of other coun-
tries. We welcome this competition, but
we must also realize that it requires us to
give renewed attention to increasing
American productivity-not only to en-
sure the continued improvement in our
own standard of living, but also to keep
our Nation's goods competitive in the
159
