Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 18 [302]
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. at
the Villa Rosa Rest Home, where the 12th
annual Italian Fall Festival was being held to
benefit the home and Holy Rosary Church in
302
Washington, D.C. He spoke without referring
to notes.
Rev. Caesar Donanzan was pastor of the
church.
Remarks to the Washington Conference on
International Narcotics Control.
September 18, 1972
Mr. Secretary, and ladies and gentlemen:
As I look over the guest list for this Con-
ference, I realize that most of you have
been attending conferences all of your offi-
cial lives and I suppose that when you
come to another conference you wonder
how this one is different, whether this one
is any more important than all the others.
I simply want to say at the outset that
I consider this Conference to be as im-
portant as any that any one of you has
ever attended. I consider it certainly as
important as any I have ever attended
since the period I have been in public life,
because winning the battle against drug
abuse is one of the most important, the
most urgent national priorities confront-
ing the United States today.
As President of the United States, I feel
that I bear no more solemn trust than
to help to win this battle, and as public
officials, everybody in this room, people
who represent America in this country and
all over the world, you could not be
engaged in a finer humanitarian cause
than in winning this battle against drug
abuse.
As we all know, the global drug prob-
lem is enormously difficult. It doesn't lend
itself to immediate or simplistic solutions.
Nevertheless, looking back over the 3
years since I declared total war on drug
abuse and labeled it America's public
enemy number one, I think the depth of
our national commitment is clear. Our
total Federal funding for this effort has
increased 1 times over what it was in
1969. It is up to almost three-quarters of
a billion dollars of the budget currently
pending in the Congress.
From an organizational standpoint, we
have mobilized to meet this problem on all
fronts. We have set up a Special Action
Office for Drug Abuse Prevention to
direct the treatment and rehabilitation
work under Dr. [Jerome H.] Jaffe. We
have also set up in the Department of
Justice a new Office for Drug Abuse Law
Enforcement to attack domestic distribu-
tion and pushers. And I have named a
Cabinet Committee on International
Narcotics Control which coordinates our
worldwide campaign to cut off the sources
of supply.
Here we are attacking the problem
therefore on all fronts in the most effective
way that we can through our various Gov-
ernment agencies.
I also have assumed some personal
responsibilities. I have been deliberately
cracking the whip, as many of you in this
room know, in my personal supervision of
this program, and I will have to admit
that we have knocked some bureaucratic
heads together because of my directive,
which I gave in the East Room 2 years
ago, that Government agencies should
quit fighting each other about this prob-
lem and start fighting the problem.
I wanted to see some solid results com-
873
