[347] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
it now, you want it in the future, but you
want peace with honor. Not simply be-
cause honor is something that you have
to be for because this Nation got com-
mitted, but because you realize that if we
do not have peace with honor we really
are planting the seeds for war in the
future. We are really inviting the aggres-
sion that none of us want in the future.
And that is why the peace with honor
we seek in Vietnam and that peace that
we have made so much progress in ob-
taining over these past 4 years, that peace
with honor is supported by most south-
erners and that is why the peace with
honor that we seek is one that rejects
betraying our allies, abandoning our
POW's, or providing amnesty for draft
dodgers and deserters who leave this
country.
The third issue: It is a Southern issue,
it is a national issue-the people of the
South want an opportunity for good jobs,
high wages, and cost of living kept under
control so that you are not on a treadmill.
High prices are an issue in the South.
Taxes are an issue in the South. Jobs are
an issue in the South. That is why most
southerners I have found approve of this
Administration's policies that have cut
the rate of inflation in half and that will
cut it even more if we are given the
chance. And second, they approve this
Administration's policies that have made
it possible for us to have the highest rate
of growth of any major industrial nation
in the world and why they approve of an
Administration's policies that will go for-
ward until we achieve a goal we haven't
had in this country since President
Eisenhower was President in 1955 and
'56, and that means full employment
without inflation, without war. That is
what we are for, and that is what south-
erners are for.
Issue number four: Most southerners
and most Americans, East, West, North,
and South, want respect for law, respect
for order, and they want justice, justice to
all people. And in wanting respect for law
and order and justice, they realize that in
1968 we were on an escalating trend to-
ward massive crime in this country, drugs,
narcotics, going up and up and up. They
realize that we have launched an all-out
offensive in this Administration against
the forces of crime, against the forces of
drugs, and we are beginning to win.
The rate of crime increase in 1968, in
the last 6 months, was 28 percent. We
brought that almost to a standstill. In the
first 6 months of this year it was only one
percent. If we get the chance, we can
turn it around, and one way we can turn
it around that I want to mention right
here today is this: I have made some ap-
pointments to the Supreme Court. I have
made appointments to other courts. I have
selected men and women that I consider
to be good lawyers.
But one thing that I insist upon for all
appointees is this: They must recognize
that the first civil right of every American,
whatever he may be, what he wants is to
be free from domestic violence, and that
it is necessary in our decisions in this
country that we strengthen the peace
forces against the criminal forces. We have
appointed judges like that, and I want to
say that if we have the opportunity in the
next 4 years, I am going to appoint more
judges like that so that we can strengthen
the peace forces in this country.
Issue number five: The people of the
978
