[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
that this Report will help engender that
support among the people of the nation
and the Congress which represents them.
We believe the direction we have estab-
lished and the actions we have taken com-
mend themselves to such support.
PART II: AREAS OF MAJOR
CHANGE
-The Soviet Union
--China
-Europe and the Atlantic Alliance
-Japan
-International Economic Policy
66
THE SOVIET UNION
one of the paramount problems
of our time is that we must transcend the
old patterns of power politics in which
nations sought to exploit every volatile
situation for their own advantage or to
squeeze the maximum advantage for
themselves out of every negotiation.
". . . The profoundest national interest
of our time-for every nation-is not im-
mediate gain, but the preservation of
peace."
Address to the United Nations
October 23, 1970
Since the nuclear age began, both the
world's fears of Armageddon and its hopes
for a stable peace have rested on the rela-
tionship between the United States and
the Soviet Union. For most of that period,
the policies of both countries have been
directed more to the fearful possibility
than to the larger hope.
But it is not inevitable that our rela-
tionship with the Soviets be dominated by
an incessant and dangerous contest made
all the more ominous by an occasional, but
always brief and unproductive, oscillation
toward detente. The true interests of nei-
ther country require such a relationship.
The needs of neither are served by the
restrictions it places on the intercourse
between our two great peoples.
It has been the purpose of this Admin-
istration to transform the U.S.-Soviet
relationship so that a mutual search for
a stable peace and security becomes its
dominant feature and its driving force. If
the ultimate prospect for a stable world
peace requires accommodation between
China and the United States, both the
immediate and the long term hopes for
world stability rest on a more decent and
mutually beneficial relationship between
ourselves and the Soviet Union.
Such a vision is not quixotic. It has been
rendered possible by the end of the bipolar
rigidity which characterized the postwar
world. It is sustained by the desire of the
Soviet people for the benefits which would
be theirs if their government could reduce
the vast investment of resources in inter-
national competition with us. And it is
countenanced by the readiness of the
American people to search for a new and
just approach to lasting peace.
For the three years of this Administra-
tion, we have, therefore, worked to estab-
lish a more positive relationship with the
Soviet Union.
Paradoxically, this required that we put
aside the temptations of immediate, but
shallow, "accomplishments" such as un-
prepared and unproductive summit meet-
ings. A constructive relationship with the
Soviet Union cannot be built merely by
mutual assertions of good intentions or as-
surances of good will. History has amply
shown how barren such gestures are of
genuine and lasting result.
The issues which divide the United
States and the Soviet Union are real and
204
