Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
deprived of its natural ties to the Federal
Republic or the security guarantee of the
three Western powers.
The parties broke through the impasse
in 1971 by putting aside the arguments
over the political or juridical status of the
city and concentrating instead on new
practical arrangements to improve condi-
tions for West Berliners and remove
specific irritants. The Four-Power agree-
ment on Berlin, signed on September 3,
1971, was a milestone achievement.
-The Soviet guarantee of unimpeded
and preferential civilian traffic be-
tween the Western sectors of Berlin
and the Federal Republic is a central
fact of the agreement and a major
improvement.
-There is no change in the legal status
of the Western sectors of Berlin: they
remain under the authority of the
three powers, who share with the
USSR responsibility for the city as a
whole, and they continue, as in the
past, not to be regarded as a con-
stituent part of the Federal Republic.
At the same time, the Soviet Union
has formally accepted that the vital
ties between West Berlin and the
Federal Republic will be maintained
and developed.
-The Soviet Union has accepted that
communications between West Ber-
lin and East Berlin and the German
Democratic Republic, and West Ber-
liners' visiting rights, will be im-
proved. It has further been agreed
that, where the security and status
of the city are not involved, the Fed-
eral Republic may represent the
Western sectors of Berlin abroad and
that international agreements and ar-
rangements entered into by the Fed-
eral Republic may be extended to the
Western sectors.
-The three Western allies have au-
thorized the establishment of a Soviet
Consulate General and additional
Soviet commercial offices in the West-
ern sectors, accredited to the appro-
priate authorities of the three
Western powers. No change in Ber-
lin's status is implied; the Soviet
presence in the Western sectors will
still be subject to allied authority.
Conference on Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe. When the Berlin accord
comes into force with the signing of the
final Four-Power protocol, this will un-
lock a diplomatic process. A Berlin agree-
ment, in the view of the Western powers,
is a prerequisite to any broader European
negotiation: it could smooth the way
toward possible accommodations on other
European security issues, which are all
affected by the Berlin situation; it would
also imply a willingness on the Soviet side
to reach concrete settlements.
A question now facing the West is the
Soviet proposal of a conference of all Eu-
ropean countries, plus the United States
and Canada, to discuss security and co-
operation in Europe.
If such a conference is carefully pre-
pared and will address substantive issues,
the United States favors it. It is in the
long term interest of the Soviet Union,
too, I believe, that a conference be used
productively in this way and not be merely
a forum for speeches and friendly atmos-
phere. It is essential that we have a clear
picture of what issues a conference can
address and what concrete contribution to
security it can make.
We therefore intend to discuss the rele-
vant issues of European security and co-
229
