[407] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
prosperity that we all want, but we need
to continue.
What we need from you and what we
ask from you is your consideration of what
we have presented here today. It is the
clearest choice that we have had in this
century. On that choice, I believe that
the people of North Carolina, whether
they are Republicans or Democrats, will
say that America wants peace with honor,
not surrender; America wants a strong
defense, not a second-rate defense; and
America will continue on a course, a
course which will lead us into a new situ-
ation in the world, in which the people of
the world, and particularly the younger
generations, can grow up without the fear
of war hanging over them.
I say to you finally, as I speak here, I
feel very close to you, to the people in
this State, for the reasons that I have
mentioned. I feel, for that reason, a par-
ticular responsibility to you. I just want to
say that in these next 4 years, I will dedi-
cate myself to doing the things that I
have talked about, but above all, I will
never forget the faces that I have seen
here, the wonderful people of North
Carolina. We won't let you down.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:55 p.m. at a
rally at the Greensboro-High Point-Winston-
Salem Regional Airport. He spoke without re-
ferring to notes.
408 Campaign Statement in New Mexico.
November 4, 1972
THERE is probably no other place in
America whose history seems so old and
yet so fresh as New Mexico's. Its lands
were explored even before the first Euro-
pean settlers came to Plymouth Rock or
Jamestown. Its Palace of the Governors
in Santa Fe is the oldest public building
in the United States. Its Church of San
Felipe de Neri in Albuquerque stands wit-
ness to nearly two and three-quarters cen-
turies of American history.
Yet New Mexico's vast human and
natural potential is only now being un-
locked for the benefit of the State and
its people. Indeed, the years ahead can
and will become the greatest years in New
Mexico's and America's history.
All Americans are united in wanting
certain basic things. We want to live in
peace and to know that our sons will not
be sent off to war. We want jobs and
expanding opportunities for ourselves and
our children. We want to work and keep
the fruits of our labors. That is why I
believe it is so important that we achieve
in the next 4 years something we have
not experienced as a Nation since Presi-
dent Eisenhower's time in the White
House-prosperity with full employment,
without war and without inflation.
Here in New Mexico thousands of
people are playing a large part in building
that kind of peace by working in occupa-
tions dedicated to maintaining a strong
defense for America. In the years ahead
that could mean the crucial difference
between peace and war.
And the people of New Mexico can
help to maintain America's strength in
the years ahead in another way, as well—
by electing Pete Domenici to the United
States Senate and reelecting Manuel
Lujan to the United States House of
Representatives. They know the im-
I 120
