Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 4 [111]
fee Organization successfully dealt with
the supply crisis of the previous year and
served to bring down the price of our im-
ported green coffee by eight cents per
pound between January and December.
Secondly, the International Coffee Or-
ganization reduces the fluctuation in the
foreign exchange earnings of coffee pro-
ducers. It thereby supports the develop-
ment efforts of over 40 nations in Latin
America, Africa, and Asia and supports
our own aid objectives.
The recent passage by the Congress of
enabling legislation permits us to fulfill
certain of our obligations under the
Agreement. Approval of this important
legislation constitutes an important re-
affirmation of our determination to coop-
erate with the developing countries.
The White House,
April 4, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report entitled "1971 Annual Re-
port of the President to the Congress on the
International Coffee Agreement" (15 pp. plus
annexes) was published by the Department of
State.
III
Letter Accepting the Resignation of John H. Chafee
as Secretary of the Navy. April 4, 1972
Dear John:
It is with special regret that I accept,
as you have requested, your resignation
as Secretary of the Navy, effective upon
a date to be determined. In doing so, I
want to express my deep gratitude for
your superb service to the Navy and the
country for the past three years.
From the first days of this Administra-
tion, you have brought to your challenging
responsibilities a rare combination of man-
agerial skill, sound judgment, and uncom-
mon dedication, giving the men and
women of our Navy and Marine Corps
the wise leadership they so richly deserve.
As Secretary of the Navy, you have con-
tributed enormously to our national secu-
rity. I have especially valued your out-
standing efforts in helping to carry out
our Vietnamization policy, while simul-
taneously taking the needed steps to mod-
ernize our Fleet. The new, bold programs
developed under your guidance hold great
promise for the future of our naval forces.
You have every reason to take the fulest
measure of satisfaction from the splendid
work you have accomplished. On behalf
of all your friends here in Washington-
and your fellow citizens across the na-
tion-I welcome this opportunity to say
"Well Done!" and to extend warmest
good wishes for your continued success in
the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable John H. Chafee, Secretary of the
Navy, Washington, D.C. 20350]
NOTE: A White House announcement of the
President's intention to nominate John W.
Warner as Secretary of the Navy was released
on April 7, 1972, and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
8, p. 733).
Mr. Chafee's letter of resignation was re-
leased along with the President's letter and
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I submit herewith my resignation as Secre-
tary of the Navy to be effective at your pleasure
at the earliest practical date which would
allow for an orderly turnover of the office. It
has been a tremendous pleasure and privilege
515
