[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
the overall effect of their individual ac-
tions would have substantial benefits for
us all.
There have been delays of many months
in the enactment of regular appropriation
bills, and there have also been periods in
which temporary appropriations have
been permitted to expire, leaving some
agencies with no authority to continue
operations.
Changes in the way the Congress con-
ducts its business are its business. But, in
the matter of the budget process, the re-
sults of the present methods have seriously
affected how well I can administer and
manage the executive branch.
THE LONGER VIEW
In 1976, our Nation will celebrate its
200th birthday. Three basic questions
must be answered as we look toward a
proper celebration of our bicentennial.
•
How can we best achieve our great
national goals?
What role should the Federal Gov-
ernment have in this effort?
• How can we best rededicate our-
selves to the ideal of personal free-
dom?
In considering these questions, we can-
not ignore the hard fact that the increase
in uncommitted resources between now
and 1976 will be small in comparison with
the magnitude of the tasks, forcing us to
make difficult decisions about priorities.
My basic preferences in allocating our
national resources are clear.
First, I believe that to avoid permanent
inflation and waste we should assure that
we count the costs before we make spend-
ing decisions. We can do that by adhering
to the principle that spending must not
exceed the level at which the budget
would be balanced if the economy were at
full employment.
Second, I believe that an increasing
share of our national resources must be
returned to private citizens and State and
local governments to enable them—rather
than the Federal Government-to meet
individual and community needs.
RESPONSIBLE BUDGETING.-The first
principle-the full employment budget
principle-imposes a necessary discipline
on Federal spending.
Last year, the budget margin projected
for 1976-the potential Federal budget
surplus, assuming full employment and
only the programs and tax structure in ex-
istence or proposed then (1971)—was $30
billion. Actions taken in the last 12 months
and those proposed in this budget will re-
duce that margin to only $5 billion. This
margin is less than $25 for each man,
woman, and child in the expected 1976
population, and is less than 1.6% of pro-
jected 1976 budget receipts. And yet, it
must be sufficient to cover the 1976 costs
of all new proposals not included in this
budget.
The moral is clear. A strong fiscal dis-
cipline will be necessary in the years ahead
if we are to preserve the buying power of
the dollar. New spending programs must
be evaluated against the most stringent of
standards: do they have enough merit to
warrant increases in taxes or elimination
of existing programs?
This Administration has measured its
proposals against this standard. I have
made the hard choices necessary to assure
that they can be financed within a full-
employment budget policy.
I urge the Congress to engage in a
similar self-discipline in making the hard
choices that will be required during the
next few years. This Administration will
98
