Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 1 [283]
the guardian of peace in the world.
When we think of America's role in
this century, the wars in which we have
fought, it is a record which no American
need be ashamed of, and which every
American ought to be proud of: World
War I, World War II, Korea, and Viet-
nam. We have not asked for anything in
the way of conquest. We have gone to
defend freedom, not to destroy it. We
have tried to keep the peace rather than
to break it. And when the war is con-
cluded, we have been generous to those
who have been our enemies.
We had a striking example of this in
the meetings that have just been con-
cluded-Japan, an enemy of the United
States 26 years ago, now our ally and
friend. And the United States has re-
turned to Japan Okinawa. We stand with
Japan today, helping Japan economically,
first to get on its feet and then to become
one of our major competitors, and also
helping to maintain the strength without
which Japan could not be an independ-
ent, free country in the world.
The same can be said of every one of
these conflicts in which we have been
engaged, including the war in Vietnam.
Here, whatever differences of opinion that
may exist, we can be proud of the fact
that our goal is not conquest; it is defense
of the right of people to be independent
of foreign domination.
We seek an end to a war, but it must
be an honorable end. We have offered
the most generous terms for peace, but
there are some things we cannot and will
not offer. We will never abandon our pris-
oners of war. We will never impose on the
17 million people of South Vietnam a
Communist government against their will.
And we will not stain the honor of the
United States of America.
We take this position because the
United States is respected in the world
because we stand by our friends, and once
the United States departs from that great
policy which has characterized us from the
beginning of our period as a nation, then
we will lose respect and the friends who
count on us, and allies around the world
would lose confidence in their ability to
remain free.
Honoring the McCains also gives us an
opportunity to point up the necessity for
the United States to remain strong, to re-
main strong because we know that we will
always use our strength in the interest of
preserving peace, in the interest of defend-
ing freedom—and power in the hands of
the United States is in the interest of peace
and freedom in the world.
We must also remember that around
the world there are other nations, large
and small, who depend on the United
States for their freedom, their independ-
ence, and the peace that they enjoy. Once
the United States does not have the
strength, the power to defend those areas
of the world according to our treaty and
other commitments, then those nations
would be in deadly jeopardy.
That is why, on such an occasion as this,
when we honor this great Navy family, we
commit ourselves to this proposition: We
shall never take steps that will make the
United States the second strongest nation
in the world. We must always have a
strength second to none in the world. And
to maintain that strength we need, of
course, the weapons of war-guns and
ships, all the other instruments that we
are quite aware of-but above all, we
need men and women, men and women
like this magnificent group that we see
before us here in Hawaii.
All of you know that we are moving
847
