[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
protect their external financial positions.
But countries with overvalued exchange
rates eventually had to devalue to cor-
rect their balance of payments deficits and
halt the drain on their reserves. Thus,
devaluations were more frequent than
revaluations.
The dollar, as the world's major reserve
and transaction currency, was the linchpin
of the international economic system.
While other nations were free to change
the value of their currencies in relation to
the dollar, the U.S. played a passive role.
During the 1960's, changes in the values
of other currencies tended to push higher
the average exchange value of the dollar.
This aggravated a relative loss of Amer-
ican economic competitiveness as foreign
countries completed their postwar recon-
struction, achieved high levels of produc-
tivity, and proved extremely adept at de-
veloping export markets. Our domestic
inflation in the late 1960's seriously ac-
celerated this trend.
The key role of the dollar made it diffi-
cult to correct this situation through a
devaluation, since the stability and liquid-
ity of the system was based on the mainte-
nance of a stable dollar. Even if we had
wished to devalue in terms of gold, it
would have had no effect on our balance
of payments unless other nations agreed
not to devalue as well.
These strains in the system led to a series
of crises. In November 1967, following a
major speculative assault on the pound,
the United Kingdom and a number of
other countries were forced to devalue.
The subsequent crisis of confidence in
currency markets engendered mass pur-
chases of gold by speculators. The gold
reserves of central banks were being
drained until the introduction of the two-
tier system in March, 1968 isolated private
gold trading from international monetary
transactions. From the spring of 1968, the
franc was recurrently subject to specula-
tive attack. France, along with the Franc
Area, devalued in August of the following
year. A major influx of currency into
Germany led to revaluation of the mark in
October 1969.
In 1970, although a major crisis was
avoided, a decline in U.S. interest rates
relative to rates in major European coun-
tries drove large amounts of dollars abroad
and complicated European attempts to
achieve domestic monetary stability.
The situation worsened in 1971. Ac-
celerated monetary growth in this country
and an outflow of short-term capital, ac-
companied by a deficit in our balance of
trade, caused dollars to flow abroad in rec-
ord amounts. As a result Europe and
Japan took in billions of dollars. In May,
Germany decided to float the mark. Spec-
ulation continued and extraordinarily
large sums were traded in world currency
markets.
The August 1971 Measures. By August,
the situation was clearly no longer sus-
tainable. Mainly due to a sharp deteriora-
tion in our trade position, the underlying
payments position of the United States
had turned sharply adverse. It was clear
that the dollar was overvalued, while the
currencies of certain of our trading part-
ners were manifestly undervalued. Our
remaining reserves were being seriously
depleted, and the amount of dollars held
by foreign central banks rapidly increased.
Intense speculation was shaking the foun-
dations of the international monetary
system.
If we had permitted this situation to
continue, our balance of payments would
240
