Richard Nixon, 1972
May 19 [159]
the SALT delegation, our State Depart-
ment people, the people in the other de-
partments that I have mentioned, the
White House Staff. Dr. Kissinger, of
course, has made an enormous contribu-
tion with the trip that he has made to the
Soviet Union, in talking to Mr. Brezhnev
and the other Soviet leaders. It is basically
one where we are all going with one com-
mon purpose, and that is to attempt to
establish a different relationship, one in
which there will still be very significant
differences we must always remember
this-in philosophy and in approach and
so forth, but one in which two great
powers, each looking to its interests, de-
cides that in certain areas we should work
together rather than against each other.
I think that in terms of trying to give
you the flavor of what to expect, I would
not raise hopes too high, because there are
some knotty problems left to be solved.
What will determine whether they will be
solved will be the attitude of the Soviet
leaders, and our attitude as well.
I can say this: That from the corre-
spondence that I have had, the contacts I
have had directly with and from Mr.
Brezhnev in the last few days, his attitude
is positive. Mine is positive.
Mr. Dobrynin came up to Camp David
yesterday and brought me a personal mes-
sage from Mr. Brezhnev, raising some
questions that we had to discuss, but also
indicating a positive attitude toward at-
tempting to resolve some of these differ-
ences, so that when we do meet at the
summit, it will not simply be one of those
spirits that comes and goes, but there will
really be some substance that remains, one
which will mean that the American peo-
ple and the Russian people will have a
more friendly relationship as people to
people, despite differences in philosophy
and government, and in which, perhaps―
and I would hope this beyond everything
else the cause of peace would be served.
Perhaps I can best describe it with a
story that Mr. Brezhnev told Dr. Kissinger
when he was there. Mr. Brezhnev was ex-
pressing his desire for making some prog-
ress at the summit—not just talking, not
just agreeing to disagree, not just putting
out the usual communique which papers
over all differences-and he said it was
important to take a step. He said, not just
a little step, but a step that is significant
in the relations between our two countries,
because that will tell us where we are
going.
And then he told what for Mr. Brezh-
nev is one of his favorite Russian stories.
He said there was a tradesman from a
town who was walking in the woods one
day, and he came to a fork in the road.
He saw the sign leading to a village, and
decided to go toward that village. He saw
a woodsman at the fork of the road, and
he said, "How long will it take me to reach
the village?"
The woodsman said, "I don't know."
The tradesman couldn't believe him. He
thought he was being just totally obnox-
ious, because he knew that he lived in this
area; he knew he had to have been to
the village.
So the tradesman started off down the
road, and after he had walked a few steps,
the woodsman said, "It will take you 15
minutes." He turned around, "Why
didn't you
tell me that in the first place?"
He said, "I had to see how long your
steps were."
So we are taking a step here. How long
607
