[21] Jan. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
what it has already done. Nothing is
served by silence when it enables the other
side to imply possible solutions publicly
that it has already flatly rejected privately.
The time has come to lay the record of
our secret negotiations on the table. Just
as secret negotiations can sometimes break
a public deadlock, public disclosure may
help to break a secret deadlock.
Some Americans, who believed what
the North Vietnamese led them to be-
lieve, have charged that the United States
has not pursued negotiations intensively.
As the record that I now will disclose will
show, just the opposite is true.
Questions have been raised as to why
we have not proposed a deadline for the
withdrawal of all American forces in ex-
change for a cease-fire and the return of
our prisoners of war; why we have not
discussed the seven-point proposal made
by the Vietcong last July in Paris; why
we have not submitted a new plan of our
own to move the negotiations off dead
center.
As the private record will show, we
have taken all these steps and more-
and have been flatly rejected or ignored
by the other side.
On May 31, 1971, 8 months ago, at one
of the secret meetings in Paris, we offered
specifically to agree to a deadline for the
withdrawal of all American forces in ex-
change for the release of all prisoners of
war and a cease-fire.
At the next private meeting, on June
26, the North Vietnamese rejected our
offer. They privately proposed instead
their own nine-point plan which insisted
that we overthrow the Government of
South Vietnam.
Five days later, on July 1, the enemy
publicly presented a different package of
proposals the seven-point Vietcong
plan.
That posed a dilemma: Which pack-
age should we respond to, the public plan
or the secret plan?
On July 12, at another private meeting
in Paris, Dr. Kissinger put that question
to the North Vietnamese directly. They
said we should deal with their nine-point
secret plan, because it covered all of Indo-
china including Laos and Cambodia,
while the Vietcong seven-point proposal
was limited to Vietnam.
So that is what we did. But we went
even beyond that, dealing with some of
the points in the public plan that were
not covered in the secret plan.
On August 16, at another private meet-
ing, we went further. We offered the com-
plete withdrawal of U.S. and allied forces
within 9 months after an agreement on
an overall settlement. On September 13,
the North Vietnamese rejected that pro-
posal. They continued to insist that we
overthrow the South Vietnamese Govern-
ment.
Now, what has been the result of these
private efforts? For months, the North
Vietnamese have been berating us at the
public sessions for not responding to their
side's publicly presented seven-point plan.
The truth is that we did respond to the
enemy's plan, in the manner they wanted
us to respond-secretly. In full possession
of our complete response, the North Viet-
namese publicly denounced us for not hav-
ing responded at all. They induced many
Americans in the press and the Congress
into echoing their propaganda-Ameri-
cans who could not know they were being
falsely used by the enemy to stir up divi-
siveness in this country.
I decided in October that we should
102
