Richard Nixon, 1972
May 8 [147]
That is to keep the weapons of war out of
the hands of the international outlaws of
North Vietnam.
Throughout the war in Vietnam, the
United States has exercised a degree of
restraint unprecedented in the annals of
war. That was our responsibility as a great
Nation, a Nation which is interested-
and we can be proud of this as Ameri-
cans as America has always been, in
peace not conquest.
However, when the enemy abandons
all restraint, throws its whole army into
battle in the territory of its neighbor, re-
fuses to negotiate, we simply face a new
situation.
In these circumstances, with 60,000
Americans threatened, any President who
failed to act decisively would have be-
trayed the trust of his country and
betrayed the cause of world peace.
I therefore concluded that Hanoi must
be denied the weapons and supplies it
needs to continue the aggression. In full
coordination with the Republic of Viet-
nam,
I have ordered the following meas-
ures which are being implemented as I
am speaking to you.
All entrances to North Vietnamese
ports will be mined to prevent access to
these ports and North Vietnamese naval
operations from these ports. United
States forces have been directed to take
appropriate measures within the internal
and claimed territorial waters of North
Vietnam to interdict the delivery of any
supplies. Rail and all other communica-
tions will be cut off to the maximum ex-
tent possible. Air and naval strikes against
military targets in North Vietnam will
continue.
These actions are not directed against
any other nation. Countries with ships
presently in North Vietnamese ports have
already been notified that their ships will
have three daylight periods to leave in
safety. After that time, the mines will be-
come active and any ships attempting to
leave or enter these ports will do so at
their own risk.
These actions I have ordered will cease
when the following conditions are met:
First, all American prisoners of war
must be returned.
Second, there must be an internation-
ally supervised cease-fire throughout
Indochina.
Once prisoners of war are released,
once the internationally supervised cease-
fire has begun, we will stop all acts of
force throughout Indochina, and at that
time we will proceed with a complete
withdrawal of all American forces from
Vietnam within 4 months.
Now, these terms are generous terms.
They are terms which would not require
surrender and humiliation on the part of
anybody. They would permit the United
States to withdraw with honor. They
would end the killing. They would bring
our POW's home. They would allow ne-
gotiations on a political settlement be-
tween the Vietnamese themselves. They
would permit all the nations which have
suffered in this long war-Cambodia,
Laos, North Vietnam, South Vietnam-
to turn at last to the urgent works of heal-
ing and of peace. They deserve immediate
acceptance by North Vietnam.
It is appropriate to conclude my re-
marks tonight with some comments di-
rected individually to each of the major
parties involved in the continuing tragedy
of the Vietnam war.
First, to the leaders of Hanoi, your peo-
ple have already suffered too much in
585
