Richard Nixon, 1972
May 4 [139]
-Through new satellites, telecommu-
nications, and computer technology,
global information for early predictions
and hazardous weather warnings is being
acquired, processed, and then distributed
in increased volume and detail.
-Under the Global Atmospheric Re-
search Program intensive planning activ-
ities are underway for a 1974 international
experiment to be conducted in the tropical
Atlantic. The experiment will attempt to
discover what role tropical weather sys-
tems play in maintaining the general cir-
culation of the atmosphere. It will also
probe tropical weather systems, with a
view to improving weather prediction, in-
cluding hurricane forecasts. Scientific
data from this experiment will also help
in making weather forecasts that are
longer range, and in resolving important
environmental problems. Many nations
will participate in this experiment with
ships, aircraft, satellites and
and other
facilities.
-Active international involvement in
the program by many member nations has
yielded peaceful collaboration on an im-
pressive international scale.
The World Weather Program is essen-
tial to a total environmental monitoring
system for our planet. The program can
serve as a model, moreover, for other en-
vironmental systems. The atmosphere is
but one part of our global ecology. Data
on other aspects of our environment can
be collected and exchanged through a
vehicle like the World Weather Program.
In accordance with Senate Concurrent
Resolution 67 of the 90th Congress, I am
pleased to transmit this annual report
which describes the advances of the World
Weather Program made during the past
year and the activities planned for the
program by participating Federal agencies
for the coming fiscal year.
The White House,
May 3, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "World Weather
Program, Plan for Fiscal Year 1973" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 33 pp.).
139 Telegram to the Mayor of Kellogg, Idaho, About the
Sunshine Silver Mine Disaster. May 4, 1972
THE TRAGIC loss of life that resulted
from the fire at the Sunshine Mine pro-
foundly touched the hearts of all Ameri-
cans. On their behalf, I want to extend my
deepest sympathy to the families struck
by this disaster.
I have directed both the Secretary of
the Interior and the Office of Emergency
Preparedness to keep me closely informed
on the recovery work in the area, and to
insure that the full spectrum of Federal
assistance is made available to the people
of your community. I join all those who
pray that God may give your community
the special strength to persevere through
this difficult time.
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Roger Fulton, Mayor of Kellogg,
Kellogg, Idaho]
NOTE: The text of the telegram was posted
for the press.
A copy of the telegram was sent to the
Honorable Cecil D. Andrus, Governor of Idaho.
Ninety-one miners died in a fire that swept
through the Sunshine Silver Mine on May 2,
1972.
573
