[118] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
this Report are in close accord with the
initiatives I have set forth this year in my
address on the State of the Union, my
Budget Message, and my recent message
to the Congress on science and technology.
The Report stresses that in the field of
research and development, a vigorous
partnership between private industry, the
universities, and the Government can be
an important asset for strengthening our
economy and spurring new technological
solutions to problems of the modern world.
The Report also points out that intensive
research is needed to refine our under-
standing of the complexities of contem-
porary life and to develop better ways of
bringing our talents to bear on domestic
concerns.
As I have indicated on several occa-
sions, I have great hope that we can realize
the full potential of American technology
for serving our national purposes. The
commitment of this Administration to
continued progress toward that goal is
clearly reflected in the array of programs
which I have detailed in my latest Budget
Message.
I am confident that the Congress will
find this Report useful.
The White House,
April 13, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "The Role of Engi-
neers and Scientists in a National Policy for
Technology-Report of the National Science
Board" (Government Printing Office, 48 pp.).
119 Letter to Delegates of the 1971 White House Conference
on Youth Transmitting a Report of Executive Branch
Review of Conference Recommendations. April 13, 1972
To the delegates of the 1971 White House
Conference on Youth:
Just over two years ago, we became con-
vinced that the conditions of the seventies
demanded a departure from the "children
and youth" conference format followed by
Presidents since Theodore Roosevelt-
that the time had come to convene a sepa-
rate White House Conference of, by, and
for youth themselves. Since that time, I
have followed your work with interest and
hope.
National Chairman Stephen Hess and
his young staff skillfully planned a meeting
which could, as I charged them, "listen
well to the voices of young America." The
project represented an honest effort to im-
prove the Nation's understanding of the
concerns and ideals of our youth; thus its
design and objectives were necessarily un-
usual and, to some, controversial. But the
deliberations and results of the Conference
underscored the fact that bonds can be
found between the generations and that
young people can contribute construc-
tively to solving today's complex problems.
You will recall that Secretary Richard-
son, speaking at the opening session of the
Conference, pledged this Administration
to "look carefully at every one of the rec-
ommendations" you might direct to us,
and to "render to you an accounting not
only of what we have done, but of what we
have not done, and why." Within a week
from adjournment of the Conference, I
reviewed its results with the full Cabinet;
and I directed each member to set his
department at work preparing the prom-
ised accounting. This volume is the result.
The many thousands of words in these
528
