Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 21 [98]
been invigorated immensely. Turkey and Amer-
ica feel closer tonight.
Mr. President, I have arrived in the United
States at a time when, under your leadership,
the United States is exploring the possibilities
for a global understanding among all nations
of the world. We, in Turkey, greatly admire
and fully support your endeavors. We pray that
these efforts will be crowned with the success
they deserve, and that the foundations of a
new era of dignity and peace for all mankind
will be solidly established.
Turkey also subscribes to the policy of easing
tensions in Europe, as well as in other parts of
the world. Coexistence with states having dif-
ferent social systems is not unattainable if each
state behaves with good will, refraining from
causing harm to the social fabric of the other,
and respecting the sanctity of the line respec-
tively limiting their area of action.
Mr. President, I hardly need to elaborate on
the excellent and close relations our two coun-
tries have been fortunate enough to enjoy. The
cornerstone of Turkey's post world war foreign
policy has been solidarity with the United States
of America and the Western World as a whole.
The Turkish people will never forget the
support and friendship extended to them by
the United States during the difficult period in
their history immediately after World War II.
I should like to renew our homage here to
President Truman for his statesmanship in lay-
ing down the principles for a long-term and
happy partnership between our two nations
which eventually led to our participation in the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization about
exactly 20 years ago. We also remember that
our cooperation within NATO was enhanced
and enlarged during the following years, start-
ing with the Presidency of the great soldier and
statesman, General Dwight Eisenhower.
We are proud of the democratic institutions
we have been able to guard in face of many
difficulties and threats. The will of the Turkish
people to uphold these institutions is unshak-
able. The Turkish people are endeavoring to
achieve full economic and social development
under a democratic system.
As you know, Mr. President, the primary
objective of my Government is to speed up this
long-sought social and economic advancement
through the eradication of conditions causing
instability while introducing new reforms in-
spired by the guidelines set forth by Kemal
Ataturk. Turkey will succeed in her new strides
which will strengthen her constitutional struc-
ture, while making it possible for its people to
enjoy, without hindering, their freedoms. Our
main strength is the resolve of our people dedi-
cated to the preservation of both the independ-
ence and security of their country, as well as to
their personal liberties under a stable parlia-
mentary democracy.
Mr. President, it is with this confidence that
I am approaching our problems back home and
those relating to the international arena. Today,
as I have briefly remarked a while ago, we are
hopefully on the threshold of an era of under-
standing and accommodation which may lead
to the termination of the era of mistrust. Your
tireless endeavors to open the channels of com-
munication and pull down the walls and bar-
riers of mistrust have undoubtedly been the
major factor in bringing about this hope for a
future in peace and dignity for all mankind.
We will contribute, to the best of our ability,
to this praiseworthy cause. However, we con-
tinue to believe that unless we build from
strength and credibility, our efforts will be
fruitless and even self-destructive. Therefore, it
is our firm belief that NATO should continue
to be the cornerstone of any future structure for
peace and security in the Western World, while
sustaining the efforts for political unification
for which Europe has been groping over many
centuries.
We value our solidarity within NATO in the
same measure that we value efforts for global
détente, and we do not believe that one can be
divorced from the other.
Mr. President, I appreciated your comments
regarding Turkey's contribution to interna-
tional efforts to eradicate the ills of drug abuse
in the world. The humanitarian motive behind
our plan of action, I hope, is well understood
by the international community and will be
matched and supported, in the same spirit, by
their cooperative efforts.
Mr. President, next year, on October 29,
we will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of
the Turkish Republic. This has been for us an
eventful half-century. The striking fact is that,
dedicated to the legacy of Kemal Ataturk, the
founder of the Republic, we were able to give
substance to his motto, "Peace at home, and
peace in the world," which you so eloquently
459
