Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 5 [338]
characterize the Senator's campaign. As
a matter of fact, I don't question his
motives. I think he deeply believes in a
number of actions that he believes that
this Government should take that I think
would be very disastrous for this Nation,
as I pointed out in my acceptance speech.
Consequently, as far as I am concerned,
I will discuss those issues, but I am not
going to raise any doubts about his mo-
tives. Incidentally, I have no complaint
when he raises doubts about mine. That
is his choice.
A VIETNAM SETTLEMENT
[3] Q. Mr. President, in Vietnam, do
you see any possibility of a negotiated
settlement before the election?
THE PRESIDENT. The settlement will
come just as soon as we can possibly get a
settlement which is right-right for the
South Vietnamese, the North Vietnamese,
and for us one that will have in mind
our goals of preventing the imposition by
force of a Communist government on
South Vietnam and, of course, a goal that
is particularly close to our hearts in a
humanitarian sense, the return of our
prisoners of war.
I should emphasize, however, that
under no circumstances will the timing
of a settlement, for example, the possible
negotiation of a cease-fire, the possible
negotiation of, or unilateral action with
regard to, a bombing halt-under no
circumstances will such action be affected
by the fact that there is going to be an
election November 7.
If we can make the right kind of a
settlement before the election, we will
make it. If we cannot, we are not going
to make the wrong kind of a settlement
before the election. We were around that
track in 1968 when well-intentioned men
made a very, very great mistake in stop-
ping the bombing without adequate agree-
ments from the other side.
I do not criticize them for that, of
course, as far as their motives are con-
cerned. I simply say, having seen what
happened then, we are not going to make
that mistake now.
The election, I repeat, will not in any
way influence what we do at the negoti-
ating table.
Second, because I know this subject has
been discussed by a number of you, as it
should be, in your commentary and in
your reports, the negotiations at this time,
as you know, have been, in the private
channel, very extensive. We have agreed
that neither side will discuss the content
of those negotiations. I will not discuss
them one way or another.
I will only say that the negotiations
are in a sensitive stage. I cannot predict
and will not predict that they will or will
not succeed. I cannot and will not pre-
dict when they will succeed.
But I will say that any comment on
my part with regard to how the negoti-
ations are going could only have a detri-
mental effect on the goal that we are
seeking, and that is, as early as possible
a negotiated settlement of this long and
difficult war.
Q. Mr. President, it has been said that
Hanoi may be waiting until after the
election to make a final settlement on the
theory that if they got a Democrat elected
they would get better terms for them.
How do you answer that?
THE PRESIDENT. They could be moti-
vated by that. There are those who be-
lieve that they were motivated to an
extent in 1968 by political considerations
in agreeing to a bombing halt before the
953
