Richard Nixon, 1972
Dec. 19 [429]
sult in paying Federal employees higher
salaries than comparable private enter-
prise employees as shown by the annual
Bureau of Labor Statistics Survey, I have
concluded that such additional increase
would be neither fair nor justifiable.
Also transmitted is a copy of an Execu-
tive order promulgating the adjustments
of statutory salary rates to become effec-
tive on the first day of the first pay period
beginning on or after January 1, 1973.
Concurrent with the issuance of this
Executive order adjusting pay for civil
servants, I have also signed an Executive
order providing a pay increase of 6.69 per-
cent in the basic pay of members of our
uniformed services. This Executive order
complies with section 8 of Public Law 90-
207 (81 Stat. 654), which provides that
whenever the rates of the General Sched-
ule of compensation for Federal classified
employees are adjusted upwards, there
shall immediately be placed into effect a
comparable upward adjustment in the
basic pay of members of the uniformed
services.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released
by the White House on December 15, 1972,
in connection with the signing of Executive
Order 11691, adjusting the rates of pay for cer-
tain statutory pay systems, and Executive Or-
der 11692, adjusting the rates of monthly basic
pay for members of the uniformed services.
Since the 92d Congress was in adjournment,
the message was not transmitted until Jan-
uary 9, 1973, after the opening of the first
session of the 93d Congress.
429 Statement About the Space Program.
December 19, 1972
THE SAFE return of the command
module "America" marks the end of one
of the most significant chapters in the
history of human endeavor. In October
1958, this Nation set about sending men
into a hostile, unknown environment. We
had little idea what lay before us, but
there was new knowledge to be gained and
there was a heritage of meeting historical
challenge the challenge of greatness-
to be sustained. Project Mercury, begun
in 1958, taught us that man could survive
and work in space. In 1961, President
Kennedy voiced the determination of the
United States to place a man on the
Moon. We gained the understanding and
the technology to embark on this great
mission through Project Gemini, and we
accomplished it with the Apollo lunar
exploration series. In 1969, for the first
time, men from the planet Earth set foot
on the Moon.
Since the beginning of Apollo, nine
manned flights have been made to the
Moon. Three circled that nearest neigh-
bor in the universe, six landed and ex-
plored its surface. We have barely begun
to evaluate the vast treasure store of
extraterrestrial data and material from
these voyages, but we have already learned
much and we know that we are probing
our very origins. We are taking another
long step in man's ancient search for his
own beginnings, pressing beyond knowl-
edge of the means of human existence to
find, perhaps, the meaning of human
existence.
Nor is this great work ending with the
return of Gene Cernan, Jack Schmitt,
and Ron Evans from the Moon today.
1157
