Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 7 [78]
weapons,
policy that were somewhat controversial.
I remember on many of those occasions
that I have asked for the assistance of and
the support of the Veterans of Foreign
Wars, and whatever that decision was,
whether it was a decision that was neces-
sary to keep America strong through
developing a system of defense against nu-
clear
whether it was a decision
to defend American men who were fight-
ing abroad by taking action that was ter-
ribly difficult but terribly important for
their survival, whatever the decision was,
I can say that on occasion after occasion
when I have talked to whoever happened
to be the Commander of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars, whether it was Chief Rain-
water or Commander Vicites, I have
asked them and never have the Veterans
of Foreign Wars been found wanting
when the chips were down.
The Commander has referred to the
fact that I have returned from a journey.
That journey, to many people, meant per-
haps more than a realist would recognize
that it should mean, and that is that be-
cause a trip has been taken, because the
leader of a very powerful nation, the
United States of America, was meeting
with a leader of the most populous nation
of the world, that this meant that
peace
was going to be something that we could
assume, something that now made it no
longer necessary for us to maintain the
strength, the strength in arms, even more
important, the strength in character which
America has had in the past and which it
needs at the present time.
Let me put that trip, perhaps, in its
proper perspective in just a moment. The
trip was necessary, necessary because, as
we look at the history of this organization,
I think of the fact that most of us who are
members were veterans of World War II.
I think of the fact that for the veterans
of World War II, their younger brothers
fought in Korea and their sons fought in
Vietnam, and the great question of our
time is simply this: Are their grandchil-
dren, are those who sit here, these winners,
are they and their children going to fight
in another war?
We look at those wars: World War II,
Korea, Vietnam. It is most significant to
note that each of them, for the United
States, came from the Pacific. World War
II began in the Pacific for America. Korea
came from the Pacific, and Vietnam, of
course, came from the Pacific. So the great
question is: Can we, those of us who have
positions of leadership, develop a new pol-
icy, a new relationship, which will not
guarantee peace, because that can never
be sure, but which will provide a better
chance that we can have peace in the
future?
As I said over and over again on this
recent journey, there is no question about
the differences that we have with the lead-
ers of the most populous nation in the
world, differences that are deep in philos-
ophy, and very deep in terms of our views
about the world. But there is also no ques-
tion about this: that is, that if the most
populous nation in the world and the
nation at the present time that is the most
powerful nation in the world, if they do
not communicate, the chances of our hav-
ing peace in the Pacific and peace in the
world are very dim.
If, on the other hand, we can establish
a process by which we can talk about our
differences, rather than fight about our
differences, the chance that these young
people in front of us can grow up in a
period which we did not enjoy, a genera-
399
