Richard Nixon, 1972
July 4 [224]
224 Address to the Nation Announcing Plans for America's
Bicentennial Celebration. July 4, 1972
Good morning:
This Fourth of July holiday is an appro-
priate time for every American to reflect
on the deeper meaning of the momentous
events at Philadelphia 196 years ago
today.
John Adams, later to be our second
President, summed up that meaning in a
letter to his wife on the night of July 3,
1776. The Continental Congress, to which
Adams was a delegate, was to complete
its work on the Declaration of Independ-
ence the following day. About that event
he wrote:
"I am well aware of the toil and blood
and treasure that it will cost us to maintain
this Declaration.... Yet, through all the
gloom, I can see the rays of ravishing
light and glory. I can see that the end is
more than worth all the means. And that
posterity will triumph in that day's
transaction...."
You and I, and all of the 209 million
Americans living today, are the posterity
of which he spoke, and we have
triumphed, in ways the Founding Fathers
scarcely dreamed of.
Over the past two centuries our revolu-
tionary heritage of self-government has
helped to make the United States the
freest and strongest nation history has ever
seen. It has enabled us to bear with un-
failing honor the responsibility of world
leadership in the cause of peace.
As we look back to America's begin-
nings, therefore, we are surely entitled to
a feeling of pride and gratitude. At the
same time, as we look forward to Amer-
ica's Bicentennial, just 4 years from today,
we also have a feeling of healthy im-
patience for change-a determination to
make this good land even better.
It is in this traditionally American spirit
of pride in our past and present, and pur-
pose for our future, that I would like to
talk today about some of our preparations
for the year 1976.
In 1966, 10 years ago, the Congress
established an American Revolution
Bicentennial Commission. I have worked
closely with this Commission and its
Chairman, David Mahoney. At our urg-
ing, its membership has recently been ex-
panded to make it more broadly repre-
sentative of all the American people.
The Commission's excellent plans call
for truly national participation in our
Bicentennial observance. Thousands of
communities in all 50 States will con-
tribute to a celebration as wide as Amer-
ica's land and as richly diverse as
its people, within a framework of three
interrelated programs.
One is called Heritage '76. This will
focus on the unfolding panorama of our
Nation's history over the course of two
centuries.
Another is called Horizons '76. This will
involve looking ahead into our third cen-
tury, selecting goals to help make Amer-
ica the "more perfect Union" we all want
it to become, and working together to
achieve those goals.
The third major program, the one I
especially want to talk about this morn-`
ing, will be known as Festival USA. Its
concern will be travel, discovery, and hos-
pitality-hospitality by Americans
Americans, and hospitality by Americans
to millions upon millions of visitors from
nearly every other country of the globe.
to
In the near future, I will be sending, in
727
