[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
generates into hostile confrontation, which
would be an obstacle to achievement, and
thus self-defeating.
COMMUNITY, DIVERSITY, AND
NATIONALISM
The hemisphere community took shape
historically as an association of free repub-
lics joining together against domination
and interference from tyrannies across the
ocean. This sense of unity was reinforced
by the Second World War and was em-
bodied in the new institutions and instru-
ments of the inter-American system.
Our cohesion has served many other
common purposes since then. It has pro-
vided forums for multilateral considera-
tion of issues facing us all. It has afforded
mechanisms for peaceful settlement of dis-
putes within the hemisphere. It has en-
abled Latin Americans to express a
collective voice in discussions with the
United States and the rest of the world.
In the 1970's, this cohesion is being
tested by rapid and turbulent change-
more intense nationalism, accelerating ex-
pectations, new ideologies and political
movements, a new diversity of political
systems and expanding ties between Latin
American countries and the rest of the
world. These new conditions are bound to
transform our political relationships.
Our task is to respond constructively
with a realistic set of objectives and princi-
ples for United States policy. We have
done so.
There are hemispheric questions on
which our judgments differ from those of
some of our partners. As I said in Octo-
ber 1969: "partnership-mutuality—
these do not flow naturally. We have to
work at them." I do not believe that frank
discussion and fair settlements between
sovereign nations are inconsistent with
national dignity.
Our especially close relationship with
Mexico provides striking examples of
problems resolved systematically by self-
respecting states who feel a preeminent in-
terest in good relations. The closeness
reflected in my several meetings in 1969
and 1970 with Presidents Diaz Ordaz and
Echeverria resulted in specific agreements
on such matters as narcotics control,
boundaries, civil air routes, agricultural
imports, Colorado River salinity, joint
flood control projects, and the return of
archaeological treasures.
In addition, in 1971 the United States
and Nicaragua abrogated the Bryan-
Chamorro Treaty, relinquishing canal-
construction rights in Nicaragua which we
no longer require. Presidential Counsellor
Finch, visiting six Latin American nations
on my behalf in November 1971, signed
agreement recognizing Honduran
sovereignty over the Swan Islands. We
have entered new negotiations with
Panama to achieve a mutually acceptable
basis for the continuing efficient operation
and defense of the Panama Canal.
Our mutual interest also requires that
we and our neighbors address in this same
cooperative spirit the two significant dis-
putes which flared up last year in our rela-
tions with Latin America-the fisheries
dispute and the problem of expropriation.
Let me state frankly the United States
view on these unsettled questions.
In 1971, Ecuador seized and fined a
great number of U.S.-owned tuna boats
fishing within its claimed 200-mile terri-
torial sea. United States law required me
to suspend new military sales and credits
to Ecuador as a result; seizures have con-
262
