[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
we now are traveling. Just how profoundly
these new courses will shape our decade
or our century is still an unanswered ques-
tion, however, as we enter the fourth
year of this administration. For moments
of beginning will mean very little in his-
tory unless we also have the determina-
tion to follow up on those beginnings.
Setting the course is not enough. Stay-
ing the course is an equally important
challenge. Good government involves
both the responsibility for making fresh
starts and the responsibility for perse-
verance.
The responsibility for perseverance is
one that is shared by the President, the
public, and the Congress.
We have come a long way, for ex-
ample, on the road to ending the Vietnam
war and to improving relations with our
adversaries. But these initiatives will de-
pend for their lasting meaning on our per-
sistence in seeing them through.
-The magnificent cooperation of the
American people has enabled us to make
substantial progress in curbing inflation
and in reinvigorating our economy. But
the new prosperity we seek can be com-
pleted only if the public continues in its
commitment to economic responsibility
and discipline.
-Encouraging new starts have also
been made over the last 3 years in treat-
ing our domestic ills. But continued
progress now requires the Congress to act
on its large and growing backlog of pend-
ing legislation.
America's agenda for action is already
well established as we enter 1972. It will
grow in the weeks ahead as we present still
more initiatives. But we dare not let the
emergence of new business obscure the
urgency of old business. Our new agenda
will be little more than an empty gesture if
we abandon--or even de-emphasize-
that part of the old agenda which is yet
unfinished.
GETTING OURSELVES TOGETHER
One measure of the Nation's progress in
these first years of the seventies is the im-
provement in our national morale. While
the 1960's were a time of great accom-
plishment, they were also a time of grow-
ing confusion. Our recovery from that
condition is not complete, but we have
made a strong beginning.
Then we were a shaken and uncertain
people, but now we are recovering our
confidence. Then we were divided and
suspicious, but now we are renewing our
sense of common purpose. Then we were
surrounded by shouting and posturing,
but we have been learning once again to
lower our voices. And we have also been
learning to listen.
A history of the 1960's was recently
published under the title, Coming Apart.
But today we can say with confidence that
we are coming apart no longer. The "cen-
ter" of American life has held, and once
again we are getting ourselves together.
THE SPIRIT OF REASON AND REALISM
Under the pressures of an election year,
it would be easy to look upon the legisla-
tive program merely as a political device
and not as a serious agenda. We must
resist this temptation. The year ahead of
us holds precious time in which to accom-
plish good for this Nation and we must
not, we dare not, waste it. Our progress
depends on a continuing spirit of partner-
ship between the President and the Con-
gress, between the House and the Senate,
between Republicans and Democrats.
42
