[370] Oct. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
played a part in this very long and very
difficult struggle for the United States.
I have referred to education. I also
want to refer to jobs. As you know, we
have had an all-out program in which we
have had splendid cooperation from the
Government agencies, from private enter-
prise, and from the media in working on
jobs for veterans.
I am glad to report that we have made
very great progress in that respect. We are
not satisfied. We want to make more. We
don't want to provide just an education,
training, and whatever you may do in the
way of school, and then find that once you
have had the training and the schooling,
there is no job.
I can assure you that we are going to
continue to be dedicated to the proposi-
tion that our economy grows so that there
is a job for every veteran who takes the
training, who wants a job.
As I pointed out in my Veterans Day
remarks, a radio talk, I want to emphasize
again here today that I do not consider
that employers are simply employing vet-
erans as a matter of patriotism. They do
have an obligation in that respect, every
American has that, to see that our vet-
erans have that chance when they come
back after what they have given to their
country; but as I pointed out, a veteran
has some special qualities that make him
particularly qualified for a job.
It is good business to hire veterans, and
particularly those who have taken the
advantage of education. I trust that when
you finish your education that those jobs
will be there. We want them to be there.
We are going to work toward that end.
Another point that I want to make is
that in addition to education, in addition
to jobs, that one of the things that every
American can do, one of the things that
all of us can be dedicated to, has nothing
to do with material benefits. It has to do
with what I would call idealistic or
spiritual qualities. It is very simply this:
This has been a long war. It is a difficult
one. It is very controversial. People in
the United States have disagreed about
it, whether we should have gotten in,
how it is being conducted, and what we
should now do.
But there is one thing I am sure of. The
millions of Americans-and we want to
remember that there are 6 million Viet-
nam-era veterans of which over 22 mil-
lion have served in Vietnam-the millions
who have chosen to serve our country
should be honored for their service.
I think that it is time for us to think,
not just on Veterans Day, but on every
day of the year, that this country owes a
debt of gratitude to 29 million living
American veterans who fought for this
country in World War I, in World War
II, in Korea and Vietnam, not for glory,
not for conquest, but fought for the sur-
vival of freedom and fought against ag-
gression. Of this we can all be proud, and
we can give them the honor they are due.
The other point that I wish to make,
in conclusion, is that in honoring our
veterans today and particularly our Viet-
nam veterans, that we want you to know
that the best way we can repay you for
what you have given to your country—
we have taken time out of your lives, and
some of you have paid a very high price,
I see several in wheelchairs here-the best
way we can honor you, the best way we
can honor your comrades, many of whom
have not returned, is to build a lasting
1024
