Richard Nixon, 1972
[101]
Mar. 23
the difficult experiences of Korea and
Vietnam. The members of that same gen-
eration have led this country through a
time of social and economic change un-
paralleled in world history. And they have
come through all of these challenges "with
colors flying." Because of their success, we
now have the opportunity to complete
their quest for peace and justice at home
and around the world.
At such a moment, one obligation
should be very high on our list of priori-
ties: our obligation to this older genera-
tion. Let us work to make ours a time of
which it can be said, "the glory of the pres-
ent age is that in it men and women can
grow old"—and can do so with grace and
pride and dignity, honored and useful citi-
zens of the land they did so much to
build.
The White House,
March 23, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the message. Participants in the
news briefing were Elliot L. Richardson, Secre-
tary, and John B. Martin, Commissioner of the
Administration on Aging, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare; and Arthur S.
Flemming, Special Consultant to the President
on Aging.
IOI Remarks About the Resignation of George Meany
From the Pay Board. March 23, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
At the conclusion of my statement, Mr.
Ziegler will issue a longer, written state-
ment, and also an Executive order [11660]
that I have just signed after meeting with
the Cost of Living Council.
When I announced our new economic
policy on August 15 of last year, I said
that fighting inflation must be every-
body's job. Yesterday, George Meany
walked off the job. The decision to walk
out came after the ruling on the long-
shoremen's contract.
While other American workers are be-
ing held to a 52 percent wage increase,
the Pay Board ruled against a 20 percent
wage increase for the longshoremen. Mr.
Meany supported the increase. The Pay
Board was right. Mr. Meany was wrong.
I respect Mr. Meany as a powerful
spokesman for the Nation's largest union
organization, the AFL-CIO. But only 17
percent of America's 80 million wage
earners belong to the AFL-CIO. It is
my responsibility to act and speak for
all the people, and I shall meet that
responsibility.
As President, I cannot permit any
leader representing a special interest, no
matter how powerful, to torpedo and sink
a program which is needed to protect the
public interest. Consequently, I have di-
rected the Pay Board to continue, but as
a single public unit, with those labor lead-
ers who wisely wish to remain on it bal-
anced by a reduced number of business
leaders.
I have directed the Price Commission
to proceed on course, working alongside
the Pay Board to cut inflation in half by
the end of the year.
All rules and regulations remain in full
485
