Richard Nixon, 1972
May 31 [182]
control, and will prepare the ground for the
creation of an atmosphere and system which
will eliminate the dangers of war altogether. In
this respect we all have high hopes and inter-
ests, and obviously, until such time that these
wishes come true, we cannot neglect the main-
tenance of our defenses even for a moment.
Our country is governed by an independent
national policy and the maintenance of the true
interests of the people. We are following this
path with due attention to our national and
world responsibilities. Thus repaying friend-
ship with friendship and for this very reason
we highly value the friendly policy of your
country towards ours.
We are proud that we have more than 2,500
years of recorded history which started with
one of the most honored and humanitarian
documents of the world history, namely the
Freedom Proclamation of Cyrus the Great.
Your country last year, like many other coun-
tries alongside us, celebrated this as one of the
greatest events of the history of mankind. At
this opportunity I would like to commend the
American Committee for Cyrus the Great Cele-
brations, which arranged detailed artistic,
scientific, and university programs throughout
the United States. I would like to thank espe-
cially Mrs. Nixon for accepting the honorary
chairmanship of this committee in your country.
Depending upon at least 25 centuries of
national heritage and sovereignty, we today
have started a new period of renewing our past
glories, based on the eternal values of our cul-
ture and civilization, and hope that the pages
of our future history will also be thumbed
through with the same national pride based on
honor, righteousness, peace, and justice.
We have based our independent national
policy on international understanding in the
path of national reconstruction and the
strengthening of world peace, coexistence, and,
above all, cooperation. It is to be noted that we
shall not tolerate any inequality from any quar-
ter in our relations with other countries. Cer-
tainly under no circumstances will we allow any
violation of our land or our rights.
Your visit to Iran, Mr. President and Mrs.
Nixon, certainly represents a further step in
the expansion and strengthening of our long-
standing friendship and cooperation. And we
are sure that this visit will also be fruitful from
the point of view of international peace and
understanding.
Mr. President, allow me to raise my glass.
to your personal health and happiness and that
of Mrs. Nixon, and to wish increasing progress
and welfare for the noble American people and
the further strengthening of the friendship be-
tween our two countries.
182 Toasts of the President and the Shah of Iran at a
Luncheon in Tehran Honoring Their Imperial
Majesties. May 31, 1972
I WOULD just like, informally, to say a
word to His Majesty and our guests—very
informally, because we spoke last night.
First, we were very glad to come here
after our visit to the Soviet Union, which
was important, and which we will always
remember because of what we saw and
what may have been accomplished.
It was good to come to a country where
we saw so many friends and people who
have been longtime friends, and where we
felt not only the fresh air blowing off the
mountains but the freshness of the people
and their attitudes as we went through the
streets.
We will always be grateful for that little
respite after our 8 days in the Kremlin.
And while the Kremlin is a great palace,
to be there for 8 days is a long time.
The other thing that I would say is
that we are grateful for the fact that all
of our party has been received so hos-
pitably and that His Majesty has made
available this beautiful summer palace,
as it is called, I understand, for our use
and for this luncheon.
649
