[26] Jan. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
overhang of obligations and distrust which
no longer left time for the gradual meth-
ods of correction which had been tried
earlier.
The measures begun on August 15 will
have effects continuing long into the
future. They cannot be fully evaluated by
what has happened in the little over 5
months since that date. Still the results up
to this point have been extremely
encouraging.
The freeze slowed down the rate of in-
flation dramatically. In the 3 months of its
duration the index of consumer prices
rose only 0.4 percent, compared to 1.0
percent in the previous 3 months. The
freeze was a great testimonial to the public
spirit of the American people, because that
result could have been achieved with the
small enforcement staff we had only if the
people had been cooperating voluntarily.
The freeze was followed by a compre-
hensive, mandatory system of controls,
with more flexible and equitable stand-
ards than were possible during the first 90
days. General principles and specific regu-
lations have been formulated, staffs have
been assembled and cases are being de-
cided. This effort is under the direction of
citizens on the Price Commission and Pay
Board, with advice from other citizens on
special panels concerned with health
services, State and local government, and
rent. These citizens are doing a difficult
job, doing it well, and the Nation is in
their debt.
While this inflation-control system was
being put in place, vigorous action was
going forward on the international front.
The suspension of the convertibility of the
dollar was a shock felt around the world.
The surcharge emphasized the need to act
swiftly and decisively to improve our posi-
tion. Happily, the process of adjustment
began promptly, without disrupting the
flow of international business. Other cur-
rencies rose in cost relative to the U.S.
dollar. As a result, the cost of foreign goods
increased relative to the cost of U.S. goods,
improving the competitive position of
American workers and industries. Inter-
national negotiations were begun to sta-
bilize exchange rates at levels that would
help in correcting the worldwide dis-
equilibrium, of which the U.S. balance-
of-payments deficit was the most obvious
symptom. These negotiations led to
significant agreements on a number of
points:
1. Realignment of exchange rates,
with other currencies rising in cost rela-
tive to the dollar, as part of which we
agreed to recommend to Congress that
the price of gold in dollars be raised
when progress had been made in trade
liberalization.
2. Commitment to discussion of more
general reform of the international
monetary system.
3. Widening of the permitted range of
variation of exchange rates, pending
other measures of reform.
4. Commitment to begin discussions
to reduce trade barriers, including some
most harmful to the United States.
5. Assumption of a larger share of
the costs of common defense by some of
our allies.
6. Elimination of the temporary U.S.
surcharge on imports.
The third part of the August 15 action
was the stimulative tax program. Enact-
ment of this package by Congress, al-
though not entirely in the form I had pro-
posed, put in place the final part of my
New Economic Policy.
In part as a result of this program, eco-
nomic activity rose more rapidly in the
112
