Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 24 [19]
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE REVIEW
(FAR).—In 1969, I initiated the Federal
Assistance Review program to streamline
the Federal grant system. Primary em-
phasis was placed on improving the op-
eration of Federal programs to strengthen
the capacity of State and local govern-
ments. Achievements include:
-standardization of regional bound-
aries;
-simplification of Federal review pro-
cedures for grant applications;
-substantial delegation of authority to
Federal field offices;
-a system for informing Governors
and State legislatures of approval
action on all Federal grants;
-a Project Notification and Review
System, utilizing State and regional
clearinghouses to facilitate State and
local review of Federal grant appli-
cations at the formative stage;
-a pilot integrated grant administra-
tion program, enabling State and
local governments to apply for sev-
eral Federal assistance grants through
a single application; further consoli-
dation and joint funding authority
is being sought under proposed legis-
lation; and
-more participation by State and local
officials in determining how Federal
funds are used to respond to local
needs.
FEDERAL REGIONAL COUNCILS.-As part
of the FAR effort, Federal Regional
Councils, consisting of the regional di-
rectors of the major human resources
agencies, were established in each of the
10 regions. The Councils have now dem-
onstrated considerable potential for in-
creasing Federal responsiveness and coor-
dination at the State and local level.
I shall shortly constitute the Councils
formally as bodies within which regional
directors of the major grant agencies de-
velop common strategies and mechanisms
for program delivery, review program
plans jointly with Governors and mayors,
and resolve regional interagency issues
expeditiously.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.-Since 1969,
the Federal Government has offered
broad-based organization and manage-
ment assistance to State and local govern-
ments who have requested it. The assist-
ance has taken the form of a review of the
organizational structures and the major
management processes of each requesting
government. Improvements are then sug-
gested. Subsequently, technical and other
assistance is available to help the govern-
ments implement improvements they
think are important. Even though re-
sources are limited, I intend to encourage
this form of technical assistance.
REFORMING THE BUDGET PROCESS.-
The American people deserve, and our
Government requires, a more orderly and
more rational budget process.
The preparation of this budget, like
those of other recent years, has been
handicapped by the delays in enactment
of appropriations for the fiscal year which
began last July 1. There is still one 1972
appropriation bill which has not been en-
acted even as I write this, 12 months after
I submitted the 1972 budget. Moreover,
the uncertainties and hesitation caused by
these delays in congressional action have
hindered the orderly management of the
Government.
There has been excessive attention to
details and virtually no attention paid to
overall totals or the effect of individual
irresponsible acts of spending on the
budget totals. Any procedural reform that
encouraged the Congress to be aware of
97
