Richard Nixon, 1972
June 22 [207]
is to stay by our middle position. I think
it is the right position and I believe that
it is a position that can get through this
Congress.
Now on that score, I would just point
out that we can all go back and look at
speeches that have been made and maybe
a few columns that have been written,
indicating that the Administration's fail-
ing to move from the position that we
had taken on revenue sharing meant that
we would never get revenue sharing.
Well, we got it today in the House be-
cause our position was sound and I think
we are going to follow the same tactics,
the same position now. I will watch it,
of course, day by day, because I want
welfare reform, the country wants wel-
fare reform. But we cannot have welfare
reform that moves in the direction of
enormously increasing the cost and,
frankly, putting more people on welfare
rather than getting people off of it.
ALIENS AND UNEMPLOYMENT
[6.] Q. Sir, I have seen a letter from
a high official in the immigration depart-
ment of the State Department saying that
we had 4,800,000 people in this country
on temporary visas who were employed.
I wonder, in view of the large number
who come in illegally, if you don't think
these two groups together have a great
impact on our high rate of unemploy-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. The President of
Mexico spoke to me about that problem,
the problem of illegal aliens, and, of
course you know, it is a problem in which
many of our labor organizations are very
vitally interested. It does certainly con-
tribute to the unemployment problem. It
is one which administration after admin-
istration has wrestled with without too
much success.
It is one, however, after my consulta-
tion with the President of Mexico, that
I have asked the Department of Labor to
examine to see what steps could be taken
to see that illegal aliens and particularly
those the Mexican problem is the big-
gest one, as you know-those from our
friends and neighbors to the south, where
that could come under better control.
COURT DECISIONS ON WIRETAPPING AND
ORGANIZED BASEBALL
[7] Q. Mr. President, two questions
about recent Supreme Court decisions, if
I
may ask them as two questions, because
I am asking in both cases if you have any
plans for meeting the situation.
In the first case, the Supreme Court
ruled your wiretapping program uncon-
stitutional, saying that in cases of domestic
security, wires could not be tapped with-
out a court order. So my first question is
whether you have any plans to ask Con-
gress for legislation to restore that author-
ity in the form of an amendment to the
Safe Streets Act or other legislation?
In the second case, the Supreme Court
left it up to Congress whether organized
baseball came under the antitrust laws.
This being a matter of some national in-
terest, I think, I wonder if you have any
plans to ask for legislation to clarify the
status of organized baseball?
THE PRESIDENT. On the first question,
I think it is appropriate to point out that
the wiretapping in cases of civilian activ-
ity, domestic civilian activity, is not, as you
have described it, just this Administra-
tion's policy. As you know, this type of
activity of surveillance has been under-
695
