[390] Oct. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
S.J. Res. 204, authorizing the preparation of
a history of public works in the United
States
S.J. Res. 221, designating Benjamin Franklin
Memorial Hall in Philadelphia as the Ben-
jamin Franklin National Memorial
391
On October 30, 1972, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's decision to approve the bills by
John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs, and Elliot L. Richardson,
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Memorandum of Disapproval of Two Bills Concerned
With Programs for the Elderly. October 30, 1972
I HAVE announced today the signing
of H.R. 1-a bill which represents a tre-
mendous forward step in improving the
income position and health services for
older Americans. Two other bills con-
cerning the elderly have also come to me
for signature-the Older Americans
Comprehensive Service Amendments of
1972 (H.R. 15657) and the Research on
Aging Act of 1972 (H.R. 14424). Al-
though I support some of the goals of
these two bills, careful review has per-
suaded me that neither bill provides the
best means of achieving these goals. Both
authorize unbudgeted and excessive ex-
penditures and would also require dupli-
cations or fragmentations of effort which
would actually impair our efforts to serve
older Americans more effectively. I have
decided therefore to withhold my ap-
proval from these two pieces of legislation
OLDER AMERICANS COMPREHENSIVE
SERVICE AMENDMENTS OF 1972
(H.R. 15657)
Last March, I submitted to the Con-
gress a plan for strengthening and ex-
panding service delivery programs under
the Older Americans Act. This program
would begin the development of more
comprehensive and better coordinated
systems for delivering services at the local
level. In addition, I submitted a proposal
to broaden the highly successful Foster
Grandparents Program. The Adminis-
tration will continue its vigorous pursuit
of both these objectives.
However, the Congress added to the
bill containing these provisions a range
of narrow, categorical service programs
which would seriously interfere with our
effort to develop coordinated services for
older persons. This is particularly the case
with two categorical manpower programs
which were added on the floor of the
Senate and were considered without re-
gard to manpower programs already
serving older persons. Furthermore, this
bill would authorize new funding of more
than $2 billion between now and fiscal
year 1975-far beyond what can be used
effectively and responsibly.
I cannot responsibly approve H.R.
15657.
RESEARCH ON AGING ACT OF 1972
(H.R. 14424)
In my Special Message to the Congress
on Older Americans last March, I also
emphasized the need to develop a com-
prehensive, coordinated program of aging
research-one which includes disciplines
ranging from biomedical research to
transportation systems analysis, from psy-
chology and sociology to management
science and economics. The Secretary of
1074
