Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
they went to serve in Vietnam. Most of
them, I am sure, did not want to go. It is
not a very pleasant place. I have been
there a number of times; nice people, but
it is not a pleasant place for an American
to serve, and particularly in uniform.
I imagine most of those young Ameri-
cans when they went out there did so with
some reluctance, but they chose to serve.
Of those that chose to serve, thousands of
them died for their choice, and until this
war is over, and until we get the POW's
back, those who chose to desert their coun-
try, a few hundred, they can live with their
choice. That is my attitude.
MR. RATHER. But, at some future time,
the door might be opened?
THE PRESIDENT. We always, Mr.
Rather, under our system, provide
amnesty. You remember Abraham Lin-
coln in the last days of the Civil War, as a
matter of fact just before his death, de-
cided to give amnesty to anyone who had
deserted if he would come back and re-
join his unit and serve out his period of
time. Amnesty, of course, is always in the
prerogative of the Chief Executive. I, for
one, would be very liberal with regard to
amnesty, but not while there are Ameri-
cans in Vietnam fighting to serve their
country and defend their country, and not
while POW's are held by the enemy. After
that we will consider it, but it would have
to be on a basis of their paying the price,
of course, that anyone should pay for
violating the law.
ROLE OF WOMEN
[21.] MR. RATHER. I understand, Mr.
President, we have only about a minute
and a half left. I am going to be in trouble
at home if I don't ask this question. Some
political leaders-
THE PRESIDENT. You mean with CBS?
MR. RATHER. No, I mean with Mrs.
Rather. Some political leaders and some
others have taken to not addressing
women by "Miss" or "Mrs." They have
gone to the "Ms." Why not do that with
White House letters?
THE PRESIDENT. I guess I am a little
old-fashioned, but I rather prefer the
"Miss" or "Mrs." But if they want to do it
the other way, of course, we accept it. I
can assure you some of the things that
have come in letters are quite amusing.
MR. RATHER. Mr. President, are there
any aspects of the Presidency that are bet-
ter suited to a man than to a woman?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say that, as
we consider the role of women in Ameri-
can political life, that a woman could
serve in this office. I am not suggesting
that that is going to happen soon. I am
suggesting, however, that, looking to the
future, as the place of women as executives
in our society is recognized, as women
develop respect for themselves as execu-
tives rather than as women, that their
place in political life is going to be recog-
nized more and more.
Now, I want to help with Mrs. Rather
when you go home and simply say, as far as
I am concerned, I have the greatest re-
spect for women in both capacities, those
who are homemakers, and those who de-
cide to go into politics or into business, but
let us have freedom of choice for women.
MR. RATHER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: The hour-long interview began at 9:30
p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
It was broadcast live on radio and television.
The President spoke without referring to notes.
17
