[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
are committed to continue to provide as-
sistance through these institutions as they
continue to progress. I have requested,
and I urge the Congress to provide, $320
million per annum over the next three
years for the International Development
Association of the World Bank. These
funds-which are more than equaled by
contributions from other countries-en-
able the Bank to provide low interest loans
to the poorest of the developing countries.
I have also urged the fulfillment of our
commitment to the Fund for Special Op-
erations of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank and the soft loan window of
the Asian Development Bank. The funds
channeled through these institutions rep-
resent an important contribution to re-
gional development in these areas and to
assisting their poorest countries. Work
continues to go forward on creation of the
African Development Bank's Special
Fund. And the hard loan funds which I
have requested for the World Bank and
the regional banks will enable these in-
stitutions to balance their lending by mak-
ing long term loans on terms closer to
commercial rates to countries which can
afford them.
Further, we have agreed with other in-
dustrialized nations to institute a system of
generalized tariff preferences for imports
from the lower income countries. The
European Community, Japan, Britain,
and others have already instituted their
generalized preferential arrangements.
After our meetings with the British in
Bermuda, Secretary Rogers announced
that we expect to submit legislation to the
Congress.
Outlook. This year could prove to be
decisive for foreign assistance. Will the
United States continue to provide mean-
ingful amounts of development assist-
ance? Will we continue to participate con-
structively in an international effort which
has, in large part because of our past
leadership, played such a major role in
bringing about progress in the developing
world?
This Administration will work coopera-
tively with the Congress with a view to
reaching affirmative answers to these
questions. The failure of this, the world's
richest nation, to assist adequately the
world's poor nations in their development
efforts today and in the decade ahead
would be one of the great human trage-
dies of history. Just as would a failure to
confront poverty, hunger, and disease in
our own country, it could not but make
this a less desirable world. This nation has
the resources and the know-how to make
a vital contribution to the efforts of de-
veloping nations to improve the quality
of life of their people. At a time when we
are asking all nations to share in the re-
sponsibility for building world peace, we
must do our part to ensure that all nations
share in the world's prosperity.
ISSUES FOR THE FUTURE
In 1971 we set the stage for fundamen-
tal and long term reforms in the inter-
national economic system. 1972 will be a
critical year in determining whether the
nations of the free world can display in
other areas the same strong international
cooperation which it took to reach the
December monetary agreement. It will
test whether we in this nation can address
these problems with the same spirit of
competitiveness and cooperation which
252
