[321] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
the President. The President then resumed
speaking.]
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I
would only suggest that on your television
screens tonight, in addition to showing the
six there, let's show the thousands that are
over here.
Secretary Morton has referred to this
memorial building which we have just
dedicated. I simply want to say that as
far as this memorial is concerned, that
those who came to these shores, the shores
of the United States of America-they
have built their own memorial, because
they built America and we are proud of
those who built America.
A few moments ago, as we got off the
helicopter, four little girls were there in
native costumes to greet us. One of my
aides pointed out the helicopter window
and said, "That one is Italian and this
one is Polish and this one is Ukrainian
and this one is German." Let me say that
every one of us is proud of his national
background, but I say that instead of re-
ferring to someone, "He is an Italian, he
is a German, he is a Pole, he is a Ukrain-
ian," let's say, first of all, "He or she is
an American," because those who came
to this shore, if you go through this
museum, have contributed so much to
America.
One thing they have contributed is
something that we see in America more
than in any other country, and that is the
diversity. My wife and I have had the
privilege of visiting over 80 countries in
the world-Asia, Africa, Latin America-
but you don't have to go abroad, you don't
have to cross the Atlantic or the Pacific,
to see the world. All the world is right
here in America. That is the greatness of
America.
And so in America, whether it is in the
field of music, whether it is in the field
of art, whether it is in the field of archi-
tecture, in any area, we come from all
of the world, and we have built a nation
which carries out that great saying that
"The hallmark of freedom is diversity,"
and the diversity of America is what
makes us an interesting country.
So while we are all Americans, let us
always be proud of our background, what-
ever that is, because that makes America
a greater country.
I could speak of many ways in which
those who came to these shores have en-
riched America, but let me point out
one way in particular: They believed in
hard work. They didn't come here for a
handout. They came here for an oppor-
tunity, and they built America.
There is one other thing that I have
found about those who have come from
other countries, or their children. I have
found that when it comes to love of coun-
try, when it comes to patriotism, those
who came to America from other lands
are very first in their hearts as far as love
of America is concerned.
One of the great privileges a President
of the United States has is to participate
in citizenship ceremonies and to greet
and shake hands with people from all the
continents of the world and all the nations
of the world. And, my friends-and par-
ticularly you boys and girls that are down
here in front-let me just simply say to
you that there is nothing that makes you
appreciate this country more than to see
somebody that has just become an Amer-
ican citizen with tears in his or her eyes
because they are so proud to be an
914
