Richard Nixon, 1972
May 29 [177]
177 Text of the "Basic Principles of Relations Between the
United States of America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics." May 29, 1972
THE UNITED States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Guided by their obligations under the
Charter of the United Nations and by a
desire to strengthen peaceful relations
with each other and to place these rela-
tions on the firmest possible basis,
Aware of the need to make every effort
to remove the threat of war and to create
conditions which promote the reduction
of tensions in the world and the strength-
ening of universal security and interna-
tional cooperation,
Believing that the improvement of
US-Soviet relations and their mutually
advantageous development in such areas
as economics, science and culture, will
meet these objectives and contribute to
better mutual understanding and busi-
ness-like cooperation, without in any
way prejudicing the interests of third
countries,
Conscious that these objectives reflect
the interests of the peoples of both
countries,
Have agreed as follows:
First. They will proceed from the com-
mon determination that in the nuclear
age there is no alternative to conducting
their mutual relations on the basis of
peaceful coexistence. Differences in ideol-
ogy and in the social systems of the USA
and the USSR are not obstacles to the
bilateral development of normal relations
based on the principles of sovereignty,
equality, non-interference in internal
affairs and mutual advantage.
Second. The USA and the USSR at-
tach major importance to preventing the
development of situations capable of caus-
ing a dangerous exacerbation of their rela-
tions. Therefore, they will do their utmost
to avoid military confrontations and to
prevent the outbreak of nuclear war. They
will always exercise restraint in their
mutual relations, and will be prepared to
negotiate and settle differences by peace-
ful means. Discussions and negotiations on
outstanding issues will be conducted in a
spirit of reciprocity, mutual accommoda-
tion and mutual benefit.
Both sides recognize that efforts to ob-
tain unilateral advantage at the expense
of the other, directly or indirectly, are
inconsistent with these objectives. The
prerequisites for maintaining and
strengthening peaceful relations between
the USA and the USSR are the recogni-
tion of the security interests of the Parties
based on the principle of equality and the
renunciation of the use or threat of force.
Third. The USA and the USSR have a
special responsibility, as do other countries
which are permanent members of the
United Nations Security Council, to do
everything in their power so that conflicts
or situations will not arise which would
serve to increase international tensions.
Accordingly, they will seek to promote
conditions in which all countries will live
in
peace and security and will not be sub-
ject to outside interference in their inter-
nal affairs.
Fourth. The USA and the USSR in-
633
