Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [329]
the American people work for a living, the
great majority of the American people pay
taxes, and taxes are high enough. That is
why we must limit our spending for what-
ever that cause may be, good as it is, limit
it to what we can afford. This is the way
we can build that new prosperity that we
want, looking to the years ahead.
Then, if we are going to have these
next 4 years one of the best 4-year periods
of America's history, we not only have to
have peace abroad, we have to have peace
at home. Many people have forgotten the
situation that this country was in 4 years
ago. You will remember, some of you,
the conditions in our cities, the conditions
on some of the campuses of our univer-
sities and colleges. It has taken time to
change it. It has also taken time to change
an attitude of permissiveness that had
grown up in our courts, that had
grown
up in some of our law enforcement agen-
cies across this country.
I pledged in the 1968 campaign that we
would change that. I said over and over
again it was necessary to appoint judges
to the highest courts of this land and all
the courts of this land who would recog-
nize that it was essential to strengthen the
peace forces as against the criminal forces
in this country. We have done that, and,
as a result of doing that, we have seen
progress finally being made in dealing
with the criminal forces in this country.
Progress is being made in dealing with the
forces of narcotics and dangerous drugs.
But 4 years isn't enough. We need more.
And in order, in the next 4 years, to ac-
complish the goal that we need to accom-
plish, we must continue to appoint to the
courts of this land and in the positions of
enforcement of the law, men and women
who recognize that the first civil right of
every American, whatever his background,
is the right to be free of domestic violence,
and we are going to see that that right
becomes a real one for every American.
Let me put all of this, if I may, in terms
of the hopes and the dreams of the young
Americans, Republicans, Democrats, in-
dependents, who are supporting our ticket
this year. We want them to grow up in a
world of peace. We want them to have
what no generation in this century has had
in America: a full generation of peace.
We think we have helped to begin to
build that possibility. Certainly, while we
do not want to overstate the case, the
chance that this generation can have a
full generation of peace as a result of what
we have done, as a result of these great
initiatives, if we can continue them with
the same pragmatic, realistic approach,
the chance is greater than it has ever been,
certainly in my lifetime. It is this, then,
that we want for them.
Putting it also in positive terms, I want
this new generation of Americans to grow
up to the greatest extent possible in an
open world. There will always be differ-
ences between governments. There will be
differences in philosophies. But I would
hope that we could have a world in which,
despite differences between governments,
the peoples of the world could be friends.
I think that is possible.
I would like for the young people of this
generation to be able to take the trip that
my wife and I took to the People's Re-
public of China, to know those people. I
am not referring to their government, with
which I do not agree insofar as its philos-
ophy is concerned, but the Chinese people,
as a people, are an able people. The So-
viet people are an able people.
What we must do is to recognize that
differences between governments must
not be allowed to keep people apart where
937
