Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 27 [24]
eighties is going to depend upon how success-
fully we can compete and how productive we
can become.
As impressed as I am by both my predecessor
and my successor, I must say I am much less
impressed with our ability to keep a secret, at
least in this particular instance. Now I would
like to introduce Peter Flanigan to you. Con-
gratulations, Pete.
MR. FLANIGAN. Thank you, Pete.
I am apparently the "Chance" in this Tinker
to Evers to Chance, or as I am following Pete
Peterson, maybe I am the "repeat." [Laughter]
I am also told that Pete can't answer ques-
tions because he is subject to confirmation and
because of protocol, I can't either, therefore.
I am happy to say I don't have to be confirmed
for this job, but nevertheless, those are the rules
that Ron [Ziegler] laid down. [Laughter]
I look forward, of course, to working with
Pete Peterson. We will miss the Secretary here
in the business of government, but I know from
experience how effective he is in the business of
politics, and nothing could be more important
than what he is doing there.
At this moment, this point in our national
life when international economic competition
has become a major force, both for the health
of our economy at home and in our relations
with countries abroad, I am honored and flat-
tered that the President has asked me to carry
on the outstanding work that Pete Peterson
started as Director of the Council on Inter-
national Economic Policy.
And the end of that effort, the entire pur-
pose, is to be sure that we get fair treatment
for American workers and American industry
in international trade and in that way con-
tribute to the President's quest for a peaceful
and a prosperous world. Certainly the ground-
work that has been laid at the Council and the
successes to date are effective. I look forward
to trying to match that record. Thank you very
much.
24 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Maurice H. Stans
as Secretary of Commerce. January 27, 1972
Dear Maury:
I have your letter of January 17 tender-
ing your resignation as Secretary of Com-
merce, and I will, as you have requested,
accept it effective on or about Feb-
ruary 15, 1972. I do this with a sense of
both great regret and profound grati-
tude-regret because you are leaving a
post in which you have served with the
utmost distinction and gratitude because
you will be playing a key role in the forth-
coming campaign.
Your three years of leadership at the
Department of Commerce have been a
source of the highest satisfaction to me,
as you have given that vital arm of the
national government a new spirit of pur-
pose and urgency to match the needs of
America and its free enterprise system.
When I nominated you as Secretary of
Commerce, I did so because I knew our
country demanded the experience and di-
rection which you were uniquely equipped
to offer. This you have done in the fullest
measure. Your superb work and un-
swerving dedication have contributed in
large measure to the fact that the United
States is now well on the road to a new
era of prosperity, without the artificial
stimulus of a war-time economy.
For many years you have been by my
side, ever a loyal friend and wise coun-
selor, and I am deeply pleased and hon-
ored that you will continue to be there.
As you leave public office, you can do so
with the knowledge that you have served
your President, your country, and your
fellow citizens with the highest skill and
devotion, just as you did for more than
five years under President Eisenhower.
87-234-74- -11
109
