[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
released a large number of letters. They
included the first evidence ever received
that some of our men held in South Viet-
nam were still alive. While we welcomed
this development, it also underlined the
cruel and unnecessary anguish caused to
American families by Hanoi's withholding
for so long the fact that these men were
alive.
Neither identifying all of our men held
by the Communists nor providing their
total numbers could have any military
significance. It is their suffering and the
anguish of their families which give them
value as hostages for Hanoi and its allies.
The requirements of international law
and decency are clear; the Communist
side stands in violation of universally ac-
cepted standards. Their policy has set a
grim precedent.
This Administration has moved on
many fronts to deal with this problem.
Our basic position is that this issue should
be treated on a humanitarian basis and
separated from other military and politi-
cal issues in the conflict. As I said in my
peace initiative of October 7, 1970:
"The immediate release of all prisoners
of war would be a simple act of humanity.
But it could serve even more. It could
serve to establish good faith, the intent to
make progress, and thus to improve the
prospects for negotiation."
The plight of our prisoners has aroused
the widest concern. There have been
hearings and resolutions in the Congress.
The International Red Cross has made
known its concern. The United Nations
has adopted a strong resolution calling for
compliance with the Geneva Convention,
and specifically proposing that seriously
sick and wounded prisoners, and those
held for long periods, be interned in neu-
tral nations. Many governments have pub-
licly offered such neutral internment,
subject to the agreement of both sides. We
regret North Vietnam's failure to respond
constructively to these humanitarian
moves.
In addition to our formal initiatives,
the South Vietnamese have, with our sup-
port, taken a long series of unilateral steps
in an attempt to prompt the early release
of prisoners. Over the past five years they
have released over 4,000 POW's in South
Vietnam and some 250 to North Vietnam.
Just in the last year and a half alone,
South Vietnam initiated the following
moves.
-On July 8, 1970 it returned 62 North
Vietnamese sick and wounded pris-
oners to North Vietnam, along with
24 North Vietnamese fishermen who
had been rescued in South Vietnam-
ese waters.
---On October 8, 1970 the Government
of South Vietnam joined in the U.S.
proposal for the total and prompt
release of all prisoners of war held by
all sides.
-On December 10, 1970 it proposed
the release of all North Vietnamese
prisoners it holds in return for the
release of all U.S. and free world
prisoners and all South Vietnamese
prisoners of war held outside South
Vietnam.
-On January 24, 1971 it released 35
more North Vietnamese prisoners of
war.
-On January 26, 1971 it offered to
repatriate all sick and wounded
POW's and called for similar action
by the other side.
On April 8, 1971 South Vietnam
proposed that sick and wounded
prisoners as well as prisoners held in
captivity for a long period of time be
280
