Richard Nixon, 1972
May 29 [178]
ness to enter into serious negotiations with
the North Vietnamese Side to settle the
war in Indochina on a basis just to all.
The Soviet Side stressed its solidarity
with the just struggle of the peoples of
Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia for their
freedom, independence and social prog-
ress. Firmly supporting the proposals of
the DRV and the Republic of South Viet-
nam, which provide a realistic and con-
structive basis for settling the Vietnam
problem, the Soviet Union stands for a
cessation of bombings of the DRV, for a
complete and unequivocal withdrawal of
the troops of the USA and its allies from
South Vietnam, so that the peoples of
Indochina would have the possibility to
determine for themselves their fate with-
out any outside interference.
DISARMAMENT ISSUES
The two Sides expressed their positions
arms limitation and disarmament
issues.
The two Sides note that in recent years
their joint and parallel actions have
facilitated the working out and conclu-
sion of treaties which curb the arms race
or ban some of the most dangerous types
of weapons. They note further that these
treaties were welcomed by a large majority
of the states in the world, which became
parties to them.
Both Sides regard the Convention on
the Prohibition of the Development, Pro-
duction and Stockpiling of Bacteriological
(Biological) and Toxic Weapons and on
their Destruction, as an essential disarma-
ment measure. Along with Great Britain,
they are the depositories for the Conven-
tion which was recently opened for signa-
ture by all states. The USA and the USSR
will continue their efforts to reach an
international agreement regarding chemi-
cal weapons.
The USA and the USSR, proceeding
from the need to take into account the
security interests of both countries on the
basis of the principle of equality, and with-
out prejudice to the security interests of
third countries, will actively participate in
negotiations aimed at working out new
measures designed to curb and end the
arms race. The ultimate purpose is general
and complete disarmament, including nu-
clear disarmament, under strict interna-
tional control. A world disarmament
conference could play a role in this process
at an appropriate time.
STRENGTHENING THE UNITED NATIONS
Both Sides will strive to strengthen the
effectiveness of the United Nations on the
basis of strict observance of the UN Char-
ter. They regard the United Nations as an
instrument for maintaining world peace
and security, discouraging conflicts, and
developing international cooperation. Ac-
cordingly, they will do their best to support
United Nations efforts in the interests of
international peace.
Both Sides emphasized that agreements
and understandings reached in the nego-
tiations in Moscow, as well as the con-
tents and nature of these negotiations, are
not in any way directed against any other
country. Both Sides proceed from the
recognition of the role, the responsibility
and the prerogatives of other interested
states, existing international obligations
and agreements, and the principles and
purposes of the UN Charter.
Both Sides believe that positive results
were accomplished in the course of the
talks at the highest level. These results in-
dicate that despite the differences between
641
