Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
the last 20 years, agricultural productivity
has gone up 200 percent, or nearly 32
times as much. One result has been better
products and lower prices for American
consumers. Another is that farmers have
more than held their own in international
markets. Figures for the last fiscal year
show nearly a $900 million surplus for
commercial agricultural trade.
The strength of American agriculture is
at the heart of the strength of America.
American farmers deserve a fair share in
the fruits of our prosperity.
We still have much ground to cover
before we arrive at that goal-but we have
been moving steadily toward it. In 1950
the income of the average farmer was only
58 percent of that of his non-farm coun-
terpart. Today that figure stands at 74
percent-not nearly high enough, but
moving in the right direction.
Gross farm income reached a record
high in 1971, and for 1972 a further in-
crease of $2 billion is predicted. Because of
restraints on production costs, net farm
income is expected to rise in 1972 by 6.4
percent or some $1 billion. Average in-
come per farm is expected to go up 8 per-
cent-to an all-time high-in the next 12
months.
Still there are very serious farm prob-
lems-and we are taking strong action to
meet them.
I promised 3 years ago to end the sharp
skid in farm exports-and I have kept
that promise. In just 2 years, farm exports
climbed by 37 percent, and last year they
set an all-time record. Our expanded mar-
keting programs, the agreement to sell 2
million tons of feed grains to the Soviet
Union, our massive aid to South Asia un-
der Public Law 480, and our efforts to halt
transportation strikes-by doing all we
can under the old law and by proposing a
new and better one-these efforts and
others are moving us toward our $10 bil-
lion farm export goal.
I have also promised to expand domes-
tic markets, to improve the management
of surpluses, and to help in other ways to
raise the prices received by farmers. I have
kept that promise, too. A surprisingly large
harvest drove corn prices down last year,
but they have risen sharply since last No-
vember. Prices received by dairy farmers,
at the highest level in history last year,
will continue strong in 1972. Soybean
prices will be at their highest level in two
decades. Prices received by farmers for
hogs, poultry and eggs are all expected to
go higher. Expanded Government pur-
chases and other assistance will also
vide a greater boost to farm income.
pro-
With the close cooperation of the Con-
gress, we have expanded the farmers' free-
dom and flexibility through the Agricul-
tural Act of 1970. We have strengthened
the Farm Credit System and substantially
increased the availability of farm credit.
Programs for controlling plant and animal
disease and for soil and water conserva-
tion have also been expanded. All these
efforts will continue, as will our efforts to
improve the legal climate for cooperative
bargaining-an important factor in pro-
tecting the vitality of the family farm and
in resisting excessive Government man-
agement.
DEVELOPING RURAL AMERICA
In my address to the Congress at this
time 2 years ago, I spoke of the fact that
one-third of our counties had lost popula-
tion in the 1960's, that many of our rural
areas were slowly being emptied of their
people and their promise, and that we
should work to reverse this picture by in-
63
