[365] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
tioned the importance of your local can-
didates and of the candidates for the
House and, in those States that are here
who have candidates for the United States
Senate, for the United States Senate. We
have tried in every way possible where the
national candidates were concerned to see
them, to provide endorsements for them,
and the like. You can be sure that as far
as the whole ticket up and down the line
is concerned, that we are very proud of
our candidates for the State legislature
and for local office throughout all of the
States that are represented here.
The other point that I would make is
one that I know all of you will totally
understand. The election is only 2 weeks
away. As far as what will happen on is-
sues is concerned, no one can predict how
many voters will change. Some theories
are that voters change a great deal in the
last 2 weeks, and others are that they
really don't change that much, it is only
that the pollsters don't poll late enough
and find out that a change has already
started. But that doesn't make any dif-
ference. What I am saying to you here
now is: The vital importance is to get
out the vote, to get it out up and down
the line. The vital importance also is not
to get out just the Republican vote, which
of course, we must do, but get out the
votes among independent voters and
among Democrats and, here in the State
of New York, among those who are con-
servatives, to get them out up and down
the line.
Because what you are going to find,
what we are finding all over the country
this year, is that people are not just think-
ing in terms of voting party. We do find,
as a matter of fact, less defection from
the Republican line than in any election
in recent history. But on the other hand,
we find that more Democrats at the pres-
ent time will cross over and vote at the
top of the ticket for us than ever before.
That can help everybody.
The point that I make is: Let us keep
as our goal, of course, getting out our
own vote. Let us also recognize the vital
importance of having a big vote, because
we must remember that when there are
indications that one candidate is ahead
of another, the candidate who is behind
tends to have his vote come out in greater
numbers than the one who is ahead.
I will just say finally this last thing. We
are going to meet all of you personally,
the Governor and Happy and Pat and
myself. But in the brief time that you go
through the receiving line, while we have
met many of you before, I cannot say
adequately what I want to say now.
I have done, as you all know, a lot of
campaigning. If I haven't been in your
town it is because probably only that it
was not there in 1952 or '56 or '60, not
only in those years but in '54, '58, '66.
We covered a lot of them, too. I can tell
you that I know as a candidate, sure the
speeches are important, and the televi-
sion we do is important, and how we han-
dle the issues is important. But what is
really important is you, the party work-
ers, the people who come from the ranks
of labor, the people who come, who par-
ticipate in politics, from any other group,
but who get behind the candidate.
You are the ones who are going to make
the difference. You are the ones who are
going to steam up the workers. You are
the ones who are going to get out the vote.
On election eve, when the vote comes in,
if we do have this enormous turnaround
which we can have in this great eastern
seaboard-understand, it can be the big-
gest turnaround of any section of the
1014
