[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare will administer grants and tech-
nical assistance to initiate programs in over
50 communities to test children in high-
risk areas for lead concentrations. In addi-
tion, these programs will support the de-
velopment of community organization and
public education to increase public aware-
ness of this hazard. Other Federal agen-
cies are also active in the effort to combat
lead-based paint poisoning. ACTION and
other volunteers will assist city govern-
ments to help alleviate lead paint hazards.
The Department of Housing and Urban
Development is engaged in research and
other actions to detect and eliminate this
hazard.
The resources of the private sector
should also be utilized through local laws
requiring owners of housing wherever pos-
sible to control lead paint hazards.
ENLISTING THE YOUNG
The starting point of environmental
quality is in the hearts and minds of the
people. Unless the people have a deep
commitment to the new values and a clear
understanding of the new problems, all
our laws and programs and spending will
avail little. The young, quick to commit
and used to learning, are gaining the
changed outlook fastest of all. Their en-
thusiasm about the environment spreads
with a healthy contagion: their energy in
its behalf can be an impressive force for
good.
Four youth participation programs of
mutual benefit to the young and the Na-
tion are now planned or underway:
Last October, I initiated the Environ-
mental Merit Awards Program. This pro-
gram, directed by the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency in cooperation with the
U.S. Office of Education, awards national
recognition to successful student projects
leading to environmental understanding
or improvement. Qualifications for the
awards are determined by a local board
consisting of secondary school students,
faculty, and representatives of the local
community. Already more than 2,000 high
schools, representing all 50 States, have
registered in the program.
The Department of Agriculture's ex-
panded field scout demonstration pro-
gram, designed to permit more effective
pest control with less reliance on chemical
pesticides, will employ thousands of high
school and college students. These young
people will be scouting cotton and tobacco
pests in the coming growing season, and
the program will be expanded to other
crops in future years.
The Environmental Protection Agency
has recently initiated in its Seattle re-
gional office a pilot program using young
people to assist the agency in many of its
important tasks, including monitoring.
EPA is working with State and local pol-
lution control agencies to identify moni-
toring needs. ACTION and the youth
training programs are providing the man-
power. If this initial program proves
successful, the concept will be expanded.
ACTION volunteers and young people
employed through the Neighborhood
Youth Corps, Job Corps, and college
work-study programs will work with city
governments to help alleviate lead paint
hazards, gaining experience in community
health work as they give urgently needed
aid to inner-city families.
Young people working on environmen-
tal projects, learning the skills necessary
for a particular job, must also understand
how their work relates to the environ-
mental process as a whole. Thus, all of
188
