Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 7 [414]
since President Eisenhower was President
15 years ago—prosperity without war and
without inflation.
It means we can have progress toward
better education, better health-in all the
areas that I have presented to the Ameri-
can people over these past 4 years.
It means that we can move toward a
goal that every American wants: that is,
opportunity for each person in this great
and good land to go to the top in whatever
particular activity he chooses regardless
of his background.
Those, then, are the issues you will
have in mind.
Let me say, finally, I want to thank
you for the honor of serving as President
for the past 4 years, and, regardless of your
decision tomorrow, I can assure you that
I shall continue to work for a goal that
every American has: Let's make the next
4 years the best 4 years in America's
history.
Thank you. Good evening.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded
at the Western White House, San Clemente,
Calif., for broadcast at 8:30 p.m. as part of a
nationwide television program paid for by the
Committee for the Re-Election of the President.
414 Remarks on Being Reelected to the Presidency.
November 7, 1972
Good evening my fellow Americans:
Before going over to the Shoreham
Hotel to address the victory celebration
which is in process there, I wanted to take
a moment to say a word to all of you
this very personal way, speaking from the
Oval Office.
in
I first want to express my deep appre-
ciation to every one of you, the millions
of you who gave me your support in the
election today, and I want to express my
respect for millions of others who gave
their support to Senator McGovern. I
know that after a campaign, when one
loses, he can feel very, very low, and his
supporters as well may feel that way. And
when he wins, as you will note when I get
over to the Shoreham, people are feeling
very much better.
The important thing in our process,
however, is to play the game, and in the
great game of life, and particularly the
game of politics, what is important is that
on either side more Americans voted this
year than ever before, and the fact that
you won or you lost must not keep you
from keeping in the great game of politics
in the years ahead, because the better
competition we have between the two
parties, between the two men running for
office, whatever office that may be, means
that we get the better people and the bet-
ter programs for our country.
Now that the election is over, it is time
to get on with the great tasks that lie
before us. I have tried to conduct myself
in this campaign in a way that would not
divide our country, not divide it regionally
or by parties or in any other way,
because
I very firmly believe that what unites
America today is infinitely more impor-
tant than those things which divide us. We
are
united Americans-North, East,
West, and South, both parties-in our de-
sire for peace, peace with honor, the kind
of a peace that will last, and we are mov-
ing swiftly toward that great goal, not
just in Vietnam, but a new era of peace
1139
