[306] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The text of the convention and the re-
port of the Secretary of State are printed in
Senate Executive W (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
ate advise and consent to its ratification.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 19, 1972.
307
Statement About Signing the National Heart,
Blood Vessel, Lung, and Blood Act of 1972.
September 20, 1972
DISEASES of the heart, blood vessels,
blood, and lungs are among the major
causes of death and disability in America.
They are among the most feared diseases
in our country. Their cost in human suf-
fering is intolerable, and they also result
in extensive economic losses-in terms
both of medical care costs and of lost
wages.
In my State of the Union Message this
year, I indicated that this Administration
would give increased attention to the fight
against diseases of the heart, blood vessels,
and lungs. I also stated my intention,
which I reaffirmed in my message to the
Congress on health care of March 2, to
form a panel of distinguished experts to
help determine how best to combat these
diseases. I have appointed a group of dis-
tinguished citizens to serve on this panel,
and, in addition, I have made a budget
request of more than $250 million for
308
1973 to support the fight against these
diseases.
Today I welcome the opportunity to
strengthen the attack on heart, blood ves-
sel, and lung diseases by signing S. 3323,
the National Heart, Blood Vessel, Lung,
and Blood Act of 1972.
Substantial progress has already been
achieved in our battle against this enemy,
much of it under the auspices of the Na-
tional Heart and Lung Institute, which
has been charged with the responsibility
for developing an intensified program. I
am confident that with the added impetus
of this new legislation, our Nation's scien-
tists will continue that progress and hasten
the day when the threat of this devastat-
ing health menace will be significantly
diminished.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3323, approved Septem-
ber 19, 1972, is Public Law 92-423 (86 Stat.
679).
Statement About Establishment of an Advisory
Committee on the Economic Role of Women.
September 21, 1972
WOMEN are playing an increasingly im-
portant role in the economy of our Nation.
We in this Administration believe that
women must have full equality of oppor-
tunity and freedom of choice to pursue
their careers, whether they be in the home
or outside of the home.
We have taken many strong steps to
promote equality and that freedom, but
we must recognize clearly that much more
880
