Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
this difficult and tangled problem. The
entire question has been given even
greater urgency by recent court decisions
in California, Minnesota, New Jersey, and
Texas, which have held the conventional
method of financing schools through local
property taxes discriminatory and uncon-
stitutional. Similar court actions are pend-
ing in more than half of our States. While
these cases have not yet been reviewed by
the Supreme Court, we cannot ignore the
serious questions they have raised for our
States, for our local school districts, and
for the entire Nation.
The overhaul of school finance involves
two complex and interrelated sets of prob-
lems: those concerning support of the
schools themselves, and also the basic rela-
tionships of Federal, State and local
gov-
ernments in any program of tax reform.
We have been developing a set of com-
prehensive proposals to deal with these
questions. Under the leadership of the
Secretary of the Treasury, we are carefully
reviewing the tax aspects of these pro-
posals; and I have this week enlisted the
Advisory Commission on Intergovern-
mental Relations in addressing the inter-
governmental relations aspects. Members
of the Congress and of the executive
branch, Governors, State legislators, local
officials and private citizens comprise this
group.
Later in the year, after I have received
the reports of both the President's Com-
mission on School Finance and the Ad-
visory Commission on Intergovernmental
Relations, I shall make my final recom-
mendations for relieving the burden of
property taxes and providing both fair and
adequate financing for our children's
education-consistent with the principle
of preserving the control by local school
boards over local schools.
A NEW EMPHASIS ON CAREER
EDUCATION
Career Education is another area of
major new emphasis, an emphasis which
grows out of my belief that our schools
should be doing more to build self-reliance
and self-sufficiency, to prepare students for
a productive and fulfilling life. Too often,
this has not been happening. Too many
of our students, from all income groups,
have been "turning off" or "tuning out"
on their educational experiences. And—
whether they drop out of school or
proceed on to college-too many young
people find themselves unmotivated and
ill equipped for a rewarding social role.
Many other Americans, who have already
entered the world of work, find that they
are dissatisfied with their jobs but feel
that it is too late to change directions,
that they already are "locked in."
One reason for this situation is the in-
flexibility of our educational system, in-
cluding the fact that it so rigidly separates
academic and vocational curricula. Too
often vocational education is foolishly
stigmatized as being less desirable than
academic preparation. And too often the
academic curriculum offers very little
preparation for viable careers. Most
students are unable to combine the most
valuable features of both vocational and
academic education; once they have
chosen one curriculum, it is difficult to
move to the other.
The present approach serves the best
interests of neither our students nor our
society. The unhappy result is high num-
bers of able people who are unemployed,
underemployed, or unhappily employed
on the one hand-while many challenging
jobs go begging on the other.
We need a new approach, and I believe
87-234-74- -9
69
