Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
solution would risk upsetting the strategic
balance, and might put a premium on the
further development of offensive weapons.
Each view was held firmly and was rein-
forced by the national view of the impera-
tives of security in a nuclear age. The
impasse could be resolved only at the
highest political level, and only by an
agreement which somehow took into ac-
count the concerns reflected in both
positions.
My exchanges with the Soviet leaders
were addressed to this problem. A mutual
interest in compromise was developed and
both sides made a positive contribution.
As a result we were able to agree upon a
basis which permitted the negotiations to
resume their momentum and their prog-
ress. We agreed that first priority in the
talks would go to defensive systems, but
that the final conclusion of such an agree-
ment would take place simultaneously
with an agreement on limitations on of-
fensive weapons. Thus the assured and
essential linkage was preserved between
offensive and defensive limitations.
In the same period, in consultation with
our allies, I approved a more intense pro-
gram for the Berlin talks, which had been
discussed with Foreign Minister Gromyko.
Those negotiations, too, were stalled.
Neither side would abandon legal and
political principles to which they had ad-
hered for two decades. Nonetheless, both
sides were prepared for an agreement,
though for different reasons. The Soviets
recognized that the ratification of the West
German-Soviet treaty would be impos-
sible if there were no Berlin agreement.
We wanted to remove Berlin as a peren-
nial source of conflict and tension. We
agreed, therefore, to lay aside the legal
and political issues and to seek an accord
on and a clarification of West Germany's
ties to West Berlin.
In this period, there were other evi-
dences of a spirit of reciprocity on the
Soviet side. The position taken by Secre-
tary Brezhnev at the Soviet Party Congress
in March 1971 was encouraging. We felt
that the Soviet leaders, in effect, had
publicly accepted the offer of the new
road in Soviet-American relations which I
had suggested in my UN speech. This im-
pression was confirmed in various private
exchanges. Most important of all, it was
reflected in the concrete progress made
during 1971 on a wide range of issues.
-On May 20, 1971 I announced that
the impasse in the SALT negotiations
had been broken. Vigor and promise
were restored to the talks.
-In August, the Ambassadors of the
United Kingdom, France, the Soviet
Union, and the United States
reached an agreement on Berlin
which was approved by their govern-
ments and signed on September 3.
This agreement guarantees that
access to the Western sectors of Berlin
from West Germany will be unim-
peded, and that West Berliners will
be able to travel to East Berlin and
East Germany on the same basis as
any other persons.
-In September, the United States and
the Soviet Union agreed at the
Geneva disarmament talks to a draft
treaty banning the development, pro-
duction, or possession of biological
and toxin weapons. The treaty was
submitted to the UN and endorsed
in December.
-In September, the SALT talks re-
sulted in two new agreements. The
first will improve the reliability of
209
