Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 29 [276]
What we are doing is to make our ap-
peal across the board and try to build a
new majority on the basis of people from
all groups supporting us on the basis of
what we believe.
Q. Mr. President, you have objected
and given your reasons for not entering a
debate with your opponent. Would you
entertain the possibility of a debate on a
lower level, between the Vice Presidential
candidates?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be very con-
fident as to the result on that, because I
think Vice President Agnew's 4 years of
experience, his coolness, his lawyer's back-
ground, would serve him in good stead in
a debate. I do not believe, however, that
a debate at the Vice Presidential level
would serve any useful purpose, but I
don't rule it out. I don't think it would
serve any useful purpose.
MEETING WITH THE PRIME MINISTER
OF JAPAN
[8.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask a
question concerning your meeting with
Mr. Tanaka?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. Mr. Tanaka has made his intention
clear, that he would like to discuss further
with you China and discuss less economic
problems. But I am also told that the
United States wants to discuss the eco-
nomic problems as widely and deeply as
the other issues, and it can be said that it is
an open secret that the United States is
asking Japan for another revaluation of
the yen in the near future. Could you tell
me to what extent are you going to discuss
with Tanaka the economic issues?
THE PRESIDENT. Our meeting with Mr.
Tanaka is, first, very important because
it is the first chance that I will have to
meet him as Prime Minister, although I
did meet him here, you recall, when he
came with Premier Sato, and I have
known him for many years and have great
respect for him as one of the new leaders
of Japan. So it will first provide an oppor-
tunity for establishing a dialogue between
these two countries, both of whom are
economic super powers.
Second, we will naturally cover the
whole range of problems of the Pacific.
Both Japan and the United States are
tremendously interested in peace in the
Pacific. On the economic side, I think both
sides will be prepared to discuss the fact
that there is now an unfavorable balance
of trade between Japan and the United
States of $3.4 billion a year. Naturally,
that is not healthy for the United States,
but responsible Japanese leaders do not
believe it is healthy for Japan because
what will happen if that kind of an im-
balance continues? It will inevitably feed
the fire of those in this country who would
want to set up quotas and other restric-
tions, and the interests of Japan and the
United States will better be served by
freer trade rather than more restrictive
trade.
I believe that out of this meeting will
come some progress in trying to reduce
that unfavorable balance between Japan
and the United States.
Now, with regard to the devaluation of
the yen, and that sort of thing, I won't
comment on that. I have no expectation
that that kind of technical international
monetary matter will be one that we will
discuss. I say that for the reason that say-
ing anything else is likely to have the stock
markets in Tokyo and New York go up
and down, so I will categorically say that
revaluation of the yen is not on the
agenda, but the other matters of how
835
