[148] May 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
structions to render its report and recom-
mendations by February 28, 1973, so that
the Administration and Congress can take
them into consideration in formulating
authorizing legislation for fiscal year 1974.
In making its study, the Commission will
be particularly concerned to consult ex-
haustively with Members of Congress.
In undertaking this task, the Commis-
sion will have the benefit and will take
full account of the in-depth studies of each
radio that were prepared by the Con-
gressional Research Service at the request
of the Senate Foreign Relations Commit-
tee, together with companion studies
recently completed by the General Ac-
counting Office. Two subsequent studies
by the Congressional Research Service-
one a survey and analysis of the available
options with respect to future funding
methods and the other an examination of
the foreign policy aspects of these broad-
casting operations-will also materially
assist the Commission.
It is evident that the choice of the
method or mechanism for future funding
of the radios must depend upon a proper
perception of the relationship of those
operations to the national interest and
specifically to this Nation's foreign policy
objectives. In my view, that relationship
exists for one fundamental reason, but one
reason only: Namely, that it has always
been and must always be part of our na-
tional
purpose to promote free, responsible
communication among nations, not just
at the government level but at all levels.
Thus, these radios are not spokesmen for
American official policy-that role belongs
in broadcasting to the Voice of America.
Rather, they are expressions of our
profound conviction that a responsible, in-
dependent, and free press plays an indis-
pensable part in the social and political
processes that look to better understand-
ing and more effective cooperation, not
only within a nation, but also among
nations.
It is this conception, I believe, that lies
at the base of the article of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights which
declares it to be the right of everyone "to
seek, receive, and impart information and
ideas through any media and regardless of
frontiers." International broadcasting is
of course only a part of that process; our
international exchange programs are an-
other important part.
The Commission will render a great
service by undertaking a critical examina-
tion of this subject and by providing the
best possible basis for determining the
methods by which support for these valu-
able organizations can be maintained
without impairment to the professional in-
dependence upon which their present
effectiveness depends.
While this Commission produces its rec-
ommendations, it is essential that the au-
thorization providing support to Radio
Free Europe and Radio Liberty be ex-
tended for fiscal year 1973. While I con-
tinue to believe that the Department of
State is not the appropriate channel for
grants to the two radios, I believe that
discussion of the alternatives should be
deferred until we have the benefit of the
recommendations of the Commission. I
therefore strongly recommend that the bill
which we are submitting to Congress for a
1973 authorization be given favorable con-
sideration before the beginning of the new
fiscal year.
588
