Appendix B
November
25 Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, met with
the President at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel
in New York City to report on his meetings
in Paris with North Vietnamese represen-
tatives to the Paris peace talks which re-
sumed on November 20.
29 Nguyen Phu Duc, Special Assistant to
President Nguyen Van Thieu for Foreign
Affairs, of South Vietnam met with the
President at the White House.
29 The President met at the White House with
black Administration appointees to thank
them for their work and to discuss with
them ways in which additional people of
their caliber can be brought into the
Administration.
30 The Joint Chiefs of Staff met with the
President at the White House.
30 Nguyen Phu Duc, Special Assistant to
President Nguyen Van Thieu for Foreign
Affairs, met with the President at the White
House for further discussions.
30 The White House announced that there
would not be any further statement or an-
nouncement regarding U.S. troop levels in
South Vietnam since the subject is being
covered in the current negotiations.
30 Former Secretary of the Treasury John B.
Connally met with the President and Sec-
retary of the Treasury George P. Shultz at
Key Biscayne, Fla., to discuss international
economic matters.
December
2 Henry A. Kissinger met with the Presi-
dent at Key Biscayne for consultation prior
to his departure for Paris to continue nego-
tiations on the Vietnam situation.
5 Horacio Rivero, United States Ambassador
to Spain, met with the President at the
White House.
December
5 M. Harvey Taylor paid a courtesy call on
the President at the White House. Mr.
Taylor, who is 96 years old, was formerly
Pennsylvania Republican State Chairman
and a member and president pro tempore
of the Pennsylvania State Senate. He was
accompanied by Leroy S. Zimmerman, dis-
trict attorney for Harrisburg, Pa.
5 The President attended a reception at Blair
House honoring Californians serving in the
Administration.
8 The President met with the Quadriad-
Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz,
Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council of
Economic Advisers, Director Caspar W.
Weinberger of the Office of Management
and Budget, and Chairman Arthur F. Burns
of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System-at Camp David, Md.
12 W. Clement Stone, acting chairman of
the National Center for Voluntary Action,
met with the President at the White House
to present a progress report on the Cen-
ter's activities.
12 J. Willard Marriott, Sr., Chairman, and Jeb
Stuart Magruder, Executive Director, of
the 1973 Inaugural Committee, called on
the President at the White House to present
Inaugural License Plate No. 1.
14 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
at the White House to report on his meet-
ings in Paris with North Vietnamese repre-
sentatives to the Paris peace talks.
14 Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania met
with the President at the White House to
discuss the upcoming legislative session and
the reorganization of the executive branch
for the second term.
16 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
dinner at the White House for members
and former members of the Cabinet and top
sub-Cabinet appointees.
B-20
