[124] Apr. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
riding down a mountain road. It was
rather dark and we saw along the road a
group of students gathered. They were
young students and their teachers were
there with them. I asked the driver, "Who
are they?" They were waving. He said,
"That is the school for the blind." We
stopped the car. We got out. We shook
their hands, a few of them. We talked to
the Sister who was in charge of the school.
I have seen and my wife has, schools for
the blind all over the world. But only as
you see and feel the hand of a blind person
can you realize the universality of the
feelings each of us has in his heart for all
the people of this world. And I shall
always remember that school for the blind
in La Paz, Bolivia.
And then my wife had an experience
that she says was the mountain top experi-
ence of her travels in the world. She went
to Peru after the 1970 earthquake, and
she flew with Señora Velasco,¹ for whom
we gave a dinner, a luncheon here, into the
earthquake zone. She saw the great trag-
edy, all of the destruction, but what im-
pressed her was the courage, the strength,
the dignity of the people, young and old,
those beautiful faces-in the face of adver-
sity they are going to build a new country,
and she brought back with her therefore a
feeling for the people of Peru which she
communicated to me, and I think also
communicated to the American people.
What I am saying to my friends here in
the American family-we do not think of
you simply as representatives of govern-
ment, but we think of you very truly as
members of our family. There are blind
people in our family. There are people
who have suffered adversity, and Peru, of
¹ Consuelo Gonzalez de Velasco, wife of Gen.
Juan Velasco Alvarado, President of Peru.
course, has had another earthquake. There
are people who are old friends and dear
friends, and it is that special relationship
that we hope that all Americans can un-
derstand, because as we understand that
we are a family, then we can develop a
more understandable policy for the
Americas.
What I am suggesting here is that an
intangible force forms the basis of the
solidarity among the Americas. This force
was well defined over 50 years ago by an-
other President standing in this room. Lis-
ten to his words-Woodrow Wilson: "We
must prove ourselves their friends and
champions upon terms of equality and
honor. You cannot be friends upon any
other terms than upon the terms of equal-
ity. You cannot be friends at all except
upon the terms of honor. We must show
ourselves friends by comprehending their
interest whether it squares with our own
interest or not."
I say to you tonight, we, the United
States, do comprehend. The United States
is and will remain your friend, your cham-
pion, no matter what difficulties present
themselves, in your countries, in ours, or
any place on earth.
Now comes the time for the traditional
toast at this dinner. There are so many
people of high rank that we would have to
go around the table Chinese style, tipping
every glass in order to do it adequately,
but I am afraid most of us probably
couldn't survive the evening in the event
we did that, so we have selected one of
your members, the President of this Or-
ganization, as the one who will receive the
toast on behalf of all of you.
Before toasting this very distinguished
statesman, President Mora, let me say a
word about the profession he represents.
He is one who has been in diplomacy most
546
