[62] Feb. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
in launching new and more effective ef-
forts to combat drug abuse, in improving
the system of justice for all, and, not least,
in developing greater public support for
the forces of law and justice throughout
the country. You have given the Ameri-
can people new-and newly justified—
confidence in their ability to halt the
spiral of crime, and to restore domestic
peace.
Your consistently wise advice and coun-
sel have been of immense value to me
throughout the course of our Administra-
tion, and I know I can speak for all of
your colleagues in saying we shall greatly
miss you around the Cabinet table.
As you leave our official family, you do
so with the warmest of good wishes and
with deep thanks for a difficult task
superbly done.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable John N. Mitchell, The At-
torney General, Department of Justice, Wash-
ington, D.C.]
63 Memorandum About the Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth. February 17, 1972
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
For many young Americans, particu-
larly needy students, summer jobs can be
the decisive factor in the completion of
their education. This year, the Federal
agencies can once again make that all-
important difference, offering sound
guidance on the choice of future careers
for all who participate in the Federal
Summer Employment Program for Youth.
Those who are engaged in this year's
program can also gain practical work ex-
perience and a better understanding of
how their Government serves the people.
Agencies, in turn, can benefit from the
contributions made by these enthusiastic,
energetic young summer workers.
This year, many students will be em-
ployed as a result of successful competition
in a nationwide summer employment ex-
amination, under merit staffing programs
developed by agencies, and under the Fed-
eral Summer Intern Program. In addi-
tion, we must continue to provide oppor-
tunities for needy youths: therefore we
have set once again the general goal suc-
cessfully met last summer-employment
of one needy youth for every 40 regular
employees on your payroll.
I have asked the Chairman of the Civil
Service Commission to again provide the
leadership and guidelines for summer em-
ployment and to report to me on the ac-
complishments of the 1972 program; and
I ask each of you to give personal support
to this important investment in our future.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On March 7, 1972, at the direction of
the President, a meeting to launch the 1972
summer employment program for youth was
held at the White House, with the Vice Presi-
dent as Chairman. Mayors of nine cities and
representatives of the U.S. Conference of May-
ors, National League of Cities, and National
Alliance of Businessmen attended the meeting.
On the same day, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing on the summer
employment program by Laurence H. Silber-
man, Under Secretary, and Malcolm R. Lovell,
Jr., Assistant Secretary for Manpower, Depart-
ment of Labor.
364
