[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
body suggest the Soviet Union is interested
in my reelection; that the Chinese would
set their summit so that I could do well
at that time of year?
MR. RATHER. Well, I don't know-
THE PRESIDENT. The answer, of
course, is that I would doubt if that were
the case. I don't mean that they would
be against my reelection; but I am simply
suggesting that those of us who make de-
cisions in offices like this, certainly we
think politically. We have that responsi-
bility. We are leaders of our party; we are
leaders of our country. But the country
comes first.
I can assure you ending the war in
Vietnam, building a lasting peace through
opening to China, limiting tensions be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union-those decisions have no political
connotations whatever. If we could have
done it earlier, we would have done it.
And if this is not the right time to do it, we
would have postponed it.
SUMMITRY
[9.] MR. RATHER. Well, that raises the
question, Mr. President, that has always
bothered me about summitry and I know
from your writings before you became
President, just before you came to this
office, about the dangers of summitry.
Doesn't it give the Communists in both
capitals, Peking and Moscow, a bargain-
ing advantage to bargain with you at the
summit in the middle of an American elec-
tion year? Wouldn't it have been better
to say we either have the summits in both
cases before our election year starts or
postpone them a few months until after
the election so as not to give the Com-
munists this bargaining advantage?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, peace is
too important to postpone, and I will elab-
orate on that for just a moment if I can,
after I cover the second part of the ques-
tion. The second part of the question deals
with the whole problem of summitry and
whether or not it is a good idea. You raised
that point, and I think I should respond
to it. Summits which are held for the sake
of having summits are a very bad idea, but
when you are dealing with governments
which have basically one-man rule--and
that is true of the Soviet Union, it is true
of the People's Republic of China-then
for the major decisions summitry some-
times becomes a necessity. I became con-
vinced that with regard to China and with
regard to the Soviet Union that it would
serve our interests and their interests in
avoiding those confrontations that might
lead to war, in building a world of peace,
to meet, and the timing was such that it
had to be now. To postpone it might have
meant that something could have oc-
curred in between so it would not be held
at all. And as I have already pointed out,
we could not arrange to have it earlier.
Now, second, with regard to the bar-
gaining position, let me make one thing-
it seems to me in that connection [there] is
very possibly a misunderstanding. Let me
get that misunderstanding out of the way.
When I go to meet with the leaders of the
People's Republic of China, with Mr.
Chou En-lai, Mr. Mao Tse-tung, and
later on with Mr. Brezhnev and Mr.
Kosygin, I can assure you that there is not
going to be any bargaining advantage due
to my desire to affect our election cam-
paign. And I say that not to be sanctimo-
nious, not to be pious, but because I know
what is riding. What is riding here is the
future for generations to come, and the
wrong kind of an agreement with the
Soviet Union, one, for example, in the
8
