Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 15 [62]
later, we work in a divided world to estab-
lish a peace to end all wars, and we seek
to move America forward here at home
bringing its people together and building
a new and lasting prosperity. We need
more than ever the qualities of Lincoln to
inspire us and give us confidence to do
our duty as we understand it, to serve
America better so that America may
better serve mankind.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Robert McClory, House of Repre-
sentatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
NOTE: The letter, dated February 7, 1972, was
released at Key Biscayne, Fla., on February 12.
61 Statement About the Cost of Living Council's
Quarterly Report on the Economic Stabilization
Program. February 12, 1972
TODAY'S report by the Cost of Living
Council shows that we have made an
important beginning to our national effort
against inflation.
The battle has not yet been won. But
we are on the way toward winning it.
The 90-day wage-price freeze that I
imposed on August 15 met its objectives
of braking the rise in wages and prices, of
turning around the inflationary psychol-
ogy that had gripped the Nation, and of
making it possible to establish the machin-
ery for post-freeze stabilization.
The controls established by the Cost of
Living Council are now in place, and pub-
lic support and cooperation for them
continues.
In the months ahead, the Council, the
Pay Board, the Price Commission, and all
those associated with the stabilization pro-
gram will face many tough decisions. They
will have to be persistent in their efforts,
keeping the public interest first in mak-
ing those decisions. They will need the
help and support of the American people.
This Administration is determined to
defeat inflation. I am confident that the
American people share that determina-
tion.
NOTE: The report, covering the period Au-
gust 15 through December 31, 1971, is entitled
"Economic Stabilization Program Quarterly
Report: Executive Office of the President-
Cost of Living Council" (Government Printing
Office, 164 pp.).
62 Letter Accepting the Resignation of John N. Mitchell as
Attorney General. February 15, 1972
Dear John:
As you have requested in your letter of
February 15, I accept your resignation as
Attorney General effective March 1, 1972.
I do so on a note of the utmost regret-
but a regret compensated by a sense of
personal and heartfelt gratitude on behalf
of myself and all Americans.
As chief legal advisor to the President,
and as the leader of our fight against crime
and lawlessness, you have left a permanent
imprint for the better on our Nation of
which I am immensely proud. You have
made this a time of historic accomplish-
ment in expanding and intensifying the
Federal Government's anti-crime efforts,
363
