Appendix E
marked by enormous strides in improving the
relationship between labor and management,
strides the President feels are due in large
measure to the steady hand and calm under-
standing Secretary Hodgson has brought to the
job of Secretary of Labor.
The President feels that Secretary Hodgson
has made a pronounced and lasting contribu-
tion to the American workers and the Nation
as a whole.
Announcing the President's Selections of Key
Department of State Officials for the Second
Term
November 30, 1972
You will recall that the President, in his
remarks on Monday concerning new faces and
new assignments among Cabinet members,
made specific reference to the progress achieved
in the field of foreign affairs during the past 4
years. He referred to his determination to con-
tinue that progress and to build on it during
the next 4 years. In the interest of that con-
tinuity, the President has asked me to announce
this morning that Secretary of State William P.
Rogers will continue to serve as Secretary of
State in the new Administration.
As you know, the Department of State, and
particularly the Secretary himself, is deeply
involved at the present time in a number of
ongoing efforts of great importance to American
foreign policy and world peace. Among them,
of course, are the search for a settlement in the
Middle East situation, the preparations for a
European Security Conference, and for talks
on mutual balanced force reductions in Europe.
The President feels Secretary Rogers has
demonstrated outstanding abilities as a nego-
tiator, and he, of course, will continue to play
a central role in these efforts as the second term
begins.
The President is also announcing this morn-
ing that he intends to make the following
nominations for positions in the Department of
State:
Kenneth Rush will be nominated to be
Deputy Secretary of State. Mr. Rush, who is
now Deputy Secretary of Defense, will succeed
John N. Irwin.
William J. Casey will be nominated to be
Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
Mr. Casey, who is now Chairman of the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission, will be the
first occupant of this newly created position of
Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
William J. Porter will be nominated to be
Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs.
Ambassador Porter, who is currently serving as
the President's Personal Representative at the
Paris meetings on Vietnam, will succeed
U. Alexis Johnson.
Curtis W. Tarr will continue to serve as
Under Secretary of State for Coordinating
Security Assistance Programs.
Incidentally, in response to your earlier
questions regarding the title of Kenneth Rush,
who will be nominated as Deputy Secretary of
State, a law signed on July 13, 1972, changed
the title from Under Secretary to Deputy
Secretary.
Q. That is the number two man, though?
MR. ZIEGLER. That is the second man in the
State Department. But he is referred to as
Deputy Secretary of State, consistent with the
law signed July 13, 1972.
In reference to the individuals who are being
nominated this morning, the President has
asked me to make the following remarks:
Mr. Rush, as you know, has known the
President since his student days at Duke Law
School, where Mr. Rush was a member of the
faculty at Duke. Since that time, Mr. Rush
has had an outstanding career in industry.
Prior to his service at the Department of De-
fense, Mr. Rush served with great distinction
as Ambassador to West Germany, and played a
most important role in negotiating the Berlin
Agreement.
Mr. Casey is a lawyer, with considerable
background and experience in international
economic affairs. Mr. Casey's tenure as Chair-
man of the SEC has been marked by the kind
of strong and innovative leadership which the
President feels is essential for this new post of
Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
President Nixon has often indicated his con-
cern that the United States be ready to meet
and participate vigorously in the intensified
international economic competition which lies
ahead as the military competition of the past
generation recedes. Economic relations, mone-
tary issues, and trade will play a larger role
than ever before in United States foreign pol-
E-3
