[28] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Customs. Mr. Ambrose will also serve as
my own Special Consultant for Drug
Abuse Law Enforcement, advising me on
all matters relating to this important
subject.
PROGRAMS ALREADY IN OPERATION
This effort to meet the drug menace
directly on the streets of America-an
effort which I promised in my message on
the State of the Union-complements our
other drug-related initiatives.
-The Special Action Office for Drug
Abuse Prevention, established on an in-
terim basis last June and headed by Dr.
Jerome Jaffe, is already beginning to have
an impact in the fields of drug abuse edu-
cation, treatment, rehabilitation, and
prevention. The Office is working to co-
ordinate programs which are spread
through nine Federal agencies and to
develop a national strategy to guide these
efforts. Drawing on private and public
expertise, the Special Action Office has
spurred new research, gathered valuable
information, planned for a new drug
training and education center, and helped
in setting up a major program to identify
and treat drug abuse in the armed
services.
The Special Action Office-which has
already done so much-can do much more
if the Congress will promptly give it the
authority and the funds I have requested
for it.
-The Cabinet Committee on Inter-
national Narcotics Control, established
last September and chaired by Secretary
Rogers, is taking the lead in our efforts to
fight the international drug traffic and to
eliminate drugs at their source. We have
appointed Narcotics Control Coordinators
in all affected American embassies around
the world and have been working closely
with other governments to strengthen drug
control efforts. We were especially grati-
fied when Turkey announced last summer
a total ban on the growing of the opium
poppy.
-Drug dependence in the Armed
Forces and among veterans is being re-
duced considerably by expanded drug
treatment and rehabilitation programs in
the Department of Defense and in the
Veterans Administration. Drug identifica-
tion and detoxification programs, which
began in Vietnam, have been expanded to
include all military personnel in the
United States who are being discharged,
sent abroad, or are returning from over-
seas duty. In the year ahead the Veterans
Administration will offer treatment and
rehabilitative service to an estimated 20,-
000 addicts. It will expand its drug
dependence units by as many as 12, crea-
ting a total of up to 44 such units.
-We have also been moving ahead
with a range of other activities. The Com-
prehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and
Control Act of 1970-which I proposed
in July of 1969-was passed by the Con-
gress and signed into law in October of
1970. The model State narcotics legisla-
tion which I also recommended has been
adopted by 26 States and is being con-
sidered in 15 others.
Tens of thousands of teachers, students,
and community leaders have been trained
under our National Drug Education
Training Program. A new National Clear-
inghouse for Drug Abuse Information has
been established. Some 25 million pieces
of drug education information have been
distributed by the Federal Government.
We have established a Federal Drug
Abuse Prevention Coordinating Commit-
tee at the interagency level and a number
116
