Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 1 [396]
modern transportation. The quality of
urban life suffers incalculably when it
takes longer to cross a city by horseless
carriage today than to cross it by horse-
drawn carriage a century ago. A nation
that can move three persons across
240,000 miles of space to the Moon should
be able to move 240,000 persons across 3
miles of a city to get to work.
To improve transportation we needed,
first, more money-and we provided it.
Before we came into office, the most the
Federal Government made available for
mass transit in any one year was $175
million. We raised this figure to $400
million in 1971 and to a full $1 billion
this year. We proposed, and the Congress
enacted, the Urban Mass Transportation
Assistance Act of 1970, which is a 12-
year, $10 billion program. We have also
launched new programs for air and rail
and water transportation.
But our goal has not merely been more
expensive programs. We have worked to
design more effective programs. And that
means more local decisionmaking.
Each city, after all, has its own unique
transportation needs. The highest priority
for one city might be a better subway, as
it was in Washington, D.C.; for another,
it may be buslines; for a third, a new air-
port; for a fourth, a new bridge or a
better highway. Good transportation must
be balanced transportation-and the bal-
ance must be struck differently in each
local setting.
Now, who can strike this balance best?
Not some Federal bureaucrat hundreds or
thousands of miles away. How can he
know what each city needs? He has many
cities to worry about. Often he is hope-
lessly bogged down in redtape. And there
is really no way for local residents to keep
in touch with him or hold him account-
able for his decisions.
More than that, the Federal bureau-
crat is likely to specialize in a single pro-
gram. His main worry may be highways,
for example; his main job may be to get
more highways built. And thus, he simply
is often not in the best position to plan a
balanced approach.
But the local official is different. He is
right there at the scene of the action.
He has only one community to worry
about. It is his job to understand that
community inside out. If he doesn't, the
local citizens can complain to him di-
rectly, or they can vote him out of office.
Best of all, local officials can plan an
overall transportation strategy which
takes into account a wide range of trans-
portation needs-and fits in with other
urban programs.
The key point about our urban strategy,
then, is not only that it gives our com-
munities the dollars they need, but also
that it gives them the freedom and the
responsibility they need to use those dol-
lars effectively.
It tells local officials to spend less time
trying to please grant reviewers in Wash-
ington-so that the money will keep
coming in-and spend more time pleasing
the people who live in their communi-
ties-so the money will do more good.
General revenue sharing is only the
first step in this new strategy. I have al-
ready charted a number of additional
steps: Among those proposals that I have
made that were left unenacted by the
Congress were six special revenue sharing
bills, including one in the transportation
field, a major program of welfare reform,
and sweeping plans for streamlining and
decentralizing the Federal bureaucracy.
1083
