Richard Nixon, 1972
May 26 [170]
to feel the rhythm of their constructive work,
to get convinced once more in the Soviet peo-
ple's adherence to peace.
I would like to propose a toast to the success
of the talks, to their serving the interests of the
peoples of our countries, the interests of peace
and international security.
To the health of Mr. President and Mrs.
Nixon.
169 Message to the Ministerial Council of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development on the
25th Anniversary of the Marshall Plan. May 24, 1972
IT GIVES me great pleasure to greet the
Ministerial Council of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Develop-
ment as it commemorates the twenty-fifth
anniversary of the Marshall Plan. There
could be no finer tribute to the continuity
of European and American policy than
the celebration of this event in the home
of this Ministerial Council.
The Marshall Plan was a milestone in
a policy which has been remarkably stead-
fast in its two-fold purposes of building a
healthy European economy and founding
our American relationship with Europe
on a basis of partnership in political, eco-
nomic and security fields. At the time, the
United States gave generously of its re-
sources, recognizing that its strength im-
posed special responsibilities.
Now, on this anniversary, we face a new
world and new tasks. With restored
strength in Europe and Japan comes the
need to redefine those early post-war re-
sponsibilities. Together we must erect a
new international monetary system and
make renewed progress toward a free and
fair system of trade. We must deal too
with the problems of our environment and
with the need to assure that continued eco-
nomic growth will lead to actual improve-
ments in the quality of life. And we must
extend the spirit of international coopera-
tion-the spirit of the Marshall Plan-by
assisting the developing nations through
an adequately funded aid effort and re-
sponsive trade policies.
The tasks ahead will not be easy, but
surely if we could rebuild from the ashes
of war, we can succeed now in rebuilding
a new era of growth and prosperity in the
service of peace.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Under Secretary of State John N. Irwin
II read the message at the Ministerial Council's
meeting in Paris. The occasion marked the 25th
anniversary of former Secretary of State George
C. Marshall's speech of June 5, 1947, at Har-
vard University, in which he proposed an orga-
nized program of U.S. economic assistance to
Europe.
170 Communique About a Joint United States-Soviet Union
Commercial Commission.
IN ORDER to promote the development
of mutually beneficial commercial rela-
tions and related economic matters be-
tween the two countries, Soviet leaders
May 26, 1972
and the President of the United States
Richard M. Nixon have agreed to estab-
lish a U.S.-U.S.S.R. Commercial Com-
mission.
623
