Richard Nixon, 1972
May 31 [185]
bring you specially warm greetings from
millions of Americans who are so proud
of their Polish background.
Americans of Polish background have
added enormously to the strength and the
vitality and the culture of the United
States.
But there is also an even more signifi-
cant reason why the last stop on this jour-
ney that I have taken is here in Warsaw,
and in Poland. Perhaps no people in all
the world, no country in all the world, has
suffered more from war than have the
Polish people and the Polish nation.
President Eisenhower told me that when
he visited Poland as General of the Armies
in 1945, that 85 percent of Warsaw had
been destroyed. I know that the strong
Polish people have rebuilt your great capi-
tal city of which you are so justly proud.
But I can assure you that the major
purpose of my visit here, and to the other
countries that I have visited over the years
that I have served in my present office, is
to build a new structure of peace in the
world. Poland has suffered too much from
war and Poland, along with other peoples
in the world, wants peace, and that is our
goal: to achieve a world of peace for all
nations.
I am confident that the talks that I will
have with you, Mr. Chairman, and with
the other representatives of the Polish
Government, will contribute to our com-
mon goal of friendship between the Amer-
ican people and the Polish people and of
peace for all the world.
Niech zyje Polska. [Long live Poland.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. at
Okecie International Airport in response to
the welcoming remarks of Piotr Jaroszewicz,
Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the
Polish People's Republic. He spoke from a
prepared text.
185 Toasts of the President and Piotr Jaroszewicz, Chairman
of the Council of Ministers of the Polish People's
Republic, at a Dinner in Warsaw.
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Gierek, Mr.
President, and all of the distinguished
guests:
On behalf of all the Americans present,
we express our appreciation for this
beautiful dinner and for the hospitality
which you have extended to us on our visit
to Warsaw.
I recall that it was 13 years ago that Mrs.
Nixon and I had the privilege of visiting
this beautiful city. Each time we have
come, the schedule has permitted us only
24
hours. All that I can say is that is an
insult to our intelligence, because having
visited most of the great capitals of the
May 31, 1972
world, I can truthfully say that we only
wish we could spend days-as a matter of
fact, weeks—in this capital city of Poland.
I say that for two reasons: One, because
of the traditional hospitality for which the
Polish people, wherever they are in the
world, are famous; and second, because
the people of Poland and the Polish Gov-
ernment had the good sense, after their
city suffered so terribly during the war,
not to erect horrible monstrosities of mod-
ern buildings, but to rebuild Warsaw with
the grace that it had been known for
through the centuries, and if anyone
claims after that remark that I do not like
87-234-74-45
653
