Appendix B
June
22 The White House announced the creation
of the National Committee for Employer
Support of the National Guard and Re-
serve Forces, with James M. Roche, retired
chairman of the board and chief executive
officer of General Motors, as Chairman.
The Committee will promote membership
in the Guard and Reserve units and will
focus its efforts on employers of members
and potential members of the standby
services.
22 John Cardinal Krol, Archbishop of Phila-
delphia, and John T. Gurash, chairman of
the board of the Insurance Company of
North America and head of a committee
which conducted a survey of Catholic edu-
cation in Philadelphia, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss paro-
chial school financing.
22 The President met with executives of 29
independent broadcast organizations from
across the Nation who were attending a
White House briefing on the economy and
the arms limitation treaty and interim
agreement, as well as other topics.
22 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for incumbent Republican
Senators and Representatives.
23 House leaders Hale Boggs and Gerald R.
Ford had breakfast with the President at
the White House prior to their departure
for the People's Republic of China.
23 The National Farm Family of the Year,
Mr. and Mrs. Carlos D. Dixon and their
three children, of Lonoke County, Ark.,
called on the President at the White House.
They were selected in the second annual
Farm Family of the Year contest spon-
sored by the Farmers Home Administra-
tion.
June
23 The President met at the White House
with Henry A. Kissinger and Secretary of
State William P. Rogers for a report on
Dr. Kissinger's just-completed trip to the
People's Republic of China and discussions
of Secretary Rogers' upcoming trip around
the world. The President and Dr. Kissin-
ger then flew to Camp David for further
discussions of the China trip and other
foreign policy matters.
24 The President made a 2-hour helicopter
tour of flood areas in Maryland and in
southeastern Pennsylvania along the Sus-
quehanna River and talked with flood
victims and local officials at an evacuation
center at the William Penn High School
in Harrisburg, Pa.
24 The White House issued a joint statement
on discussions between Henry A. Kissinger
and officials of the People's Republic of
China June 19-23.
26 The President met with 20 leaders of
major veterans organizations who were at-
tending a briefing at the White House on
the arms limitation treaty and interim
agreement and other foreign policy matters.
26 The President greeted 55 representatives
of Polish-American communities through-
out the country at a reception in the Blue
Room. The representatives were in Wash-
ington for a Department of State briefing
on United States-Polish relations and the
President's recent trip to Warsaw.
26 The President presented the Distinguished
Service Medal (Third Oak Leaf Cluster)
to Gen. William C. Westmoreland, retir-
ing Chief of Staff of the Army, in a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White
House.
27 Republican members of the Senate Com-
mittee on Finance met with the President
at the White House for discussions of
revenue sharing, the debt ceiling bill, and
welfare reform.
B-10
