Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
success of that system as an effective ve-
hicle for the creative and orderly formula-
tion and execution of our foreign policy.
PART VIII: CONCLUSION
I have stated many times that we seek
a generation of peace. That is the goal
of this Administration, and it is against
that standard that the initiatives of 1971
should be judged.
In the last analysis, only the future will
tell whether or not the developments of
the past year have truly brought us closer
to that goal. All we can say with certainty
now is that a generation of peace is a more
credible goal at the end of 1971 than it
appeared to be at its beginning. It may
still appear to be distant. It does not, how-
ever, still appear fanciful and utopian.
That fact in itself is important. Both
this country and the world need a brighter
vision than managing crises and aiming
only at staving off the ultimate conflagra-
tion. The influence which history and our
own efforts have given this Nation can-
and must-be used for something more
than an organization of world affairs
which aims merely at keeping interna-
tional animosities in some sort of tenuous,
fragile and constantly endangered bal-
ance. The containment of enmity is better
than its release. But it is not enough as a
permanent goal.
For too long, American policy consisted
of reacting to events. We had a sense of
mission, but rarely a clear definition of
our purpose. We were drawn into situ-
ations, responding tactically, without a
clear perception of where we would end
up. When we were not forced by events,
we seldom struck out along new paths be-
cause we had no positive conception of
where we wanted to go.
Our times demand more. A durable
peace is a set of conditions and requires
a conscious effort to create those condi-
tions. Peace will not come about by itself,
with us passively looking on or striking
moralistic poses. Nor will it come about
automatically with the ending of a war.
How many wars in this century have
ended without bringing a lasting peace be-
cause statesmen failed to shape a dur-
able peace out of the conditions which
emerged from the conflict? This is why it
makes a difference how we liquidate the
vestiges of an earlier era as we move into
the new. The future of peace-in Asia, in
the Middle East, in Europe-depends in
large measure upon the steadfastness and
purposefulness of American policy all
around the world.
Today the United States is once again
acting with assurance and purpose on the
world stage.
Vietnam no longer distracts our atten-
tion from the fundamental issues of global
diplomacy or diverts our energies from
priorities at home.
Our dramatic departures of the past
year—the fruits of our planning and poli-
cies over three years-reflect the historical
conditions we see today and the historic
possibilities we see for tomorrow. They
were momentous steps, accelerating the
very process of change which they ad-
dressed. The world-and we ourselves-
are still in the process of adjusting to the
developments we have set in train. But
we know where we are going. We are mov-
ing with history, and moving history
ourselves.
There will always be conflict in the
345
