Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
where the people had a very low opinion
of confidence as far as the media was con-
cerned. That is not good.
What we have to do, what you have to
do, what I have to do, all of us in a posi-
tion of responsibility in our society, is to
restore confidence that this is a good
country, that our government can pro-
duce, and the way to do that is to set our
sights high, but make our promises real-
istic and then get some performance. I
think that at the conclusion of my term,
I am going to have quite a bit of
performance.
[14.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, as
a journalist, I know that one of the great-
est problems is trying to explain how you
made a mistake, how you got a fact wrong,
how you made a wrong analysis on a par-
ticular problem. And for anyone in
politics-this applies, of course, to previ-
ous Presidents as well-one of the prob-
lems, as you mentioned, was promises
unkept.
This gets, I think, to the core of your
dissertation on the need for confidence and
what we are going through as a people in
terms of confidence with the media, with
the Presidency, and with a lot of things.
Yet the same Harris poll indicated that
only about a third of the people thought
that you had kept your campaign
promises.
Now, I think you will agree that anyone
in politics should be held accountable. I,
as a journalist, think that everyone in
politics should be given an opportunity to
explain. So would you explain--obviously
as briefly as possible, but as fully as you
think necessary-in 1968 you said, "I
pledge to redress the present economic im-
balance without increasing unemploy-
ment." That is a direct quotation.
Now, unemployment was, I believe, 3.6
when you came in. It is at or near 6 per-
cent for the last several months.
THE PRESIDENT. Let's take that one
first, yes, please.
Unemployment was 3.6 when I came
in, at a cost of 300 casualties a week in
Vietnam. Since I have come in, we have
brought 400,000 people home from Viet-
nam. There are 2 million people who have
been let out of defense plants and out of
the armed services as a result of our wind-
ing down the war in Vietnam, and if those
people were still in the defense plants and
still in Vietnam, unemployment would
still be 3.6. That is too high a cost.
MR. RATHER. But wasn't that foresee-
able, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. That was foreseeable.
But my point is, what I was saying was
that we should have a combination—a
combination of bringing a war to an end
and then moving from there to a kind of
prosperity of high employment and low
unemployment that we haven't had since
President Eisenhower was President in this
room in 1957. That was the only time it
was less than 5 percent.
In all the years of the sixties, unem-
ployment averaged 5.8, except in the war
years. Now, we can do better than that,
and as we move from war to peace in the
year 1972, we are going to bring the un-
employment rate below that.
[15] MR. RATHER. Now, another Sep-
tember 1968 quotation: "Seventy-four
percent of farm parity is intolerable. I
pledge that in my administration farm-
ers will have better." Farm parity is at or
near 70 now, has not been back up to
even 74 percent through most of your
Administration.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let's look at the
farm parity in terms of another factor:
Farm income, which is what farmers really
87-234-74—5
13
