Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 8 [51]
nizes that improper land use affects the
public interest and limits the choices that
we and our descendants will have.
Now we must equip our institutions to
carry out the responsibility implicit in this
new outlook. We must create the adminis-
trative and regulatory mechanisms neces-
sary to assure wise land use and to stop
haphazard, wasteful, or environmentally
damaging development. Some States are
moving ahead on their own to develop
stronger land-use institutions and controls.
Federal programs can and should rein-
force this encouraging trend.
NATIONAL LAND USE POLICY ACT
The National Land Use Policy Act,
which I proposed to the Congress last year,
would provide Federal assistance to en-
courage the States, in cooperation with
local governments, to protect lands which
are of critical environmental concern and
to control major development. While not
yet enacted, this measure has been the sub-
ject of much useful debate.
-I propose amendments to this pend-
ing National Land Use Policy legislation
which would require States to control the
siting of major transportation facilities,
and impose sanctions on any State which
does not establish an adequate land use
program.
Under these amendments, the State
programs established pursuant to the act
would not only have to embody methods
for controlling land use around key
growth-inducing developments such as
highways, airports, and recreational facil-
ities; the States would also have to provide
controls over the actual siting of the major
highways and airports themselves. The
change recognizes the fact that these ini-
tial siting decisions, once made, can often
trigger runaway growth and adverse en-
vironmental effects.
The amendments would further pro-
vide that any State that had not estab-
lished an acceptable land use program by
1975 would be subject to annual reduc-
tions of certain Federal funds. Seven per-
cent of the funds allocated under sections
of the Airport and Airways Development
Act, the Federal-Aid Highway Acts in-
cluding the Highway Trust Fund, and the
Land and Water Conservation Fund,
would be withheld in the first year. An ad-
ditional 7 percent would be withheld for
each additional year that a State was with-
out an approved land use program. Money
thus withheld from noncomplying States
would be allocated among States which
did have acceptable programs.
These strong new amendments are nec-
essary in view of the significant effect that
Federal programs, particularly transpor-
tation programs, have upon land use
decisions.
PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
The Nation's coastal and estuarine wet-
lands are vital to the survival of a wide
variety of fish and wildlife; they have an
important function in controlling floods
and tidal forces; and they contain some of
the most beautiful areas left on this con-
tinent. These same lands, however, are
often some of the most sought-after for
development. As a consequence, wetland
acreage has been declining as more and
more areas are drained and filled for
residential, commercial, and industrial
projects.
My National Land Use Policy Act
would direct State attention to these im-
portant areas by defining wetlands among
the "environmentally critical areas" which
87-234-74– -16
181
