[90] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
busing not because they are against deseg-
regation, but because they are for better
education for their children.
They want their children educated in
their own neighborhoods. Many have in-
vested their life's savings in a home in a
neighborhood they chose because it had
good schools. They do not want their chil-
dren bused across the city to an inferior
school just to meet some social planner's
concept of what is considered to be the
correct racial balance or what is called
"progressive" social policy.
There are right reasons for opposing
busing, and there are wrong reasons-
and most people, including large and in-
creasing numbers of blacks, oppose it for
reasons that have little or nothing to do
with race. It would compound an injustice
to persist in massive busing simply be-
cause some people oppose it for the wrong
reasons.
There is another element to consider,
and this is the most important one of all.
That is the human element which I see
reflected in thousands of letters I have re-
ceived in my mail from worried parents all
over the country, North, East, West, and
South. Let me give you some examples.
I believe it is wrong when an 8-year-old
child who was once able to walk to a
neighborhood school is now forced to
travel 2 hours a day on a bus.
I believe it is wrong when a working
mother is suddenly faced with three differ-
ent bus schedules for her children and
that makes it impossible for her to con-
tinue to work.
I believe it is wrong when parents are
burdened with new worries about their
children's safety on the road and in the
neighborhoods far from home.
I believe it is wrong when a child in a
poor neighborhood is denied the extra
personal attention and financial support
in his school that we know can make all
the difference.
All these individual human wrongs add
up to a deeply felt and growing frustra-
tion. These are wrongs that can be and
must be set right.
That is the purpose of the legislation I
am sending to Congress tomorrow.
I submit these proposals to the Con-
gress, and I commend them to all of you
listening tonight, mindful of the profound
importance and the special complexity of
the issues they address. The key is action,
and action now. And Congress holds that
key. If you agree with the goals I have
described tonight-to stop more busing
now and provide equality of education for
all of our children-I urge you to let your
Congressman and Senators know your
views so that Congress will act promptly
to deal with this problem.
Let me close with a personal note. This
is a deeply emotional and divisive issue.
I have done my very best to undertake to
weigh and respect the conflicting inter-
ests, to strike a balance which is thought-
ful and just, to search for answers that
will best serve all of our Nation's children.
I realize the program I have recom-
mended will not satisfy the extremists on
the one side who oppose busing for the
wrong reasons.
I realize that my program will not sat-
isfy the extreme social planners on the
other side who insist on more busing, even
at the cost of better education.
But while what I have said tonight will
not appeal to either extreme, I believe I
have expressed the views of the majority
of Americans. Because I believe that the
majority of Americans of all races want
more busing stopped and better education
started.
428
