[35] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
prompt actions which have been taken to
meet pressing human needs in East St.
Louis are evidence of the soundness of that
approach.
I am pleased that the Federal Govern-
ment could be of assistance in this time
of emergency and that the local govern-
ment was in a position to use that
assistance with the greatest possible effec-
tiveness. I hope and trust that the neigh-
borhood affected by the tragedy of
January 22 will now experience a quick
recovery and a healthy development.
36 Special Message to the Congress Urging Passage of
the West Coast Dock Strike Resolution and the
Crippling Strikes Prevention Act. February 2, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
As the dock strike on the West Coast
continues to impose a cruel and intolerable
burden upon the American people, I
appeal once again to the Congress for
emergency action to end these transporta-
tion disputes.
There are now two bills before the Con-
gress dealing with transportation stop-
pages, and immediate action is urgently
required on both:
-S.J. Resolution 187, which would
quickly halt the West Coast strike and lead
to a fair and early settlement under bind-
ing arbitration.
-And the Crippling Strikes Prevention
Act, S. 560, which would grant the execu-
tive branch sufficient authority so that
future disruptions in the transportation in-
dustry could be averted.
The American public is rightly frus-
trated today by the inaction of Congress
in ending the West Coast strike. Some
crops are rotting while others are stalled
in their bins, export customers are looking
for more dependable trading partners, and
jobs and businesses are threatened with
extinction. Tens of thousands of people,
who share no part of this dispute, are suf-
fering needlessly.
Yet our Government stands idly by,
paralyzed because the executive branch
has exhausted all available remedies and a
majority in the Congress has been un-
willing to enact necessary legislation.
This failure to act in time of need speaks
directly to the question of why some
Americans have lost confidence in their
government.
We must act now, swiftly and decisively.
Twelve days ago I proposed special legis-
lation to end this strike and asked for
enactment within a week. That deadline
has passed without a response, and I must
report to the American people today that
I cannot predict when relief will come. To
say that I am disappointed is to state the
case in its mildest terms.
For those who argue that the Govern-
ment should not interfere with collective
bargaining, the short answer is that the
bargaining in this case has thus far
failed-and failed badly for 15 months. I
share the belief that Government ordi-
narily should not tamper with the freedom
of bargaining, but when the processes
have broken down and the Nation's health
and safety are at stake we in public office
have no right to turn our heads.
I am also aware that some members of
Congress believe this strike will soon be
settled at the bargaining table. I sincerely
138
