Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 2 [74]
and as a result 38 of 39 States found to
have deficiencies have corrected them.
The 39th is acting to meet Federal stand-
ards. To help States upgrade nursing
homes, I have proposed legislation to pay
100 percent of the costs of inspecting
these facilities.
Meanwhile, at my direction, a Fed-
erally-funded program to train 2,000
State nursing home inspectors and to train
41,000 nursing home employees is also
underway. The Federal field force for as-
sisting nursing homes is being augmented
and fire, safety and health codes have
been strengthened.
One way to measure the results of these
efforts is to learn how patients in nursing
homes feel about the care they are given.
We have therefore also begun a program
to monitor the complaints and sugges-
tions of nursing home residents.
APPLYING SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
In my State of the Union message, I
proposed a new Federal partnership with
the private sector to stimulate civilian
technological research and development.
One of the most vital areas where we can
focus this partnership-perhaps utilizing
engineers and scientists displaced from
other jobs—is in improving human health.
Opportunities in this field include:
1. Emergency Medical Services: By
using new technologies to improve emer-
gency care systems and by using more and
better trained people to run those systems,
we can save the lives of many heart at-
tack victims and many victims of auto
accidents every year. The loss to the Na-
tion represented by these unnecessary
deaths cannot be calculated. I have al-
ready allocated $8 million in fiscal year
1972 to develop model systems and train-
ing programs and my budget proposes
that $15 million be invested for additional
demonstrations in fiscal year 1973.
2. Blood: Blood is a unique national
resource. An adequate system for collect-
ing and delivering blood at its time and
place of need can save many lives. Yet we
do not have a nationwide system to meet
this need and we need to draw upon the
skills of modern management and tech-
nology to develop one. I have therefore
directed the Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare to make an intensive
study and to recommend to me as soon
as possible a plan for developing a safe,
fast and efficient nationwide blood collec-
tion and distribution system.
3. Health Information Systems: Each
physician, hospital and clinic today is
virtually an information island unto itself.
Records and billings are not kept on the
same basis everywhere, laboratory tests
are often needlessly repeated and vital
patient data can get lost. All of these prob-
lems have been accentuated because our
population is so constantly on the move.
The technology exists to end this chaos.
and improve the quality of care. I have
therefore asked the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare to plan a series
of projects to demonstrate the feasibility
of developing integrated and uniform sys-
tems of health information.
4. Handicapping Conditions: In Amer-
ica today there are half a million blind,
850,000 deaf and 15 million suffering
paralysis and loss of limbs. So far, the
major responses to their need to gain self-
sufficiency, have been vocational rehabili-
tation and welfare programs. Now the
skills that took us to the moon and back
need to be put to work developing de-
vices to help the blind see, the deaf hear
and the crippled move.
395
