[381] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
381 Campaign Statement About Crime and Drug Abuse.
October 28, 1972
FROM the day we took office, this Ad-
ministration has made the battle against
crime and drug abuse one of our highest
domestic priorities.
During the two preceding Administra-
tions, serious crime in America had in-
creased by 122 percent. Drug addiction
had mushroomed into a national scandal
during those permissive years, with the
number of heroin addicts in this country
more than doubling from 1965 to 1969.
Now, through the outstanding efforts
of our local police forces and with massive
Federal support, we have succeeded in
stopping the spiraling growth in criminal
activity. The FBI crime index showed an
increase of only one percent for the first
half of this year-the closest the Nation
has come to an actual decrease since the
index began 12 years ago. In nearly half
of our Nation's largest cities-includ-
ing Cleveland, Columbus, Youngstown,
Akron, and Parma, Ohio-crime has al-
ready begun to decrease.
As a result of our total war on drug
abuse, the rate of growth in new heroin
addiction has declined dramatically since
1969. By next June, we will have created
the capacity to treat up to 250,000 heroin
addicts annually-a thirtyfold increase
over the amount of federally funded drug
treatment which existed when I took
office.
A key to our successes against the drug
menace has been the all-out attack on
drug pushers. The pusher's crime is one
of the most reprehensible known to man—
the enslavement of other human beings to
a life of degradation, dependence, and
suffering. The punishment for this crime
must be strict, and it must be certain.
We can be encouraged that Federal
narcotics law enforcement officials are ar-
resting pushers at twice the rate of the
previous Administration, that illicit drug
seizures have quadrupled in the past 4
years, and that more narcotics traffickers
are being brought to justice than ever
before.
Here in Ohio, the Federal Government
has already put almost $6 million of treat-
ment funds into communities across the
State, with further grants nearing com-
pletion. The U.S. Office for Drug Abuse
Law Enforcement, which I created last
January, is currently working with State
and local enforcement officials in Cleve-
land, Columbus, and Cincinnati to root
out the heroin traffickers and bring them
to justice.
Similar efforts are being pressed in
other cities throughout the country, but
much still remains to be done. To keep
the pressure on, I intend to take the fol-
lowing steps:
-I will urge the Congress to appro-
priate whatever funds are needed for
Federal drug law enforcement and to
build the clinics needed to treat those ad-
dicts who seek help.
-I will expand our present massive
funding for local law enforcement assist-
ance, and will again ask the Congress to
enact my proposal for law enforcement
special revenue sharing.
-I will appoint judges who will help
to strengthen the peace forces as against
the criminal forces in our country, and
who will oppose without equivocation the
permissive trend toward light or sus-
pended sentences for convicted drug
pushers.
1058
