[198] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States to take the steps we deem
necessary to maintain a strategic posture
which protects our vital interests and
guarantees our continued security.
Besides enhancing our national security,
these agreements open the opportunity for
a new and more constructive U.S.-Soviet
relationship, characterized by negotiated
settlement of differences, rather than by
the hostility and confrontation of decades
past.
These accords offer tangible evidence
that mankind need not live forever in the
dark shadow of nuclear war. They provide
renewed hope that men and nations work-
ing together can succeed in building a
lasting peace.
Because these agreements effectively
serve one of this Nation's most cherished
purposes-a more secure and peaceful
world in which America's security is fully
protected—I strongly recommend that the
House of Representatives support The
Interim Agreement on Strategic Offensive
Arms, and that its deliberations be con-
ducted without delay.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Carl B. Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
199 Remarks at a Briefing for Five Congressional Committees
on the Antiballistic Missile Treaty and the Interim
Agreement on Strategic Offensive Arms. June 15, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are beginning a little late because I
understand traffic is quite heavy around
the White House this morning due to the
arrival of the President of Mexico. We,
however, must go forward with the sched-
ule, because there is a joint session, as you
know, today, and we do want the members
of the committees present here to be able
to attend that session. We will have to
adjourn this meeting at approximately
12 o'clock, or at best, 5 minutes after 12,
and we want to give you plenty of time for
questions.
A word about the format of this meet-
ing. I will make a statement, and then I
will have to depart in order to prepare for
the arrival of the President of Mexico. Dr.
Kissinger will then make a statement, and
then will be open to questions to the mem-
bers of the committees that are present
here.
In order to get some recognition factor
developed by someone who knows all of
the members who are here, Clark Mac-
Gregor will moderate the question-and-
answer period, but we will try to be just as
fair as possible among the members of the
committees and between the House and
the Senate, and Clark, of course, will be
responsible in the event that it isn't fair.
In any event, let me come directly now
to my own remarks, which will not be
too extended, because Dr. Kissinger today
will be presenting the Presidential views.
He will be telling you what the President's
participation has been in these negotia-
tions. The views he will express I have
gone over with him in great detail, and I
will stand by them.
I noted in the press that it was sug-
gested that I was calling down the mem-
bers of these committees for the purpose
of giving you a pep talk on these two
676
