Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
tated-areas of the world. We have never
been hostile to Bengali aspirations. Our
aid program in the 1960's increasingly
concentrated on development in East
Bengal. We provided two-thirds of the
world's emergency aid to the province in
1971. We would expect other nations to
bear a proportionate share of that re-
sponsibility in the future, but as the
United States strengthens new relation-
ships in Asia, we have no intention of
ignoring these 70 million people.
The United States, of course, has a tra-
dition of friendship with India as well as
with Pakistan. Our strong interest in
Indian democracy and progress is not
diminished.
It makes no sense to assume, however,
that a country's democratic political sys-
tem-or its size-requires our automatic
agreement with every aspect of its foreign
policy. We have our views and concerns
in the world, just as India has its own. We
disagreed with specific Indian actions in
November and December, and we said so.
We did not expect this to be popular
in India. Great nations like our two na-
tions, however, do not make their policy
on so ephemeral a basis. For this reason,
we could not accept the argument that
our criticism would drive India into the
arms of the Soviet Union. India itself, we
knew, had the strongest interest of all in
its own democracy and nonalignment.
And India and the Soviet Union already
had a political tie of a kind that the U.S.
would not attempt to match. This tie-
inherent in the expanding Soviet-Indian
military supply relationship after 1965-
originated long in advance of the Novem-
ber war, the August treaty of friendship,
our July China initiative, or the March
crisis in Pakistan. When the August treaty
was signed, both sides told us that it had
been in preparation for more than two
years. Beyond this, in the 1971 crisis, the
Soviet Union was willing to veto UN ac-
tion and to make military moves to deter
China on India's behalf. For the United
States to compete with the Soviet Union
in fueling an arms race, obstructing UN
efforts to stop a war, and threatening
China, was out of the question.
We are prepared now for a serious dia-
logue with India on the future of our re-
lations. We look forward to a fruitful
discussion. This will depend not on an
identity of policies, but on respect for
each other's views and concerns. This
should go both ways.
Just as the success of Indian democracy
and progress is important to us, we also
have a continuing interest in India's in-
dependence and nonalignment. Thus our
political as well as our economic relation-
ship will naturally be the subject of our
dialogue. If India has an interest in main-
taining balanced relationships with all
major powers, we are prepared to respond
constructively. Of interest to us also will
be the posture that South Asia's most
powerful country now adopts toward its
neighbors on the subcontinent.
I know that India will have its own
issues to add to the agenda. India's basic
policy choices are India's to make. We
both, nevertheless, have an interest in
finding common ground. We can search
out ways of transcending our recent dif-
ferences and resuming our traditionally
close relationship.
What will be the role of the great
powers in the subcontinent's future? The
1971 crisis was bound to affect great-
power relations. After my July 15 Peking
summit announcement, and also during
the diplomacy of the South Asian crisis,
there was fanciful speculation of a U.S.-
303
