Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 26 [322]
American.
On our part, therefore, as we dedicate
this memorial, let us dedicate ourselves
also to a great proposition that brought
people to these shores-and that is to
make the American dream come true.
By the "American Dream" let us rec-
ognize that the American dream cannot
be realized fully until every American has
a chance to realize it in his own life. Let's
give that opportunity to every American,
whatever his background.
Then finally, if I could bring you just
one message from other countries around
the world. On my recent visit to the Soviet
Union we stopped at Warsaw on the way
back to the United States. I remember
thousands of Poles in the heart of War-
saw welcoming the President of the
United States and his wife with these
words, "Niech zyje Ameryka," which
means "Long live America."
To all of our friends here today, let us
pledge ourselves that we not only will
work for better opportunity for all Amer-
icans, whatever their national back-
grounds, but let us work for the chance
that all Americans can see all the world
freely. And let us work for the chance that
people who live in the countries from
which we came, whether it is Poland or
Italy or the Orient or wherever they may
be, so that all of those people, and par-
ticularly the children of those lands, can
grow up in a world of peace. That is what
we want for all the world.
Finally, today, we thank you for
welcoming us on this occasion. I urge all
of you to spend the time that we did not
have to see this museum and as you see
it, you will realize that a very strong
people came across those waters to Amer-
ica. Let's always be worthy of their
strength, of their patriotism, of their love
of America, and of their love of peace.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:14 p.m. out-
side the American Museum of Immigration,
which is located in the base of the Statue of
Liberty. He spoke without referring to notes.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the museum.
322 Statement About the Dedication of the American Museum
of Immigration. September 26, 1972
SPEAKING about the nature of our
country, President Eisenhower once said
that America "is best described by one
word, freedom."
It is especially appropriate that we re-
call that description as we dedicate the
American Museum of Immigration, at the
base of this great national monument.
The idea for this museum was born in
1954, when a group of citizens met with
President Eisenhower to suggest a perma-
nent memorial to the millions of immi-
grants who came to these shores in search
of freedom.
Now, 18 years later, the museum is a
reality. And for one who served with
President Eisenhower, as I did, this occa-
sion has a double meaning. We are wit-
nessing today the completion of something
that meant a great deal to a great Ameri-
can, President Eisenhower. And we are
also paying tribute to millions of other
915
