[41] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
41 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual Report
of Activities Under the Uniform Relocation Assistance
and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970.
February 4, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 214 of Pub-
lic Law 91-646, I am transmitting today
the first annual report of each Federal
agency whose activities are governed, in
part, by the Uniform Relocation Assist-
ance and Real Property Acquisition Pol-
icies Act of 1970.
The agency reports describe initial steps
which have been taken under the Act to
provide for the uniform and equitable
treatment of persons displaced from
homes, businesses or farms by Federal and
federally assisted programs and to estab-
lish uniform and equitable real property
acquisition policies for these programs.
The reports cover the period January 2,
1971 through June 30, 1971.
To assure equitable treatment and
essential uniformity in administering the
law, I requested in a letter to Federal
agencies, dated January 4, 1971, that a
number of actions be taken. First, the Of-
fice of Management and Budget was asked
to chair an interagency task force to de-
velop guidelines for all agencies to follow
in the issuance of regulations and proce-
dures implementing the Uniform Reloca-
tion Assistance Act. The Departments of
Justice, Transportation, Defense, and
Housing and Urban Development, and
the General Services Administration were
requested to assist in this development.
These guidelines were issued February 27,
1971, and supplemental instructions were
issued on August 30, 1971. As noted in the
attached reports, the agencies have now
promulgated regulations and procedures
to implement the act pursuant to the
guidelines.
Secondly, I requested Federal agencies
administering mortgage insurance pro-
grams to determine whether guarantees
could be given to individuals who were
displaced and might otherwise be ineligi-
ble because of age, physical, or other con-
ditions. Studies completed early in 1971
indicated that such guarantees could be
made, and I am advised that these agen-
cies are now fully implementing Section
203(b) of the Act.
Thirdly, I directed the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to de-
velop criteria and procedures whereby all
Federal and federally assisted programs
could use the authority provided by Sec-
tion 206(a) of the Act to construct re-
placement housing as a last resort. These
criteria and procedures to assure uniform
and equitable policies and practices by all
agencies have been published in the Fed-
eral Register, and the Department is
evaluating comments received for consid-
eration in the preparation of final instruc-
tions on this subject.
The Department of Housing and
Urban Development, pursuant to my re-
quest, is also developing criteria and pro-
cedures for implementing section 215 of
the act. That section concerns loans for
planning and other preliminary expenses
necessary for securing federally insured
mortgage financing for the rehabilitation
or construction of housing for displaced
156
