[141] May 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
141
Memorandum About Small Business Week.
May 4, 1972
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
In keeping with tradition, I am pro-
claiming the week of May 14 as Small
Business Week. During this period, it will
be important to focus public attention on
the vital role played in our economic and
social life by small firms and the people
who own and run them.
To insure that the activities of this Ad-
ministration contribute a full measure to
the small business concept, I would like
to see participation by the maximum
number of agencies. Specifically, I propose
that you review the actions which you take
that affect small business, including
minority-owned business. These actions
may be regulatory in nature or may be
142
confined to purchasing, but it is important
to insure that they contribute to the
preservation of small concerns. In pur-
chasing and other programs through
which Federal funds are injected directly
into our economic systems, I would hope
that you meet or exceed established goals
and adopt affirmative steps to insure that
small business participants receive the
largest share feasible.
It would be especially appropriate for
the announcement of such actions to take
place during Small Business Week.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was announced to
the press by the White House.
On the same day, the President signed Proc-
lamation 4130, Small Business Week, 1972.
Statement About the Report of the Commission on
Population Growth and the American Future.
May 5, 1972
THE Commission on Population Growth
and the American Future has formally
presented its report to me today, thus
completing its 2 years of work.
The men and women on this panel have
performed a valuable public service in
identifying and examining a wide range
of problems related to population, and
have contributed to an emerging debate
of great significance to the future of our
Nation.
I wish to thank the able and energetic
Chairman of the Commission, Mr. John
D. Rockefeller 3d, for his tireless efforts,
not only on this Commission but in other
capacities, to focus the Nation's attention
on these important issues.
The extensive public discussion already
generated by this report clearly indicates
the need to continue research in areas
touching on population growth and
distribution.
While I do not plan to comment ex-
tensively on the contents and recom-
mendations of the report, I do feel that
it is important that the public know my
views on some of the issues raised.
In particular, I want to reaffirm and
reemphasize that I do not support un-
restricted abortion policies. As I stated on
April 3, 1971, when I revised abortion
policies in military hospitals, I consider
576
