[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
lion people from wartime to peacetime
activities.
During 1970 and 1971, responsible eco-
nomic policies provided stimulus to ex-
pand the economy. The budgets for these
years had actual deficits of $2.8 billion and
$23 billion, but full-employment surpluses
of $3.1 billion and $4.9 billion.
As a result of these policies, progress
was made in moderating inflation and in
expanding real output in the first half of
calendar year 1971. However, inflation
and unemployment continued to be un-
acceptably high. Meanwhile, a deteriora-
tion in the trade and balance of payments
position of the United States, caused in
part by the inflationary pressures of the
latter half of the 1960's and aggravated
by weaknesses in international monetary
and trading arrangements, required deci-
sive corrective action.
Action was called for and action was
taken.
On August 15, 1971, I announced a
new economic policy that:
and
-imposed a 90-day freeze on wage
price increases;
-proposed a job development tax
credit to increase employment by
stimulating investment;
-recommended repeal of the automo-
bile excise tax and an early increase
in the personal tax exemption, which
together would provide an extra $8
billion of stimulus to the economy
over a 3-year period;
-reduced planned Federal spending in
1972 by $5 billion; and
-suspended the convertibility of the
dollar into gold and other reserve
assets and imposed a temporary 10%
import surcharge, thereby laying the
foundation for improved trade per-
formance and for basic changes in
the international economic system.
The public responded to the new eco-
nomic policy with the widespread support
essential to its success.
This policy has begun to move the econ-
omy toward full employment without in-
flation and without war, a condition we
have not experienced in this generation.
The consumer price index rose only 1.7%
at an annual rate from August to Novem-
ber-the lowest rate of increase for a com-
parable period in 4½ years. From August
to December, industrial wholesale prices
rose only 0.5% at an annual rate, after
increasing at a 4.6% annual rate during
the first 8 months of the year.
Now we have moved beyond the wage
and price freeze into a transitional period
of flexible wage and price controls and
on the way to a return to reasonable sta-
bility under free markets.
The proposed tax reductions were part
of the Revenue Act of 1971, which became
law on December 10. Because of the gen-
eral expectation that the Congress would
approve them, the economic effect of these
reductions began to be felt immediately
after August 15. Automobile sales soared
to a record rate in October, interest rates
declined, and business investment plans-
after some hesitation—are being revised
upward. Taken together, these results will
create many of the new jobs needed for
full employment.
Negotiations with our international
trading partners produced a major agree-
ment in mid-December. Exchange rates
were realigned through a devaluation of
the dollar and revaluation of the curren-
cies of some of our major trading partners.
The 10% surcharge on imports was re-
moved as promised. That agreement will
improve the competitive position of U.S.
industry and agriculture and permit us to
move forward in negotiations on funda-
mental reform of the international mone-
82
