[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
we are now witnessing a permanent
change in Soviet policy or only a passing
phase concerned more with tactics than
with a fundamental commitment to a
stable international system. Soviet weap-
ons development and deployment activity,
Soviet arms policy in the Middle East,
Soviet behavior during the India-Pakistan
crisis and the expansionist implications
of Soviet naval activities, all raise serious
questions.
Nonetheless, the number and scope of
the positive developments led us to con-
clude that a meeting at the highest level
was appropriate and might provide the
stimulus for additional progress, particu-
larly in the fields of arms limitation and
economic cooperation. Thus, in May, for
the first time in our history, the President
of the United States will visit Moscow.
We go to that meeting with hope and
determination to succeed.
BREAKTHROUGH WITH OUR ALLIES.
With our principal allies in Western
Europe and Japan, the need was to shape
our relationship into a more mature po-
litical partnership. Our alliances must
now be flexible enough to permit mem-
bers to pursue autonomous policies within
a common framework of strategic goals.
Our allies are no longer willing to have
the alliance rest only on American pre-
scriptions and we are no longer willing
to have our alliances depend for their
potency and sustenance primarily on
American contributions.
European unity, and Japan's status as
the third greatest industrial power, lead
inevitably to economic competition be-
tween us. We recognize also the necessity
and right of a reinvigorated Europe and
Japan to pursue their own political initia-
tives, just as we wish to pursue ours.
Our alliances, therefore, can no longer
draw their cohesion only from our agree-
ment on what we are against. We need
instead a clearer focus on what we are for.
Our alliances are no longer addressed
primarily to the containment of the So-
viet Union and China behind an Ameri-
can shield. They are, instead, addressed to
the creation with those powers of a stable
world peace. That task absolutely requires
the maintenance of the allied strength of
the non-Communist world.
Within that framework, we expect and
welcome a greater diversity of policy. Alli-
ance does not require that those tendencies
be stifled, but only that they be accom-
modated and coordinated within an over-
all framework of unity and common
purpose.
In 1971, important actions were taken
to put that theory into fruitful practice.
1. The removal of the economic threat
to allied unity. The old international
monetary and trading system had begun
to undermine our alliance system. It had
become unfair, in one aspect or another,
both for us and our major trading part-
ners and allies.
-It led inevitably to recurrent inter-
national monetary crises.
-Its dependence on the dollar as a
reserve currency was seen by others
as enabling us to escape monetary
and fiscal discipline in domestic
policy.
-Its rigidity limited our ability to re-
dress our imbalance of payments,
while enabling others to alter their
currencies to improve their own trad-
ing position.
-It contributed to a chronic U.S. im-
balance of payments.
-It placed severe strains on Our
political relations with some of our
closest friends and allies.
198
