[250] Aug. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
This Annual Report on Environmental
Quality also offers an assessment of how
we are faring. I am pleased that the data
presented in the Council's report indicate
that the quality of the air in many of our
cities is improving. Across the nation,
emissions from automobiles-a significant
portion of total emissions-are declining.
We can expect these welcome trends to
accelerate as the new standards and com-
pliance schedules called for by the Clean
Air Act of 1970 become fully effective.
Although the Report shows that we still
have a major battle ahead to restore the
quality of our waters, and urgently need
effective new legislation which I sub-
mitted to the Congress over a year and a
half ago, impressive strides have been
made under present authorities. These in-
clude a four-fold increase in enforcement
actions under the Refuse Act of 1899
since 1968.
The private sector is performing far
more effectively in environmental protec-
tion. Throughout the country, industry is
developing and using new technology to
reduce pollution. Surveys indicate that
business has increased its spending on pol-
lution controls by about 50 percent in
each of the last two years.
The future will bring new challenges to
both the private and the public sectors in
arresting environmental decay. The Coun-
cil's report estimates that in order to meet
current environmental protection require-
ments, both the public and private sectors
together will need to spend an annual
amount of $33 billion in 1980. Cumulative
expenditures of more than $287 billion
are estimated over the 10 years from 1971
to 1980.
So we have only just begun to face up
to the environmental question, even
though we may have awakened just in
time for us to stave off catastrophe.
The encouraging news in this report by
the Council-as well as the hope we have
for mastering the many difficult problems
that still persist-is the rapid step-by-step
progress in institutionalizing and reor-
ganizing the Federal environmental struc-
ture, the dramatic funding, the wide range
of administrative actions that have been
taken, the strict enforcement of pollution
control laws, the new international agree-
ments which have been forged, and the
broad array of major new legislation which
has been submitted to the Congress for
action.
YEARS OF PROGRESS
With the creation of the Council on
Environmental Quality and the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, we have
brought about a major institutional re-
form within the Federal Government and
a far more effective organization for envi-
ronmental policy-making and enforce-
ment. This reform has produced major
progress-evidenced, for example, by the
broad legislative proposals for environ-
mental improvement which I have sub-
mitted to the Congress and by the vigorous
enforcement of our pollution laws. The
establishment of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration gives us a
focus on the marine environment. I have
proposed a Department of Natural Re-
sources, for coordinated resource man-
agement, and a Department of Commu-
nity Development, for a systematic ap-
proach to both urban and rural growth.
The Congress has yet to act on these two
crucial reorganization proposals.
Under the National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA), we have undertaken
a fundamental reform in the requirement
that Federal agencies give careful analysis
764
