Richard Nixon, 1972
June 22 [207]
ing-it is essential that the United States
not fall into an inferior position.
Therefore, the offensive weapons pro-
grams-which incidentally were not con-
ceived after the SALT agreements, they
were recommended prior to the SALT
agreements-stand on their own because
the Soviet Union has programs in which
they are moving forward. As I pointed out
to the leaders, and you ladies and gentle-
men were present there, or some of you
were and the rest of you, of course, cov-
ered it through the broadcasting system,
the Soviet Union is moving forward.
Mr. Brezhnev made it absolutely clear
to me that in those areas that were not
controlled by our offensive agreement that
they were going ahead with their pro-
grams. For us not to would seriously
jeopardize the security of the United
States and jeopardize the cause of world
peace, in my opinion.
Now, the second reason why those who
vote for the arms limitation agreement
should vote for an ongoing program in
those areas not covered by it, is that this
arms control agreement, while very im-
portant, is only the first step and not the
biggest step.
The biggest step remains. The biggest
step is a permanent limitation on offen-
sive weapons, covering other categories
of weapons and, we trust, eventually all
categories of weapons. This would be as
dramatic as the one step that we have
already taken-this would be an even
more dramatic step in limiting arms over-
all between the two super powers.
In the event that the United States does
not have ongoing programs, however,
there will be no chance that the Soviet
Union will negotiate phase two of an arms
limitation agreement. I can say to the
members of the press here that had we
not had an ABM program in being there
would be no SALT agreement today, be-
cause there would have been no incentive
for the Soviet Union to stop us from doing
something that we were doing and, there-
by, agree to stop something they were
doing.
Now in the event that we do not there-
fore have any new offensive systems under-
way or planned, the Soviet Union has no
incentive to limit theirs. And so conse-
quently-and I have studied this very,
very carefully, I can assure you that there
is nothing I would like better than to be
able to limit these expenses-I am con-
vinced that to achieve our goal, which is
the goal, I think, of all Americans, to
achieve our goal of an offensive limitations
curb, covering all types of nuclear
weapons, that it is essential for the United
States to have an ongoing, offensive pro-
gram. For that reason, I think that the
position of the Secretary of Defense,
speaking for the security of the United
States, is a sound one.
I would hope that Members of the
House and Senate, on reflection, would
recognize that the SALT agreement, im-
portant as it is by itself, does not deal with
the total defense posture of the United
States. By itself it is in the interest of the
United States and it stands on its own,
but by itself, without a continuing offen-
sive program, we can be sure that the
security interests of the United States
would be very seriously jeopardized and
the chances for a permanent offensive
agreement would, in my opinion, be
totally destroyed.
NEWS CONFERENCE QUESTIONS
[4] Q. Mr. President, is Mr. Ehrlich-
man correct when he says that you some-
87-234-74- -48
693
