[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
consent to ratification. This is the first
international agreement to combat the
abuse of psychotropic substances. It will
bring these drugs under rigorous controls
similar to those envisaged for narcotic
drugs under
under a strengthened Single
Convention.
In summary, during the past year our
Government has made an intense effort to
widen and strengthen controls over nar-
cotic and other dangerous drugs, both
domestically and internationally. It is
gratifying to report that these efforts are
enlisting increasing international support.
AIRCRAFT HIJACKING AND SABOTAGE
The growth of air transportation has
brought the people of the world in closer
contact with each other. Perhaps it was
inevitable that some would find the means
of preying upon this bounty. If so, it is
equally inevitable that the world must
protect itself against air hijacking and
sabotage. It is doing so.
The aircraft hijacking convention, ne-
gotiated in The Hague in December 1970,
requires contracting states to extradite or
prosecute hijackers apprehended on their
territory. More than 80 states have signed
the convention thus far. In September a
companion convention was concluded at
Montreal on suppression of other unlaw-
ful acts against civil aviation, notably
sabotage. This agreement, too, provides
for the prosecution or extradition of
offenders.
These two conventions will increase the
likelihood that hijackers, saboteurs, and
persons committing other attacks against
civil aircraft will be punished-regardless
of the motive, where the act took place,
or where the criminal is found. Universal
ratification would ensure that air pirates
could find no place to hide.
We intend to press for wide adherence
to these agreements and for continued
international cooperation, including ex-
changes of information on security
measures. We will also continue to urge
international agreement to suspend air
services to countries which refuse to co-
operate in the release of hijacked aircraft
and in the punishment of hijackers.
POPULATION GROWTH
The worldwide population growth rate
is still explosive. It implies vastly larger
numbers of people in each future dec-
ade-numbers far beyond the capacities
of most countries to educate, employ,
house decently, or even feed adequately.
This is a problem of the greatest urgency.
The international community must give
priority to the task of preventing these
potential tragedies from becoming
realities.
Last year, we continued to encourage
and support United Nations leadership in
this field. We pledged to match the con-
tributions of other countries to the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities,
which has grown with a speed which dem-
onstrates that the world community real-
izes the exigent nature of the problem.
In only its second year of existence, the
fund was able to provide $31.6 million to
the population control activities of UN
agencies and 58 countries. At the same
time, our Agency for International Devel-
opment contributed funds, training and
technical support to the population con-
trol programs of 33 countries. AID also
provided support for several lines of re-
search which hold considerable promise
338
