[405] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
before-Peking, Moscow, Warsaw, and
Bucharest. Everywhere I have traveled
I have seen evidence that the times are on
the side of peace, if America maintains
its strength and continues on course. For
example, ever since World War II, the
world's people and its statesmen have
dreamed of putting the nuclear genie back
in the bottle, of controlling the dreaded
nuclear arms race, but always that race
remained unchecked until this year.
In Moscow last May, we and the So-
viet Union reached the first agreement
ever for limiting strategic nuclear arms.
We signed that agreement last month in
Washington. This was an historic begin-
ning. It moved back the frontiers of fear.
It helped check the dangerous spiral of
nuclear weapons. It opened the way to
further negotiations on further limitations
on nuclear arsenals which will soon begin.
As we pursue these negotiations, how-
ever, let us remember that no country
will pay a price for something that another
country will give up for nothing. If we had
scrapped the ABM missile system, as many
advocated, we would never have achieved
the first arms agreement with the Soviets.
If we unilaterally slashed our defenses
now as our opponents in this election ad-
vocate, the Soviets would have no incen-
tive to negotiate further arms limitations.
Or take another example. After 10 years
of recurring international monetary
crises, we took bold actions a year ago to
strengthen the dollar and to bring about a
reformed international monetary system
that would be fair to the United States
and fair to the world. The result of these
actions has been a solid and substantial
beginning on just such a system, and the
stage is now set for an international effort
to achieve some of the most important
monetary and trade reforms in history. As
we complete these reforms in the years
ahead, we can usher in a new age of world
prosperity, a prosperity made even greater
by the rapid expansion of peaceful trade
that is now taking place, not only with our
traditional trading partners but also with
nations that have been our adversaries.
I cite these simply as examples of the
broad, unfinished agenda of peace that
now lies before us, the agenda of new
starts made, of negotiations begun, of new
relationships established, which now we
must build on with the same initiative and
imagination that achieved the initial
breakthroughs. As we move forward on
this agenda, we can see vast areas of
peaceful cooperation to be explored.
We agreed in Peking to pursue cultural,
journalistic, educational, and other ex-
changes, so that the world's most pros-
perous nation and its most populous
nation can get to know one another again.
We agreed in Moscow to cooperate
in protecting the environment, explore
in space, fight disease. This means the
day is fast approaching when a Russian
cosmonaut and an American astronaut
will shake hands in space, when a Russian
chemist and an American biologist will
work side by side to find a cure for cancer.
And each time our nations join hands
in the works of peace, we advance the
day when nations will no longer raise
their hands in warfare.
Throughout the world today America
is respected. This is partly because we
have entered a new era of initiative in
American foreign policy, and the world's
leaders and its people have seen the re-
sults. But it is also because the world has
come to know America. It knows we are
a nation of peaceful intentions, of honor-
able purposes, true to our commitments.
We are respected because for a third of
III2
