Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [411]
it has been agreed that the people of South
Vietnam shall determine their own fu-
ture without having a Communist govern-
ment or a coalition government imposed
upon them against their will.
Now we have a situation in which,
having made this progress, we now must
negotiate the final details. Those details
must however be completed and be com-
pleted in a proper way. I want to tell you
why. While the general principles have
been agreed upon, we have often found
in the history of settlements that unless
you nail down the understandings and
clear away the ambiguities you may get
peace now, but not peace for the years
ahead. We want peace that will last, nct
peace that will be simply for a little
while.
You remember, for example, just before
the election in 1968, when, with the very
best of intentions, our Government agreed
to a bombing halt in North Vietnam and
we thought we were going to have peace
or negotiations for peace. We thought so,
but the understandings were not nailed
down and as a result the war continued.
We are not making that mistake this
time. I can simply say this: We have
agreement on the general principles and
I am confident we will negotiate the settle-
ment which will end the war and bring
us what we all want-peace with honor
and not peace with surrender for the
United States of America.
Now moving from that part of the
world, which, although it is terribly im-
portant to the people that live there and
to us because we have been involved there
for so long, is only one small part of the
world, let me tell you now what we have
at stake in this election in terms of the
other parts of the world.
I mentioned the trip to Peking and
the trip to Moscow. I am going to tell
you what they mean and to whom they
mean so much. The trip to Peking, for
example, has great meaning in one sense
because it saw the President of the United
States for the first time visiting that
capital of the People's Republic of China.
But it has meaning primarily, not so much
to our generation, or mine I should say,
but to this younger generation that we
see here in such great numbers. Because,
let me tell you, imagine how dangerous
the world would be if one-fourth of all the
people of the world who live in the
People's Republic of China, 10, 15 years
from now had gathered enormous nuclear
capability and had no communication
with the United States of America. We
could not allow that danger to continue
to exist.
I am not suggesting, and no one should
believe, that there are not differences in
philosophy, and deep ones, that will re-
main between our Government and theirs
as long as theirs is Communist and ours is
free. I am not suggesting that we do not
have differences in terms of interests, but
I do say this: I say that when we look
at the future of the world we have to learn
to live in this world in a way in which
nations with different philosophies and
different interests can settle those dif-
ferences at the conference table and will
not be involved in a nuclear war, and we
have made a great step in that direction
by that trip to Peking.
The trip to Moscow had a similar pur-
pose. There we had a communication with
the Soviet Union. We had had some prog-
ress. But look at what has happened this
year. Here again, let us understand what
the situation is. The Soviet Union's
government is a Communist government.
Our philosophies are totally different.
1131
