Appendix B
August
I The President amended his major disaster
declaration of June 10, 1972, for the State
of Washington to include the severe storms
which caused extensive damage to the fruit
crop in Chelan and Douglas Counties from
May 28 through June 17, 1972.
I The President and the First Lady held a
reception honoring members of the Presi-
dential Protective Division of the United
States Secret Service.
2 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
at the White House to report on his meet-
ing in Paris on August 1 with Special Ad-
viser Le Duc Tho and Minister Xuan Thuy
of the North Vietnamese delegation to the
Paris peace talks.
3 The President met with former professional
football player Ollie Matson who has been.
nominated for membership in the Pro-
fessional Football Hall of Fame.
4 The President went by helicopter to As-
sateague Island, Md., for a weekend stay.
7 Senator-designate Elaine Edwards of Loui-
siana met with the President at the White
House. She was accompanied by her hus-
band, Gov. Edwin W. Edwards, and Sena-
tor Russell B. Long.
7 Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, Supreme Al-
lied Commander, Europe, met with the
President at the White House for a general
discussion of NATO developments and
European affairs.
8 Miss Teenage America of 1972, Colleen
Fitzpatrick of Lancaster, Ohio, called on
the President at the White House.
8 Former heavyweight
heavyweight boxing champion
Floyd Patterson called on the President at
the White House.
August
8 Soviet Minister of Health Boris V. Pet-
rovskiy paid a courtesy call on the President
at the White House. Also present were So-
viet Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin and
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare Elliot L. Richardson.
8 The President has designated five persons
to be his personal representatives at the
Summer Olympics in Munich, Germany,
August 26 to September 10. They are Dr.
Sammy Lee, chairman of the delegation,
William A. Toomey, Malvin G. Whitfield,
Rev. Robert E. Richards, and Patricia
McCormick.
8 The President has authorized and instructed
the Department of State to send $30 mil-
lion in U.S. disaster relief assistance to the
Philippines in the wake of floods there. The
assistance will include emergency shipments
of rice and flour valued at $24 million and
a $6 million contribution from the Foreign
Assistance Contingency Fund for emer-
gency relief and rehabilitation needs.
8 The President hosted a dinner for the Cabi-
net at Camp David.
10 The President met with the Cost of Living
Council for a first-year anniversary review
of the new economic policy announced on
August 15, 1971.
11 Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment George W. Romney met with the
President at the White House to report on
his trip to Wilkes-Barre, Pa., to review
his Department's flood relief efforts there
after Tropical Storm Agnes.
II The President signed an order designating
the Administrator of Veterans Affairs to
be a member of the Domestic Council.
Administrator Donald E. Johnson met with
the President at the White House to discuss
the designation.
B-14
