Appendix E
Ash is the right combination to direct the Office
of Management and Budget with its expanded
responsibilities.
These three announcements that the Presi-
dent is making today come at a time when an
intensive review is being undertaken of the
entire Government structure. They are part of
the President's broad plan to bring fresh
perspective and new vitality to the second
4 years of the Nixon Administration. President
Nixon feels these three men will be strong
members of an executive team which has, as
the President says, a mandate to bring about
constructive change, change that will work
to build a better life for all Americans.
As President Nixon said, the next 4 years
will be very exciting times for the Nation, both
domestically and internationally. It is with full
confidence and pleasure that he announces
that these three people will be working with
him to accomplish all that remains to be done.
Announcing Intention To Nominate a New
Secretary of Labor
November 29, 1972
President Nixon has asked me to announce
today his intention to nominate Peter Brennan
for the Cabinet position of Secretary of Labor.
Peter Brennan has been president of the New
York City and New York State Building and
Construction Trades Councils for the past 15
years. The appointment of Peter Brennan will
mark the first time since the early period of
the Eisenhower Administration that a trade
unionist has been named by a President to
serve as the Government's highest labor official.
President Nixon feels that Peter Brennan is
a man who exemplifies the best character and
strength of America's working men and women.
He is spirited, self-made, and, though he has
worked at many different levels in organized
labor, he has retained a unique sensitivity to
the rank and file workingman. He has kept in
touch with this combination of firm leadership,
a strong sense of fairness, and special sensitivity
to union and nonunion workers.
President Nixon feels that Peter Brennan is
the right man to head a vital, responsive De-
partment of Labor in the second term. Peter
Brennan was born in New York City and
worked his way through the ranks of the
Painter's Union in New York City, starting as
an apprentice shortly after graduation from
Commerce High School.
Mr. Brennan was elected president of the
New York City and New York State Building
and Construction Trades Councils in 1957 and
1958. He, of course, will resign both posts upon
confirmation as Secretary of Labor. Mr. Bren-
nan is a vice president of the New York State
AFL-CIO and a long-time associate of the na-
tional trade union leaders. Mr. Brennan has
been instrumental in the cooperation of the
building and construction trade unions with the
Workers' Defense League to bring minorities
into apprenticeship training programs.
Mr. Brennan and the President have known
one another personally for the past several
years. The President met with Peter Brennan
and his executive council after Mr. Brennan
led a parade of 150,000 building trade men,
longshoremen, and other New York labor
unions in support of the Administration's Viet-
nam policy in 1971. Over the past few years,
President Nixon has met with Mr. Brennan off
and on and consulted with him directly on labor
matters.
Mr. Brennan will succeed James Hodgson,
who has served in the Labor Department, as
you know, for 4 years. He was appointed Sec-
retary of Labor and has served as Secretary of
Labor since July of 1970. Prior to that, he
served as Under Secretary of Labor from 1969
through the period of 1970, prior to his
appointment as Secretary of Labor.
Having served for 4 years in the Depart-
ment of Labor, the Secretary expressed to the
President that he desired to return to private
life. However, in his discussions here at Camp
David with President Nixon, the President
asked the Secretary to consider assuming an-
other high-level position within the Adminis-
tration, specifically in the international area.
Secretary Hodgson's plans will be announced
when they are set. He presently is considering
assuming the new responsibility in the inter-
national area, together with other opportunities
available to him in the private sector.
So Secretary Hodgson's plans will be an-
nounced when they are set, as I mentioned.
President Nixon has expressed deep gratitude
and admiration for the distinguished leadership
James Hodgson has given the Department of
Labor in his 4 years there. It has been a period
E-2
