Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 21 [98]
Clearly, the heroin problem is one that re-
quires international cooperation. As part
of our continuing effort to foster such co-
operation, I established last September
the Cabinet Committee on International
Narcotics Control, chaired by Secretary
of State Rogers. As a part of this effort,
Narcotics Control Coordinators in 57
American embassies are now actively en-
gaged with their respective host govern-
ments in the effort to stem the export of
illegal drugs to America.
The bill I have signed into law today
puts the full authority of the Federal Gov-
ernment behind a comprehensive program
aimed at our most vicious and debilitating
social problem. But while the Federal Gov-
ernment can help provide leadership in
this crucial area, this is a problem which
affects every one of our citizens and each
of us must play a part in meeting.
The fight against drug abuse is complex
and difficult, but there are signs that we
are making progress. More victims are
under treatment than ever before. More
and better ways of treatment are becom-
ing increasingly available. More illegal
drugs are being seized-both within this
country and without. More nations around
the world are joining with us in a vigor-
ous effort to stop drug trafficking. More
Americans are becoming involved in the
fight in their communities, their churches,
their schools, and their homes.
Now we must continue to build on this
progress until success is assured.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the provisions of the act.
98 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Erim
of Turkey. March 21, 1972
Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Erim, and our
distinguished guests from Turkey and
from the United States:
A few moments ago we heard the
strains of "Around the World in 80 Days,"
and as we heard that song, I was reminded
of how really small the world is and has
become, and how fast events move. Ex-
actly one month ago tonight, Mrs. Nixon,
the Secretary of State, and I arrived in
Peking and we were being received at a
banquet in the Great Hall of the People
by the Premier of the People's Republic of
China.
Tonight, here in the White House, we
honor the Prime Minister of Turkey.
In these two events, just one month
apart, we see something which is very im-
portant for us always to remember, and
that is that while a nation must always
seek, as we seek, to have better relations
with those who have been our adversaries,
that we must never forget our friends, and
tonight we honor true friends in honoring
the Prime Minister, his wife, and our
friends from Turkey.
Mr. Prime Minister, that friendship
goes back, as you and I recalled in our
discussions today, many years. I am re-
minded of the fact that this is also the
month, 25 years ago, when, as a freshman
Member of the Congress, along with one
of our distinguished guests from the Con-
gress, Senator Bentsen, he a Democrat, I
a Republican, both voted for the Truman
Doctrine-the Truman Doctrine for aid
to Greece and Turkey. We voted for it,
crossing party lines, because we knew what
was involved was far more important than
party; it involved the freedom that allows
457
