[147] May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
your pursuit of conquest. Do not com-
pound their agony with continued ar-
rogance; choose instead the path of a
peace that redeems your sacrifices, guar-
antees true independence for your coun-
try, and ushers in an era of reconciliation.
To the people of South Vietnam, you
shall continue to have our firm support in
your resistance against aggression. It is
your spirit that will determine the out-
come of the battle. It is your will that will
shape the future of your country.
To other nations, especially those which
are allied with North Vietnam, the ac-
tions I have announced tonight are not
directed against you. Their sole purpose is
to protect the lives of 60,000 Americans,
who would be gravely endangered in the
event that the Communist offensive con-
tinues to roll forward, and to prevent the
imposition of a Communist government
by brutal aggression upon 17 million
people.
I particularly direct my comments to-
night to the Soviet Union. We respect the
Soviet Union as a great power. We recog-
nize the right of the Soviet Union to de-
fend its interests when they are threat-
ened. The Soviet Union in turn must
recognize our right to defend our
interests.
No Soviet soldiers are threatened in
Vietnam. Sixty thousand Americans are
threatened. We expect you to help your
allies, and you cannot expect us to do
other than to continue to help our allies,
but let us, and let all great powers, help
our allies only for the purpose of their de-
fense, not for the purpose of launching
invasions against their neighbors.
Otherwise the cause of peace, the cause
in which we both have so great a stake,
will be seriously jeopardized.
Our two nations have made significant
progress in our negotiations in recent
months. We are near major agreements
on nuclear arms limitation, on trade, on a
host of other issues.
Let us not slide back toward the dark
shadows of a previous age. We do not ask
you to sacrifice your principles, or your
friends, but neither should you permit
Hanoi's intransigence to blot out the
prospects we together have so patiently
prepared.
We, the United States and the Soviet
Union, are on the threshold of a new rela-
tionship that can serve not only the inter-
ests of our two countries, but the cause of
world peace. We are prepared to continue
to build this relationship. The responsibil-
ity is yours if we fail to do so.
And finally, may I say to the American
people, I ask you for the same strong sup-
port you have always given your Presi-
dent in difficult moments. It is you most of
all that the world will be watching.
I know how much you want to end this
war. I know how much you want to bring
our men home. And I think you know
from all that I have said and done these
past 32 years how much I, too, want to
end the war to bring our men home.
You want peace. I want peace. But, you
also want honor and not defeat. You want
a genuine peace, not a peace that is
merely a prelude to another war.
At this moment, we must stand to-
gether in purpose and resolve. As so often
in the past, we Americans did not choose
to resort to war. It has been forced upon
us by an enemy that has shown utter con-
tempt toward every overture we have
made for peace. And that is why, my fel-
low Americans, tonight I ask for your
support of this decision, a decision which
586
