[412] Nov. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
party and political persuasion, take them
as our guides on election day and every
day throughout the next 4 years.
If we do this, then I believe that this
election of 1972 will be remembered as
one of America's finest hours, and that
the next 4 years will be the 4 best years in
413 Remarks on Election Eve.
November 6, 1972
Good evening:
Tomorrow, 100 million Americans will
have an opportunity to participate in a
decision that will affect the future of
America and the future of the world for
generations to come.
Regardless of how you vote, I urge each
of you to vote. By your vote, you can make
sure that this great decision is made by a
majority of Americans eligible to vote,
and not simply left to the minority who
bother to vote.
I am not going to insult your intelli-
gence tonight or impose upon your time
by rehashing all the issues of the cam-
paign or making any last-minute charges
against our opponents.
You know what the issues are. You
know that this is a choice which is prob-
ably the clearest choice between the can-
didates for President ever presented to the
American people in this century.
I would, however, urge you to have in
mind tomorrow one overriding issue, and
that is the issue of peace-peace in Viet-
nam and peace in the world at large for a
generation to come.
As you know, we have made a break-
through in the negotiations which will lead
to peace in Vietnam. We have agreed on
the major principles that I laid down in
my speech to the Nation of May 8. We
America's first two centuries.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke from a prepared
text. His address was recorded at the West-
ern White House, San Clemente, Calif., for
broadcast at 4:40 p.m. on nationwide radio.
Time for the broadcast was purchased by the
Committee for the Re-Election of the President.
have agreed that there will be a cease-
fire, we have agreed that our prisoners
of war will be returned and that the miss-
ing in action will be accounted for, and
we have agreed that the people of South
Vietnam shall have the right to determine
their own future without having a Com-
munist government or a coalition govern-
ment imposed upon them against their
will.
There are still some details that I am
insisting be worked out and nailed down
because I want this not to be a tempo-
rary peace. I want, and I know you want,
it to be a lasting peace. But I can say to
you with complete confidence tonight
that we will soon reach agreement on all
the issues and bring this long and difficult
war to an end.
You can help achieve that goal. By
your votes, you can send a message to
those with whom we are negotiating, and
to the leaders of the world, that you back
the President of the United States in his
insistence that we in the United States
seek peace with honor and never peace
with surrender.
I will not go into the other issues to-
night, except to say that as we move to
peace, we will open doors to progress on
many fronts here at home. It means that
we can have something we haven't had
1138
