[267] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
both from Iowa. That is where the corn
grows tall. But in 1965, when he was the
commander and I had the privilege of ad-
dressing the convention-incidentally, I
appreciated your invitation to come today
when I am serving as President. I ap-
preciated it even more when I didn't hold
any office in 1965.
On that occasion, Don Johnson, as
commander, introduced me. He later, as
you know, has become the head of the
Veterans Administration. Something has
happened that is very important that may
not have come to your notice, that we have
appointed him as a member of the Cabi-
net Domestic Council which raises, for the
first time in this country, the status of the
man in this country with responsibility for
veterans affairs to the position of Cabinet
status. That is where it ought to be because
we have to have those matters discussed
in the Cabinet.
Now I could stand here and tell you all
of the great things that Don Johnson has
stood for and what this Administration
has done, and immediately we could write
that into a partisan context.
I don't do that because, first, it is not
true, and that is a good reason. I could
say that perhaps the best way to describe
the attitude we have on veterans affairs
in the House, in the Senate, in the Ad-
ministration, whether it is a Republican
administration or Democrat administra-
tion, is: We must do the right thing for
our veterans, for those who have served.
And on that score, it is very significant
to note that when we look at the House
Veterans' Affairs Committee, that we
have, of course, a Democrat who is chair-
man of the committee and a Republican
who is the minority leader. Both of them,
however, have the name of Teague, but
I can tell you that if I call Tiger [Olin]
Teague or Charlie Teague, I get the same
answer on veterans affairs, because they
agree all the time.
We are proud of our record in this area.
We appreciate your advice and I know,
commander, that you have a number of
resolutions that have been passed. I want
you to, of course, submit them to us for
our consideration, and we hope that, in all
the years ahead, whoever serves in the
office of President will remember that it
is so easy to forget those who have served.
Let's never do it in the United States of
America.
Now I have selected for my subject to
address this great convention of the
American Legion here in Chicago-
national defense.
When I use the subject of national de-
fense before a Legion convention, I am
sure that many would say that is like the
preacher talking to the choir, because after
all, you are already converted. I hope all
members of the choir are converted, but
any event, you are people who believe
in national defense.
in
You pass resolutions for strong national
defense year after year. And whenever
issues come up, whoever is President of
the United States, he can be sure that the
commander of the American Legion as he
comes to the White House, as your com-
mander here now and others through the
years have been there, will be there, al-
ways supporting strong national defense.
I tell you why I talk about it today. I
talk about it because it is an issue. It hap-
pens to be an issue in an election cam-
paign. But even if there were not an elec-
tion, it would be an issue, because the
American people naturally would like to
spend more of their money on domestic
needs. They would like to spend enough
to defend the country, but they don't want
796
