Richard Nixon, 1972
May 22 [166]
will undoubtedly be one of the great political
events in many years. Small countries do not
have sufficient power of their own to immunize
themselves against the slings and arrows of
outrageous fortune and so are, therefore, par-
ticularly interested that such events turn out
to be fruitful.
As a representative of a small nation, I may,
therefore, wish you every possible good luck for
your forthcoming trip to Moscow.
Finally, I hope that you and Mrs. Nixon
will leave Austria with good memories, that
one day we may be able to meet you again in
the capital of our country.
166 Message to the Congress Withdrawing Philadelphia as
the Site of an International Exposition During
American Revolution Bicentennial Celebrations.
May 22, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In a message to the Congress on Sep-
tember 11, 1970, transmitting a report of
the American Revolution Bicentennial
Commission, I strongly endorsed the
Commission's view that the primary em-
phasis in our commemoration of the
Nation's birth should be a nation-wide
celebration, involving every State, city and
community.
At the same time, I agreed that we
should encourage international participa-
tion in our celebration. Philadelphia
seemed a natural choice as the principal
site for an international exposition because
it was there that the Declaration of In-
dependence was signed and the Constitu-
tion created. Accordingly, I informed the
Congress that the Secretary of State was
being instructed to proceed officially with
the Bureau of International Expositions in
registering an international exposition in
Philadelphia in 1976.
At that time, I also pointed out that this
exposition was dependent upon the assur-
ance of suitable support and a review of
financial and other arrangements by ap-
propriate parties, including high-level
government officials.
The Chairman of the Bicentennial
Commission, David J. Mahoney, has now
informed me that on May 16, the mem-
bers of his commission voted not to ap-
prove the proposal submitted by the
Philadelphia 1976 Bicentennial Corpora-
tion for this international exposition.
Among the reasons cited were the large
costs to the Federal government, a ques-
tion of whether it was still appropriate to
hold such a large exposition in one city,
the Commission's continuing commitment
to a nation-wide celebration, and a ques-
tion of whether sufficient time remained
to make all necessary arrangements. The
vote of the Commission was 23-4 against
the exposition.
Also, I have been jointly advised by the
Secretary of Commerce and the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget,
that we should not proceed unless certain
basic conditions could be met. There is no
evidence now that we can fulfill those
conditions.
Under the full weight of these recom-
mendations, I have reluctantly concluded
that we cannot prudently go for-
ward with the international exposition in
Philadelphia.
I am therefore asking the Secretary of
State to take action at the impending
meeting of the Bureau of International
Expositions to withdraw the registration
617
