Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
ing and start talking." We proposed a
ceasefire and military standstill, to pave
the way for a renewed effort at negotia-
tion. The parties accepted our proposal in
August. The autumn of 1970, however,
was absorbed in dealing with new con-
flicts the Soviet-Egyptian violations of
the standstill agreement, and the break-
down of domestic order in Jordan and the
invasion of Jordan by Syrian forces in
September.
In January 1971, Ambassador Jarring
finally began discussions with both Israel
and Egypt on launching negotiations. He
sought assurance from Egypt and Israel
that negotiations could proceed on the
basis of (a) an Israeli "commitment to
withdraw its forces from occupied United
Arab Republic territory to the former in-
ternational boundary between Egypt and
the British mandate of Palestine," and (b)
an Egyptian "commitment to enter into a
peace agreement with Israel." Egypt gave
a qualified commitment to this effect.
Israel was willing to enter talks looking
toward agreement on secure and recog-
nized borders but not to agree in advance
to withdraw to the former international
border. Ambassador Jarring's effort lost
momentum at the end of February.
The Search for an Interim Agreement.
Attention then turned to another ap-
proach-an interim step toward peace in
the form of an agreement for reopening
the Suez Canal and a partial withdrawal
of Israeli troops. This idea, which had
been suggested publicly by both Israeli
and Egyptian officials, was explored by the
Secretary of State in May 1971 during his
trip to the area and through subsequent
diplomatic contacts. By autumn we had
identified six principal issues in this
negotiation:
-The relationship between an interim
agreement and an overall settlement;
-Duration of the ceasefire to preserve a
tolerable climate for ongoing talks;
-The extent of withdrawal of military
forces from the Canal;
-The nature of supervisory arrange-
ments;
-The nature of the Egyptian presence
east of the Canal; and
-The use of the Canal by Israel during
the period of an interim agreement.
These were not technical questions. To
the parties, they went to the heart of the
basic issues of security and peace. An in-
terim agreement, for example, is accepta-
ble to Egypt only to the extent that it
implies or is linked to final recovery of all
the occupied territories. But to Israel an
interim agreement is acceptable only if it
does not confirm that territories will be
restored without negotiation on secure
borders. The interim approach, however,
offers hope only if it can make progress on
concrete steps. But it can make such prog-
ress only if it can somehow put aside
temporarily the two sides' fundamental
differences regarding the final settlement.
The more ambitious the proposed formula
for an interim agreement, the more it risks
foundering over those very differences.
Throughout all these negotiations, each
side has sought to influence the other's
negotiating position by increasing its own
military strength. I have stated on several
occasions in the past year that an arms
balance is essential to stability but that
military equilibrium alone cannot produce
peace. The U.S. has demonstrated its com-
mitment to maintaining a military bal-
ance that can serve as a foundation for
negotiation, but we have also made in-
tensive efforts to start peace negotiations.
293
