[106] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
would go directly into the hands of the
aged, blind and disabled in the first full
year.
TIGHT ADMINISTRATION AND PROGRAM
INTEGRITY
Those who receive welfare, while they
are the most visible victims, are not the
only ones who suffer because of the
myriad confusions and contradictions of
the present welfare mess. The taxpayers
are victims as well, for they are paying for
a program that not only fails to accom-
plish its objectives, but is virtually impos-
sible to administer.
Welfare administration is woefully
outmoded in this country, with its 1,152
separate State and local welfare jurisdic-
tions. Although virtually all have the
same basic programs-Aid to the Blind,
Aid to the Disabled, Aid to the Aged, and
Aid to Families with Dependent Chil-
dren-each operates with its own eligibil-
ity determination and administrative
methods.
In the administrative area, especially,
there is nearly an incomprehensible vari-
ety of management philosophies, operat-
ing policies and methods, and personnel
arrangements. Only 20 percent of these
jurisdictions have automated manage-
ment techniques.
Under such conditions, it is not surpris-
ing that there are major management
problems which exacerbate the skyrocket-
ing costs and add to the growing public
concern about welfare. Moreover, because
of currrent open end financing arrange-
ments, States and localities have what
amounts to a blank check on the Federal
treasury for this activity.
Thousands of dedicated people are do-
ing their best to operate this ponderous
machinery. But this system has been
patched and repaired too many times. The
frustration of current State program man-
agers has resulted in very substantial sup-
port among Governors and State welfare
administrators for Federal administration
of the benefit payments function.
In recent months we have documented
the failings of the current system, includ-
ing the absence of cross-checks of records
in adjacent areas, inadequate verification
of income and benefits from a variety of
benefit programs, and rapid turnover of
personnel.
While decentralized management is
highly desirable in many fields and is in-
deed central to my philosophy of govern-
ment, I believe that many of these prob-
lems in welfare administration can best be
solved by using a national automated
payments system, which would produce
economies and considerably increase both
equity of treatment and tightened
administration.
Such a unified system-partially mod-
eled on the Social Security system-would
reduce errors and provide greater controls
for fraud and duplicate payments.
H.R. I would require each recipient to
have a social security number for identifi-
cation to prevent duplicate benefits and to
facilitate the receiving of recipient in-
come information from such sources as
the Social Security Administration, the
Internal Revenue Service, the Veterans
Administration, and other units.
National administration and standards
would also ensure equitable treatment for
individuals: they would no longer be sub-
ject to conflicting rules in different areas,
to delays caused by back-ups, and to the
confusing tangle of red tape.
Under such a system, States and coun-
ties would be freed to concentrate on so-
504
