[33] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
foster the orderly establishment of needed
land treatment measures within the small
watershed areas of the country.
In addition, technical and cost-sharing
assistance should be authorized within
watershed areas for the improvement of
water quality. This would mean that, for
the first time, Federal cost-sharing would
be made available to improve water qual-
ity on a year-round basis. Such technical
and cost-sharing assistance should also be
provided in Resource Conservation and
Development Project areas.
Finally, the Secretary of Agriculture
should be authorized to inventory and to
monitor soil, water, and related resources
and to issue a national land inventory re-
port at five-year intervals. Such data could
be used at all levels of government in land
use policy planning.
All these proposals would broaden the
dimensions of Federal service and would
give new impetus to the entire rural de-
velopment task. But I would emphasize
again that this task must be one in which
the people themselves are directly in-
volved—and it must begin in rural Amer-
ica. Our proposals would provide rural
people and communities with the tools
they need to achieve their goals and I hope
these recommendations will receive early
and favorable consideration.
RESULTS OF OUR INCREASED EMPHASIS
ON RURAL DEVELOPMENT
These essential steps now depend on
action by the Congress. But while action
on past proposals has been pending, we
have also been taking a number of ad-
ministrative steps to improve our rural
development programs and have substan-
tially increased program funding. For ex-
ample:
-The funding of principal rural de-
velopment programs in the Department
of Agriculture this year ($2.8 billion) is
more than four times that of fiscal year
1961 and twice that of fiscal year 1969.
Twenty-nine of the thirty-four rural de-
velopment programs in that department
have been expanded since 1969.
-Since 1969, the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development has nearly
tripled its grants for non-metropolitan
planning districts. It funded 155 districts
which received $3.4 million in grants in
the last complete fiscal year.
-Rural housing assistance, with an
emphasis on low and moderate income
families, has reached a record level of $1.6
billion under the Farmers Home Admin-
istration program-more than triple the
1969 level.
-Research on rural development and
housing is estimated at $9 million this
year, more than double that of 1969.
-Funding for community sewer and
water facilities has reached a record high
level of $300 million in loans, plus $42
million in direct grants. This represents
an increase of almost 80 percent over the
level provided two years ago.
-Soil Conservation Service resource
conservation and development, flood pre-
vention, and watershed programs have
expanded from $103 million in fiscal year
1969 to an estimated $156 million this
year.
-With the recent release of an addi-
tional $109 million in funds for rural elec-
trification, total available funds for the
Rural Electrification Administration have
been increased to $438 million for the cur-
rent fiscal year. REA loans from 1969 to
1971 totaled more than $1.4 billion. Since
1969, REA-financed systems connected
700,000 new electric services and 420,000
134
