Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 24 [19]
Foundation on Higher Education to
promote reforms in our colleges and
universities;
-provide additional training oppor-
tunities and strong incentives under
Welfare Reform for welfare recipi-
ents to undertake suitable employ-
ment or job training;
-assure the returning veteran greater
opportunities for jobs, education, and
training; and
-reform student aid programs for
higher education to increase their ef-
fectiveness and direct more aid to
students from lower income families.
Let me use that last proposal as an ex-
ample. I believe that no qualified student
should be denied a college education be-
cause he cannot afford to pay for it. Most
Americans and most Congressmen agree.
I have proposed the legislation that will
make this a reality. I am ready to sign that
legislation. But there it sits, in Congress,
while thousands of young people miss
their chance.
FIGHTING CRIME
When I took office, the safety and
health of our citizens were menaced by
rising crime. Violent crimes and illegal
traffic in narcotics and dangerous drugs
were threatening to get out of control. A
crisis existed, and prompt action was
called for. I directed that a national strat-
egy to combat crime be developed and
promptly put into effect.
Any successful strategy to combat crime
must recognize that State and local gov-
ernments are responsible for most law en-
forcement in the United States. Such a
strategy must also provide for the preven-
tion of crime and for the rehabilitation of
criminals.
I took action early to strengthen the
hand of State and local government law
enforcement agencies.
Outlays for law enforcement assist-
ance were increased substantially.
They will total $595 million in 1973,
nearly 18 times the $332 million of
1969.
• Law enforcement special revenue
sharing was proposed to give State
and local governments increased flex-
ibility to use Federal funds in ways
that are best suited to solving local
crime problems. The Congress should
act on this proposal.
Federal law enforcement activities are
also an essential part of our efforts to com-
bat crime-especially organized crime and
traffic in narcotics and dangerous drugs.
In 1973, we will:
-step up our attack against the crim-
inal systems that import and distrib-
ute narcotics and dangerous drugs;
and
-continue to enforce vigorously the
Organized Crime Control Act of
1970.
Outlays for law enforcement activities
will be $2.3 billion in 1973, an increase of
$1.7 billion over 1969.
My Administration has given priority
to combating crime in our Nation's Cap-
ital, where the Federal Government has a
special responsibility. These efforts have
been successful. Serious crime in the Dis-
trict of Columbia in 1971 was approxi-
mately 14% below the level of the pre-
vious calendar year.
IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT
Protecting and improving our environ-
ment is a never-ending job. The basic re-
sponsibility rests with States and local
91
