Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 23 [100]
Let us consider the several ways in
which this legislation would help the
elderly:
1. An Additional Increase in Social
Security. Under H.R. 1, social security
benefits would be increased by an addi-
tional 5 percent effective in June of 1972.
This increase would provide $2.1 billion
in additional income for older Americans
during the first full year that it is effective.
It would mean that social security bene-
fits would be one-third higher after this
June than they were just 22 years ago.
This represents the most rapid rate of in-
crease in the history of the social security
program.
2. Making Social Security "Inflation
Proof." Under H.R. 1, social security pay-
ments would, for the first time, be auto-
matically protected against inflation.
Whenever the Consumer Price Index in-
creased by 3 percent or more, benefits
would be increased by an equal amount.
Payments that keep pace with the cost of
living would thus become a guaranteed
right for older Americans-and not some-
thing for which they have to battle again
and again, year after year.
3. Increased Widows' Benefits. About
58 percent of the population age 65 and
over are women, most of whom depend
primarily on social security benefits earned
by their husbands. Under the present law,
however, widows are eligible for only 822
percent of the retirement benefits which
would be paid to their late husbands if
they were still alive. H.R. I would correct
this situation by increasing widows' bene-
fits to 100 percent of the benefits payable
to their late husbands. It would similarly
expand the eligibility of a widower for
benefits payable to his late wife. Alto-
gether, this provision would mean that
about 3.4 million widows and widowers
would receive increased benefits totaling
almost three quarters of a billion dollars
in the first full year.
4. Increased Benefits for Delayed Re-
tirement. Under present law, those who
choose not to retire at age 65 forfeit their
social security benefits for the period be-
tween the time they are 65 and the time
they finally retire. H.R. I would allow re-
tirees to make up a portion of these lost
benefits through higher payments after
retirement. Benefits would increase by one
percent for each year that a person had
worked between the ages of 65 and 72.
5. Liberalized Earnings Tests. Like the
increased benefit for delayed retirement,
the liberalized earnings tests contained in
H.R. I would encourage more of our older
citizens to remain active in the economic
life of our country. This is a step which I
promised to take in the 1968 campaign
and for which I have been working ever
since.
It is high time this step was taken. Those
who can work and want to work should
not be discouraged from working as they
often are under the present law. By re-
ducing the barriers to work, we can in-
crease the sense of participation among
older citizens and at the same time tap
their energies and experience more effec-
tively.
Under H.R. 1, the amount that a bene-
ficiary could earn without losing any social
security would be increased from $1,680 a
year to $2,000 a year. That ceiling, in
turn, would be automatically increased
each time there was a cost of living bene-
fit increase in social security. In addition,
for those who earn in excess of $2,000, the
potential reduction in social security pay-
ments would also be lessened. Under the
present law, benefits are reduced by $1 for
each $2 of extra earnings but this rate
467
