[399] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ployed in defense-related industries and
civilian Defense Department jobs. And
another 33 million were in the Armed
Forces.
By contrast, in October of 1972, 82.5
million persons were employed, 5½ mil-
lion more than when I took office and the
highest number in our history. And this
important progress has been achieved at
the same time that defense-related em-
ployment has been scaled down. Between
October of 1971 and October of 1972
alone, total employment increased by an
amazing 2.3 million people. All of this has
occurred while we have successfully
brought back more than half a million
men and women from Southeast Asia,
while the size of the Armed Forces has
been cut by almost a third and the num-
ber of defense-related jobs has dropped
nearly 12 million.
Yet we have picked up these people
in other jobs, we have retrained many of
them, and through such programs as the
technology mobilization and reemploy-
ment program, we have assisted scientists
and engineers in relocating and finding
new jobs.
This is progress, real progress. It is based
not on more handouts paid out of the tax-
payer's pocket, but on the revitalization
of our dynamic free economy. Much, of
course, remains to be done. I am not satis-
fied with the current rate of unemploy-
ment at the national level. Everyone who
wants to work should be able to work.
That is the American way. But let us not
lose sight of the impressive gains we have
made already. Of all over-25 males in the
labor force, only 3 percent were unem-
ployed as of September, a lower rate than
in the prosperous years of 1955, 1956,
and 1957, and clearly better than the 3.3
percent rate in 1964, just before the esca-
lation of our Vietnam involvement trig-
gered a wartime boom.
Just as we are now near achievement
of this Administration's goal of peace
with honor in Vietnam, so we are closer
than ever to our goal of prosperity with-
out war and without inflation in America.
With your continued support, we can
achieve them both.
The people of Chicago have helped us
enormously in achieving many of our goals
in the past. Now you can help us once
again by electing the entire Republican
ticket in Illinois.
The two gentlemen at the head of that
ticket, Dick Ogilvie and Chuck Percy,¹
are men I have known and trusted over
the years. They can give great leadership
to Illinois and to the Nation.
I look forward to working with them
not only on the problems of the cities-
and they have been especially helpful in
securing the passage of general revenue
sharing-but also on the needs of the
rural areas. Dick Ogilvie and Chuck
Percy are the type of men we need to
continue our farm policies. Net farm in-
come this year is the highest in our his-
tory, finally breaking the alltime record
set 25 years ago. In fact, net farm in-
come-what is left after the bills are
paid-has been 24 percent higher for the
last 4 years than it was during the last
Administration. We can continue that
progress with your help.
And there is something else that the
people of Chicago can help us to achieve.
The strong work ethic of Chicagoans is
rooted in an even deeper value-this deep
cultural and spiritual heritage which is
as strong today as ever. For example,
1 Gov. Richard B. Ogilvie and Senator
Charles H. Percy were Republican candidates
for reelection.
1094
