[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
toward the world which is balanced and
sensible and realistic.
America has an important role to play
in international affairs, a great influence
to exert for good. As we have throughout
this century, we must continue our
profound concern for advancing peace
and freedom, by the most effective means
possible, even as we shift somewhat our
view of what means are most effective.
This is our policy:
-We will maintain a nuclear deterrent
adequate to meet any threat to the
security of the United States or of our
allies.
-We will help other nations develop
the capability of defending them-
selves.
---We will faithfully honor all of our
treaty commitments.
-We will act to defend our interests
whenever and wherever they are
threatened any place in the world.
-But where our interests or our treaty
commitments are not involved our
role will be limited.
-We will not intervene militarily.
-But we will use our influence to
prevent war.
-If war comes we will use our in-
fluence to try to stop it.
-Once war is over we will do our
share in helping to bind up the
wounds of those who have par-
ticipated in it.
OPENING NEW LINES OF
COMMUNICATION
Even as we seek to deal more realistic-
ally with our partners, so we must also deal
more realistically with those who have
been our adversaries. In the last year we
have made a number of notable advances
toward this goal.
In our dealings with the Soviet Union,
for example, we have been able, together
with our allies, to reach an historic agree-
ment concerning Berlin. We have ad-
vanced the prospects for limiting strategic
armaments. We have moved toward
greater cooperation in space research and
toward improving our economic relation-
ships. There have been disappointments
such as South Asia and uncertainties such
as the Middle East. But there has also been
progress we can build on.
It is to build on the progress of the past
and to lay the foundations for greater
progress in the future that I will soon be
visiting the capitals of both the People's
Republic of China and the Soviet Union.
These visits will help to fulfill the promise
I made in my Inaugural address when I
said "that during this administration our
lines of communication will be open," so
that we can help create "an open world-
open to ideas, open to the exchange of
goods and people, a world in which no
people, great or small, will live in angry
isolation." It is in this spirit that I will
undertake these journeys.
We must also be realistic, however,
about the scope of our differences with
these governments. My visits will mean
not that our differences have disappeared
or will disappear in the near future. But
peace depends on the ability of great
powers to live together on the same planet
despite their differences. The important
thing is that we talk about these differ-
ences rather than fight about them.
It would be a serious mistake to say that
nothing can come of our expanded com-
munications with Peking and Moscow.
But it would also be a mistake to expect
too much too quickly.
It would also be wrong to focus so much
44
