Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 30 [390]
would be encouraged to continue to do
so by Federal assumption of any new costs
involved.
This entire program will be fully fi-
nanced by the Federal Government and
efficiently executed with a minimum of
paperwork by the Social Security Admin-
istration.
This legislation once again provides
dramatic and heart-warming evidence
that America is the country that cares-
and translates that humanitarian care into
a better life for those who need, and de-
serve, the support of their fellow citizens.
The American way of life is the high
achievement of our era and the envy of
the world, and responsive and responsible
legislation such as this is one major reason
why.
I am highly gratified to be able, at long
last, to put my signature on H.R. I—thus
lifting these long-sought benefits out of
debate and placing them into the laws of
our generous and compassionate land.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 1 is Public Law
92-603 (86 Stat. 1329).
390 Statement About Decision To Sign Additional Bills
Passed by the Congress. October 30, 1972
LAST Saturday, I commented on several
of the bills which passed the Congress
during its closing days and which I
decided to approve. Today I am announc-
ing a number of additional decisions con-
cerning bills which have come to me for
signature.
A list of the additional legislation which
I am signing will be released with this
statement.
I am taking this opportunity to com-
ment on some of the most significant bills
which are included on that list.
HELPING MINORITY ENTERPRISES AND
OTHER SMALL BUSINESSES
In messages to the Congress in late 1971
and early 1972, I requested that our pro-
gram to help minority enterprise be
strengthened by giving four new author-
ities to Minority Enterprise Small Business
Investment Companies. S. 3337, the Small
Business Investment Act Amendments of
1972, adopts all four of these recommen-
dations-lowering requirements for Fed-
eral assistance, providing increased equity
by enabling the Small Business Admin-
istration to purchase preferred stock in
such a company, lowering interest rates on
SBA loans to such companies, and allow-
ing them to organize as nonprofit corpo-
rations so as to qualify for more favorable
tax treatment. It also strengthens regular
Small Business Investment Companies,
permitting maximum utilization of the
SBIC guarantee authority which this Ad-
ministration had earlier sought, and
which was enacted last year. As a result of
this bill, more Americans-especially dis-
advantaged Americans-will be able to
gain a piece of the economic action in our
country, and we will be closer to our goal
of providing an equal opportunity for
every citizen to share fully in the great
American adventure.
MEETING HEALTH NEEDS
The Emergency Health Personnel Act
Amendments of 1972, S. 3858, will
strengthen and extend the life of the
1071
