[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
applies only to the first $1,200 earned
above the exempt amount. Additional
earnings beyond that level now cause
benefits to be reduced on a $1 for $1 basis.
Under H.R. 1, benefits would be reduced
on a $1 for $2 basis for all earnings above
$2,000-no matter how much a person
earned.
6. Adult Assistance Reform. One of the
most important elements of H.R. 1-and
one of the most under-publicized-is its
provision to place a national floor under
the income of every older American.
H.R. I would replace the present Old Age
Assistance program with a single, fed-
erally-financed program which would pro-
vide a monthly income of $150 for an in-
dividual and $200 for a couple when fully
effective.
This program would assist
4.5 million
elderly persons instead of the 2.1 million
currently reached. It would also eliminate
the practice of placing liens on homes as a
condition of eligibility. Eligibility for as-
sistance would be determined on the basis
of need without regard to the income or
assets of relatives. Relative-responsibility
rules would not be a part of this new
program.
I believe this reform is particularly im-
portant since it channels massive re-
sources-some $2.8 billion in additional
annual benefits-to those whose needs are
greatest.
7. Special Minimum Benefits. H.R. 1
would also provide special minimum
benefits for people who have worked for
15 years or more under social security. The
guaranteed minimum benefit would
range
from $75 a month for a person who had
worked 15 years under social security to
$150 a month for a person with 30 years
of such work experience. At maturity,
this provision would increase overall bene-
fit
payments to $600 million.
H.R. 1: THE NEED FOR PROMPT ACTION
In addition to all of these benefits for
older people, H.R. I would have enor-
mous benefits for many younger Ameri-
cans as well. Clearly the passage of this
bill is a matter of the very highest priority.
I have made that statement repeatedly
since I first proposed this far-reaching pro-
gram in 1969. As I make that statement
again today, I do so with the conviction
that further delay is absolutely inexcusa-
ble. To delay these reforms by even one
more year would mean a loss for older
Americans alone of more than $5 billion.
It is my profound hope that the Senate
will now carry forward the momentum
which has been generated by the passage
of H.R. I in the House of Representatives,
thus seizing an historic opportunity-and
meeting an historic obligation.
WHERE THE MONEY COMES FROM: MILI-
TARY, VETERANS AND FEDERAL EM-
PLOYEE BENEFITS
We are also making significant progress
toward improving the retirement income
of career military personnel, veterans and
Federal employees.
1. To improve military benefits, I will
soon submit legislation to the Congress for
recomputing retirement pay on the basis
of January 1, 1971 pay scales, thus
liberalizing annuities for current retirees.
I will also submit legislation to provide—
for the first time-full annuities for re-
tired reservists at an earlier age, and to
revise benefit payments so that retirees
receive their full annuities when they are
468
