Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 15 [350]
crease since these quarterly statistics began
12 years ago. And in 72 of our largest
cities, we have already begun to see a
decrease in crime this year as compared to
last.
We have moved off the defensive and
onto the offensive in our all-out battle
against the criminal forces in America.
We are going to stay on the offensive until
we put every category of crime on a down-
ward trend in every American com-
munity.
To reach this goal we must continue to
fight the battle on all fronts.
In our courts, we need judges who will
help to strengthen the peace forces as
against the criminal forces in this coun-
try. I have applied this principle in mak-
ing appointments to the Supreme Court
and to other Federal courts. As a result,
our Constitution today is more secure;
our freedoms are better protected.
The two men who have served me as
Attorney General, John Mitchell and
Richard Kleindienst, have brought real
backbone to our national law enforce-
ment effort. Each has demonstrated his
determination to see justice done to the
overwhelming majority of law-abiding
citizens, as well as to those who break the
law. Neither has fallen for the naive
theory that society is to blame for an in-
dividual's wrongdoing.
Tomorrow, Attorney General Klein-
dienst will make public the first compre-
hensive report ever compiled on Federal
law enforcement and criminal justice as-
sistance activities.ยน I commend this report
to the attention of every American who
is concerned with the rule of law. It docu-
ยน The report is entitled "Attorney General's
First Annual Report-Federal Law Enforce-
ment and Criminal Justice Assistance Activi-
ties" (Government Printing Office, 542 pp.).
ments the truly massive Federal commit-
ment to crime reduction.
The Federal role, however, is only a
supportive one. As J. Edgar Hoover often
used to tell me, it is our local police forces
who are the real frontline soldiers in the
war against crime. As President over the
past 4 years, I have given all-out backing
to our peace officers in their dedicated
efforts to make all of us safer on the
streets and more secure in our homes, and
I shall continue to do so.
In 3 years we have provided States and
localities with law enforcement assistance
grants totaling $1.5 billion. That com-
pares with only $22 million in grants dur-
ing the final 3 years of the previous
Administration.
In a single year, 1970, the Congress
passed four landmark anticrime bills
which this Administration had recom-
mended and fought for an omnibus
crime bill, a bill providing new tools to
fight organized crime, a comprehensive
reform of the drug abuse statutes, and a
new charter for courts and criminal proce-
dures in the Nation's Capital.
The city of Washington had become
the crime capital of the United States dur-
ing the 1960's, but during our term of
office we have cut the D.C. crime rate in
half.
Let me turn now to the subject of drug
abuse-America's public enemy number
one.
The period 1965 to 1969, when drugs
were widely glamorized and when govern-
ment was responding only feebly to this
menace, brought America's narcotics
problem to the epidemic stage. In that
4-year period alone, the number of drug
addicts doubled nationwide.
To turn this situation around, I de-
clared total war against heroin and other
983
