[266] Aug. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
provided the biggest tax cut in history, but
taxes are still too high.
That is why one of the goals of our next
Administration is to reduce the property
tax which is such an unfair and heavy
burden on the poor, the elderly, the wage
earner, the farmer, and those on fixed
incomes.
As all of you know, we have cut infla-
tion in half in this Administration, but we
have got to cut it further. We must cut it
further so that we can continue to expand
on the greatest accomplishment of our
new economic policy: For the first time
in 5 years wage increases in America are
not being eaten up by price increases.
As a result of the millions of new jobs
created by our new economic policies,
unemployment today in America is less
than the peacetime average of the sixties,
but we must continue the unparalleled
increase in new jobs so that we can
achieve the great goal of our new prosper-
ity-a job for every American who wants
to work, without war and without infla-
tion. The way to reach this goal is to stay
on the new road we have charted to move
America forward and not to take a sharp
detour to the left, which would lead to a
dead end for the hopes of the American
people.
This points up one of the clearest
choices in this campaign. Our opponents
believe in a different philosophy.
Theirs is the politics of paternalism,
where master planners in Washington
make decisions for people.
Ours is the politics of people-where
people make decisions for themselves.
The proposal that they have made to
pay $1,000 to every person in America
insults the intelligence of the American
voters.
Because you know that every politician's
promise has a price-the taxpayer pays
the bill.
The American people are not going to
be taken in by any scheme where Govern-
ment gives money with one hand and
then takes it away with the other.
Their platform promises everything to
everybody, but at an increased net in the
budget of $144 billion, but listen to what
it means to you, the taxpayers of the coun-
try. That would mean an increase of 50
percent in what the taxpayers of America
pay. I oppose any new spending programs
which will increase the tax burden on the
already overburdened American taxpayer.
And they have proposed legislation
which would add 82 million people to the
welfare rolls.
say that instead of providing incen-
tives for millions of more Americans to
go on welfare, we need a program which
will provide incentives for people to get
off of welfare and to get to work.
We believe that it is wrong for anyone
to receive more on welfare than for some-
one who works. Let us be generous to
those who can't work without increasing
the tax burden of those who do work.
And while we are talking about wel-
fare, let us quit treating our senior citizens
in this country like welfare recipients.
They have worked hard all of their lives
to build America. And as the builders of
America, they have not asked for a hand-
out. What they ask for is what they have
earned and that is retirement in dignity
and self-respect. Let's give that to our
senior citizens.
Now, when you add up the cost of all
of the programs our opponents have pro-
posed, you reach only one conclusion:
They would destroy the system which has
made America number one in the world
economically.
790
