Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 25 [105]
tions of the area so long as they, too, pro-
mote the purposes of conservation. The
creative and coordinated land use made
possible by this legislation will provide a
good foundation for the coordinated and
105 Statement About Signing
Opportunity Act of 1972.
I AM gratified to have signed into law
H.R. 1746, the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Act of 1972.
By strengthening and expanding the
Government's powers against discrimina-
tion in employment, this legislation is an
important step toward true equality on
the job front. Where promises have some-
times failed, we may now expect results.
This bill is the result of hard work and
constructive debate in both branches of
Congress by Members of both parties. It
is an act of Congressional collaboration
in the best tradition.
Under this legislation, the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission and
the Justice Department will now be able
to make substantial advances against em-
ployment discrimination.
The most significant aspect of this legis-
lation is a new authority consistently ad-
vocated by this Administration since
1969-a provision arming the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
with power to bring lawsuits in the Fed-
eral district courts to enforce the rights
guaranteed by title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964. Such actions are to
be expedited by the courts whenever
possible.
Everyone familiar with the operation
of title VII over the past 7 years has
realized that the promise of that historic
careful use of key environmental areas
envisioned by the proposed national land
use policy act.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1977, approved March 23,
1972, is Public Law 92-260 (86 Stat. 99).
the Equal Employment
March 25, 1972
legislation would remain unfulfilled until
some additional, broad-based enforce-
ment machinery was created. This bill
provides that enforcement capability.
Additionally, the legislation extends
the protections of title VII to millions of
American citizens previously excluded
from its coverage. The experiences of both
the Justice Department and the EEOC
under title VII have demonstrated that
considerable discrimination problems
have existed in State and local govern-
ments, with small employers, and in some
educational institutions. Individuals em-
ployed in these areas have not heretofore
been protected by title VII. This bill cor-
rects that defect.
Also created by this legislation is the
Equal Employment Opportunity Coordi-
nating Council, a new interagency group
which will coordinate, monitor, and
report on the Government's enforce-
ment drive against all remaining job
discrimination.
This will support our determination to
take continuing care that we are making
the most effective efforts to bring about
equal opportunity for all in the crucial
area of employment rights.
One of the basic principles of our way
of life in America has always been that
individuals would be free to pursue the
work of their own choice, and to advance
499
