Richard Nixon, 1972
May 19 [159]
memories, of some of the summits of the
past. I remember what term was used by
ladies and gentlemen of the press in de-
scribing them. There was the "spirit of
Vienna," the "spirit of Geneva," and the
"spirit of Glassboro," and the "spirit of
Camp David."
What they all added up to was cos-
metics, a big feeling of hope in the world
and in the United States in particular and
then a letdown because there was all froth
and very little substance.
This trip is one, and I do not want to
overestimate what you may expect to have
from it in the way of substance, but it is
one primarily directed toward substance
rather than toward cosmetics.
We are not taking the trip simply for
the purpose of opening a new relationship,
as was the case when we went to Peking.
That, of course, was enormously impor-
tant and it was important to go to Peking
for that very purpose, if nothing else was
served at all-and other things were
served, we believe.
In this case, we have had relations with
the Soviet Union, as you know, for a num-
ber of years. There have been contacts at
various levels, Cabinet levels, with the
Soviet Union, and we have had meetings
between the top Soviet leaders and top
American leaders going back over a period
of time through World War II and, of
course, in the postwar period.
What has happened in the last 3½
years is that we have started a long process
in several areas of trying to determine on
both sides-it has been mutual on both
sides as to whether a meeting of the
leaders at the summit would serve a useful
purpose, and that is why we did not make
the decision, again a mutual decision, that
it would be useful to have such a meeting
until just a few months ago.
You will recall that perhaps the single
event which brought about the decision.
on the part of the Soviet leaders and our
decision to go to the summit was the suc-
cess of the understandings on Berlin. We
thought if we had made progress in that
very critical area for both of us that we
should try with some hope of success of
making progress in other areas that were
also difficult.
Now, in coming to this meeting, I would
suggest that it would not be useful to
speculate as to what agreements or under-
standings will come out of it. I would
touch on just the three subjects that have
been very much written about in the press
that will be on the agenda and three sub-
jects, three areas, in which there is a pos-
sibility, not a certainty by any manner
of means, but a possibility of agreement,
provided at the highest level we can break
some bottlenecks which still exist.
One, of course, is arms limitation. Con-
siderable progress has been made in this
area. There are still some very difficult
problems that remain unsolved. We will
discuss them directly. I will discuss them
directly with Mr. Brezhnev throughout
the course of the visit, and we hope that
we may be able to reach agreement in this
area.
However, on both sides we recognize
that we have some difficult problems in
which a decision at the top only can bring
agreement. We are hopeful, but we do
not want to leave the implication that it is
certain that we can reach agreement.
The second area is the area of trade.
You have all, of course, followed Secretary
Butz' trip to the Soviet Union and Secre-
tary Stans', then the trips, of course, that
have been made by the Soviet Agricultural
603
