Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
arms control field that would give them
an advantage and make us the second
strongest nation in the world, the wrong
kind of an agreement with the Chinese,
one that would discourage our friends in
non-Communist Asia, that kind of an
agreement, and so forth, would be one
that simply would not be worth making.
Let me say, any President-it would
not be just me, any President-would not
want to win an election at that cost, and
I certainly will not. I am going into these
meetings, I can assure you, well prepared,
and I will go well prepared and I will go
there to defend the interest of the United
States, to negotiate as well as I can, to
reduce the differences, recognizing that
there are basic philosophical differences
between us and the two Communist pow-
ers. But unless we talk about those differ-
ences eventually we may end up fighting
about them, and that will be the end of
civilization as we know it.
RELATIONS WITH CHINA
[10.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President, one
other question about China, and I would
again like to refer to a direct quotation.
As late as March of 1971 you said, and I
quote, "Under no circumstances will we
proceed with the policy of normalizing re-
lations with Communist China if the cost
of that policy is to expel Taiwan from the
family of nations."
Now we have proceeded with the policy
of normalizing relations with China;
Taiwan has been expelled from the
United Nations. Isn't that a contradic-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT. It is a contradiction,
but not the way we planned it. As far as
our normalization of relations is con-
cerned, I should point out they are not
yet normalized. I should also point out
that when we do have our meeting in
February, beginning on February 21, in
the People's Republic of China, that
recognition in the conventional sense will
not be one of the results. They do not
expect that. We do not expect that. The
reason it cannot be one of the results is
that as long as we continue to recognize
Taiwan, which we do, as long as we con-
tinue to have our defense treaty with Tai-
wan, which we will, the People's Republic
will not have diplomatic relations in the
conventional sense with that country. So
we are not going to have that kind of nor-
malization. However, we will have nor-
malization-because it is fair, and I know
this is certainly the intent with which you
ask the question-we will have normaliza-
tion in terms of setting up some method of
communication better than we currently
have, because nations that do not have
diplomatic relations in the conventional
sense can have relations and that is one
thing that we will be able to do.
Now, as far as our having that kind of
normalization, at the time that Taiwan
was expelled from the community of na-
tions is concerned, we fought hard to
avoid Taiwan being expelled. We thought
it was a mistake, but being a member of
the community of nations, we believed
that we had to accept the verdict. Under
the circumstances, however, we will go to
the People's Republic, we will have this
relationship normalized on the basis that I
have just described, but we will continue
also our relations with Taiwan, and we
will continue our defense agreement.
Mr. RATHER. Are we beginning to
withdraw American forces from Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at this point.
MR. RATHER. Mr. President, why is it
necessary
9
