[152] May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Herbert Hoover. I knew her when I was
a member of a college board of trustees,
a small Quaker college in California, and
she was also a member, back in 1939.
I saw Mrs. Roosevelt once. I met Mrs.
Truman once in a receiving line when I
came here, along with Mrs. Nixon, when
we had just come to Washington. But
then, of course, during the Eisenhower
years and after, we have known the First
Ladies and what they have contributed to
this house. Mrs. Eisenhower, Mrs. Ken-
nedy, Mrs. Johnson, and, of course, Mrs.
Nixon each has made a contribution;
each has left the house with that per-
sonal feeling and the personal touch that
only a lady can give to a great house like
this.
But in order for them to do it, let me
say, it would not have been possible
without the personal contributions that
you have made. It would have been so
much easier simply to go down to the
Congress and to have a certain amount
of money appropriated to buy all the
things that we need to buy and then to
see what would be the result. The result
would be a house that was a government
house, like the other government build-
ings and the other government houses
around the world.
Because each of these rooms, and vir-
tually every item in them, through the
years, has come from an individual, from
a person, it has meant that this house has
a character and a personality which all
Americans feel, which our visitors from
abroad appreciate, which you have made
possible.
So, on behalf of America, all of the
visitors, particularly all the young people
who come here and look with wonder at
these rooms, thank you very, very much.
I am sure you will understand that
under the circumstances I will want to
return to the office to see what the situa-
tion is with regard to Governor Wallace's
condition, which we all hope will be
better.
We do hope, however, that those of you
who have come from so far will move
through this house as if it were your own,
because it is, really. You helped to make it
what it is. Mrs. Nixon will be here to
receive you in the Blue Room, the last
room to be redone, perhaps the most
famous room in the house, the one where
President was married, Grover
Cleveland, and the one where, inciden-
tally-and this is a bit of historical refer-
ence-where President Rutherford Hayes
received the first Chinese diplomatic rep-
resentative to the United States of
America.
In this year when we have attempted
to open a new dialogue with the leaders of
800 million people who live in the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, it is significant,
it seems to me, that the room where the
first Chinese representative was received
by an American President is the one that
will be open tonight for your viewing.
Thank you very much. I hope we meet
on another occasion when we will not
have the kind of news that I had to re-
port tonight.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:22 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Guests at the reception included sponsors,
donors, and lenders to the White House collec-
tion; the trustees of libraries, museums, foun-
dations, universities, and historical societies
which have given or lent furnishings and paint-
ings to the White House; and members of the
Committee for the Preservation of the White
House and the White House Historical Asso-
ciation.
592
