Richard Nixon, 1972
Dec. 26 [430]
tific realities, we deal in industrial capac-
ity, and technological expertise, and in the
belief that men can do whatever they turn
their hands to. For all this, however, can
we look at the record of 24 men sent to
circle the Moon or to stand upon it, and
24 men returned to Earth alive and well,
and not see God's hand in it?
Perhaps, in spite of ourselves, we do
still live in an age of miracles. So if there
is self-congratulation, let it be tempered
with awe, and our pride with prayer, and
as we enter this special time of spiritual
significance, let us reserve a moment to
wonder at what human beings have done
in space and to be grateful.
NOTE: The President telephoned Astronauts
Cernan, Schmitt, and Evans aboard the U.S.S.
Ticonderoga in the Pacific, following splash-
down of the Apollo 17 command module
"America," to express his personal congratula-
tions on the successful completion of their
mission.
430 Statement on the Death of Harry S Truman.
December 26, 1972
HARRY S TRUMAN will be remem-
bered as one of the most courageous Presi-
dents in our history, who led the Nation
and the world through a critical period
with exceptional vision and determina-
tion.
Our hopes today for a generation of
peace rest in large measure on the firm
foundations that he laid.
Recognizing the new threat to peace
that had emerged from the ashes of war,
he stood boldly against it with his exten-
sion of aid to Greece and Turkey in
1947-and the "Truman Doctrine" thus
established was crucial to the defense of
liberty in Europe and the world. In
launching the Marshall Plan, he began
the most farsighted and most generous act
of international rebuilding ever under-
taken. With his characteristically decisive
action in Korea, he made possible the de-
fense of peace and freedom in Asia.
He was a fighter who was at his best
when the going was toughest. Like all
political leaders, he had his friends and
his opponents. But friends and opponents
alike were unanimous in respecting him
for his enormous courage, and for the
spirit that saw him through whatever the
odds. Whether in a political campaign
or making the great decisions in foreign
policy, they recognized and admired
him-in a description he himself might
have appreciated the most-as a man of
"guts."
Embroiled in controversy during his
Presidency, his stature in the eyes of his-
tory has risen steadily ever since. He did
what had to be done, when it had to be
done, and because he did the world today
is a better and safer place-and genera-
tions to come will be in his debt.
It is with affection and respect that a
grateful Nation now says farewell to "the
man from Independence”—to its thirty-
third President, Harry S Truman.
NOTE: Former President Harry S Truman, 88,
died after a long illness at Research Hospital
in Kansas City, Mo.
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
On December 27, 1972, the President and
Mrs. Nixon placed a wreath at President Tru-
man's bier in the Truman Library in Independ-
ence, Mo. They later called at the Truman
home to express their sympathy.
1159
