Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 29 [107]
want and deserve from the public proc-
esses of any year, an election year espe-
cially? More effective government. One
way they seek to get it is by calling the
officials who run the government to ac-
count at the polls, as is being done in 1972.
Another way is by regulating the Federal
purse strings through their elected repre-
sentatives in the Congress, as is also being
done in 1972. Yet this necessary periodic
scrutiny of men and money alone will not
reach the heart of the problem. For it is
axiomatic among those who know Wash-
ington best that, as I pointed out in my
earlier message on this subject, "the
major cause of the ineffectiveness of gov-
ernment is not a matter of men or of
money (but) principally a matter of
machinery." We cannot, therefore, in
good conscience hold out to the people
the hope that this will be a year of change
for the better, if we fail to come to grips
with reform of government's jerry-built
mechanisms.
Institutional structure here in Wash-
ington tends to coast along all too com-
fortably under the protection of an inertia
which does not shield elected officials and
public expenditures. These last come up
for renewal every one, two, four, or six
years; not so the structure, which en-
dures with little or no burden of proof
for its own worthiness to continue. Now,
though, the structure has been weighed
in the balances and found wanting.
In less sweeping reorganizations than
the one I am urging, of course, a Presi-
dent can institute changes through plans
submitted under the Reorganization Act,
whereby the burden of proof rests with
defenders of the status quo. However such
authority no longer extends to the crea-
tion, consolidation, or abolition of execu-
tive departments. In any event we would
have felt it wise to submit so massive a
reform as this one for regular statutory
enactment, so as to permit consideration
of amendments and to provide time for
full hearings and review. My hope now
is that the Congress will honor the best
spirit of democratic change by electing
now, in this election year, to modernize
the executive structure and redeem the
flagging public faith in our ability to order
our national affairs effectively.
AN OPPORTUNITY WE MUST NOT LOSE
Considerations of practicality, equally
with those of principle, make the present
time the best time to move ahead on this
reform. The efforts of the past several
years have amassed significant momen-
tum toward overcoming the inertia which
protects obsolete institutions. My pro-
posals of last March 25 have behind them
the weight of two years' exhaustive study
and analysis by my Advisory Council on
Executive Organization, and behind that
the substantially similar recommenda-
tions of President Johnson's Task Forces
of 1964 and 1967 on Government Or-
ganization. Since I laid those proposals
before the Congress, the Administration
and the Government Operations Com-
mittees in both Houses have made further
headway on perfecting the reform legis-
lation. A spirit of cooperation has been
established; good faith and constructive
attitudes have been demonstrated on all
sides. We must not let these gains go to
waste.
The pace
of progress so far has not been
disappointing, for no measure this broad
and this complex can or should be pushed
through the Congress overnight. What
would be deeply disappointing, though-
to me, and far more importantly to mil-
507
