Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 7 [250]
to the potential environmental impacts of
proposed Federal actions. Already this
changed emphasis has led to reconsidera-
tion of some projects, improvements of
many others, and, overall, a far more
thoughtful and comprehensive planning
process. Our requirement that this whole
process of environmental analysis must be
open to the public for examination and
comments—well before proposed actions
are taken-is providing a new and more
open dimension to Government. We can
be proud of this record of improved citizen
participation in the vital process of public
decision-making.
The level of Federal funding for envi-
ronmental protection has never been
higher. In the four years since fiscal year
1969, Federal outlays for environmental
protection have increased fivefold. Fund-
ing for cleanup of pollution at Federal
facilities has increased from a $52 million
annual level at the outset of my Admin-
istration to my 1973 budget of $315
million.
Regulatory and enforcement actions
have accelerated dramatically over the
past four years. The number of criminal
actions taken by the Justice Department
against water polluters was increased four
fold-from 46 to 191-between 1968 and
1971. EPA has taken action to halt harm-
ful discharges into Lake Superior and
shut down major industries during an air
pollution crisis in Birmingham, Alabama.
In our long-term determination to pro-
vide tangible benefits for our children and
grandchildren, we have created the
Legacy of Parks program. Over 140 Fed-
eral properties have already been made
available for park and recreation use, cov-
ering more than 20,000 acres in thirty-nine
states and Puerto Rico. Most of these nat-
ural retreats are located in and near cities
where the need for open space is greatest.
The estimated fair market value of these
properties is almost $100 million. In addi-
tion, we proposed major urban parks at
gateways to both of our coasts-New
York City and San Francisco. These two
parks would comprise almost 50,000 acres,
including valuable cultural, historic, and
recreation assets accessible to millions of
people.
My Administration has tackled a host of
controversial issues of environmental pro-
tection. We have limited oil drilling in the
Santa Barbara Channel off the Califor-
nia coast. We helped protect the Ever-
glades in Florida by stopping a proposed
jetport. In addition, I proposed legislation
to acquire interests in the Big Cypress
Swamp to protect the Everglades' water
supply. We halted the Cross-Florida
Barge Canal and are considering the in-
clusion of the Oklawaha River in the
system of scenic and wild rivers. And we
have restricted use of DDT almost solely
to public health purposes. We stopped
the use of poisons on public lands. And we
stopped all commercial whaling by the
United States as well as all imports of
whale products into this country. These
are examples of the rigorous executive
action taken by my Administration to pro-
tect the environment.
NEW LAWS WE NEED
New legislation is still badly needed in
a number of areas, and in a series of en-
vironmental messages to Congress I have
set forth a comprehensive legislative pro-
gram designed to clean up the inherited
problems of the past and to deal with
emerging problems before they become
critical. Many of these problem areas are
defined in this Annual Report. To date,
765
