[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
raised from $2,500 or 10 percent of earned
income, whichever is less, to the lesser of
$7,500 or 15 percent of earned income.
3. Requiring the vesting of pensions.
Persons who have worked for an employer
for a significant period should be able to
retain their pension rights even if they
leave or lose their jobs before retirement.
Unfortunately, many workers do not now
have this assurance-their pensions are
not vested. To change this situation, I
have proposed a new law under which all
pensions would become vested as an em-
ployee's age and seniority increased.
Under this law, the share of participants
in private pension plans with vested pen-
sions would rise from 31 percent to 47
percent and the overall number of em-
ployees with vested rights would increase
by 3.6 million. Most importantly, among
participants age 45 and older, the per-
centage with vested pensions would rise
from 60 percent to 92 percent.
4. The Employee Benefits Protection
Act. This legislation was first proposed to
the Congress in March of 1970; it was
strengthened and resubmitted in 1971. It
would require that pension funds be ad-
ministered under strict fiduciary stand-
ards and would provide certain Federal
remedies when they are not. It would also
require that plans provide full informa-
tion to employees and beneficiaries con-
cerning their rights and benefits.
5. A study of pension plan termina-
tions. In my December message, I also
directed the Departments of Labor and
the Treasury to undertake a one-year
study concerning the extent of benefit
losses which result from the termination
of private pension plans. This study will
provide the information we need in order
to make solid recommendations in this
field, providing needed protection with-
out reducing benefits because of increased
costs.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES: THE BURDEN
OF HEALTH COSTS
Growing old often means both declin-
ing income and declining health. And de-
clining health, in turn, means rising ex-
penditures for health care. Per capita
health expenditures in fiscal year 1971
were $861 for persons 65 and older, but
only $250 for persons under 65. In short,
older Americans often find that they must
pay their highest medical bills at the very
time in their lives when they are least able
to afford them.
Medicare, of course, is now providing
significant assistance in meeting this prob-
lem for most older Americans. In fiscal
year 1971, this program accounted for 62
percent of their expenditures for hospital
and physicians services and 42 percent of
their total health payments. In addition,
an estimated 40 percent of Medicaid ex-
penditures go to support the health costs
of the elderly, while other programs pro-
vide significant additional assistance.
But serious problems still remain. Ac-
cordingly, this Administration has been
working in a number of ways to provide
even more help for the elderly in the
health-care field. One of our most im-
portant proposals is now pending before
the Congress. I refer to the recommenda-
tion I made more than a year ago that the
Congress combine part B of Medicare-
the supplementary medical insurance
program, with part A-the hospital insur-
ance program, thus eliminating the spe-
cial monthly premium which older per-
sons must pay to participate in part B-
a premium which will reach $5.80 per
month by July. I have reaffirmed my com-
B-
470
