Appendix E
done in the managing of public lands, and we
are announcing today that he is returning to
the private practice of law. He is moving on to
other interests that he has. So Harrison Loesch
will be leaving the position of Assistant Sec-
retary for Public Land Management at the
Department of the Interior.
Also, Louis R. Bruce, Commissioner of
Indian Affairs in the Department of the In-
terior, will be leaving his post. He was ap-
pointed to his position in August of 1969.
Announcing Intention To Nominate Under
Secretaries of the Interior and Transportation
December 9, 1972
I have several announcements to make today
relating to sub-Cabinet positions.
The President will nominate Dr. John C.
Whitaker to be Under Secretary of the In-
terior. He will succeed the late Dr. William T.
Pecora. John Whitaker, since August of 1969,
has served as Deputy Assistant to the President
for the environment, natural resources, and
energy policy. He has been involved in those
areas, working on the Domestic Council staff.
He was Secretary of the Cabinet from Janu-
ary to August of 1969 and has long been in-
volved, as you know, on the staff of President
Nixon.
The President is highly pleased to be nomi-
nating a man with John Whitaker's impressive
scientific and governmental experience for this
very important position in the Department of
the Interior. John Whitaker received his edu-
cation at Georgetown University and at Johns
Hopkins, where he earned his doctorate degree
in geology in 1953. From 1953 until the time
he joined the Administration, he pursued a
career in geological exploration, geophysical
surveying, and natural resources engineering
in various parts of the country.
In the Administration, John Whitaker has
coordinated policymaking for the President in
such matters as the President's environmental
policy messages to the Congress, the 1971
energy message to the Congress, and the re-
organization plans creating the Environmental
Protection Agency and the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.
So John Whitaker will be nominated Under
Secretary of the Interior, succeeding the late
Dr. William T. Pecora.
Moving to the Department of Transporta-
tion, the President will nominate Egil "Bud"
Krogh, Jr., to be Under Secretary of Trans-
portation, succeeding James M. Beggs. Mr.
Beggs will return to private life, but he has
agreed to serve as a consultant during the
transition period.
Bud Krogh has been Deputy Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs since No-
vember 1969. He also served as Assistant
Director of the staff of the Domestic Council,
where his policy responsibilities have included
transportation, narcotics control, corrections
and legal services, and liaison with the District
of Columbia.
The President feels that Bud's fine perform-
ance in all of these assignments assures that he
will play a strong and constructive role in ad-
vancing us toward a solution of the transpor-
tation problems which still face the Nation.
Bud Krogh holds a degree from Principia
College, Elsah, Illinois, and the University of
Washington in Seattle, where he received his
law degree in 1968.
Incidentally, I should mention to you, in
speaking of Bud Krogh, that he played a key
role in the solution of the Capital's transpor-
tation problem, working very closely with the
District of Columbia and with the Congress
on the modern transit system which is now
underway in the District of Columbia. So he
has been involved extensively in dealing with
transportation problems in his role at the White
House, specifically, the District of Columbia
transportation problem.
Announcing the President's Decisions on Key
Agriculture Department Officials and Deputy
Secretary of Defense
December 12, 1972
We have several announcements to make
this morning regarding the sub-Cabinet for the
second term concerning the Department of
Agriculture. I have the following decisions to
announce relating to the Department of
Agriculture:
First, Under Secretary J. Phil Campbell,
who has served very ably as second in com-
E-15
