Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
Nothing will be more essential to the
maintenance of our strength in the re-
mainder of the 1970's than the quality
and dedication of the men who choose a
military career. In order to attract men
who meet the highest standards, we must
strengthen the vitality of the armed forces.
This is the responsibility of every service.
We must also bolster respect for the mili-
tary profession in our society. This is the
responsibility of every citizen.
SECURITY ASSISTANCE
...
"These security assistance programs
critically affect our ability to meet our
bilateral and collective security commit-
ments. They are central to the achieve-
ment of major objectives of U.S. national
security and foreign policy."
Message to Congress on the
U.S. Foreign Assistance Program
April 21, 1971
Security assistance is a cornerstone of
our foreign policy and of Free World
security, as it has been ever since the early
days of the Second World War. Our pro-
grams have adapted to changing circum-
stances, but our purpose has remained
steadfast—to assist those willing to work
for peace and progress. Our friends are
demonstrating the ability and willingness
to shoulder a larger share of the common
effort, but their material resources fre-
quently are inadequate. They do not seek
American forces; they do ask for the
equipment and supplies which they them-
selves cannot provide.
In the first of these foreign policy state-
ments two years ago I spoke of three basic
principles of our foreign policy: partner-
ship, strength, and a willingness to nego-
tiate. It was with these principles in mind
that in July 1969, at Guam, I enunciated
the policy which has come to be known as
the Nixon Doctrine. The essence of this
approach is that the U.S. will fulfill its
commitments, while looking to its friends
and allies to play a greater role in provid-
ing for their own defense.
The effectiveness of local deterrence
and defense is, in the last analysis, meas-
ured by the will and effort of the threat-
ened country. For unless a country
mobilizes its own psychological, human,
and material resources, our assistance can-
not be effective. Given that will and effort,
however, our assistance can make the
critical difference-to the security of the
threatened nation and to world stability
and peace. This is especially significant in
areas where the United States is reducing
its military presence. Part of the role of
deterrence and defense which our forces
have long filled is now being assumed by
local or regional forces. But to do so, they
must have our help.
Some of our friends do not have re-
sources sufficient for both development
and defense. They face a dilemma: to
devote scarce resources to defense and
thereby sacrifice development progress—
or to emphasize economic development,
hoping their security will not be threat-
ened or that others will defend them. Our
assistance can help these countries through
this difficult stage until their own hard
work and determination-supplemented
by our economic and security aid-enable
them to assume the costs of both depend-
able defense and steady development. To
encourage others to make such efforts
while refusing to provide the resources
they require to stand on their own would
be both illogical and self-defeating. The
315
