Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
To tap the humanitarian concern of the
people of the United States for the better-
ment of people's lives in the hemisphere.
This humane concern for people and peo-
ple's lives is an enduring commitment and
a vast resource. It runs far deeper than
foreign policies and political relations, and
sustains them all.
AFRICA
"The potential of Africa is great, but
so are its problems. We view Africa with
the strongest of goodwill, tempered by the
sober recognition of the limits of the con-
tribution which we can make to many of
its problems. We look to African leader-
ship to build the framework within which
other nations, including the United States,
can fully contribute to a bright African
future. A peaceful, progressive, and just
Africa is an exciting and worthy goal. We
hope by our policies to facilitate economic
progress in one part of Africa, human and
social justice in the other, and peace in
both."
U.S. Foreign Policy for the 1970's
A Report to the Congress
February 25, 1971
We owe it to ourselves and to Africa to
define clearly and to state candidly Amer-
ican interests, aims and possibilities in the
African Continent. We owe it to ourselves
and to the Africans to understand clearly
their aims and priorities.
Our African diplomacy, including my
own meetings these past three years with
the leaders of 14 African nations, has been
directed to the establishment of an honest
relationship with the peoples and govern-
ments of the continent.
Africa is in its second decade of emanci-
pation from colonial rule and the achieve-
ments of independent Africa have been
impressive:
-Despite great obstacles, African states
have maintained their political inde-
pendence and territorial integrity.
-Though progress was uneven, a num-
ber of African states have taken sig-
nificant strides to broaden their eco-
nomic base and to develop untapped
resources.
-In the face of overwhelming domestic
strains, African leaders in the main
have succeeded in moving toward in-
ternal consolidation.
-Despite great ethnic diversity and un-
natural geographic divisions, Afri-
cans have created new regional insti-
tutions to grapple with common
problems.
Africans, however, still face two awe-
some problems:
-The hope for modernization is
spreading across Africa more rapidly
than the means to assure its realiza-
tion. The problems created by slender
resources of capital and skilled man-
power are aggravated by the narrow
scope of national economies. Many
African countries face a harsh choice
between policies involving coopera-
tion with others which hold realistic
promise of growth—and the jealous
guarding of unmitigated sovereignty.
-The quest
of southern Africa's black
majorities for full participation in
their countries' political and eco-
nomic life continues to meet minority
intransigence and repression, and to
divert African attention from the
problems of development.
267
