Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [269]
to the Soviet Union. Mrs. Nixon and I laid
a wreath at the Polish War Memorial, and
then we got into our car and started to
move through the huge crowds over to the
residence, and there were such big crowds
and they were cheering and we stopped
the car. We got out for a minute to talk
to the people.
Now look at Poland. Here is a country
that for 25 years has had a Communist
government, a government different from
ours in its philosophy. Here is a country
that for 25 years has not heard too much.
that is favorable to the United States of
America. But when we got out of that car
the people swarmed around. They shook
hands. Some of them cried. And they said,
"Niech zyje Ameryka." It means "Long
live America." They then said, "Sto lat,
sto lat." That means, may you live 100
years.
They didn't do that for me or for Mrs.
Nixon. They did it because they love
America. And let me say, let you in the
Eisenhower High School set as your goal
participating in your government to make
it a government worth loving, worth re-
spect in the world. Let you participate in
your government so that America can play
a role in building a peaceful world, peace
for you and your children in the years to
come, because, let us always be worthy of
the faith, the confidence, the hope, of our
own people and the people of the world.
I dedicate this high school, then, to the
teachers whom I hope you will learn from,
who devote so much to you. I dedicate it
also to the memory of a man and of the
country he loved, and I hope you will al-
ways honor and love your country. And I
dedicate it finally to your parents. Remem-
ber, they have sacrificed a great deal for
you to be here.
My father only finished the fifth grade.
He wanted to go on to school but his
mother died. They were very poor, and he
had to go to work. His greatest desire for
his children was for them to get a college
education because he only finished the
fifth grade.
I remember, sometimes people would
remark he didn't have very good gram-
mar. That didn't matter. What mattered
to me was not the words but the heart and
the character.
Be proud of your parents. Be proud of
your school and love your country.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. in the
gymnasium of the high school. He spoke in part
from a prepared text.
269 Statement About Pending Legislation on School
Busing. August 24, 1972
IN CONNECTION with this visit to the
Detroit area, I should call attention to a
recent court decision which emphasizes
the need for speedy Congressional action.
In March, I proposed to Congress two
bills to stop excessive busing.
I proposed these bills because educa-
tion, not transportation, is the name of the
game. Busing forced by a court to achieve
an arbitrary racial balance is wrong. It
adds nothing whatever to the children's
learning. An hour and a half a day on a
bus will, if anything, impair the education
process, whatever a child's race or color.
Shuffling our youngsters about in this
way weakens the neighborhood school. I
80g
