Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 30 [31]
tice, I hope, in the highest sense, my
profession.
Also, I was on the Council's staff last
year and I left Friday, August 13, which
was, for many, many reasons, a bad time
to leave. [Laughter] In fact, may I tell
you a little story about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
MRS. WHITMAN. When I was just
packing up, I left the Council and had a
call from a member of the Council staff on
Sunday the 15th, saying, "Be sure and
watch your television set tonight, because
the President is really going to drop a
bomb." My 8-year-old daughter said, "He
is? Where?" I just wish all bombs could
be as productive as that particular one.
In any case, I really feel I am coming
home to work again with Herb and Ezra
Solomon and I am very grateful to you,
Mr. President, for inviting me back.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are happy
to have you and I think this is, first, a very
important assignment as the Council's
work this year, which must be not only a
very good year, but also it is a period in
which we feel that it is very important to
get on the Council a variety of experience,
31
a broad base of experience and that we
are accomplishing.
MR. STEIN. Marina will work in two of
the most vital areas for this year. She will
do our international economics and with
the experience she has, she will conduct
our relations mainly with the price-wage
control system, on which she is now an ex-
pert, since she has been a member of the
Price Commission for 3 months and that
is more experience than anybody else has.
So, she has a lot to do and we are counting
very heavily on her.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:14 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
A White House announcement containing
biographical information on Mrs. Whitman was
released on the same day and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 150). The White House also released
the transcript of a news conference by Herbert
Stein, Chairman, Council of Economic Ad-
visers, Mrs. Whitman, and Barbara H. Franklin,
Staff Assistant to the President for Executive
Manpower, on the nomination.
On March 13, 1972, Mrs. Whitman was
sworn in as a member of the Council in a cere-
mony at the White House.
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring Robert J. Brown, Special
Assistant to the President.
Mr. Mason, and all of the distinguished
guests at the head table:
There are as many at the head table as
there are in the audience, believe me-
look at that.
I know this is an interruption of this
beautiful dinner tonight. Although I had
another engagement for which I was al-
ready dressed when I got the call from
Don Rumsfeld and Maurice Stans that
January 30, 1972
they were honoring Bob Brown, I said, "I
will come over." And I am glad to be here.
Everybody in this audience rightly fig-
ures that whenever the President of the
United States makes a speech, he probably
had it all figured out in advance. I can
tell you that tonight this is off the cuff; it
is from the heart. And I want to say a few
things about Bob Brown, about those who
honor him here, and about this audience.
121
