Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 2 [36]
and I have used every remedy at my com-
mand, but to no avail. The Taft-Hartley
machinery has been tried, and it has
failed. Two extensions in time have been
arranged by Government mediators, and
twice the mediators' efforts have fallen
short. And I have met personally with
the parties. Yet this strike has resumed.
In my view, it is abundantly clear that
present legislation is inadequate and that
we need comprehensive solutions.
Only now are we beginning to realize
the full damages of the first 100-day strike
which closed down the West Coast ports
between July 1 and October 9, 1971. I re-
counted some of these losses to the Con-
gress in my message 12 days ago, but the
facts bear emphasis:
-It is estimated that American exports
would have been $600 million higher
during this 100-day period except for the
work stoppage.
-The strike was particularly hard on
our farmers, who have been exporting the
product of one cropland acre out of four.
During the June-September period, farm
exports from the West Coast dropped
from $288 million in the same period in
1970 to $73 million in 1971.
-Wheat farmers suffered the worst
calamities of all, as their sales to major
Far Eastern markets fell off drastically.
Japan, for instance, purchases over 50
percent of her wheat from the United
States. Since April, we have lost sales to
Japan of at least 25 million bushels of
wheat valued at $40 million. Ominously,
the day after the strike resumed last
month, the Japanese purchased 8.7 mil-
lion bushels of wheat for a spring delivery,
but only 1.6 million bushels were bought
from the United States.
-Our merchant fleet also sustained
heavy losses, as did exporters of vege-
tables, rice, cotton, and livestock, and
wood products, and numerous related in-
dustries.
APPALLING HUMAN COSTS
Overall, the 100-day strike thrust a
spike into our progress toward economic
recovery, threatened our balance of pay-
ments, and undermined the confidence of
foreign buyers who need to rely upon
dependable deliveries. But the most ap-
palling costs were in human terms-those
tens of thousands who were not parties to
the dispute but suffered because of it.
Those same people are suffering need-
lessly again, as the costs of resuming the
strike begin to mount. I met yesterday
with the Governors of California and
Washington, whose States along with
Oregon lost an estimated total of $23.5
million a day during the 100-day strike,
and they have reported to me that the
cost of this resumption is intolerable to
their economies. The State of Hawaii is
also beginning to feel the punishment. If
the strike persists for several weeks, we
can anticipate a significant increase in
unemployment on the West Coast and
huge financial losses for many people
across the country.
We can and must end this dispute. Be-
cause the parties have already been bar-
gaining under different ground rules for
many months, I do not think it would be
fair or wise in this case to impose the
"final offer selection" solution which I am
proposing in the more comprehensive
Crippling Strikes Prevention Act. I also
see no merit in another "cooling-off" ex-
87-234-74—13
141
