[341] Oct. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
On October 2, 1972, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
proposed ceiling on Federal spending by John
D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs, and Caspar W. Weinberger,
Director, Office of Management and Budget.
342 Remarks at a Columbus Day Dinner.
October 8, 1972
Mr. Secretary, all of the distinguished
guests at the head table, and all of the dis-
tinguished guests on this occasion here in
Washington:
I consider it a very great privilege to
come in to your dinner right at the dessert
course and to participate in it in a way
that I think not only honors the man we
are going to honor, but honors the office
of the President of the United States.
An award is being made tonight, I
understand, for the first time by this orga-
nization. It is Amerito's Outstanding Citi-
zen Award. All of you know to whom that
award is going to be made. He is sitting
here at this head table, along with his
wife, and so, consequently, it will be no
surprise when I read the citation. I will
speak briefly about him. He will respond
as he receives the award, and then I will
have the opportunity to speak to you
briefly about the general subject that
brings you all here together on this occa-
sion, and annually.
But first about Peter Fosco. You can
honor him tonight as one of the great
leaders of American labor-500,000 men
and women are members of his organiza-
tion. You can honor him tonight as one
of the great civic leaders of this country.
He is one who participates in the Knights
of Columbus and all of its civic activities,
as Mr. McDevitt ยน will tell you. He is one
also who is active in all kinds of youth
ยน John W. McDevitt was Supreme Knight of
the Knights of Columbus.
work-in the Boy Scouts of America, in
the Catholic Youth Organization, and I
think perhaps even more than this award,
he will be proud all of his life that he has
done so much for youth that a park for
youth has been named for him in Chicago,
Fosco Park.
Tonight you honor him because he is
one of the millions of Americans of Italian
background who have succeeded-suc-
ceeded here in this country in his chosen
profession. Let me say that I could refer
to him tonight as an Italian, but taking a
cue from the name of this organization,
all of you in this room are rightly proud of
your Italian background, but all of you
in this room are also very proud that you
are Americans.
So now I read the words from the
award:
"This award is proudly presented to an
outstanding American who has brought
honor to his Italian heritage, to Peter
Fosco, the General President of the La-
borers International Union of North
America, in recognition of his many years
of devotion to the interests and advance-
ment of the members of his organization
and the working men and women of
America.
This plaque is tendered with deep ap-
preciation and gratitude for his many
years of silent, unselfish and untiring
service.
From Antonio M. Martinelli, the Pres-
ident of Amerito."
968
