Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
for greatly improved means of fertility
control.
PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT
The earth's resources of air and water
are not as we used to think-unlimited.
There is a common requirement of man-
kind for fresh air, clean water, and uncon-
taminated soil. This interest is threatened,
and the international community must
respond to the challenge. Discussions were
held in a variety of forums last year, and
we should expect soon to see results begin-
ning to emerge.
Preparations are well underway for the
UN Conference on the Human Environ-
ment to be held in Stockholm this June.
We expect the Conference to encourage
global monitoring of the oceans, the at-
mosphere, and the ecological systems. The
Conference will also focus attention on
such immediate practical problems as
managing urban areas, providing potable
water, and disposing of solid waste.
As a contribution toward specific ac-
complishment, the United States has in-
troduced a draft convention on ocean
dumping and is participating in the de-
velopment of a World Heritage Trust
Convention, both for possible completion
at Stockholm. We hope the Stockholm
Conference will also bring greater sup-
port for an international agreement to
protect endangered species.
Cooperation on the pressing problems
of modern society has become an impor-
tant third dimension of the Atlantic Al-
liance. NATO's Committee on the Chal-
lenges of Modern Society (CCMS),
established at our suggestion in 1969, con-
tinues to develop new initiatives in such
fields as advanced health care services,
waste treatment, and urban problems. As
a result of a CCMS road safety project,
all major automobile producing countries
are now developing experimental safety
vehicles designed to reduce auto injury
rates worldwide. Agreement has been
reached on a systems approach to air
pollution problems, including jointly de-
veloped air quality criteria based on
health factors, and the CCMS initiative
to eliminate oil spills has stimulated
broader international attention to that
problem.
An Environmental Committee of the
Organization of Economic Cooperation
and Development was established in 1970.
The United States has taken the lead in
seeking guidelines that would avoid trade
problems that could result from national
measures to abate pollution. The Com-
mittee has also arranged for systematic
consultation on government action to con-
trol the use of chemicals, including pesti-
cides, and is now considering general
guidelines for government policies in this
field.
The Economic Commission for Europe
held a symposium on the environment in
Prague last May, and took steps to pro-
mote East-West cooperation to deal with
common environmental problems.
Significant progress was made last year
to combat the oil pollution of the world's
oceans and shorelines. In October, the
major maritime nations adopted regula-
tions on the size of tanks in oil tankers,
which will reduce the spillage of oil as a
result of accidents. We are negotiating ac-
tively on a new convention to ban all
intentional discharges from vessels. And
we have successfully concluded two con-
ventions which will provide rapid and
certain compensation, on a strict liability
basis, to victims damaged by oil spills.
In addition to these multilateral efforts,
339
