[2] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
2
Remarks to Workers at the National Steel and
Shipbuilding Company in San Diego, California.
January 4, 1972
Mr. Banks, Secretary Gibson, Mayor Wil-
son, and men and women of National:
It is a very great privilege for me to be
here today. I just flew in from Washing-
ton last night, and it is good to be here on
this beautiful California day, right here in
San Diego. And it is particularly good to
be here because of the reason that I am
coming here.
I am not going to bore you with the sta-
tistics and with a lot of history about how
it came about that these ships are going
to be built here in this yard, but I think
just to give you a feeling of what it means,
of how important this moment is to you,
to those of you who have jobs, to this yard
and its future, and to this country, I think
it is well perhaps to spend just a moment
on what this occasion is and how it came
about.
In 1968, when I was speaking in
Seattle at a yard-a pretty empty yard, as
a matter of fact-I spoke about the U.S.
merchant marine and, you know, when
you make a speech, you do a little studying
to find out a little about the subject, be-
cause you figure the people you are talk-
ing to know more about it than you do,
and they usually do.
What I found was that at that particu-
lar time, the United States merchant
marine was in very great trouble. I found,
for example, that three-fourths of all
American-built ships then in use were
more than 20 years of age, whereas, only
one-fourth of all ships in the world then
in use were more than 20 years of age.
In that kind of competition, we were a
born loser, because our ships were too old,
they were too inefficient, and new na-
tions-as a matter of fact, some of the na-
tions with whom we had been allies in
World War II and who had been our
enemies in World War II-had built these
ships that were now driving us into a sec-
ond-class position around the world.
I felt that we ought to do something
about it. When I was elected I made a
proposal in 1969 about the American mer-
chant marine. In 1970, the Congress in a
bipartisan action, Republicans and Demo-
crats joining together because they could
see that this was bigger than any partisan-
ship, overwhelmingly approved that
proposal.
In 1971, the plans went forward under
men like Mr. Gibson, Secretary Stans, and
all the others in Government interested in
this, until we are now beginning to let the
contracts. As a matter of fact, some have
already been let.
Today, $54 million in contracts will be
signed by Mr. Gibson for here, the Todd
Shipyards in Long Beach will have $60
million worth of contracts, and others will
follow in other parts of the country.
Now, just let me say a word about what
this all means, and why it is important.
I know that it is kind of fashionable some-
times these days to say, "What difference
does it make whether the United States is
number one in air transport, or number
one in the merchant marine," or what
have you.
The answer is: It makes a good deal of
difference. We don't have to be number
one in everything, but we have to try to
be. Because whenever a nation or a person
18
