[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
In June of 1971, at a regional conven-
tion of the National Retired Teachers As-
sociation and the American Association of
Retired Persons, I pledged to meet the
challenge of upgrading nursing home care
in America. I expressed my determina-
tion that nursing homes, for those who
need them, should be shining symbols of
comfort and concern. I noted that many
such facilities provide high quality care,
but that many others fall woefully short
of this standard. I observed that those who
must live in such facilities are virtual pris-
oners in an atmosphere of neglect and
degradation.
Following that speech, I directed the
development of an action plan to improve
nursing home care and I announced that
8-point plan in August of 1971. I am
pleased to be able to report that we have
made significant progress in carrying out
that plan. We have delivered on all of the
eight promises implied in that program.
Let us look at each of them:
1. Training State Nursing Home In-
spectors-Through February of 1972,
almost 450 surveyors had been trained in
federally-sponsored programs at three
universities. Contract negotiations are
underway to continue ongoing programs
and to establish new ones at two university
training centers.
2. Complete Federal Support of State
Inspections Under Medicaid-Legislation
to raise the level of financial participation
by the Federal Government in this activity
to 100 percent was submitted to the Con-
gress on October 7, 1971, as an amend-
ment to H.R. 1. This proposal is awaiting
Congressional action.
3. Consolidation of Enforcement Activ-
ities-A new Office of Nursing Home
Affairs has been established in the Office
of the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare. This unit is directly responsible
for coordinating all efforts to meet our
July 1, 1972, deadline for inspections of
skilled nursing homes and for certification
of these facilities in accordance with
proper procedures.
4. Strengthening Federal Enforcement-
142 new positions have been allocated
to the Medical Services Administration
to enforce Medicaid standards and regu-
lations. Added emphasis is being placed
on the audit process as a tool for enforce-
ment: 34 additional positions are being
added in HEW's Audit Agency to perform
audits of nursing home operations.
5. Short-term Training for Professional
and Paraprofessional Nursing Home Per-
sonnel-This program is currently funded
at the $2.4 million level and is scheduled
to train 20,000 persons. The fiscal year
1973 budget which I submitted to the
Congress contains $3 million to train an
additional 21,000 persons.
6. Assistance for State Investigative
Units-A program to develop and test in-
vestigative-ombudsman units to respond
to individual complaints and to other
problems in the nursing home area has
also been initiated. As an interim mecha-
nism, nearly 900 social security district and
branch offices have been designated as
listening posts to receive and investigate
complaints and suggestions about nursing
home conditions.
7. Comprehensive Review of Long-term
Care-The Office of Nursing Home Af-
fairs is now carrying out a comprehensive
analysis of issues related to long-term care.
8. Cracking Down on Substandard
Nursing Homes-Progress is also being
made on this important front. Last De-
cember I signed legislation which, among
other things, authorizes Federal quality
standards for intermediate care facilities,
474
