[45] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
world's markets, thereby providing jobs
for American workers.
During the late fifties and early sixties
our annual rate of increase in labor
pro-
ductivity averaged 3.4 percent. But by the
mid-sixties it had begun its drop to an
average of only 1.8 percent.
We are taking important steps to revive
the productivity of American labor. Our
New Economic Policy is shrinking the
bulge of inflation. We are proposing a new
program to promote technological prog-
ress for advances in research and de-
velopment are essential ingredients of
rising productivity. But technological
advance is not the whole story: increases
in the skills of our labor force also play a
large part.
We are not interested in the competi-
tiveness of our labor force for its own sake.
We are concerned about the individual
American-concerned that he learn the
skills to gain employment or learn more
skills to gain better employment. We are
concerned about the health of our
economy, knowing that a strong, highly
productive economy is the individual
American's best insurance against unem-
ployment. This is why the Federal Gov-
ernment provides manpower training-to
increase the opportunities of jobless
Americans to share in the abundance of
America.
Today, I again urge that the Congress
enable us to improve our manpower pro-
grams by enacting the Manpower Reve-
nue Sharing Act.
Ten years ago, the Congress recognized
Federal responsibility for comprehensive
manpower training by passing the Man-
power Development and Training Act of
1962. The MDTA and the Economic Op-
portunity Act of 1964 have grown to in-
clude over a dozen separate, narrow grant
programs, each with its own purposes.
Yet, even though manpower programs
have grown in number, the need for man-
power training has outpaced the capabil-
ity of these older programs to provide
services. Our commitment is strong, but
we have not bridged the gap between the
promises and the performance of Federal
manpower programs. Something better is
needed on this we can all agree.
THE OLD WAY: A NEED FOR REFORM
Like the field of manpower training,
many other areas of Federal assistance are
suffering from a hardening of govern-
mental arteries. Federal programs are
meant to meet the needs of individual
citizens living in 50 States and in thou-
sands of communities, but those diverse
needs are not being met by rigid, stand-
ardized Federal programs. Instead, the
pressure on State and local resources is
building to the breaking point. The tradi-
tional answer would be the establishment
of even more separate categories of Fed-
eral aid.
Federal aid is needed, but the prolifera-
tion of Federal plans, programs, cate-
gories, and requirements has compounded
the individual problems faced by Ameri-
can communities today. Frequently, Fed-
eral involvement has merely generated a
false sense of security-a security which
has been betrayed by the continuing multi-
plication of communities' social needs and
the failure of government to meet those
needs.
Federal aid outlays account for 21 per-
cent of State and local revenues today, but
160
