Richard Nixon, 1972
May 26 [171]
strategic arms between the two most
powerful nations in the world. It is an
enormously important agreement, but
again it is only an indication of what can
happen in the future as we work toward
peace in the world. But I have great hopes
on that score.
The Soviet people and the American
people demonstrated over 25 years ago
how they could fight together to win a
war. And now in our meetings this week,
and particularly culminating in the sign-
ing of this agreement tonight, we shall
demonstrate to the world how these two
great peoples, the Soviet people and the
American people, can work together to
build a peace.
Every leader of a nation wonders at
times how he will be remembered in his-
tory. But, as I have met with the top
Soviet leaders-with General Secretary
Brezhnev, with Chairman Kosygin, with
Chairman Podgorny-I am convinced of
this fact: We want to be remembered by
our deeds, not by the fact that we brought
war to the world, but by the fact that we
made the world a more peaceful one for
all peoples in the world.
It is in that spirit that, here in the
American Embassy, we all proudly raise
our glasses to the leaders of the Soviet
peoples and to the great cause of peace-
peace between our two countries and
peace for all peoples to which we think
this visit, this meeting, has contributed
and will contribute in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. in
Spaso House. He spoke from a prepared text.
Chairman Kosygin responded in Russian. A
translation of the text of his remarks was made
available by the TASS news service as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, esteemed guests:
On behalf of the Soviet guests present here
I would like to express gratitude to President
Richard Nixon and his wife, the U.S. Ambas-
sador to the U.S.S.R. and his wife who have
invited us here to the Embassy to mark this
memorable occasion.
Today is the end of the working week which
was devoted to talks between the President of
the United States and the Soviet leaders-the
General Secretary of the CPSU Central Com-
mittee, L. I. Brezhnev, the President of the
Presidium of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet,
N. V. Podgorny, the Chairman of the U.S.S.R.
Council of Ministers. Like the President, we
positively assess the work done. It will be
continued.
The talks held made it possible to reveal
more precisely both the fields in which it is
possible to develop cooperation and the fields
where the stands of the two states are
variance, since the U.S.S.R. and the United
States objectively represent different social eco-
nomic systems in the world. It seems to us that
both sides realistically appraise possible pros-
pects of cooperation.
A number of Soviet-American agreements,
bound to serve peaceful aims, have been signed
these days. We have agreed, specifically, on
pooling the efforts of our countries in environ-
mental protection, in peaceful exploration and
mastering of outer space, in cooperation in the
fields of science and technology, medicine and
public health.
We are having an exchange of opinions of
questions of development of trade and other
economic ties between the two countries. It is
obvious that realistic solutions can also be
found here, solutions which would reflect
mutual interest in normalization and widen-
ing of economic exchanges in keeping with
the generally accepted international practice.
Today the General Secretary of the Central
Committee of the CPSU, Leonid Brezhnev, and
the President of the United States, Richard
Nixon, are to sign in the Kremlin joint docu-
ments on the limitation of strategic arms.
Agreement on these questions, we hope, will
go down in history as a major achievement on
the road towards curbing the arms race. It has
become possible only on the basis of strict
observance of the principle of equal security
of the sides and the inadmissibility of any
unilateral advantages. This is a great victory
for the Soviet and American peoples in the
625
