Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
Pakistan. The refugees in India were sus-
tained at least above the level of
starvation.
But we knew that political settlement
between East and West Pakistan was the
key to ending the crisis. Our relief pro-
gram was an effort to gain the needed time
for a political process to work. Direct relief
to the refugees in India was essential if
India were to manage their support;
famine in East Pakistan would have made
impossible any restoration of normal life
or civil peace, redoubling the flood of
refugees and further inflaming tensions
between Pakistan and India.
It was obvious to us that a lasting
political solution could be found only on
the basis of some form of autonomy for
East Pakistan. Over the summer, in con-
tacts in Washington as well as in their
capitals, we made clear to all parties that
we favored such a solution. We sought to
set in motion a process of accommodation.
We obtained assurance from President
Yahya that Sheikh Mujibur Rahman
would not be executed. At our urging,
Pakistan agreed to an internationalized
relief presence in East Pakistan. We urged
an amnesty for refugees of all creeds, re-
placement of the military governor of East
Pakistan by a civilian, and a timetable for
return to full civilian rule. Pakistan took
all these steps. Return to civilian rule was
pledged for the end of December and
could have increased the chances for a
political settlement and the release of
Sheikh Mujib. Meanwhile, in August, we
established contact with Bengali repre-
sentatives in Calcutta. By early November,
President Yahya told us he was prepared
to begin negotiation with any representa-
tive of this group not charged with high
crimes in Pakistan, or with Awami League
leaders still in East Pakistan. In mid-
November, we informed India that we
were prepared to promote discussion of an
explicit timetable for East Pakistani
autonomy.
India was kept fully informed of all
these developments at every stage. It indi-
cated little interest. Meanwhile, India
expanded its support of the guerrillas, and
hostilities escalated along the eastern
border.
The United States cannot be certain
that the steps it proposed would have
brought about a negotiation, or that such
a negotiation would have produced a set-
tlement. But it is clear that a political
process was in train, which could have
been supported and facilitated by all the
parties involved if they had wished. This
is the basis for the profound disappoint-
ment we felt and expressed when war
erupted.
We had known the danger of war would
increase toward the end of 1971, as
weather conditions and India's military
readiness improved and as the guerrilla
forces completed training. In addition to
humanitarian and political steps to pro-
vide alternatives to war, we sought directly
to ease the military confrontation. In con-
tacts in Washington and other capitals, in
letters and face-to-face meetings with
heads of government, foreign ministers,
and ambassadors, we exerted our influence
for restraint.
-To the Soviet Union, we made the
point repeatedly over the summer
that it behooved the two superpowers
to be forces for peace. We asked the
Soviet Union for its ideas on possible
joint action.
-We continued to urge Pakistan to re-
store normal life in the East, and to
put together a program of adminis-
trative and political steps that could
299
