Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
Issues that could be usefully explored
include the exact geographical area for
reductions, whether to reduce both foreign
and national forces, and how the entire
process of reduction could be balanced
in a way that would create no military
advantages for either side. Already, the
extensive studies completed have laid a
promising foundation for constructive dis-
cussions once the interest of NATO na-
tions is reciprocated by members of the
Warsaw Pact.
Undiminished military security for
NATO is the only rational criterion for
establishing force reductions. Thus, the
process of reducing forces in Central Eu-
rope must create no unilateral military
advantages. For this reason, we are ex-
amining alternative approaches. It may
be possible to offset the Warsaw Pact's
advantages under equal percentage reduc-
tions by reaching a more comprehensive
agreement. Critical elements in such an
agreement would include adequate veri-
fication provisions and effective con-
straints on the movement of forces. We
are also evaluating the possibility of asym-
metrical but equitable reductions which
would preserve the overall military bal-
ance. Our analytical work will continue
to concentrate on both of these alternative
approaches.
PROGRESS IN INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
Concern about arms control has not
been restricted to the major powers. In
recognition of this the United States a
decade ago was instrumental in establish-
ing a representative international forum
for examination of arms control issues.
The Conference of the Committee on Dis-
armament (CCD) has gradually become
an important instrument for developing
an international consensus.
This Administration has played an ac-
tive role in this forum. As a result of our
initiatives and in cooperation with other
participants, some significant achieve-
ments have been recorded.
Biological and Chemical Arms Control.
Early in this Administration we began a
comprehensive review of biological and
chemical weapons policy and programs.
-In following through on my declara-
tion that the United States totally
renounced the use and possession of
biological and toxin weapons, we be-
gan a program for safe destruction
of existing stocks that is scheduled to
be completed this summer. We are
converting facilities previously used
for biological warfare research to
major health and environmental
safety missions. The sophisticated
scientific facilities at Fort Detrick,
Maryland, for example, will become
a leading research center in the war
against cancer; those at Pine Bluff
Arsenal, Arkansas, are being turned
into a new national research center
to examine the biological effects on
the environment of a number of
chemical substances.
-With our clear example and strong
support, the CCD agreed last
September on the draft of an inter-
national treaty banning the develop-
ment, production and stockpiling of
biological and toxin weapons and re-
quiring destruction of existing stocks.
This international commitment is a
unique milestone. Following its sig-
nature, I intend to submit this treaty
to the U.S. Senate for its advice and
consent to ratification this year.
323
