Richard Nixon, 1972
[419]
Nov. 27
development, and the inauguration of the
Kossou Dam last week in the presence of
your personal representative ¹ gave a
visible demonstration of the personal in-
terest that you have shown in our develop-
ment. The people of Ivory Coast will
never forget this.
I also wish to avail myself of this op-
portunity to express our appreciation for
your persistent search for a peace that is
real, just, and lasting, and I express the
aspirations of all people in voicing the
hope that these efforts will be successful,
that you will have good help and the pro-
tection of the Everlasting.
PRESIDENT NIXON. Mr. President, I
greatly appreciate the opportunity to talk
to you personally by telephone through
this historic new satellite communication.
While I have not had the opportunity of
meeting you personally, my wife still
speaks of her very warm memories of the
wonderful welcome she received when she
was in Ivory Coast last year.
On my own visit to Ivory Coast during
the 1960's, I was enormously impressed
by the economic progress, by the tremen-
dous development of your country. Mrs.
Nixon reported to me-and other friends
like Edgar Kaiser, who was recently in
your country—that the Ivory Coast is one
of the finest examples in the world of a
new country making great economic prog-
ress under dynamic leadership of its
President.
1
¹ On November 18, 1972, Edgar F. Kaiser of
Lafayette, Calif., and John F. Root, United
States Ambassador to the Ivory Coast, repre-
sented President Nixon at the dedication of the
Kossou hydroelectric dam.
I can assure you, Mr. President, that
during the remainder of my term of office,
these next 4 years, that you can always
count on not only the United States Gov-
ernment to cooperate with your Govern-
ment for progress for both of our people,
but you can count on my personal inter-
est in your country and in your own suc-
cess, because peace, greater opportunity,
progress, justice for all people in the
world, wherever they may live, is our
common goal. I look forward to working
with you toward the achievement of that
goal, not only in your country but in the
great continent of Africa and all over the
world.
PRESIDENT
HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY.
Thank you, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT NIXON. Mr. President, I
hope to have the opportunity at some
time to meet with you personally during
my second term in office.
PRESIDENT HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY. I will
be very happy to respond to your invita-
tion.
PRESIDENT NIXON. Thank you very
much. Give our best wishes for the Christ-
mas season and the New Year to all of
your people.
PRESIDENT HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY.
Thank you. We have the same fervent
wishes for you and your family.
PRESIDENT NIXON. Thank you. Merci
beaucoup.
NOTE: The telephone call began at 11:12 a.m.
The President spoke from Camp David, Md.
President Houphouet-Boigny spoke in French,
and his remarks were translated by an
interpreter.
The conversation inaugurated communica-
tions satellite service for the Ivory Coast via its
first ground station near Abidjan.
1145
