[23] Jan. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
And in discussing this matter just re-
cently with Secretary Connally, we felt
that there couldn't be a better replacement
for Mr. Peterson as Chairman of this ex-
tremely important Council at this time
when so many international economic
problems would be before us, than Peter
Flanigan.
So with that, I will leave these three
gentlemen to say whatever they like to the
members of the press at this point and we
will turn the meeting over first, of course,
to Secretary Stans. And I express my
thanks to him for his past service to this
Government, in political campaigns, and
for the future service which I know he will
render to one of the two major parties.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
The remarks of Secretary Stans, Mr. Peter-
son, and Mr. Flanigan were as follows:
SECRETARY STANS. Mr. President, thank you
very much. Thank you.
I don't think I will make a very long pitch
here, because I don't see any potential large
contributors in the room anywhere, at least not
in money terms. [Laughter]
I think it is well known that I leave the De-
partment of Commerce with some reluctance,
because we had a great many things going on
there that I think were very successful, and
others which were about to come to fruition.
But I really and sincerely feel in my personal
dedication to President Nixon that I can serve
my country best by working for his reelection
so that he can carry out for another 4 years the
programs that he has instituted in these 4 years.
From the time that he lost the election in
1960, I believe that Richard Nixon had the
capability to be a great President. I worked for
him in campaigns in 1962, 1966, 1968, and I
am going to do it again in 1972 for the reason
I have already described.
I am extremely pleased that Pete Peterson
will be my successor. I have worked with him
since he has been in the White House as head
of the Council on International Economic
Policy. I have found him extremely able, af-
fable, and a person who has a great many con-
structive ideas. I think that he will make a
great Secretary of Commerce.
I want to say, too, that I am very proud of
the organization that I leave to him in the De-
partment of Commerce. The career people and
the non-career people have done a great job
of carrying out the President's policies, and my
objectives, and I think we have a momentum
and a respect for the Department that hasn't
existed for a long time. I hope that is true and
I hope that is your finding.
So of all the people that I know, I am
particularly pleased that Pete Peterson is the
one who has been chosen by the President.
I will say the same thing for Peter Flanigan.
I worked with him even longer in some of the
political campaigns before 1969, and since
he has been in the White House since the be-
ginning of 1969. We have had a great many
difficult matters to cope with, and I have had
nothing but great respect for his tremendous
mental capabilities, his resourcefulness, and
ingenuity in difficult issues.
So I leave the Cabinet, of course, as anyone
does, with great reluctance, but for a purpose
which I think is a very important one.
Next Tuesday I plan to hold a press con-
ference at the Department of Commerce to
deal with the individual issues and specifics of
our programs as we leave them, and of course,
will be delighted to see any of you there.
MR. PETERSON. I am obviously flattered by
the President's generous offer to serve as the
Secretary of Commerce. I am very inspired,
Maury Stans, by your record.
I am also impressed with my successor. I
think Peter will obviously out-perform his pred-
ecessor, and I am very much looking forward,
Peter, to working with you, but as a member
of the Council that you will be the Executive
Director of.
We have started some important programs on
the Council. I know Peter will do a fine job
of carrying on.
The President has asked me if I wouldn't
devote a good deal of my energy to the whole
question of America's competitive position, its
program for increasing its productivity, because
however necessary it is that we get an improved
monetary system, an improved trading system,
ultimately how we fare in the seventies and
108
