Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
our foreign assistance effort. This effort
has special significance at a time when we
are reducing our direct military presence
abroad and encouraging other countries to
assume greater responsibilities. Their
growing ability to undertake these respon-
sibilities often depends on America's for-
eign assistance.
We have taken significant steps to re-
form our foreign assistance programs in
recent years, to eliminate waste and to give
them greater impact. Now three further
imperatives rest with the Congress:
-to fund in full the levels of assistance
which I have earlier recommended for the
current fiscal year, before the present
interim funding arrangement expires in
late February;
-to act upon the fundamental aid re-
form proposals submitted by this adminis-
tration in 1971;
-and to modify those statutes which
govern our response to expropriation of
American property by foreign govern-
ments, as I recommended in my recent
statement on the security of overseas
investments.
These actions, taken together, will con-
stitute not an exception to the emerging
pattern for a more realistic American role
in the world, but rather a fully consistent
and crucially important element in that
pattern.
As we work to help our partners in the
world community develop their economic
potential and strengthen their military
forces, we should also cooperate fully with
them in meeting international challenges
such as the menace of narcotics, the threat
of pollution, the growth of population, the
proper use of the seas and seabeds, and
the plight of those who have been vic-
timized by wars and natural disasters. All
of these are global problems and they
must be confronted on a global basis. The
efforts of the United Nations to respond
creatively to these challenges have been
most promising, as has the work of NATO
in the environmental field. Now we must
build on these beginnings.
AMERICA'S INFLUENCE FOR GOOD
The United States is not the world's
policeman nor the keeper of its moral con-
science. But-whether we like it or not--
we still represent a force for stability in
what has too often been an unstable world,
a force for justice in a world which is too
often unjust, a force for progress in a
world which desperately needs to progress,
a force for peace in a world that is weary
of war.
We can have a great influence for good
in our world-and for that reason we bear
a great responsibility. Whether we fulfill
that responsibility—whether we fully use
our influence for good-these are ques-
tions we will be answering as we reshape
our attitudes and policies toward other
countries, as we determine our defensive
capabilities, and as we make fundamental
decisions about foreign assistance. I will
soon discuss these and other concerns in
greater detail in my annual report to the
Congress on foreign policy.
Our influence for good in the world
depends, of course, not only on decisions
which touch directly on international af-
fairs but also on our internal strength-
on our sense of pride and purpose, on the
vitality of our economy, on the success
of our efforts to build a better life for all
47
