[114] Apr. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
were standing in long lines, and I am sure
they were very impatient. If a passenger
has to wait an extra half hour in order to
have his baggage searched, whereas he is
an absolutely innocent person, if it means
that as a result of that time that there
is going to be some kind of seizure, as was
the case in this instance, which could
affect the lives-not just 30 minutes of a
life, but the lives of thousands of
young
people across this country, then it is all
worthwhile. Therefore, we ask for the
patience of passengers as we step up and
crack down in our search, as Mr. Ambrose
has been directed to do.
The other point is a very personal point.
Mr. Torres said that he has dedicated his
life to this work, because immediately
after he became a Customs officer, his
cousin, 23 years old, was found dead in the
streets of New York from an overdose of
heroin. This is an indication that this
problem of drug abuse strikes home very
close to all of our families, and that men
like this, who are working out in the front-
lines, who spend many tedious hours going
through baggage, searching ships, search-
ing planes, finding nothing, and then one
day do have a great success like this, de-
serve the appreciation of the whole
Nation.
I would say, finally, that it is rather
significant that this occurred on the day
that we announced the Hotline-the
"Heroin Hotline" 2-through which citi-
zens all over the country can cooperate
On April 7, 1972, the President directed
the establishment of a nationwide toll-free tele-
phone number to be manned on a 24-hour
basis, 7 days a week. The Hotline, a phase of
the Drug Abuse Law Enforcement program,
with Mr. Ambrose and his office. The pur-
pose of this is not to have people send in
charges that may reflect on innocent peo-
ple, but the purpose is to get the informa-
tion, get the information which Mr.
Ambrose and his officers will then use to
the very best of their ability to search out
the pushers, to search out those who are
destroying the lives of people like Mr.
Torres' cousin.
This, as I have often said, is the most
reprehensible crime I can think of. I think,
under the circumstances, that every
American wants to cooperate-those
Americans who come in, with 30 minutes
of their time waiting for a Customs officer
to go through their baggage, and the bag-
gage of others, and people throughout this
country-to cooperate through letting the
Government officials know when they
have what they believe to be fairly good
proof, or very good proof that some kind
of activity by law enforcement officials
could be effective in leading to the arrest
and eventually the conviction of anyone
engaged in this illegal traffic.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 a.m. at
his residence at Key Biscayne, Fla. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Customs Patrol Officers Philip J. Cascavilla
and Frank Torres, Jr., were on a routine patrol
of the Miami seaport when they observed a
suitcase being loaded into a vehicle parked on
the dock. When the car attempted to leave the
dock, it was stopped, and a search of the suit-
case revealed 70 plastic bags containing 22
pounds of heroin.
was designed to provide citizens a direct line
to help the national effort to eliminate heroin
trafficking through the contribution of informa-
tion anonymously.
524
