Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [88]
discussed in depth in this report. In par-
ticular, we propose a special, lower, youth
minimum wage to help overcome em-
ployers' reluctance to hire inexperienced
young workers.
A new approach to career education in
the public schools is also being developed.
This would give young people more real-
istic career preparation and help to build
an easier, more effective school-to-work
transition, paving the way toward a real
solution to the problems of jobless youth.
The final focus of the report is on the
professions. Scientists and engineers,
teachers, doctors, and other professional
and technical personnel represent only
about one out of every seven workers, but
they carry a responsibility for the country's
economic and social well-being, its defense
and position of world leadership, out of
all proportion to their numbers.
We have two major objectives with
respect to professional personnel. In the
immediate future, we must promote full
utilization of their talents and training,
and we are moving strongly toward that
goal through the special programs we have
undertaken to aid the reemployment of
the relatively small numbers of scientists
88 St. Patrick's Day Message.
March 16, 1972
ST. PATRICK'S Day lifts the spirit not
only of Irish Americans, but of all Amer-
icans who cherish those qualities of heart
and soul that are so characteristic of the
Irish: warmth and wit, originality and
openness of heart, faith and fortitude.
There is a little bit of the Celt in all of
us. That is why Americans of every na-
and engineers now out of work or under-
employed.
In the longer view, we must assure a
supply of new entrants into the profes-
sions adequate to meet national needs. As
the findings of this report indicate, this
objective is in process of accomplishment
in the major professional fields, includ-
ing the health professions. With the in-
creased Federal funds for medical and
nursing education that I have recom-
mended to implement the new 1971 health
manpower legislation, rapid progress will
be possible in achieving a better standard
of health care for all Americans.
I am pleased to transmit herewith a
report on manpower requirements, re-
sources, utilization and training as
required under the Manpower Develop-
ment and Training Act.
The White House,
RICHARD NIXON
March 15, 1972.
NOTE: The message is printed in the report en-
titled "Manpower Report of the President In-
cluding a Report on Manpower Requirements,
Resources, Utilization, and Training by the
United States Department of Labor" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 284 pp.).
tionality join in St. Patrick's Day festivi-
ties, especially "the wearin' o' the green."
Ireland has invigorated our American
way of life-in government, journalism,
science, commerce, education; through its
music, drama and poetry. Irish charm is
found everywhere.
Mrs. Nixon and I value our own Irish
415
