[421] Nov. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
administration. It is now time to reverse
that growth to do a more effective job,
by bringing the Cabinet members into
closer contact with the White House, of
course, with the President himself. This
will become more apparent as the various
appointments are announced and as our
plans on reorganization are announced.
The other point that I should make is
that there has been some speculation to
the effect that there is a move here on
the top of this mountain to, as a result of
the rather significant victory of Novem-
ber 7, reach out and grasp a lot of power
and draw it into the White House and to
the executive department. Exactly the
opposite is the case.
What we are trying to do is to find a
way to make our Government more re-
sponsive to people, and the way to make
it more responsive to people across this
country is not to concentrate more and
more power in one office, but to have that
power given to and delegated to, where it
possibly can, to responsible members of
the Administration team in the Cabinet,
in the White House, or in other agencies
of the Government.
I think a final point that I might make
has to do with the reasons for changing
at all. I have covered this in an interview
I gave immediately after the election, but
I might elaborate on it for just a moment
with you ladies and gentlemen here at
Camp David.
My study of elections in this country,
and of second terms particularly, is that
second terms almost inevitably are down-
hill; not always-for example, in Wood-
row Wilson's case, he had a very signifi-
cant first term on the domestic scene, and
then the war, World War I, came along in
the second term. No one would have
known what would have happened in the
second term had that crisis not come
along.
But generally speaking, whether they
are Democratic administrations or Re-
publican administrations, the tendency is
for an administration to run out of steam
after the first 4 years, and then to coast,
and usually coast downhill. That is par-
ticularly true when there is what you call
a landslide victory. As I have put it to
some of my closest colleagues, generally
when you think of a landslide, you are
submerged by it and you also think in
terms of a landslide pushing you downhill.
What I am trying to do is to change
that historical pattern. The only way that
historical pattern can be changed is to
change not only some of the players but
also some of the plays, if I may use the
analogy to sports. What I am suggesting
here is that when a new administration
comes in, it comes in with new ideas, new
people, new programs. That is why it has
vitality and excitement. That is why often-
times it has change which is very helpful
to the country, and progress.
A second administration usually lacks
that vitality. It lacks it not because the
men and the women in the administration
are any less dedicated, but because it is
inevitable when an individual has been
in a Cabinet position or, for that matter,
holds any position in Government, after
a certain length of time he becomes an
advocate of the status quo; rather than
running the bureaucracy, the bureaucracy
runs him.
It has been my conviction for years that
elected officials in this country too often
become prisoners of what we would call
the bureaucracy which they are supposed
to run. This is no reflection on the bu-
reaucracy. There are millions of dedicated
people working for government through-
1150
