[310] Sept. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
considering legislation along this line. It
was through the efforts of the House and
the Senate committees, and the bipartisan
support on the floor of the House and the
Senate, that this legislation is a reality
today. I would like to express the appreci-
ation not only of our Commander in Chief
but of those of us in the Defense Depart-
ment who are working for an all-volunteer
force for our Army, our Air Force, our
Navy, and our Marine Corps, that these
military men are involved in a very real
sense in a different way, because of their
separation from their families during their
careers in military service. And this means
a great deal to them because it is the sup-
port of their families that makes it possible
for them to do the kind of job that is so
necessary in the defense of freedom in the
world and in making possible our efforts
and our objective of peace throughout the
world.
And so on behalf of all of us in the De-
partment of Defense, I would like to ex-
press to all of you from the Congress our
appreciation for making this opportunity
available not only to the 900,000 that have
already retired from military service but to
all those men and women that are cur-
rently taking part in the defense of our
311
country and serving in the Armed Forces.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Ladies and gentlemen,
I would only add to that by saying that we
have taken action on the pay front with
regard to military personnel. We are now
taking action on the survivors front for
benefits that should be provided for those
who serve in our Armed Forces.
But most important of all, we have to
remember that what the men and women
who serve in our Armed Forces really
need more than anything else is respect.
Whatever we pay them, whatever survivor
benefits we provide, certainly should be
equivalent to what they could do in civil-
ian life, but the respect must come from
all of the American people for those who
serve in our Armed Forces. The fact that
so many of you have come down from the
House and the Senate today not only in-
dicates your interest in this legislation, but
it indicates that on a bipartisan front we
respect the men and women who serve
America all over the world, in war and
peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. He
spoke without referring to notes.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 10670) is Public
Law 92-425 (86 Stat. 706).
Statement About a Bill
Benefits for Dependents of Military Retirees.
September 21, 1972
Providing Better Survivor
IT IS too often overlooked that America's
military families serve our country in as
real a way as do the men and women in
uniform--they share the sacrifices and the
hardships of duty, as well as its satisfac-
tions and glory. The Nation's true and just
obligation to those who bear arms in its
defense remains as Lincoln defined it: "to
care for him who shall have borne the bat-
tle and for his widow and his orphan."
H.R. 10670, which I have signed, will
enable us to meet this standard more fully
884
