[58] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
CONSULTATION WITH PRESIDENT THIEU
RECOGNITION OF BANGLADESH
[8.] Q. Mr. President, you have left
open the question of your flexibility on
President Thieu. He is upset. We have had
these running stories from Saigon. In
effect, you
have said the policy is flexible.
But do you plan to consult with him at
some early point to soothe his feelings?
THE PRESIDENT. We already have. We
are in constant consultation. I have dis-
cussed the matter with Ambassador
Bunker. President Thieu knows, first, as
he said in his own statement-because if
you will read it carefully, he pointed out
that he felt that we had consulted him—
he knows, first, that we have never made
a proposal except when it was a joint pro-
posal. He knows now there will be no new
proposals made unless it is a joint proposal
and I trust that this press conference that
I am having now with you ladies and gen-
tlemen will reassure not only him, but the
people of South Vietnam as well on that
point.
As far as flexibility is concerned, what
Secretary Rogers was referring to was
what we have always said, that we have
put a proposal on the table; we are ready
to negotiate on it.
Now, that does not mean, however, that
after having made such a proposal that 2
weeks later we are going to go a step fur-
ther and say that we will go further than
we have in that proposal. At this point, I
emphasize here today we have made a
proposal. We think it is reasonable. The
enemy has not responded to it. Until the
enemy does respond to it, there will be no
further proposals and no further con-
cessions on our part.
[9.] Q. Mr. President, you spoke in
your foreign policy report about sympathy
for the aspirations of the East Bengali
people. Could you give us some idea of
the factors and perhaps the timing of your
decision on the recognition of Bangladesh?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
problem of the Bengali people, first, let
me say that on the humanitarian side, as
you know, both before the war, during the
war, and after the war, the United States
has been the most generous of all of the
nations. We will continue to be. That is
separate from the political side.
With regard to the political side, we
have under study our whole relationship
with the subcontinent and as part of that
relationship, of course, the 70 million
people in Bangladesh are involved. We
have not yet made a decision with regard
to recognition and you should not expect a
decision prior to the time that I return
from China.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS ON
BUSING
[10.] Q. Mr. President, what are your
views on the constitutional amendments
on busing now before the House and
the Senate?
THE PRESIDENT. Which one?
Q. Well, the amendments have to do
with-
THE PRESIDENT. There are several. Let
me get at it this way. My views on busing
are well known. I favor the neighborhood
school. I favor local control of local
schools. I oppose busing for the purpose
354
