[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
putting of those resources directly into
education—serving all the disadvantaged
children, not merely those on the bus
routes.
In order to reach the great majority
of the children who most need extra help,
I propose a new approach to financing the
extra efforts required: one that puts the
money where the needs are, drawing on
the funds I have requested for this and
the next fiscal year under Title I of the
Elementary and Secondary Education Act
of 1965 and under the Emergency School
Aid Act now pending before the Congress.
As part of the Equal Educational Op-
portunities Act, I propose to broaden the
uses of the funds under the Emergency
School Aid Act, and to provide the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
with additional authority to encourage ef-
fective special learning programs in those
schools where the needs are greatest.
Detailed program criteria would be
spelled out in administrative guidelines-
but the intent of this program is to use a
major portion of the $1.5 billion Emer-
gency School Aid money as, in effect,
incentive grants to encourage eligible dis-
tricts to design educational
programs that
would do three things:
-Assure (as a condition of getting the
grant) that the district's expenditures on
its poorest schools were at least compa-
rable to those on its other schools.
-Provide, above this, a compensatory
education grant of approximately $300
per low-income pupil for schools in which
substantial numbers of the students are
from poor families, if the concentration of
poor students exceeds specified limits.
-Require that this compensatory grant
be spent entirely on basic instructional
programs for language skills and mathe-
matics, and on basic supportive services
such as health and nutrition.
-Provide a "bonus" to the receiving
school for each pupil transferring from a
poor school to a non-poor school where his
race is in the minority, without reducing
the grant to the transferring school.
Priority would be given to those dis-
tricts that are desegregating either volun-
tarily or under court order, and to those
that are addressing problems of both ra-
cial and economic impaction.
Under this plan, the remaining portion
of the $1.5 billion available under the
Emergency School Aid Act for this and
the next fiscal year would go toward the
other kinds of aid originally envisaged
under it.
This partial shift of funds is now possi-
ble for two reasons: First, in the nearly
2 years since I first proposed the Emer-
gency School Aid Act, much of what it
was designed to help with has already been
done. Second, to the extent that the
standards set forth in the Equal Educa-
tional Opportunities Act would relieve de-
segregating districts of some of the more
expensive requirements that might other-
wise be laid upon them, a part of the
money originally intended to help meet
those expenses can logically be diverted
to these other, closely related needs. I
would stress once again, in this connec-
tion, the importance I attach to final
passage of the Emergency School Aid
Act: those districts that are now desegre-
gating still need its help, and the funds to
be made available for these new purposes
are an essential element of a balanced
equal opportunity package.
I also propose that instead of being
terminated at the end of fiscal 1973, as
presently scheduled, the
the Emergency
School Aid Act continue to be authorized
at a $1 billion annual level of which I
438
