[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
tration has applied these concepts to the
challenge of building peace in Asia.
Today, our Asian and Pacific allies are
acting with a new self-assurance. Japan
and Australia are strengthening their con-
tribution to the economic foundation of
Asian stability. Among the developing
states of Asia, a new level of regional col-
laboration is taking root. Collectively as
well as individually, our Asian friends are
assuming a growing role in shaping a
structure of security and progress.
Today, a strong and prosperous Japan
recognizes, as we do, that a more mature
political relationship between us is an in-
evitable and desirable result of its dra-
matic reemergence as a major power. The
sometimes difficult adjustments in our re-
lations challenge the creativity of our
statesmanship. Both governments are con-
vinced of our capacity to harmonize dif-
ferent but basically parallel policies.
Indeed, transitory strains have proved
incapable of disrupting the growing web
of ties linking the United States and
Japan.
Our historic initiative toward the Peo-
ple's Republic of China contains the
potential for a new era in which Asia's
major powers can act with restraint and
respect for the legitimate interests of
others. Our allies know that this initiative
owes much to the past success of our joint
policies and that we could not and will
not build for the future at the expense of
the commitments that have bolstered
Asian stability for a generation. This ef-
fort to ease tensions in Asia, by working
for understanding with its most populous
nation, can in the long run enhance our
allies' security, much as U.S. defense com-
mitments do today. The latter, in any
event, remain valid.
Our progress in bringing to an end
American involvement in the Vietnam
war—without abandoning a nation count-
ing on our support-reinforces the integ-
rity of our commitments elsewhere in Asia.
Our diminishing role in Vietnam has also
reduced the domestic strains that could
otherwise have weakened the basis for
American participation in building Asia's
future. Our progress in transferring the
combat burden to South Vietnam's own
forces bears witness to the vital role of
local self-reliance, while it underscores the
need for substantial American economic
and military assistance as American direct
involvement declines.
Our policies correspond to the realities
of change and to the growing capabilities
of our partners in Asia. They are serving
as a catalyst for the emergence of a new
structure of relationships. Its ultimate
shape is not yet fixed. To create a lasting
peace, the other major powers must
demonstrate the necessary maturity and
restraint and the developing states must
act with the requisite enterprise and self-
confidence. But we have laid a basis for a
new and sustainable form of U.S. par-
ticipation in that effort. Elsewhere in this
Report I have described this Administra-
tion's policies toward the great powers
concerned with Asia. In this chapter, I
will describe our relations with the other,
increasingly self-reliant, states of East
Asia.
TOWARD FULLER PARTICIPATION BY
ASIANS
Although the policies of the major
powers can and should provide a frame-
work for regional stability and economic
advance, only the active participation of
all states in Asia can give that framework
vitality, flexibility, and the strength to
254
