[70] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Hangchow is a scenic spot of well-known
fame in China, and we hope that aside from
your busy work, you will be able to get some
good rest during your stay here.
I propose a toast to the health of President
Nixon and Mrs. Nixon, to the health of all our
other American guests, to the health of all our
friends and comrades present here, and to the
friendship between the peoples of China and
the United States.
71 Joint Statement Following Discussions With Leaders of
the People's Republic of China. February 27, 1972
PRESIDENT Richard Nixon of the
United States of America visited the Peo-
ple's Republic of China at the invitation
of Premier Chou En-lai of the People's
Republic of China from February 21 to
February 28, 1972. Accompanying the
President were Mrs. Nixon, U.S. Secretary
of State William Rogers, Assistant to the
President Dr. Henry Kissinger, and other
American officials.
President Nixon met with Chairman
Mao Tse-tung of the Communist Party
of China on February 21. The two lead-
ers had a serious and frank exchange of
views on Sino-U.S. relations and world
affairs.
During the visit, extensive, earnest, and
frank discussions were held between Presi-
dent Nixon and Premier Chou En-lai on
the normalization of relations between the
United States of America and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, as well as on
other matters of interest to both sides. In
addition, Secretary of State William
Rogers and Foreign Minister Chi P'eng-
fei held talks in the same spirit.
President Nixon and his party visited
Peking and viewed cultural, industrial
and agricultural sites, and they also toured
Hangchow and Shanghai where, con-
tinuing discussions with Chinese leaders,
they viewed similar places of interest.
The leaders of the People's Republic of
China and the United States of America
found it beneficial to have this opportu-
nity, after so many years without contact,
to present candidly to one another their
views on a variety of issues. They reviewed
the international situation in which im-
portant changes and great upheavals are
taking place and expounded their respec-
tive positions and attitudes.
The U.S. side stated: Peace in Asia
and peace in the world requires efforts
both to reduce immediate tensions and to
eliminate the basic causes of conflict. The
United States will work for a just and
secure peace: just, because it fulfills the
aspirations of peoples and nations for free-
dom and progress; secure, because it re-
moves the danger of foreign aggression.
The United States supports individual
freedom and social progress for all the
peoples of the world, free of outside pres-
sure or intervention. The United States
believes that the effort to reduce tensions
is served by improving communication
between countries that have different
ideologies so as to lessen the risks of con-
frontation through accident, miscalcula-
tion or misunderstanding. Countries
should treat each other with mutual re-
spect and be willing to compete peace-
fully, letting performance be the ultimate
judge. No country should claim infallibil-
ity and each country should be prepared
to re-examine its own attitudes for the
common good. The United States stressed
that the peoples of Indochina should be
allowed to determine their destiny without
376
