[405] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
to measure the length of our strides. At
last we are traveling in the same direction
toward a world of peace, toward an era
of negotiation, and of expanding coopera-
tion. In the next 4 years, the President
of the United States, whoever he is, will
negotiate with the leaders of many na-
tions on a broad range of issues vital to
America, vital to the world. As we cast
our ballots next Tuesday, the world will
see whether we have changed the length
of our stride.
If you approve the beginnings we have
made, then your vote on election day to
support those policies will be a message to
the leaders of all other nations that the
American people are not going to retreat,
are not going to surrender. It will
strengthen the President's hand im-
mensely as we continue to move from
confrontation to negotiation to coopera-
tion all around the world as we build
toward a generation of peace.
Thank you, and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke from a prepared
text. His address was recorded at the White
House for broadcast at 12:07 p.m. on nation-
wide radio. Time for the broadcast was pur-
chased by the Committee for the Re-Election of
the President.
406 Campaign Statement in North Carolina.
November 4, 1972
AS WE approach the end of this year's
campaign, two questions stand out:
-Are we going to continue the policies
that have made 1972 the year of the
greatest achievements for peace since the
end of World War II?
-Are we going to continue our ad-
vance toward what America has not
known since President Eisenhower was in
office-prosperity with full employment,
without inflation and without war?
Whether we succeed in building a last-
ing peace in the world depends on the
strength of America's resolve. There can
be no retreat to peace. We cannot disarm
unilaterally, and still expect others to
negotiate a mutual limitation of arms; we
cannot betray our allies and abandon our
commitments, and still expect others to
believe our word or respect our commit-
ments.
We have made progress toward peace
because we strengthened our alliances and
maintained our military forces-because
we refused to allow America to become
the second strongest nation in the world.
As long as I am President, I will never
let America become the second strong-
est nation in the world. That is why we
are not going to do as our opponents ad-
vocate, and slash our defense budget by
$32 billion, cut our Marines by almost
one-third, our tactical air wings by 30 per-
cent, and our aircraft carriers from 16 to 6.
We are not going to scrap our conven-
tional weapons, leaving us with little more
than the nuclear option.
By remaining strong, by retaining the
respect we have won in the world, we
can continue building what we have be-
gun in these past 4 years: a structure of
peace that will last, so that the next gen-
eration can be the first generation in this
century to live without war and the fear
of war.
Here at home, we have been making
sure and steady progress toward a new
prosperity-and North Carolina is among
1114
