Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 28 [274]
Then he said, "You know, Mr. Presi-
dent, when I was growing up in Harlem,
if I had told my old man that some day I
would be talking to the President of the
United States, he would have told me I
was crazy." And I said, "Well, Mr. Con-
gressman, if when I was growing up in
Yorba Linda, had I told my old man that
some day I would be talking to a Con-
gressman on the phone, he would have
thought I was crazy."
274
I will simply close my remarks tonight
by saying if I had told my old man—and
this will date us both, my old man and
the man I am going to mention and me,
too—if I had told my old man when I was
growing up in Yorba Linda that some
day I would be talking to Jack Benny, he
would have said that I was crazy.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:18 p.m. in
his California residence. He spoke without re-
ferring to notes.
Statement About Progress Toward Establishment of
an All-Volunteer Armed Force. August 28, 1972
BASED on the report submitted to me this
morning by Secretary Laird, and pro-
vided the Congress enacts pending legis-
lation I have recommended, we will be
able, as planned, to eliminate entirely by
July 1973 any need for peacetime con-
scription into the armed forces.
Four years ago I pledged that if elected
I would work toward ending the military
draft and establishing in its place an all-
volunteer armed force-and that during
such time, as the need for a draft con-
tinued, I would seek to make its working
more equitable and less capricious in its
effect on the lives of young Americans.
Immediately on taking office, my Ad-
ministration began its fulfillment of that
pledge and I take deep and special sat-
isfaction in the progress that has been
made.
Within 18 months, the old, outmoded
draftee selection process, with its inequita-
ble system of deferments, was replaced by
an even-handed lottery system based on
random selection. The uncertainty cre-
ated by the draft was further minimized
by reducing the period of draft vulner-
ability from 7 years to one. As a result of
these and other reforms, confidence in the
fairness of the Selective Service System
has been restored.
Meanwhile, we have also been working
toward the all-volunteer force.
Secretary Laird today delivered to me
an encouraging report detailing the sub-
stantial progress we have made in reduc-
ing dependence on the draft to meet mili-
tary manpower needs. The experience of
the past 3 years, as indicated in this re-
port, seems to show that sufficient num-
bers of volunteers can be attracted to the
armed forces to meet peacetime man-
power needs, and that ending all depend-
ence on the draft will be consistent with
maintaining the force level and degree
of readiness necessary to meet our vital
long-term national security needs.
This remarkable record of progress in
reducing our dependence on the draft is
a direct result of the strong support given
by Secretary Laird, by the Service Secre-
taries, by the Service Chiefs, and by the
825
