Richard Nixon, 1972
June 15 [199]
will be going forward with their programs,
for the United States not to go forward
with its programs-and I am not suggest-
ing which ones at this point, you can go
into that later-but for the United States
not to go forward with its offensive pro-
grams, or worse, for the United States
unilaterally to reduce its offensive pro-
grams would mean that any incentive that
the Soviets had to negotiate the follow-on
agreement would be removed.
It is for that reason, without getting
into the specifics as to what the level of
defense spending should be, as to what
the offensive programs should be, I am
simply saying that if we want a follow-on
agreement, we have to have two steps:
We need first, of course, to approve these
agreements, and second, we need a cred-
ible defensive position so that the Soviet
Union will have an incentive to negotiate
a permanent offensive freeze. That is what
we all want.
These are just some random thoughts
that I had on this matter. I will simply
close by saying that as one stands in this
room and in this house, one always has a
tendency to think of some of the tragedies
of history of the past. As many of you
know, I have always been, and am, a
great admirer of Woodrow Wilson. As all
of you know, the great tragedy of his life
was that after he came back with the
Treaty of Versailles and the League of
Nations, due to ineffective consultation,
the Senate rejected the treaty and rejected
the League.
We, of course, do not want that to hap-
pen. We do not think that it will happen,
because we have appreciated the consul-
tation we have had up to this point, and
we are now going forward with this meet-
ing at this time.
I will only say that in looking at what
Wilson said during that debate, when he
was traveling the country, he made a very,
it seemed to me, moving and eloquent
statement. He said: "My clients are the
children. My clients are the future
generation."
This is an election year, and I realize
that in an election year it is difficult to
move as objectively as we ordinarily would
move on any issue. But I would respect-
fully request the Members of the House
and Senate, Republican and Democratic,
to approach this in the spirit that Wilson
explained in that period when they were
debating whether they should go forward
with the League of Nations, remembering
that our clients are the next generation,
that approval of these agreements, the
treaty limiting defensive weapons, the
agreement limiting offensive weapons in
certain categories, and also the continua-
tion of a credible defense posture, will
mean that we will have done our duty by
our clients, which are the next generation.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:18 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
He spoke without referring to notes.
Invited to the briefing were 122 members of
the five Congressional committees having juris-
diction over the details of the agreements:
the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, the
Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, the
House Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Sen-
ate Committee on Armed Services, and the
House Committee on Armed Services.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcripts of remarks on the agreements
by Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, and the
question-and-answer session which followed.
Dr. Kissinger's remarks are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 8, p. 1045).
679
