Richard Nixon, 1972
May 4 [140]
There is a belief that a changing of the
guard will also mean a changing of the
rules. With J. Edgar Hoover this will not
happen. The FBI will carry on in the
future, true to its finest traditions in the
past, because regardless of what the
snipers and detractors would have us be-
lieve, the fact is that Director Hoover built
the Bureau totally on principle, not on
personality. He built well. He built to last.
For that reason, the FBI will remain as a
memorial to him, a living memorial, con-
tinuing to create a climate of protection,
security, and impartial justice that bene-
fits every American.
The good J. Edgar Hoover has done
will not die. The profound principles as-
sociated with his name will not fade away.
Rather, I would predict that in the time
ahead those principles of respect for law,
order, and justice will come to govern our
national life more completely than ever
before. Because the trend of permissiveness
in this country, a trend which Edgar
Hoover fought against all his life, a trend
which was dangerously eroding our na-
tional heritage as a law-abiding people, is
now being reversed.
The American people today are tired
of disorder, disruption, and disrespect for
law. America wants to come back to the
law as a way of life, and as we do come
back to the law, the memory of this great
man, who never left the law as a way of
life, will be accorded even more honor
than it commands today.
In times past, in the days of the Ameri-
can frontier, the brave men who wore the
badge and enforced the law were called by
a name we do not often hear today. They
were called peace officers. Today, though
that term has passed out of style, the truth
it expressed still endures. All the world
yearns for peace, peace among nations,
peace within nations. But without peace
officers, we can never have peace. Edgar
Hoover knew this basic truth. He shaped
his life around it. He was the peace officer
without peer.
The United States is a better country
because this good man lived his long life
among us these past 77 years. Each of us
stands forever in his debt. In the years
ahead, let us cherish his memory. Let us
be true to his legacy. Let us honor him as
he would surely want us to do, by honor-
ing all the men and women who carry on
in this noble profession of helping to keep
the peace in our society.
In the Bible, the book which Edgar
Hoover called his "guide to daily life," we
find the words which best pronounce a
benediction on his death. They are from
the Psalms: "Great peace have they
which love Thy law." J. Edgar Hoover
loved the law of his God. He loved the law
of his country. And he richly earned
through all eternity.
peace
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. at the
National Presbyterian Church. The funeral
services were broadcast on radio and television,
The President spoke from a prepared text.
Rev. Edward L. R. Elson, S.T.D., was
Chaplain of the U.S. Senate and pastor of the
National Presbyterian Church, where Mr.
Hoover was a member. Mamie G. (Doud)
Eisenhower was the widow of former President
Dwight D. Eisenhower.
On the same day, the President directed
Harold S. Trimmer, Acting Administrator of
General Services, to designate the FBI Building
which is presently under construction as the
J. Edgar Hoover Building.
575
