[187] June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
agreement and to establish mutual and
regular air connections.
6. The two sides expressed their interest
in commemorating the five hundredth
anniversary of the birth of Nicholas
Copernicus and discussed ways of cele-
brating it.
7. Both sides welcomed the signing of
the Consular Convention by Secretary of
State William P. Rogers and Minister of
Foreign Affairs Stefan Olszowski and the
conclusion of an agreement on the simul-
taneous establishment on December 1,
1972 of new Consulates-in New York
and Krakow, respectively. Both parties
welcome these steps as concrete evidence
of expanding relations between the two
states.
8. The two sides emphasized the posi-
tive influence exerted on their mutual
relations by the traditions of history, senti-
ment and friendship between the Polish
188
and American peoples. A prominent part
is played in this respect by many United
States citizens of Polish extraction who
maintain an interest in the country of
their ancestors. The two sides recognize
that this interest and contacts resulting
from it constitute a valuable contribution
to the development of bilateral relations.
Signed in Warsaw, June 1, 1972.
NOTE: The joint communique was released at
Warsaw, Poland.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Ronald L.
Ziegler, Press Secretary to the President, and
Wlodzimierz Janiurek, Polish Undersecretary of
State for Information, on the joint communi-
que.
On May 31, 1972, the White House released
the text of a statement by Secretary of State
William P. Rogers on signing the U.S.-Polish
Consular Convention and a fact sheet outlining
the terms of the convention. Secretary Rogers'
statement is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p. 970).
Address to a Joint Session of the Congress on Return From
Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran, and Poland.
June 1, 1972
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, Members of
the Congress, our distinguished guests, my
fellow Americans:
Your welcome in this great Chamber
tonight has a very special meaning to
Mrs. Nixon and to me. We feel very
fortunate to have traveled abroad so often
representing the United States of Amer-
ica. But we both agree after each journey
that the best part of any trip abroad is
coming home to America again.
During the past 13 days we have flown
more than 16,000 miles and we visited
four countries. Everywhere we went-to
Austria, the Soviet Union, Iran, Poland-
we could feel the quickening pace of
change in old international relationships
and the peoples' genuine desire for friend-
ship for the American people. Everywhere
new hopes are rising for a world no longer
shadowed by fear and want and war, and
as Americans we can be proud that we
now have an historic opportunity to play
a great role in helping to achieve man's
oldest dream-a world in which all na-
tions can enjoy the blessings of peace.
On this journey we saw many memora-
ble sights, but one picture will always
remain indelible in our memory-the flag
of the United States of America flying
660
