Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 23 [317]
somebody else and wanting to put some-
body else down, but strong because we
know that a strong America is the world's
best guarantee of peace and freedom.
That is why we have to be for a strong
America.
During the past 4 years I have had to
make some rather difficult decisions with
regard to national defense, decisions with
regard to whether we went through with
this weapon system or that one that I
thought was necessary in order for the
United States not to become the second
strongest nation in the world. Some of
those votes were very close, and always,
of course, I sought support from all areas
of our country, from businessmen, from
people in organized labor and people in
unorganized labor, working men and
women, others throughout the country.
Also, I have made some very hard deci-
sions in the conduct of foreign policy. One
of the hardest was the one I made on
May 8, when a massive Communist inva-
sion took place of South Vietnam, where
the Communists moved into the South,
and where, in order to protect the 50,000
Americans that were there and in order to
prevent the Communist imposition of a
government on the people of South Viet-
nam, I ordered the mining of the harbors
of Haiphong and the bombing of military
targets in North Vietnam.
Many thought that was not the thing to
do. That was their opinion. They had a
right to it. I was criticized quite roundly
for it. Many thought that it would jeop-
ardize the summit that was scheduled in
just 3 weeks with the Soviet Union, but
I had to do what I felt was right for Amer-
ica, right for the cause of peace, right for
our servicemen.
Under the circumstances, I made that
decision. I think you should know this:
Polls were taken at that time of all seg-
ments of our society. Polls were also taken
at the time we had some of those close
decisions with regard to whether America
would remain strong enough militarily to
keep its position of being second to none
in the world, or whether we should be-
come weak.
You will be interested to know that the
strongest support of the President in those
two areas came from the working men and
women of America. That is where the
strength was.
That isn't because working men and
women are for war, it is because they are
for peace. It is because they are for free-
dom. It is because also they are very prac-
tical. They know that the only way that
we are going to keep peace and we are
going to keep freedom is for the United
States of America-that has no designs
on any other country, that doesn't want
to conquer any other country, that has
fought four wars in this century without
asking for an acre of territory or any con-
cession from any other country, fought to
defend freedom and not to destroy it—
they know that for the United States to
have that strength is the world's best
guarantee in the future for peace.
If we don't have it, we leave a vacuum.
Because, as we look at the free nations of
Europe, as we look at the only nation in
Asia that could develop that strength,
Japan, not one of them now can do it. And
so, it is all right here. If the United States
backs down, if we turn inward, if we turn
away from responsibility, if we allow this
country to become second to any country
in the world in terms of arms strength, it
means that the chances for this 9-year-old
grow up in a period of peace and free-
dom are much less than they would other-
wise be.
to
903
