[18] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
effectively to contribute to the enhance-
ment of world peace, security, and pros-
perity.
The President reaffirms that the closest
cooperation between the U.S. and the
emerging Europe is a cornerstone of our
foreign policy.
NOTE: The statement was made available to
the press at Key Biscayne, Fla.
19 Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal Year 1973.
January 24, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The Budget of the United States for the
fiscal year 1973 has as a central purpose a
new prosperity for all Americans without
the stimulus of war and without the drain
of inflation.
To provide for the needs of our people
by creating new peacetime jobs and re-
vitalizing the economy, we are spending
$38.8 billion more in the current (1972)
fiscal year than our receipts.
I make that estimate fully aware that it
is a large deficit, but one that is necessary
in a year of reduced receipts, as we in-
crease jobs and bring the economy back
toward capacity.
I am able to project a 1973 budget, with
rising revenues, that cuts this year's actual
deficit by $132 billion and brings us
strongly forward toward our goal of a
balanced budget in a time of full employ-
ment.
If we were to spend less, we would be
"too little and too late" to stimulate
greater business activity and create more
jobs; if we were to spend more, we would
be spending "too much, too soon" and
thereby invite a renewal of inflation. In-
stead, we must spend "enough and on
time" to keep the economy on a steadily
upward peacetime course while provid-
ing jobs for all who want them and meet-
ing the urgent needs of the American
people.
The budget for fiscal 1972 reflects this
Government's confidence in the American
economy's ability and capacity to respond
to sensible stimulation. The budget for
1973, held to full-employment balance,
diminishes stimulation as the new prosper-
ity takes hold and, by so doing, acts as a
barrier against the renewal of inflationary
pressure.
I strongly urge the Congress to respect
the full-employment spending guideline
this year, just as business and labor are
expected to respect wage and price guide-
lines set forth to protect the earning and
buying power of the American worker and
consumer. In the long run, only the in-
telligent application of responsible fiscal
and monetary policies, coupled with the
breaking of inflationary expectations, will
bring about peacetime prosperity without
rising prices in a free market economy.
Deficit spending at this time, like tem-
porary wage and price controls, is strong
but necessary medicine. We take that
medicine because we need it, not because
we like it; as our economy successfully
combats unemployment, we will stop
taking the medicine well before we become
addicted to it.
Preparing the Federal budget forces us
to face up to the choices and challenges
before us to decide what national in-
terests take priority.
The budget is a superb deflator of
78
