[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
power
the Federal Government to acquire
the requisite legal interest in 547,000 acres
of Big Cypress.
NEW PARKLANDS AT THE GATEWAYS
The need to provide breathing space
and recreational opportunities in our
major urban centers is a major concern of
this Administration. Two of the Nation's
major gateways to the world-New York
City and San Francisco-have land
nearby with exceptional scenic and recrea-
tional potential, and we are moving to
make that land available for people to
enjoy. In May of 1971, I proposed legisla-
tion to authorize a Gateway National
Recreation Area in New York and New
Jersey. This proposal would open to a
metropolitan region of more than 14 mil-
lion people a National Recreation Area
offering more than 23,000 acres of prime
beaches, wildlife preserves, and historical
attractions including the nation's oldest
operating lighthouse.
On our western shore lies another area
uniquely appropriate for making recrea-
tional and scenic values more accessible to
a metropolitan community.
-I propose legislation to establish a
Golden Gate National Recreation Area in
and around San Francisco Bay.
This proposal would encompass a num-
ber of existing parks, military reservations,
and private lands to provide a full range
of recreation experiences. Altogether, the
area would encompass some 24,000 acres
of fine beaches, rugged coasts, and readily
accessible urban parklands, extending ap-
proximately 30 miles along some of
America's most beautiful coastline north
and south of Golden Gate Bridge. Angel
and Alcatraz Islands in the bay would be
within the boundaries of the National
Recreation Area, as would a number of
properties on the mainland which afford
magnificent views of the city, the bay and
the ocean. As part of this plan, I am direct-
ing that the Presidio at San Francisco be
opened for dual military and civilian rec-
reational uses.
CONVERTING FEDERAL PROPERTIES TO
PARKS
Among the most important legacies that
we can pass on to future generations is an
endowment of parklands and recreational
areas that will enrich leisure opportunities
and make the beauties of the earth and sea
accessible to all Americans. This is the
object of our Legacy of Parks program,
initiated early in 1971. As part of this pro-
gram, I directed the Property Review
Board to give priority to potential park
and recreation areas in its search for alter-
native uses of federally held real property.
The results of this search so far have been
most encouraging. To the original 40
properties which I announced in my En-
vironmental Message of 1971 as being well
suited for park use, another III prospects
have been added. And from this total of
151 prospective parklands, 63 have al-
ready been made available.
-Today I am pleased to announce that
20 more parcels of Federal land are being
made available for park and recreation
use.
These newest parcels, combined with
those which have been announced over the
past year, provide a legacy of 83 park-
lands for America which comprise 14,585
acres in 31 States and Puerto Rico. The
estimated fair market value of these
properties is over $56 million. In the
months to come, every effort will be made
to extend this legacy to all 50 States. The
184
