Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 16 [89]
gram to focus on domestic needs-such
as communications, weather forecasting
and natural resource exploration. One im-
portant way of doing this is by designing
and developing a reusable space shuttle,
a step which would allow us to seize new
opportunities in space with higher relia-
bility at lower costs.
2) We are moving to set and meet
certain civilian research and development
targets. In my State of the Union Mes-
sage, my Budget Message and in other
communications with the Congress, I have
identified a number of areas where new
efforts are most likely to produce signifi-
cant progress and help us meet pressing
domestic needs. They include:
-Providing new sources of energy with-
out pollution. My proposed budget for
fiscal year 1973 would increase energy-
related research and development expend-
itures by 22 percent.
-Developing fast, safe, pollution-free
transportation. I have proposed spending
46 percent more in the coming fiscal year
on a variety of transportation projects.
--Working to reduce the loss of life and
property from natural disasters. I have
asked, for example, that our earthquake
research program be doubled and that our
hurricane research efforts be increased.
-Improving drug abuse rehabilitation
programs and efforts to curb drug traf-
ficking. Our budget requests in this critical
area are four times the level of 1971.
-Increasing biomedical research ef-
forts, especially those concerning cancer
and heart disease, and generally providing
more efficient and effective health care,
including better emergency health care
systems.
3) We will also draw more directly
on the capabilities of our high technology
agencies-the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration and the National Bureau
of Standards in the Department of Com-
merce-in applying research and devel-
opment to domestic problems.
4) We are making strong efforts to im-
prove the scientific and technological basis
for setting Federal standards and regula-
tions. For example, by learning to measure
more precisely the level of air pollution
and its effects on our health, we can do a
more effective job of setting pollution
standards and of enforcing those stand-
ards once they are established.
5) I am also providing in my 1973
budget for a 12 percent increase for re-
search and development conducted at uni-
versities and colleges. This increase reflects
the effort of the past 2 years to encourage
educational institutions to undertake re-
search related to important national
problems.
6) Finally, I believe that the National
Science Foundation should draw on all
sectors of the scientific and technological
community in working to meet significant
domestic challenges. To this end, I am
taking action to permit the Foundation
to support applied research in industry
when the use of industrial capabilities
would be advantageous in accomplishing
the Foundation's objectives.
SUPPORTING RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
The direction of private scientific and
technological activities is determined in
large measure by thousands of private
decisions—and this should always be the
case. But we cannot ignore the fact that
Federal policy also has a great impact on
what happens in the private sector. This
influence is exerted in many ways-in-
419
