[170] May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
The U.S.-U.S.S.R. Commission is to
Negotiate:
-an overall trade agreement including
reciprocal MFN [most-favored-na-
tion] treatment;
-arrangements for the reciprocal avail-
ability of government credits;
-provisions for the reciprocal estab-
lishment of business facilities to
promote trade;
-an agreement establishing an arbitra-
tion mechanism for settling commer-
cial disputes.
Study possible U.S.-U.S.S.R. participa-
tion in the development of resources and
the manufacture and sale of raw materials
and other products.
Monitor the spectrum of U.S.-U.S.S.R.
commercial relations, identifying and,
when possible, resolving issues that may be
of interest to both parties such as patents
and licensing.
Sessions of the Commission will be held
alternately in Moscow and Washington.
The first session of the Commission is to
take place in Moscow in July of this year.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Commercial
Commission. Participants in the news briefing
were Peter M. Flanigan, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for International Economic Affairs, and
Ronald L. Ziegler, Press Secretary to the
President.
On July 10, 1972, the White House an-
nounced the membership of the U.S. delegation
to the first session of the Commission conven-
ing in Moscow on July 20. The White House
also released a fact sheet on the Commission
and on the membership of the U.S. delegation
and the transcript of a news briefing on prep-
arations for the first session in Moscow by
Peter G. Peterson, Secretary of Commerce and
head of the U.S. delegation to the Commission.
On July 17, the White House released the
transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
Peterson on his meeting with the President to
discuss the forthcoming session of the
Commission.
171
Toasts of the President and Aleksei N. Kosygin,
Chairman of the Council of Ministers, at a Dinner in
Moscow Honoring Soviet Leaders. May 26, 1972
Mr. General Secretary Brezhnev, Mr.
Chairman of the Presidium, Mr. Chair-
man of the Council of Ministers, and all
of our distinguished guests:
This house, which is the American Em-
bassy, is greatly honored tonight by the
presence of our Soviet guests.
I say this not only because of your rank,
the leaders of the great Soviet people, but
also because of the boundless hospitality
you have extended to all of us on our visit
to Moscow. We look forward to the time
when we shall be able to welcome you in
our country and in some way respond in
an effective manner to the way in which
you have received us so generously in your
country.
This has been described as a visit of the
summit. But as we all know, there are
many summits in the world. This is the
first meeting. There will be others.
And now this is, of course, an evening
that will always be remembered in this
house for another reason: Tonight at 11
o'clock there will be signed an historic
agreement between the Soviet Union and
the United States.
It is an agreement which will limit
624
