[258] Aug. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
to bring on a separate fiscal crisis of a
dimension involving billions of dollars by
its continuing inaction with regard to the
social services program of HEW. Under
this program the Federal Government pro-
vides matching funds, on a three-to-one
basis, for social services provided by the
States for past, current and potential pub-
lic assistance recipients.
As I have previously proposed on sev-
eral occasions, the Congress should place
a ceiling on spending for this program
which is now open-ended and not subject
to any effective control by the Federal
Government. But H.R. 15417 does not
contain such a cutoff.
We now provide matching money for
whatever amounts of services the States
choose to provide. Since the authorizing
legislation for the social services programs
is vaguely written, the States have been
able to include services far beyond
what the Congress must have originally
intended.
The result amounts to opening up a
trap-door in the Federal Treasury through
which billions are now flowing and
through which more billions will pour
unless the Congress enacts a specific
limitation.
The rate of increase has been quicken-
ing. From 1970 to 1971, expenditures rose
37 percent. In 1972, they more than dou-
bled-shooting up to more than $1.9 bil-
lion. In 1973, they threaten to more than
double again as State claims approach $5
billion.
Elementary fiscal responsibility demands
that this loophole for unlimited Federal
funds for undefined services must be
closed now. The Congress must harness
this multi-billion-dollar runaway pro-
gram by enacting a social services spend-
ing ceiling.
I also urge that the Congress, in draw-
ing up a new measure, provide that the
line items in the bill should not, in the
aggregate, exceed my budget request. This
could be accomplished either by revising
the recommendations for each of the
items, or by including a general provision
in the bill which would limit spending to
this overall aggregate amount.
I know the usual practice is to repass
such a bill with a slight reduction and
assume that the second bill will have to
be signed.
Such action would obviously not satisfy
the objections to this measure I have set
forth here.
In returning this measure without my
approval, I again urge the Congress to
join with me to avoid higher taxes, higher
prices and a resulting cut in purchasing
power for the American people by enact-
ing a general spending ceiling of $250
billion. That action would get us away
from this Congressional credit-card ap-
proach to Government finances—an ap-
proach that will add up to bad news for
everybody when the eventual and inevita-
ble bills must be paid.
The White House,
August 16, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained
the President's veto on August 16, 1972.
778
