Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
would place a national floor under the
income of all older Americans, guarantee
inflation-proof social security benefits, al-
low social security recipients to earn more
from their own work, increase benefits for
widows, and provide a 5-percent across-
the-board increase in social security. Al-
together, H.R. 1-as it now stands-
would mean some $5.5 billion in increased
benefits for America's older citizens. I
hope the Congress will also take this op-
portunity to eliminate the $5.80 monthly
fee now charged under Part B of Medi-
care a step which would add an addi-
tional $1.5 billion to the income of the
elderly. These additions would come on
top of earlier social security increases
totalling some $3 billion over the last 3
years.
A number of newer proposals also de-
serve approval. I am requesting that the
budget of the Administration on Aging
be increased five-fold over last year's re-
quest, to $100 million, in part so that we
can expand programs which help older
citizens live dignified lives in their own
homes. I am recommending substantially
larger budgets for those programs which
give older Americans a better chance to
serve their countrymen-Retired Senior
Volunteers, Foster Grandparents, and
others. And we will also work to ease the
burden of property taxes which so many
older Americans find so inequitable and
so burdensome. Other initiatives, includ-
ing proposals for extending and improv-
ing the Older Americans Act, will be pre-
sented as we review the recommendations
of the White House Conference on Aging.
Our new Cabinet-level Domestic Council
Committee on Aging has these recommen-
dations at the top of its agenda.
We will also be following up in 1972
on one of the most important of our 1971
initiatives-the crackdown on substand-
ard nursing homes. Our follow-through
will give special attention to providing
alternative arrangements for those who
are victimized by such facilities.
The legislation I have submitted to
provide greater financial security at re-
tirement, both for those now covered by
private pension plans and those who are
not, also merits prompt action by the Con-
gress. Only half the country's work force
is now covered by tax deductible private
pensions; the other half deserve a tax de-
duction for their retirement savings too.
Those who are now covered by pension
plans deserve the assurance that their
plans are administered under strict fidu-
ciary standards with full disclosure. And
they should also have the security pro-
vided by prompt vesting-the assurance
that even if one leaves a given job, he can
still receive the pension he earned there
when he retires. The legislation I have
proposed would achieve these goals, and
would also raise the limit on deductible
pension savings for the self-employed.
The state of our Union is strong today
because of what older Americans have so
long been giving to their country. The
state of our Union will be stronger tomor-
row if we recognize how much they still
can contribute. The best thing our
country can give to its older citizens is the
chance to be a part of it, the chance to
play a continuing role in the great Ameri-
can adventure.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MINORITIES
America cannot be at its best as it ap-
proaches its 200th birthday unless all
Americans have the opportunity to be at
their best. A free and open American
society, one that is true to the ideals of its
59
