Richard Nixon, 1972
[396]
Nov. I
an important step in the continuing battle
against terrorism. But the other measures
that we are supporting in the United Na-
tions and in the International Civil Avi-
ation Organization are also essential if
we are to establish a world in which men
and nations can deal with one another
without fear of these irrational and
despicable acts of terrorism.
NOTE: The text of the convention is printed
in Treaties and Other International Acts Series
(TIAS 7570).
396 Radio Address on Urban Affairs.
November 1, 1972
Good afternoon:
Today I would like to talk with you
about a challenge which many describe
as the "urban crisis." I prefer to think of
it, however, as the "urban opportunity."
When we talk about "the city," we are
not talking about an impersonal abstrac-
tion, but about the needs of real people-
who happen to live more closely together
and in larger concentrations than else-
where. Our goal must be to improve the
quality of urban life for individual human
beings-to make each city a vibrant and
vital place for people to live in.
In the 1960's, Federal programs for the
cities grew bigger and bigger, but the
problems of the cities only grew worse.
Government spending increased at a
record pace, but so did crime and pollu-
tion and inflation and unrest.
That is why, in addressing our urban
needs, I have insisted that we concen-
trate not merely on how much we spend,
but on how we spend it; that we measure
our progress not merely by the money we
put into urban programs, but by the re-
sults we get out of them; that we improve
not only the quality of our resources but
the quality of our thinking.
That is why we have developed an en-
tirely new strategy for urban America in
this Administration. This strategy is de-
signed to do two things:
-First, to end the fragmented "bits
and pieces" approach to urban problems,
to recognize their interrelationships, to
tackle them in a comprehensive, coordi-
nated manner. This means focusing re-
sponsibility, so that public servants can do
effective, long-range planning and pull
together sufficient resources.
-Second, I was determined to end
the logjam of power in an ever-
centralizing Washington bureaucracy and
to strengthen government at the grass-
roots.
As a result of our new strategy, our pro-
grams for the cities have not only grown
in size in the last 4 years-they have also
improved in effectiveness.
Let me cite a few examples.
Our average expenditures for com-
munity development and housing have
been $1 billion a year higher in this Ad-
ministration than in the previous 4 years.
But in addition, we have worked to cut
redtape and decentralize administration.
We have worked to curb runaway housing
costs, to find more efficient methods of
finance and construction.
Now let's look at the result: Housing
starts last year reached an alltime record
high of 2.1 million units—and are now
more than 65 percent above the 1960 to
1081
