[92] Mar. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
92 Letter to the Senate Minority Leader About the Proposed
Constitutional Amendment on Equal Rights for
Men and Women. March 18, 1972
Dear Hugh:
This is in response to your inquiry re-
questing my stand on the Equal Rights
Amendment currently under considera-
tion by the Senate.
As you remember, as a Senator in 1951
I cosponsored a Resolution incorporating
the original Amendment; in July of 1968
I reaffirmed my support for it as a candi-
date for the Presidency.
Throughout twenty-one years I have
not altered my belief that equal rights for
women warrant a Constitutional guaran-
tee and I therefore continue to favor
the enactment of the Constitutional
Amendment to achieve this goal.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Hugh Scott, Minority Leader,
United States Senate, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: H. J. Res. 208, proposing an amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United States
relative to equal rights for men and women, is
printed in United States Statutes at Large (86
Stat. 1523).
93 Special Message to the Congress on Minority Enterprise.
March 19, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
From its start, America has prided it-
self on being a land of opportunity.
In recent years, we have done much to
press open new doors of opportunity for
millions of Americans to whom those doors
had previously been barred, or only half-
open. In jobs, housing, education, old ob-
stacles are being removed. But for Blacks,
Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans, Indi-
ans and other minorities who have known
discrimination, economic opportunity
must also increasingly be made to mean a
greater chance to know the satisfactions,
the rewards and the responsibilities of
business ownership. Such opportunities
are not only important in themselves;
they also help make possible the economic
and social advances that are critical to the
development of stable and thriving com-
munities on which the social and economic
vitality of the Nation as a whole depend.
Despite a long history of frustration and
lost potential, minority Americans want
business ownership-and they should. Po-
tential minority entrepreneurs are eager
to join the mainstream of the Nation's
commerce. Many need help in getting
started-and increasing numbers are get-
ting that help. A working coalition of the
Government, the private sector and minor-
ity communities is moving rapidly to pro-
vide disadvantaged Americans with op-
portunities to own and control their own
successful businesses.
The principal need of minority busi-
ness today is for a greater supply of in-
vestment capital. Technical assistance,
training, promotion and business oppor-
tunities are all fundamentally related to
investment capital, that centripetal force
which draws together the people, skills,
equipment and resources necessary to op-
erate a profitable business.
The coalition of public and private sec-
tors and minority interests supporting
444
