[393] Oct. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
This summer I launched a new pro-
gram called Project FIND.3 Its purposes
were expressed in its name-to "find"
older people who are so isolated that they
are not receiving the help which should
be theirs.
The results have been remarkable. One
and a half million names have already
come in to us. And now, with the help of
the American Red Cross, we are mobil-
izing an army of 20,000 volunteers to
make personal contact with each one of
these elderly persons.
Already over 300,000 contacts have
been made. In Des Moines, for example,
a group of high school students has been
giving many hours a week to visiting older
people. One girl, Carol Clayton, discov-
ered a 79-year-old man a few weeks ago
who spoke only Spanish. He lived on very
little income, and he had never heard
about food stamps. And now, as a result
of Project FIND, Trinidad Medina has
made contact with the Polk County De-
partment of Social Services. Just as im-
portantly, he has made a friend, Carol
Clayton. He can't communicate with her
in English, but with the help of his Span-
ish guitar, he has no trouble communi-
cating friendship.
This, in the final analysis, is what our
programs to help older people are all
about: not lines on an organization chart,
or numbers in a budget, but helping indi-
vidual men and women live fuller,
richer lives.
In less than 4 weeks, we will celebrate
another Thanksgiving. Our family will
think back to our first Thanksgiving in
See Item 244.
the White House 3 years ago. Our guests
that day were over 200 older Americans.
When I talked with them, I found that
many were particularly excited about the
Moon walks that they had recently
watched on television. And it occurred to
me on that day that most of our guests
could also remember the first airplane
flight by the Wright Brothers at Kitty
Hawk, over a half century ago.
Our older generation has lived through
the greatest period of change in human
history. They have brought our Nation
through all that change with colors flying.
We owe them more than we can ever
repay.
But when we think of older Americans,
we must not think only about what they
have already given. We must also think
about what they still can give. They are
our seasoned veterans, and America can
never be at its best if we keep them on
the bench.
We hear a lot about generation gaps
these days. We cannot afford a genera-
tion gap which shuts out the young in
this country. But neither can we afford
a generation gap that shuts out the old.
And so we must develop a new atti-
tude toward aging in America, one that
stops regarding older Americans as a
burden and starts regarding them as a
resource.
Senior power can be a tremendous
source of energy for our country. Churchill
was a great leader at 81. Holmes was a
great jurist at 91. Clara Barton led the
Red Cross at 83, and Connie Mack led the
Athletics at 88. Michelangelo was paint-
ing at 89; Toscanini was conducting at
87. And for every celebrated name like
1078
