[1] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
change. But, in the case of the Harris poll,
about 50 percent said that you had failed
to inspire confidence and faith and lacked
personal warmth and compassion. Why
do you suppose that is?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is because
people tell the pollsters that, of course. So,
that is what the people must believe.
But, on the other hand, without trying
to psychoanalyze myself, because that is
your job, I would simply answer the ques-
tion by saying that my strong point is not
rhetoric, it isn't showmanship, it isn't big
promises-those things that create the
glamour and the excitement that people
call charisma and warmth.
My strong point, if I have a strong
point, is performance. I always do more
than I say. I always produce more than I
promise. Oh, I don't mean that from
time to time I may not have made prom-
ises that I was unable to keep, but gen-
erally speaking, whether it is in the foreign
field, or in the domestic field, I believe that
actions are what count. And also, I think
that is what the country needs.
At this particular point, I think we
have to realize that when I took office in
1968 [1969], not only were 300 Americans
a week being killed in Vietnam, and there
were 539,000 there, but we had riots in
most of our cities; the President, as you
recall at that time, could not safely travel
to most of the cities, and I have been to
most of the States and cities since that
time, incidentally. That is no reflection on
him. It means that times have changed
some. The campuses were in great
turmoil.
At that particular point, I could have
moved with a great deal of flamboyance
and showmanship and the rest, but I think
what got us into the trouble that we
reaped in 1968, and a lot of it carried
over in 1969, was hot rhetoric, big prom-
ises, and then failure to come through on
them.
I feel that when the trouble of a nation
has been caused by too much rhetoric, the
cure for that trouble is not more rhetoric.
What I think, therefore, is needed at this
time, in order to gain the confidence of
the people and, let me put it more directly,
in order to give the people of this country
confidence in their government, is for
their government to do something, to pro-
duce something.
That is why I want this Administration,
in the brief time that I am here, I want
this Administration to be one that will
bring an end of American involvement in
Vietnam, that will look beyond, however,
simply ending one war, building a lasting
peace, and that is what China and Russia,
those visits, are all about; keeping it cool
in the Mideast if we possibly can, moving
not only to maintain the balance but pos-
sibly negotiation in that area-and then
on the domestic front, an historic reform
of government, welfare reform, revenue
sharing, government reorganization, an
attack on the drug problem, all of these
things.
Now, these are big programs. I think,
however, that performing in some of these
fields will have a very great effect on the
attitude of the American people toward-
if I could put it in a general sense-maybe
not toward this President as a person, but
toward the Presidency. The Presidency is
what is on the line here.
When the Presidency fails to come
through, people lose confidence in govern-
ment. They lose confidence in Congress.
They lose confidence in the courts. As a
matter of fact, I saw a poll the other day
12
