Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [267]
volvement there began, I have been there
in '64, '65-six times, as a matter of fact,
before I became President, and once
since. I have gone out in the field. I have
been to Danang with the Marines. I have
been up in the highlands with the Army.
I have been down in the Delta, also with
Army forces. I have seen some of the
Naval forces, too.
Let me tell you, yes, there are, as there
always are in every war, as there always
are in any American community of young
men, there are men who don't live up to
the standards that we would like. But I
can tell you that as I have seen the young
men who have served in Vietnam, I am
proud of them. They are fine young men,
and we should stand up for them.
I am very proud, for example, of Ma-
rine and Army groups who, in the year
1967-and it has happened every year
since then, that was the last time I was
there and had a chance to look at it though
in this particular matter-contributed $1
million out of their very small pay for the
purpose of helping to build schools and
community centers and roads for the
ple of South Vietnam.
peo-
I have seen Marines, I have seen young
men, enlisted men, not officers neces-
sarily-oh, they were there, too—but I
have seen them out there teaching lan-
guage, working, taking their time, helping
these people in a peaceful way. Let me say,
instead of making moral heroes of a few
hundred who have deserted their country,
let's honor the real heroes who have
served their country in Vietnam.
They are gallant men. They are not
ashamed of their country. They are brave
men who did not desert their Nation.
They are heroes who will stand just
as tall
as those who fought at Normandy and
Iwo Jima. America is not going to turn
her back on them. We are not going to
make a mockery of their sacrifice and
devotion by talking of amnesty for desert-
ers while some of their comrades are held
captive in brutal North Vietnamese
prisons.
What they fought for and what we
seek today is a true generation of peace,
not a short and humiliating truce that will
encourage aggression and have the effect
of rewarding the foes of freedom. I know
that many say that the journey to such a
peace is long, and of course it is. But it is
a journey that we have begun. We have
begun it in opening a new relationship
with the world's most populous country,
the People's Republic of China. We have
begun it in our negotiations with the
Soviet Union. I have gone to the four
corners of the earth, including even other
countries that a President never visited
before.
I don't mean that trips alone do it, but
I do mean that because the United States
is strong, because the United States is
respected, the United States can be and
should be the leader in the world for
peace.
That is why we must keep our strength,
because if we were not strong we would
not be respected. Let's never have a Presi-
dent in that position as he goes abroad.
I found a desire for peace in Peking and
Moscow. Many of you will find that hard
to believe, but it is not desired for the
same reason or the same terms in each of
these world centers. But it is desired, so
that if America does not falter or weaken
we have a basis to build on.
We can have a hope that the next
generation of Americans will not have to
face the same specter of war in their time
that we have had in ours. This is a noble
hope, a hope we all should work to build
801
