[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have no other choice. A settlement is
in the basic interest of both sides, of the
United States, and of world peace.
THE NEED FOR GREAT POWER RESTRAINT
The Arab-Israeli conflict is not in the
first instance a U.S.-Soviet dispute, nor
can it be settled by the global powers. But
it is clear that the posture of the major
powers can facilitate or inhibit agreement.
Their arms can fuel the conflict; their
diplomatic positions can make it more
intractable; their exploitation of tension
for unilateral gain can foment new crises.
Hopes for peace will be undermined if
either the U.S. or the USSR feels that the
other is either using a negotiation or de-
laying a settlement to improve its political
position at the expense of the other.
In this regard, the Soviet Union's effort
to use the Arab-Israeli conflict to per-
petuate and expand its own military posi-
tion in Egypt has been a matter of concern
to the United States. The USSR has taken
advantage of Egypt's increasing depend-
ence on Soviet military supply to gain the
use of naval and air facilities in Egypt.
This has serious implications for the sta-
bility of the balance of power locally,
regionally in the Eastern Mediterranean,
and globally. The Atlantic Alliance can-
not ignore the possible implications of
this move for the stability of the East-
West relationship.
This is but one example of the conse-
quences of the failure of the U.S. and
USSR to reach some general understand-
ing on the basic conditions of stability in
the Middle East. Fundamental interests
of the major powers are involved and
some measure of disagreement is inevi-
table. Neither great power would succeed
in helping the parties reach a settlement
if its efforts ran counter to the interests of
the other, or if the other refused to
cooperate.
This was the rationale of our dialogue
with the USSR on the Middle East in
1969. Those talks unfortunately found-
ered because of two developments.
-The Soviet Union tried to draw a
final political and territorial blue-
print, including final boundaries, in-
stead of helping launch a process of
negotiation. We envisioned that
boundaries could be drawn in the
course of such a process to make
them more secure, though it was our
view that changes would not be sub-
stantial. In the fall of 1969, we
reached an understanding with the
USSR on a possible procedure for
indirect Arab-Israeli talks. In Decem.
ber 1969, the Soviet Union changed
its mind on this understanding.
-The Soviet Union applied its energies
in early 1970 to a major military
buildup in Egypt, which further de-
layed negotiation. Egypt's "war of
attrition" along the Suez Canal had
grown in intensity and Israel had
responded with air raids deep into
Egypt. The Soviets thereupon de-
ployed in Egypt some 80 surface-to-
air missile installations, several
squadrons of combat aircraft with
Soviet pilots, 5,000 missile crew mem-
bers and technicians, and about 11,-
ooo other advisers. This buildup con-
tinued through the summer of 1970,
and Soviet personnel were directly
involved in violations of the stand-
still agreement of August 7. Israel
refused to negotiate until the viola-
tions were rectified. The U.S. pro-
294
