[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
governments, industry, and the public.
However, the Federal Government must
provide leadership.
In 1970, the Environmental Protection
Agency was established to improve our
pollution control efforts, and the Council
on Environmental Quality was established
to advise on problems and policies related
to environmental quality.
Now, new initiatives are being under-
taken.
•
To clean our air, we have:
-set national standards for the six
major air pollutants and guidelines
for State implementation plans to
meet these standards;
-set pollution abatement standards
for new facilities in five industrial
categories;
-recommended a sulfur emissions
tax to encourage reductions in this
major source of pollution; and
-supported research and develop-
ment to provide a low-pollution
alternative to the conventional in-
ternal combustion engine and to
provide means to reduce pollution
from burning coal and oil.
• To clean our water, we have:
-required permits under the Refuse
Act to control discharges of indus-
trial pollutants into our waterways;
-proposed legislation to control
dumping into oceans, coastal wat-
ers, and the Great Lakes; and
-initiated a 3-year, $6 billion pro-
gram to assist State and local
gov-
ernments in building sewage treat-
ment facilities.
• To reduce noise pollution, we have
proposed legislation to regulate and
to set labeling requirements for
major sources of noise.
• To improve and protect health, we
have proposed new legislation on
pesticides to regulate their use and
to strengthen and coordinate Federal
and State control efforts.
•
To use our lands more wisely, we
have proposed legislation on power-
plant siting, mined area protection,
and land use regulation.
Many of the proposals that I have sub-
mitted to the Congress have not yet been
enacted. Our Nation cannot make the
major efforts that are needed to protect
and improve the environment unless Con-
gress will respond to the urgent need for
this legislation. I urge rapid approval by
the Congress of these pending environ-
mental proposals. With the passage of this
legislation and the additional proposals
that I will submit to Congress in a special
environmental message in February-we
will be able to move forward vigorously
in all areas of environmental quality.
The outlays requested for major en-
vironmental programs in 1973 are $2.5
billion, more than three times the 1969
level. These funds will support expanded
efforts in all major environmental pro-
grams. For example, Federal programs
have assisted in increasing the population
served by secondary sewage treatment
from 91 million in 1969 to 115 million in
1973, and in removing 27% more pollu-
tion from municipal sewage effluent than
was removed in 1968.
PARKS AND OPEN SPACES.-As our ex-
panding economy provides higher stand-
ards of living and increased opportunity
for leisure, our citizens will want addi-
tional parks and other recreational facili-
ties, especially in and near cities. We also
want to assure the preservation of nation-
ally important natural and historic areas.
92
