[273] Aug. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
You realize that the future of show busi-
ness, the future of your personal lives, the
future of America and the world will de-
pend upon the leadership that we have in
America, and you are willing, therefore,
to go out and speak up for America, each
in your own way.
In that connection, incidentally, I know
that there are those who will not do that,
and I understand and I do not criticize
them, but let me just suggest this to you:
I said a moment ago that when those of us
who are not in show business have the
opportunity to see a good movie or a good
television show, and when it takes us away
from all of our problems, that is good for
us.
Putting it in terms of yourselves, when
you move out of your business, when you
do something in the field of politics, you
are engaging in an activity that is bigger
than yourselves, and that is good for you,
it is good for any of us.
I think that President de Gaulle said it
best of all in terms of a nation when he
said that "France is never her true self
unless she is engaged in a great enter-
prise." That is true of a nation; it is true
of an individual. We are never our true
selves unless we are engaged in an enter-
prise bigger than ourselves.
And I think we all are-you, those of
us who are working in this campaign, and
for that matter, those working on the
other side. What we are doing is engaging
in an enterprise as big as America, and as
big as the world, because what happens in
America will determine the future of the
world over these next 25 years.
That is what this election is about. That
is why I am so very proud that we have
such a magnificent group of Americans,
from Hollywood, our own State, our own
town, supporting us.
Just to show you why I now welcome
the opportunity, as Pat will, to talk with
you, and meet each of you personally
for a little while longer, I end with a true
story about what happened at the White
House just a few months ago.
We had a meeting on narcotics with a
group of Congressmen from the New York
area, and Congressman Rangel, a Demo-
cratic Congressman, a very able man,
from Harlem, spoke to me very movingly
about the necessity of doing something
about heroin. He said, "Everybody talks
about welfare and everybody talks about
all the other things that can be done for
the people of my district, but," he said,
"the most important thing you can do is
to stop that heroin that is destroying the
lives of so many of my people, so many of
my constituents." And he said, "For one
thing, can't you do something to stop the
production of and the export of the heroin
poppy from Turkey into the United
States?" I said, "We will do what we can,
Mr. Congressman."
As a result of what we were able to do
after that occasion, we worked with the
Government of Turkey, we got an agree-
ment worked out whereby all the heroin
poppy production in Turkey will be
stopped within a year.
I called the Congressman on the phone
because I was rather pleased, and I
thought he would be. I said, "Mr. Con-
gressman, I think you will be interested
to know that we have reached an agree-
ment with the Turkish Government which
will be announced later today to the ef-
fect that they will stop all heroin poppy
production within the next year." The
Congressman was somewhat over-
whelmed by the call, and we talked a bit,
and he said he appreciated it-the
followup.
824
