Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
tinued nevertheless. Disagreements over
the fisheries question have also arisen with
Peru and Brazil.
The technical issue is a dispute over the
legal definition of the territorial sea. The
central issue is political-how to reconcile
conflicting interests in an environment in
which national pride and nationalist emo-
tions exacerbate our differences. Funda-
mental security interests of the United
States are involved. We do not believe
that a continuing cycle of seizures and
sanctions serves anyone's interest. We
therefore consider it essential to negotiate
at least an interim solution: to halt the
seizures and sanctions while preserving
the juridical positions of both sides until
the 1973 UN Conference on the Law of
the Sea, which we hope will reach an
international consensus. Counsellor Finch
reopened talks on this issue on his visit to
Ecuador and Peru, and we have also dis-
cussed the problem with Brazil.
Major differences have also arisen in
the past three years between the United
States and some Latin American countries
over expropriation of foreign private
investments.
International law permits non-discrim-
inatory nationalization of property for
public purposes but it also requires reason-
able provision for prompt, adequate, and
effective compensation. Although mu-
tually acceptable compensation agree-
ments are negotiated in the majority of
instances in Latin America, there have
been important cases in which the legiti-
mate interests of private investors have
been treated arbitrarily and inequitably.
In our view this only jeopardizes the
achievement of the goals in whose name
these actions are taken. Latin America
needs external capital, because internal
savings are simply insufficient for develop-
ment needs. While every country has the
right to determine its own conditions for
private investment, a government that
rejects or discourages private capital can-
not realistically assume that foreign public
capital will make up the difference. What
is needed now is a frank understanding
which protects the legitimate interests of
private investors, while being fair to the
countries in which they invest. This would
restore mutual confidence and maintain
the flow of needed resources.
In January of this year, I announced
the principles that shall govern U.S.
Government policy on this matter world-
wide. This policy is set forth in the Inter-
national Economic Policy chapter of this
Report.
In our view, the hemisphere commu-
nity is big enough, mature enough and
tolerant enough to accept a diversity of
national approaches to human goals. We
therefore deal realistically with govern-
ments as they are-right and left. We have
strong preferences and hopes to see free
democratic processes prevail, but we can-
not impose our political structure on other
nations. We respect the hemispheric prin-
ciple of non-intervention. We shape our
relations with governments according to
their policies and actions as they affect
our interests and the interests of the inter-
American system, not according to their
domestic structures.
Our relations with Chile are an ex-
ample. Chile's leaders will not be charmed
out of their deeply held convictions by
gestures on our part. We recognize that
they are serious men whose ideological
principles are, to some extent, frankly in
conflict with ours. Nevertheless, our rela-
tions will hinge not on their ideology but
on their conduct toward the outside
world. As I have said many times, we are
263
