Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
ments. By streamlining and simplifying
the delivery of services, it would help
more people move more rapidly from
public dependency toward the dignity of
being eself-sufficient.
Good men and good money can be
wasted on bad mechanisms. By giving
those mechanisms a thorough overhaul,
we can help to restore the confidence of
the people in the capacities of their
government.
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT
A central theme of both my earlier mes-
sages on the state of the Union was the
state of our environment-and the impor-
tance of making "our peace with nature."
The last few years have been a time in
which environmental values have become
firmly embedded in our attitudes--and in
our institutions. At the Federal level, we
have established a new Environmental
Protection Agency, a new Council on
Environmental Quality and a new Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, and we have proposed an entire
new Department of Natural Resources.
New air quality standards have been set,
and there is evidence that the air in many
cities is becoming less polluted. Under
authority granted by the Refuse Act of
1899, we have instituted a new permit
program which, for the first time, allows
the Federal Government to inventory all
significant industrial sources of water pol-
lution and to specify required abatement
actions. Under the Refuse Act, more than
160 civil actions and 320 criminal actions
to stop water pollution have been filed
against alleged polluters in the last 12
months. Major programs have also been
launched to build new municipal waste
treatment facilities, to stop pollution from
Federal facilities, to expand our wilder-
ness areas, and to leave a legacy of parks
for future generations. Our outlays for
inner city parks have been significantly
expanded, and 62 Federal tracts have
been transferred to the States and to local
governments for recreational uses. In the
coming year, I hope to transfer to local
park use much more Federal land which
is suitable for recreation but which is now
underutilized. I trust the Congress will
not delay this process.
The most striking fact about environ-
mental legislation in the early 1970's is
how much has been proposed and how
little has been enacted. Of the major legis-
lative proposals I made in my special mes-
sage to the Congress on the environment
last winter, 18 are still awaiting final ac-
tion. They include measures to regulate
pesticides and toxic substances, to control
noise pollution, to restrict dumping in the
oceans, in coastal waters, and in the Great
Lakes, to create an effective policy for the
use and development of land, to regulate
the siting of power plants, to control strip
mining, and to help achieve many other
important environmental goals. The un-
finished agenda also includes our National
Resource Land Management Act, and
other measures to improve environmental
protection on federally owned lands.
The need for action in these areas is
urgent. The forces which threaten our
environment will not wait while we pro-
crastinate. Nor can we afford to rest on
last year's agenda in the environmental
field. For as our understanding of these
problems increases, so must our range of
responses. Accordingly, I will soon be
sending to the Congress another message
on the environment that will present fur-
55
