[351] Oct. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
it would contribute to the goal that I have
dedicated myself to, that I have spoken
to many of you about, including to this
group last year, of securing the release of
our POW's and the return of our MIA's.
I know that it has been a long, long
vigil for you. I know how much you have
suffered. And I know how much your
children have suffered, and others who
are not represented here. And I know that
it is difficult at such a time as this to put
your trust in any person.
But at this point let me just say in con-
clusion, you have never been away from
my thoughts and you have never been
away from my prayers, and there is noth-
ing that I want more than to bring your
loved ones home and I will never let you
down.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. in
the Presidential Ballroom of the Statler-Hilton
Hotel. He spoke without referring to notes.
Carole Hanson was chairman of the board
of directors of the League.
On May 15, 1972, the President met with
representatives of the League at the White
House. The transcript of a news briefing on
the meeting by Maureen A. Dunn, Sybil E.
Stockdale, and Phyllis E. Galanti, of the
League, was released by the White House.
352 Remarks at a Reception for Foreign Labor
Leaders. October 17, 1972
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Kirkland, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am delighted to welcome all of you to
the White House on the occasion of your
tour of the United States. I understand
that most of those who come from the 24
countries represented here speak English.
I understand that there are a number
from the countries to the south who speak
Spanish. My Spanish is very poor, but let
me give you all a welcome in Spanish,
which I think is better than the words we
would use in English. In English we say,
"Make yourself at home," which is a nice
way of welcoming somebody. But the
Spanish welcome is much warmer. They
say,
"Estan ustedes en su casa," which
means "This is your own home," and
that is the way I want you all to feel here.
I want to congratulate the AFL-CIO
and thank the AFL-CIO for participat-
ing in this program and sponsoring it
around the world. As I read the list of
countries that were represented here, I
realized that many are young countries,
relatively new countries. Some are very
old, with a long tradition in labor-man-
agement relations.
Therefore, I thought that my remarks
should be directed to what a free trade
union movement means to any country,
but particularly to a new country.
Now, the United States of America, by
most standards, even though it is part of
the New World, is like most of the coun-
tries in Latin America-it has a long
and old tradition. In fact, we will cele-
brate our 200th birthday just 4 years
from now. We have a very strong labor
movement in this country, a free labor
movement. And if someone were to come
on the scene today, he would think that
that labor movement had been part of the
American tradition from the beginning.
You have all heard of the American
Revolution, of Washington and Jefferson
and Lincoln, and many get the impression
that it sprang full blown with a free trade
988
