[38] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
a big heart which is demonstrated by her
great audience and we appreciate that and
we present this award to her in that spirit.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
The President presented the Heart-of-the
Year Award to Pearl Bailey on behalf of the
American Heart Association. The award is
given annually to a "distinguished American
whose faith and courage in meeting the per-
sonal challenge of heart disease have inspired
people throughout the Nation with confidence
in the objectives and program of the American
Heart Association."
On the same day, the President signed Proc-
lamation 4104, designating the month of Feb-
ruary as American Heart Month.
39 Remarks to Athletes Attending a White House
Sponsored Conference on Drug Abuse.
February 3, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I would like to begin this White House
briefing with a confession that perhaps
doesn't need to be made before this dis-
tinguished audience. It has been rather
well publicized that I am somewhat of a
sports fan. As a matter of fact, I have not
been able to demonstrate that too much
over the past year. I have seen only one
baseball game-incidentally, the Senators
won that one, too-and no football games,
but several on television, baseball, football.
The only basketball game I saw, inciden-
tally, was when the [Los Angeles] Lakers
lost to the [Milwaukee] Bucks in that great
game out there in Milwaukee a few weeks
ago.
But in the course of seeing games and,
of course, commenting upon them and
picking plays-usually ones that didn't
work-I have learned a lot about the
game, about the men in it, and what they
have contributed to this country. As one
who sees sports almost exclusively on tele-
vision, I want you to know that the worst
part of it is the commercials, except for
one kind of commercial. I think it is one
of the most exciting ventures in the whole
field of sports, and also in the field of
television broadcasting.
When I saw the breaks come, you know,
in the timeout or whatever the case might
be, and then on would come what you
thought was an instant replay, and then it
was a commercial-a commercial by a
man that you admired, admired as a fine
athlete on the field or on the basketball
court, as the case might be, or the base-
ball diamond. He would come on and he
would talk very effectively, very elo-
quently, about the subject of drug abuse
in the United States. I realized as I saw
those commercials, first, that we were get-
ting "we," I mean by that the United
States Government, because we asked that
those for whom you are playing, that they
cooperate, and the networks, of course,
have cooperated, and a number of other
agencies you wonder how effective they
have been.
Let me tell you we have a little proof.
Many of you will know that at the end of
the commercials, there is a little sign that
goes on, "If you want information about
drug abuse, write to the National Drug
Abuse Clearinghouse in Washington,
D.C." Since those commercials began,
there have been over 100,000 requests that
144
