[376] Oct. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
376 Memorandum of Disapproval of Nine Bills.
October 27, 1972
I HAVE promised the American people
that I will do everything in my power to
avoid the need for a tax increase next
year. Today, I take another important
step in the fulfillment of that sincere
pledge.
This effort really began last January,
when I submitted the Federal Budget for
fiscal year 1973 to the Congress. As I
explained at the time, that budget was
carefully prepared so that all justified
Federal programs could be provided with-
out any need for higher taxes-and with-
out causing higher prices.
When it became clear that the Con-
gress was exceeding the budget in many
bills, I proposed that a spending ceiling
of $250 billion be adopted as insurance
against a 1973 tax increase.
The Congress rejected that spending
ceiling. Instead, it approved spending far
in excess of my no-new-taxes budget.
Some of these bills have presented very
difficult decisions about whether to sign
or to veto. A number of them have at-
tractive features, or would serve very
worthwhile purposes-and of course I
have received strong advice that to veto
them just a few days before the Presi-
dential election would be politically very
damaging.
However, in this memorandum are nine
measures which I cannot sign without
breaking my promise to the American
people that I will do all in my power to
avoid the necessity of a tax increase next
year.
I made that promise in good faith, and
I believe in keeping the promises I make-
and in making only those promises that I
am confident I can keep.
If I were to sign these measures into
law, I would, in effect, be making prom-
ises that could not be kept since the
funds required to finance the promised
services are not available, and would not
be available without the higher taxes I
have promised to resist.
I believe that political leaders must lay
the facts on the line, to talk straight to
the people and to deliver on the promises
they make to the people.
Although the choices are not easy, I am
withholding my approval from 9 Con-
gressional spending programs that would
breach the budget by $750 million in fis-
cal
year 1973 and by nearly $2 billion in
fiscal year 1974.
Each of these measures by itself might
seem justifiable, or even highly desirable.
But the hard fact is that they cannot be
considered by themselves; each has to be
considered in the broader context of the
total budget-in terms of how that total
weighs on the taxpayers, and how it af-
fects the struggle to curb rising prices.
I am withholding my approval from
the following bills:
Labor-HEW and Related Agencies
Appropriation Act (H.R. 16654)—
This is the second time I have vetoed
inflated appropriations this year for the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare. This amounts to a textbook
example of the seeming inability or un-
willingness of the Congress to follow a
prudent and responsible spending policy.
In my budget for fiscal year 1973, I re-
quested that the Congress provide an in-
crease of $2.1 billion over fiscal 1972 funds
for the HEW programs contained in this
bill. On top of that generous increase-
1042
