Appendix E
such an opportunity exists. He is determined
that the Federal role in the transportation field
should be characterized by creative policies,
aggressive management, and constructive co-
operation between public and private sectors.
He is convinced that Claude Brinegar is the
right man to provide the leadership to make
this happen.
The President welcomes the chance to bring
a man of this caliber into the new Cabinet, and
he looks forward to working closely with Sec-
retary-designate Brinegar in the second term.
Incidentally, there is one fact that I know
will come out sooner or later regarding Mr.
Brinegar, so it was felt that we should make
this clear today. The fact is that Mr. Brinegar,
at some point in his life, lived a couple of years
in the town of Yorba Linda, California. This
came to light during the discussion the Presi-
dent had with Mr. Brinegar when they met here
at Camp David. The President wanted to make
sure that when the announcement was made,
that we called attention to the fact that Mr.
Brinegar did live for a period in the town in
which the President was born, Yorba Linda,
California.
Q. Did they meet there?
MR. ZIEGLER. No, they did not know one an-
other. The President lived in Yorba Linda in
1913, and Mr. Brinegar lived there in 1958,
so their paths did not cross, but the fact of the
matter is that they do have an association there
in relation to Yorba Linda.
Announcing the President's Decisions on Key
Officials in the Departments of Justice and the
Interior
December 8, 1972
We will continue now with the announce-
ments that we have been making over the past
few weeks in relation to the President's Cabinet.
Today's announcements regard the President's
Cabinet for the second term and also some sub-
Cabinet posts as well, and relate to the Depart-
ment of Justice and also to the Department of
the Interior.
First, President Nixon is pleased to announce
that Richard G. Kleindienst will continue to
serve as Attorney General of the United States.
Richard Kleindienst was sworn into office on
June 12, 1972. The President feels he will pro-
vide a continuity of firm leadership for this
vital department.
This Administration, as we have said before,
has a top priority commitment to continue
cutting down crime, narcotics, and other illegal
activities in this country. Significant gains have
been made in these areas during the last 4
years, and the President is directing that the
Department of Justice continue to give
emphasis to these areas in the second term.
Dick Kleindienst, as most of you know, has
served in the Department of Justice from the
beginning of President Nixon's first term, being
appointed Deputy Attorney General on Janu-
ary 31, 1969, and serving in that position until
John Mitchell left as Attorney General in June.
Mr. Kleindienst at that time was nominated
to become Attorney General.
We also have announcements today relating
to other positions within the Justice Depart-
ment. I am announcing at this time that the
following members of the Justice Department
will be leaving their posts:
Deputy Attorney General Ralph Erickson
will be leaving his post and will be nominated
to a high judicial post. President Nixon ex-
presses his appreciation for the valuable service
which Deputy Attorney General Ralph Erick-
son has provided during his term in that
position.
David Norman, Assistant Attorney General
of the Civil Rights Division, who also, I should
say, will be nominated by the President for an
important judicial position, will be leaving his
position as Assistant Attorney General in the
Civil Rights Division. He has served as As-
sistant Attorney General in the Civil Rights
Division since August of 1971.
Jerris Leonard, Administrator of the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration since
April of 1971, will be leaving that position and
returning to private life and to the private
practice of law.
Roger Cramton, Assistant Attorney General,
Office of Legal Counsel, serving in that position
since August of 1972, is returning to his pro-
fession of the teaching of law. He has been
on leave for 2 years from the University of
87-234-74-82
E-13
