[327] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
equal-in some areas they are ahead and
in some areas we are ahead, but we are
roughly equal.
Consequently, whenever it is suggested
that the policy of the United States, its
foreign policy, should be based on the
proposition that whenever a friend or an
ally of the United States is threatened our
only option will be a nuclear strike, this is
not credible. It is not credible particularly
where small nations are concerned whose
survival does not affect directly the secu-
rity of the United States of America, be-
cause every leader in the world will know
that if a President of the United States is
faced with a decision involving a small
ally of the United States or a small nation
with which we have a commitment, faced
with a decision when that nation is threat-
ened that requires him and allows him
only to launch a nuclear war which would
lead to nuclear devastation of the United
States, he knows, and our potential ad-
versaries know, that we would not do it.
That is why we have to have a Navy
which is the strongest in the world, that is
why we cannot be second best in the field
of the Air Force. That is why the United
States of America, if it is to maintain a
credible foreign policy, if our friends and
allies, particularly among those small na-
tions of the world whose survival does not
directly affect us, if we are to have with
those nations a credible foreign policy, it
is essential that the United States maintain
a strength overall in the nonnuclear area
which is adequate and second to none.
That is why, even though I and Dave
Packard-when he served in that enor-
mously important position of Under Sec-
retary of Defense, where he had to make
these decisions and recommendations to
the President-have had to oppose, much
as we would have wanted the money for
other purposes, we have had to oppose cuts
in the defense budget which would result
in making the United States second.
Let me just put it very bluntly this way:
We don't want to spend one dollar more
on defense than we need, because we need
it for domestic purposes. But let us remem-
ber that spending more than we need in
defense may cost us money, but spending
less than we need could cost us our lives.
Let's put the security of America first.
Now, let me put this in a much more
positive context. I have spoken, I think
quite properly and soberly, of the prag-
matic situation that the leaders of the
United States will face in dealing with the
leaders of the Soviet Union and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China and other nations
in the years ahead. Let us also look at the
promise. Let us see how the world has
changed and how it can change even more
for the better.
I think of our trip to Peking. I think of
800 million people who live in the People's
Republic of China. I think of Chinese
people that I have known in America-
in San Francisco, in New York, in Los
Angeles. I think of people I have known
all over the world, the Chinese people,
how able they are, in Singapore, in Saigon,
Bangkok, Taiwan. And I think of those
800 million people. I think then of our
own young people. I want the young peo-
ple of America to live in an open world.
I don't mean that their government
will be one that we will like, but I want
the young people of America, our chil-
dren and their children, not to be cut off
from one-fourth of all of the people in the
world. That is one of the things that this
policy is about.
And I think of something else. I think
of how much we can do working together.
Here in San Francisco you see it all. When
930
