[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
going to or from China, and per-
mitted U.S. vessels to carry Chinese
cargoes between non-Chinese ports.
-In June I removed trade controls on
a wide range of non-strategic U.S.
products to permit their export to the
People's Republic of China without a
license. The effect of these measures
has been to end the 21-year embargo
on direct trade with the People's
Republic of China.
-Secretary Stans' visit to the Soviet
Union and Poland, and the large
number of licenses issued for Ameri-
can exporters wishing to sell to these
countries, should enhance the pos-
sibility of increased trade.
-In November we concluded a sale of
approximately $136 million of grains
to the Soviet Union, which will be of
significant benefit to American
farmers.
-We further facilitated trade with
Communist countries by reducing
the number of goods requiring li-
censes without weakening effective
control over the export of strategic
commodities.
Future Progress. In 1971 we took ac-
tions to remove restrictions against our
exports and to encourage renewed inter-
national efforts to remove trade barriers.
A broad international assault on such bar-
riers is necessary. The only sustainable
system for the future must be one seen to
be of mutual advantage for all. A retreat
by any nation or group of nations into
protectionism, or attempts to gain advan-
tage over others by means of neomer-
cantilist policies, will deal a severe blow to
the international cooperation which un-
derlies the strength and prosperity of all
nations.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
1971 was a year of crisis for foreign
assistance. The changes in the postwar
world and our experience in this area
called for a new approach. On April 21 I
submitted to the Congress legislation em-
bodying such an approach, and proposing
a major reform to carry it out.
The Changed Setting. The United
States first undertook to provide economic
assistance to foreign nations in the after-
math of World War II. At that time we
alone possessed the resources necessary to
rebuild devastated countries. The Mar-
shall Plan was a major element in the eco-
nomic recovery of Europe. Subsequently,
we undertook to assist the less developed
nations of Africa, Asia, and Latin Amer-
ica. In the 1950's and most of the 1960's,
we provided well over half of all develop-
ment assistance.
This situation has changed. Other na-
tions, to whose reconstruction we con-
tributed in substantial measure, have
assumed greater responsibility for provid-
ing assistance to the less developed
countries. Multilateral institutions which
we played a major role in helping to
establish today provide a strong inter-
national focus on development. They pro-
vide an institutional structure for im-
proved planning and execution, and a
broader sharing of responsibility, in the
development assistance effort.
In substantial part because of this effort,
significant progress has been made. Many
lower income countries long burdened
with stagnant economies are now attain-
ing growth rates of over five percent per
year, significantly increasing their food
production, improving the health of their
citizens, and expanding educational facil-
248
