Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [407]
pay the penalty for their choice. When
this war is over, there will be no amnesty
for draft dodgers or deserters. So I say
to you,
I gave you three of the major
issues in this campaign: We stand for
peace with honor versus peace with sur-
render. We stand for a strong America
versus a weak America. We stand for no
amnesty for draft dodgers and deserters.
This is what we believe Americans stand
for across this Nation.
But beyond this, we must also realize
that what we are trying to build is not
simply the end of a war, but a new kind
of life here in the United States. I see
all of the wonderful young people that are
here, the Grimsley High School Band and
the others. I think of your future. We
want you to grow up in a world of peace,
but we also want it to be a world in which
we can have what we have not had since
President Eisenhower was President, and
that means progress with full employ-
ment but without war and without infla-
tion. We are moving toward that, and we
ask for your help to give us the chance
to continue to find that kind of prosperity
for America.
We also want progress. That means
better schools, better housing, opportu-
nity, opportunity for every young Ameri-
can, whatever his background, to go to
the top with the ceiling unlimited. All of
these things we stand for. All of these
things we have made great progress in.
And we believe in justice, and when we
speak of justice, I say that I am proud of
the men I have appointed to the Supreme
Court of the United States, and we are
going to appoint other men who will
stand for the forces of law and order and
justice, because it is time that we strength-
ened the peace forces as against the crimi-
nal forces in the United States of America.
Now, if I could take you a bit further
beyond simply these material things I
have been talking about, beyond ending a
war and bringing the peace that we all
want, beyond the prosperity without war
and without inflation, the progress in all
these other areas which we, as Americans
want, let me tell you that the future is
bright for America. It is bright because
the world is different. We, you, all of us,
have helped to change it in these last 4
years, and particularly in this last year.
The People's Republic of China, where
one-fourth of all the people in the world
live, is now no longer isolated from us.
That means that 20 years from now, when
a billion people will be living there, they
will not have to be our enemies. They can
be our friends. That means a good and
better life for young people in America.
We have negotiated with the Soviet
Union to limit arms in the nuclear field
and in many other fields. That means that
despite the differences we have and will
continue to have in philosophy, that we
will talk about differences rather than
fight about them.
Finally, it means that having opened
up this great world, that the young people
here—young as I was, and younger, when
I was here in North Carolina as a student
35 years ago-can look forward to an
open world where there can be communi-
cations between people even though there
are differences between governments,
where there can be peace in the world and
progress such as we have never had in
the whole history of mankind.
But it all depends, my friends, on you,
because we must continue. We have
started the negotiations with the Soviet
Union. They must continue. We have
started the opening to the PRC. We must
continue. We are moving toward the
1119
