[58] Feb. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
cause I wasn't being consulted-for a
breakthrough at the peace table, I was
going to say nothing that might destroy
that chance. That was my view. It may
have been wrong.
Q. Could I take sort of a different tack?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure, any way you
want.
Q. As a consequence of your position in
1968, you were promising to end the war,
but because of the negotiations that were
going on, you felt yourself unable to tell
the American people how you proposed
to do it once elected President.
of
Now, it is almost 4 years since these
negotiations, in a way, began with Presi-
dent Johnson's announcement
March 31, 1968. Do you think that under
these circumstances it is fair to the Amer-
ican people and to your rivals and to this
Nation for those who seek the highest
office and who have views on the war not
to say how they would proceed if they
were to become the next President?
THE PRESIDENT. All the candidates for
the Presidency have a right to say what
they want. They must determine whether
59
they believe it is right to say it. I con-
cluded in 1968 that, as one who was a
potential President, and that was par-
ticularly true after I received the nomina-
tion, that while I had a right to criticize,
it was not right to do so.
Now, each of these candidates may feel
that the peace proposal that we have
made is one that they don't think goes
far enough. They may feel that we should
make one that would overthrow the Gov-
ernment of South Vietnam, or some other
proposal that will satisfy the enemy. They
have a right to say that. The American
people then will have to judge.
But I am suggesting now that we have
made a proposal that is fair, it is forth-
coming, it should be negotiated on, and
the responsibility for the enemy's failing
to negotiate may have to be borne by
those who encourage the enemy to wait
until after the election.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you again, Mr.
President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-second news
conference was held at 4 p.m. in the Oval Office
at the White House on Thursday, February 10,
1972. He spoke without referring to notes.
Remarks at the First Annual Awards Dinner of the
National Center for Voluntary Action.
February 10, 1972
Mr. Etherington, Mr. Ford, the award
winners, all of the distinguished guests:
I will not delay your dinner too long,
because I know that I am just the first
course and that more is to come. But I
ยน Henry Ford II was the retiring chairman of
the board of directors of the National Center
for Voluntary Action. Edwin D. Etherington,
who had served as president of the Center
from March 1971, was the new chairman.
did want the opportunity to visit the
awards dinner and not only to be honored
to participate in the presentation of
plaques, but also to say something to you,
the 400 in this room-this is really the
400 believe me, right here, from all over
America-but to say something to you
about volunteerism, something that will
not be new, but something that constantly
needs to be reemphasized in America. I
358
