[73] Feb. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
crossed that ocean in a successful effort to do
just that.
Because of your visit, the Chinese and the
American people stand further removed from
the kind of confrontation that the world has
feared for many decades. And we, the American
people, are tremendously grateful for that effort
on your part.
With due regard to the lateness of the hour
and the fatigue that you must feel after so much
intensive discussion, preparation, and the time
changes and the long flight, I think I can close
by simply saying that we are glad to have you
back, and we feel easier tonight because of the
trip that you took.
74 Special Message to the Congress on Health Care.
March 2, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
An all-directions reform of our health
care system so that every citizen will be
able to get quality health care at reason-
able cost regardless of income and regard-
less of area of residence-remains an item
of highest priority on my unfinished
agenda for America in the 1970s.
In the ultimate sense, the general good
health of our people is the foundation of
our national strength, as well as being the
truest wealth that individuals can possess.
Nothing should impede us from doing
whatever is necessary to bring the best
possible health care to those who do not
now have it—while improving health care
quality for everyone-at the earliest
sible time.
pos-
In 1971, I submitted to the Congress my
new National Health Strategy which
would produce the kind of health care
Americans desire and deserve, at costs we
all can afford.
Since that time, a great national debate
over health care has taken place. And both
branches of the Congress have conducted
searching examinations of our health
needs, receiving and studying testimony
from all segments of our society.
The Congress has acted on measures
advancing certain parts of my National
Health Strategy:
-The Comprehensive Health Man-
power Training Act of 1971 and the
Nurse Training Act of 1971, which I
signed last November, will spur the great-
est effort in our history to expand the
supply of health personnel. Additionally
and importantly, it will attract them to
the areas of health care shortages, helping
to close one of the most glaring gaps in
our present system.
-The Congress also passed the Na-
tional Cancer Act which I proposed last
year. This action opens the way for a
high-intensity effort to defeat the No. 2
killer and disabler of our time, an effort
fueled by an additional $100 million in
the last year. A total of $430 million is
budgeted for cancer programs in fiscal
year 1973, compared to $185 million in
fiscal year 1969.
-The Congress responded to my state-
ment of early 1970 on needed improve-
ments in veterans medical care by author-
izing increased funds in 1971 and 1972,
increases which have brought the VA hos-
pital-to-patient ratios to an all-time high
and have provided many additional spe-
cialty and medical services, including in-
creased medical manpower training.
-The Congress also created a National
Health Service Corps of young profes-
sionals to serve the many rural areas and
384
