Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
As Japan gained in strength, our parallel
development assistance efforts nourished
a broader regional advance.
were
-Asian political freedoms
strengthened by the process of Japan's
recovery under a democratic system of
government. The health of political ties
between our democracies served as an ex-
ample to the democratic experiment else-
where in Asia.
This relationship stands out as a major
success of American postwar diplomacy.
Its purpose was to provide the sustenance
and security which Japan required for
economic and psychological recovery from
the trauma of World War II. That recov-
ery is complete.
In a remarkable display of disciplined
energy, the Japanese people have again
placed their nation firmly in the front
rank of international powers. Our rela-
tionship now requires greater reciprocity.
Japan's history reinforces the inevitabil-
ity of this change. For it testifies eloquently
to Japan's national pride and capacity to
respond to changing conditions in its ex-
ternal surroundings. As an island power,
Japan's participation in broad regional or
global alliances has traditionally been lim-
ited and intermittent. As its recovery pro-
ceeded, it was certain that Japan would
play a more autonomous role in world
affairs. In retrospect, the last two decades
will be seen as a transitional period in
which Japan, while relying on U.S. eco-
nomic support and military protection, re-
established its inner cohesion as a society,
and defined a more independent national
role for itself. That is as it should be.
By 1969, the cumulative strains im-
posed on the U.S.-Japanese relationship
were considerable and evident.
-We needed to face the political and
psychological implications of Japan's
growing strength and pride. The
Japanese island of Okinawa had been
under American administration for
more than 25 years. Okinawa's status
would disrupt and embitter the U.S.-
Japanese friendship unless it were
changed to reflect the new realities.
-We needed to adjust our economic
relations to reflect the fact that Japan
had become the world's third great-
est industrial power. Japan provided
the largest overseas market for
American goods as well as formidable
competition to us in both our domes-
tic and world markets. Japan also
benefited greatly from the liberal
trade policies of the United States.
But Japan's insistence on restricting
its own markets contributed to a
growing imbalance in our trade, and
was an anachronism, inconsistent
with its economic strength and sym-
bolizing a lack of economic reciproc-
ity which could not be long sustained.
-We both needed to bring into better
balance our contributions to Asian
development. Japan's political cohe-
sion and economic prowess gave it
the capacity to make a major con-
tribution-and its commerce and
investments in Asia gave Japan a
clear interest in the region's stability.
-Signs that China was moving toward
more constructive contacts with other
nations would impel the issue of
China policy to the fore for both
countries. Eventually, we would have
to face the problem of harmonizing
our changing national perspectives
towards China.
-Japan had long since acquired the
industrial and technological strength
to assume responsibility for its own
conventional defense. However,
233
