Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 26 [323]
323 Remarks at a "Victory '72" Dinner in New York City.
September 26, 1972
Mr. Vice President and Mrs. Agnew, and
all of the distinguished guests at this din-
ner in New York and at the other 26 din-
ners across this country:
It is hard to realize that 4 years have
passed since September 19 when we were
last in New York for a dinner of this
kind.
As I look back on that dinner, and as I
remember the funds that were contributed
on that occasion, I realize how very impor-
tant they were to the victory that we won
4 years ago. We thank you for what you
did then.
On behalf of the Vice President, who
has been so generous in his introductory
remarks tonight, speaking from Chicago,
let me express my appreciation and his for
the thousands across this country attend-
ing these dinners who, by your help, are
making it possible for us to win an even
greater victory, a more important victory,
in this year 1972.
I would like to describe that victory for
you in perhaps different terms than we
usually hear such victories described. It
will be, I would trust, not simply the vic-
tory of a man and his running mate, not
simply the victory of a party, but in the
very deepest and most profound sense I
would hope that we could make it a vic-
tory for America. That is what we are
working for.
I believe one of the reasons why our
campaign this year has support across the
party lines, across the regional lines, across
all parts of this great country, across the so-
called generation gap-I think one of the
reasons that is the case is that we are
representing in our campaign what people
believe is best for America. Let me explain
87-234-74-62
it to you in three or four of the great issues
that you have heard discussed earlier this
evening, and perhaps that I can elaborate
on briefly in my own remarks.
First, the subject that the Vice President
has addressed in his remarks from Chi-
cago. He has spoken of the record we have
made in the field of foreign policy. We are
proud of that record. But let me speak
quite candidly with you. We have only
begun, and there is so much left to do.
We have had a dialogue, a beginning of
a dialogue with the leaders of one-fourth
of all of the people in this world, and as a
result, the world will be safer in the years
ahead; not certainly, but it can be. If we
had not had the dialogue, it would have
been a very dangerous world just a
few years from now, and that is an
achievement.
We have begun negotiations, as the Vice
President has pointed out, in a number of
fields with the Soviet Union, fields that
were not even anticipated 4 years ago,
anticipated insofar as success was con-
cerned. But particularly, as was indicated
in the vote that was completed in the
House yesterday, now we have passed the
first phase of the limitation of nuclear
arms. But note, I use the words "first
phase" because in opening these negotia-
tions with the Soviet Union, we still have
a long way to go.
What we must recognize is that whether
it is continuing our dialogue with the
People's Republic of China, whether it
is continuing our negotiations in the
second phase of arms limitation with the
Soviet Union, whether it is building our
friendship with our allies in Europe, in
the Mideast, and other parts of the world,
917
