Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
endure. In 1971-a year of momentous
developments in relations with our princi-
pal allies and adversaries-Asian nations
made quiet progress by relying increas-
ingly on themselves and working together
for shared goals.
We welcome this trend. We look for-
ward to an Asia in which the task of en-
suring security, development, and political
consolidation can be carried primarily by
the governments and peoples of Asia.
Similarly, we believe they have an indis-
pensable role to play in creating effective
mechanisms of regional collaboration and
in shaping the broader structure of inter-
national relations in Asia.
The situation now confronting the de-
veloping states in Asia justifies both deep
concern and high hope. Insurgency and
political violence, often abetted from out-
side, continue to plague the nations of
Southeast Asia. Communist pressures still
combine with historic antagonisms and
cultural differences to check the advance
to stability. In some countries the de-
mands of national security and the con-
straints of tradition continue to hamper
economic growth.
But much has been, and is being,
achieved. The world's most exciting rec-
ords of economic development are being
written by the nations of free Asia, whose
regional rate of advance approached seven
percent last year. The Republic of China,
the Republic of Korea, Singapore, and
Hong Kong are exceeding this growth
rate; Malaysia and the Philippines follow
closely.
The economic record of the Republic of
China attracts special notice. The island
has become a model for economic devel-
opment. Last year its gross national prod-
uct rose by over 11 percent, per capita
income by 13 percent, and exports by 33
percent. Its worldwide trading relations
continue to expand, despite the regrettable
loss of its rightful place in the United
Nations.
The outlook in Asia is brightened by the
emergence of a stable Indonesia-one-
half of Southeast Asia in both area and
population-whose enlightened economic
policies and active diplomacy promise
benefits to its neighbors as well as its own
people. The election last year of Foreign
Minister Malik as President of the United
Nations General Assembly was a symbol
of Indonesia's enhanced stature. In July,
the holding of free national elections-the
first in 16 years-dramatized the advance
of political freedom and thus strengthened
the government's base of domestic sup-
port. In the economic sphere, a healthy
growth in exports, investment and rice
production continued, while the rate of
inflation dropped to less than 4 percent
from 9 percent in 1970 and 650 percent
in 1966. The American contribution to
Indonesia's development effort amounted
to nearly $215 million, or about one-third
of the total provided through the aegis of
the Inter-Governmental Group on Indo-
nesia, which links the major donor na-
tions, as well as the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund. We also
continued a modest security assistance
program.
The Philippines, which pioneered the
"Green Revolution" with the development
of miracle rice, pushed its economic
growth rate to 6.5 percent in 1971. Con-
tinuing an effort begun two years ago,
the Philippines has made headway on a
nagging balance of payments problem by
strengthening its exports and tightening
its fiscal discipline. It is well on the way
to becoming a showcase of population
control, with a well-organized and inno-
255
