Preface
The dates shown at the end of item headings are White House
release dates. In instances where the date of the document differs
from the release date that fact is shown in the note immediately
following the item. Textnotes, footnotes, and cross references have
been supplied where needed for purposes of clarity. In this volume,
for the first time, an effort has been made to annotate those occa-
sions when the President spoke from a prepared text and when
he spoke without referring to notes.
Remarks or addresses were delivered in Washington, D.C.,
unless otherwise indicated. Similarly, statements, messages, and
letters were issued from the White House in Washington unless
otherwise indicated. All times shown are local time.
Items published in this volume are presented in chronological
order, rather than being grouped in classes. Most needs for a
classified arrangement are met by the subject index. For example,
a reader interested in veto messages sent to Congress during 1972
will find them listed in the index under the heading "Veto mes-
sages and memorandums of disapproval."
Appendixes A through E have been provided to deal with
special categories of Presidential issuances and actions, as noted
below.
White House releases not included as items in this volume and
not appearing in later appendixes are listed in Appendix A.
Items of general interest announced by the White House dur-
ing 1972 and not noted elsewhere in the volume are listed in
Appendix B.
Though not all proclamations, Executive orders, and similar
documents required by law to be published in the Federal Register
and Code of Federal Regulations were issued as White House
releases during 1972, a complete listing of these documents by
number and subject appears in Appendix C.
The President is required by statute to transmit numerous
reports to the Congress. Those transmitted during the period
covered by this volume are listed in Appendix D.
Appendix E is a feature unique to the 1972 volume and includes
announcements of decisions on personnel changes for President
VIII
