[207] June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
taken, to my knowledge, going back to
World War II. It reached its high point
in 1963 when there were over 100 cases,
as Mr. Hoover testified, in which there
were taps used in cases involving domestic
security.
Since that time the number of taps has
gone down. It went down during the
Johnson Administration, and it has
sharply been decreased during the 32
years that this Administration has been
in office.
Now, as far as the Supreme Court's
decision is concerned, I see no need to ask
for legislation to obtain the authority, be-
cause the Supreme Court's decision allows
the Government, in a case that it believes
necessary, to go to a court and get a court
order for wiretapping. It simply prohibits
wiretapping unless there is a court order.
So we will abide by that.
I should also point out that the Supreme
Court's decision does not rule out wire-
tapping in the United States in domestic
matters where there is a clear connection
between the activity that is under sur-
veillance and a foreign government. That,
of course, allows us to move in the inter-
nal security area where there is a clear
connection between the two. So we will,
of course, abide by the Supreme Court's
decision in this instance, and I see no need
to ask for additional authority from the
Congress.
On the baseball matter, I must say I
cannot even tell you who is in first place
at the present time because I have not had
a chance to check it lately.
Yes, I can. I called the mayor of
Houston and congratulated him on the
fact that he had just been elected to be
head of the Conference of Mayors, Mr.
Louie Welch. He thought I was calling to
congratulate him on the Astros being in
first place. So they must be in first place.
[Laughter]
In any event, as an old baseball fan, and
the rest, I have no present thoughts on
that. I would like, perhaps, to talk to
Bowie Kuhn [Commissioner of Baseball],
who is a good lawyer and also interested
in baseball.
CAMPAIGN DEBATES
[8.] Q. Mr. President, can you give us
some of your reasons, sir, for deciding
against debating your Democratic oppo-
nent this fall?
THE PRESIDENT. He asked if I had any
good reasons for deciding against debat-
ing my Democratic opponent this fall. As
you ladies and gentlemen have often heard
me say, and I will continue to hold to this
position, questions that deal with the cam-
paign, questions that deal with matters
that involve candidacy, are ones that I
will respectfully not comment upon until
after the Republican Convention. At that
time I will be glad to take that question
and I will give an answer then.
I have not made a decision on it yet.
That is my point.
EDUCATION BILL
[9] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us
what
your plans are for the higher educa-
tion bill? Do you intend to sign it?
THE PRESIDENT. I have to make the
decision tomorrow. I will be very candid
with you to tell you that it is one of the
closest calls that I have had since being
in this office. Some of the members of my
staff and Members of the Congress are
enthusiastic for signing it, and others are
just as enthusiastic for vetoing it.
I have mixed emotions about it. First,
696
