Appendix B
October
18 Foreign Minister Masayoshi Ohira of Japan
met with the President at the White House.
They discussed the recent visit by Japa-
nese Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka to the
People's Republic of China, as well as other
matters relating to U.S.-Japanese relations
and the general security situation in Asia.
19 Paul Hall, president of the Seafarers Inter-
national Union of North America, Thomas
W. Gleason, president of the International
Longshoremen's Association, and Paul F.
Richardson, president of Sea-Land Service,
Inc., called on the President at the White
House.
23 Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, met with
the President at the White House to report
on his trip to Paris, Saigon, and Phnom
Penh. Dr. Kissinger had met in Paris with
Minister Xuan Thuy of the North Viet-
namese delegation to the Paris peace talks,
and in Saigon had reviewed with President
Nguyen Van Thieu the status of the Paris
negotiations.
24 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
and Secretary of State William P. Rogers
at the White House to discuss Vietnam
peace negotiations.
24 The President met at the White House
with the Policeman of the Year, Jake Miller
of New Orleans, La., and ten police men
and women who received honorable men-
tion in the awards program.
27 The President met at the White House
with a group of Spanish-speaking ap-
pointees serving in key positions in his
Administration.
27 Prince Souvanna Phouma, Prime Minister
of Laos, met with the President at the
White House.
30 The President has received the report of
Emergency Board No. 182, created to in-
vestigate a dispute between the Long Island
Rail Road Company and certain employees
represented by the Non-Operating Em-
ployees Conference Committee.
October
31 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York
met with the President at the White House.
31 The President directed the Secretary of the
Treasury to implement a permanent ex-
clusion order against imports of lightweight
luggage which infringe on the patents of
the Atlantic Products Corporation of Tren-
ton, N.J.
November
1 John Cardinal Krol, Archbishop of Phila-
delphia, met with the President at the
White House to discuss his recent trip to
Poland.
3 Members of the Council on Environmental
Quality met with the President at the
White House.
3 Mayor Louis J. Tullio of Erie, Pa., met
with the President at the White House.
7 The President and Mrs. Nixon voted at
Concordia Elementary School in San
Clemente, Calif., before returning to
Washington.
21 The White House announced that Henry A.
Kissinger would meet with Indonesian
President Soeharto and Minister of Foreign
Affairs Adam Malik in Brussels on Novem-
ber 22. Dr. Kissinger would then return to
Paris following the meeting to continue
discussions with the North Vietnamese rep-
resentatives to the Paris peace talks.
22 The President has directed that regulations
controlling the travel of U.S. ships and air-
craft (Transportation Order T-2) be
changed to permit both U.S. aircraft hav-
ing a validated license from the Depart-
ment of Commerce and U.S.-flag vessels to
visit the People's Republic of China.
24 The White House announced that Henry A.
Kissinger paid a courtesy call on French
Minister of Foreign Affairs Maurice Schu-
mann in Paris to thank the French Govern-
ment for the courtesy extended during the
Paris peace talks and to discuss the current
talks.
B-19
