[105] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
in that work, subject only to considera-
tions of their individual qualifications,
talents, and energies.
This bill, addressing specific needs in
concrete and practical ways, is bound to
make a real difference in the lives of great
numbers of minority Americans. It thus
is another step toward writing our best
principles into the day-to-day realities of
our economic system.
As enacted, H.R. 1746, approved
March 24, 1972, is Public Law 92-261 (86
Stat. 103).
106 Special Message to the Congress on Welfare Reform.
March 27, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The American welfare system is a na-
tional disgrace.
Thirty-one months ago, I first proposed
to the Congress my plan for total reform
of that system.
Since that time, the welfare situation
has continued to worsen, and sweeping
changes have become even more
imperative.
There can be absolutely no excuse for
delaying those changes any further. The
present system must be reformed.
Its shocking inequities continue to
drain incentive from the many poor who
work but who see some families making
as much or more on welfare.
Its widely varying, discriminatory bene-
fits continue to force needy families, mil-
lions of children, and the needy aged,
blind and disabled into a web of ineffi-
cient rules and economic contradictions.
Its vast costs have continued to escalate,
undermining State and local governments
and threatening to erode taxpayer sup-
port for a welfare system of any kind.
The present system continues to con-
tribute to the breakup of poor families,
rather than reenforcing the role of the
family in our national life. The welfare
life-style continues to dehumanize those
who are caught in it, and threatens
now to create yet another "welfare
generation."
Now Is THE TIME FOR ACTION
This year must be the year in which we
the ramshackle welfare system,
patched up so many times in the past but
still basically unchanged since it was first
enacted as emergency legislation in the
mid-1930s. In its place, we must build a
new system, taking a new direction. We
must create an environment that will
draw forth and support-rather than
smother-the innate ambitions and per-
sonal obligations of all needy Americans.
Last December, the Congress did pass
transitional legislation which took parts
of my welfare reform package-certain
of the workfare provisions for job training
and work requirements for all employable
welfare recipients-and applied them to
the present system of welfare. These ac-
tions will become effective later this year.
Acceptance of those workfare provi-
sions by the Congress was a step in the
right direction, as I said when I signed
the measure. But it is still part of the
patchwork approach. Now something far
better than a patchwork approach is re-
quired if the needy are to receive rational
assistance, if waste and inefficiency are to
500
