[379] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
A number of these measures warrant
special comment.
THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
I am pleased to sign into law S. 3419,
the Consumer Product Safety Act. This
legislation is the outgrowth of a proposal
which I submitted to Congress in Febru-
ary of 1971. It is the most significant con-
sumer protection legislation passed by the
92d Congress.
S. 3419 creates a new independent
Consumer Product Safety Commission
to develop consumer product safety
standards and to enforce these standards,
in court if necessary. In addition, the
Commission will have authority to ban
outright the sale of hazardous products
which cannot be adequately regulated.
As beneficial as this legislation is for
the consumer, the act contains certain
language which will tend to weaken
budget control-and a coordinated, uni-
fied budget is the consumer's ally in
keeping inflation and taxes down. These
provisions are unfortunate and should not
be regarded as precedent for future
legislation.
The most important thing about this
bill, however, is its recognition that a de-
fective lawnmower or electric heater can
be just as dangerous to the consumer and
his family as contaminated food or im-
properly packaged drugs. It is high time
that the Government provided for com-
prehensive regulation of the many
potentially dangerous products commonly
used in and around American households.
While the Consumer Product Safety Act
differs in several ways from the legisla-
tion I proposed, it answers a long-felt
need, and I am happy to give it my
approval.
CONTROLLING OCEAN DUMPING
Several of the most significant of the
bills which I am signing carry forward our
campaign to restore and protect the qual-
ity of the environment.
H.R. 9727, the Marine Protection, Re-
search, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, will
provide the controls over ocean dumping
which have long been a matter of high
priority concern for this Administration.
This law is closely modeled on the recom-
mendations I submitted to the Congress
in February of 1971, recommendations
which grew out of a report forwarded to
me by the then newly established Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality the previ-
ous October. The bill is thus one of the
first fruits of our new emphasis on care-
ful advance analysis of environmental
challenges.
The practice of dumping waste into the
oceans has been steadily increasing in
recent years, endangering marine life, re-
ducing the population of fish, jeopardiz-
ing marine ecosystems, and impairing
esthetic values. H.R. 9727 will meet this
growing problem by banning the dump-
ing of certain hazardous materials entirely
and by subjecting other substances to care-
ful regulation through a new permit sys-
tem. It also provides for further monitor-
ing and research programs.
It is significant that this new act will be
implemented by the two newest environ-
mental agencies-both created by this Ad-
ministration-the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency and the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration. I am
directing the Administrators of these two
agencies to work in close consultation to
ensure that duplication can be avoided
and information can be fully shared be-
tween them as they confront this vital
1050
