Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 25 [21]
selves, and steadily withdrawing Ameri-
cans, as they developed the capability to
do so.
The path of Vietnamization has been
successful. Two weeks ago, you will recall,
I announced that by May 1, American
forces in Vietnam would be down to
69,000. That means almost one-half mil-
lion Americans will have been brought
home from Vietnam over the past 3 years.
In terms of American lives, the losses of
300 a week have been reduced by over
95 percent-to less than 10 a week.
But the path of Vietnamization has
been the long voyage home. It has strained
the patience and tested the perseverance
of the American people. What of the
shortcut, the shortcut we prefer, the path
of negotiation?
Progress here has been disappointing.
The American people deserve an account-
ing of why it has been disappointing. To-
night I intend to give you that accounting,
and in so doing, I am going to try to break
the deadlock in the negotiations.
We have made a series of public pro-
posals designed to bring an end to the
conflict. But early in this Administration,
after 10 months of no progress in the pub-
lic Paris talks, I became convinced that
it was necessary to explore the possibility
of negotiating in private channels, to see
whether it would be possible to end the
public deadlock.
After consultation with Secretary of
State Rogers, our Ambassador in Saigon,
and our chief negotiator in Paris, and
with the full knowledge and approval of
President Thieu, I sent Dr. Kissinger to
Paris as my personal representative on
August 4, 1969, 30 months ago, to begin
these secret peace negotiations.
Since that time, Dr. Kissinger has
traveled to Paris 12 times on these secret
missions. He has met seven times with Le
Duc Tho, one of Hanoi's top political
leaders, and Minister Xuan Thuy, head of
the North Vietnamese delegation to the
Paris talks, and he has met with Minister
Xuan Thuy five times alone. I would like,
incidentally, to take this opportunity to
thank President Pompidou of France for
his personal assistance in helping to make
the arrangements for these secret talks.
This is why I initiated these private
negotiations: Privately, both sides can be
more flexible in offering new approaches
and also private discussions allow both
sides to talk frankly, to take positions free
from the pressure of public debate.
In seeking peace in Vietnam, with so
many lives at stake, I felt we could not
afford to let any opportunity go by—
private or public-to negotiate a settle-
ment. As I have stated on a number of
occasions, I was prepared and I remain
prepared to explore any avenue, public
or private, to speed negotiations to end
the war.
For 30 months, whenever Secretary
Rogers, Dr. Kissinger, or I were asked
about secret negotiations we would only
say we were pursuing every possible chan-
nel in our search for peace. There was
never a leak, because we were determined
not to jeopardize the secret negotiations.
Until recently, this course showed signs of
yielding some progress.
Now, however, it is my judgment that
the purposes of peace will best be served
by bringing out publicly the proposals we
have been making in private.
Nothing is served by silence when the
other side exploits our good faith to divide
America and to avoid the conference
table. Nothing is served by silence when
it misleads some Americans into accusing
their own government of failing to do
ΙΟΙ
