[161] May 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
claims are being, and should be, settled
by cash award, but this case has excep-
tional circumstances which the Attorney
General has described.
I am equally pleased to note that the
Yakima Tribe itself has pledged by tribal
resolution to "maintain existing recreation
facilities for public use" and to "recognize
the dedication of that portion included
in the Mt. Adams wilderness use."
162 Statement About the Cost of Living Council's
Quarterly Report on the Economic Stabilization
Program. May 20, 1972
THE LATEST quarterly report of the
Cost of Living Council provides encour-
aging evidence that the Nation continues
to make progress in the battle against
inflation.
Prices did advance moderately as ex-
pected and forecast-after the 3-month
freeze ended last November. But as statis-
tics analyzed in the report show, the
anticipated "bulge" was modest in view
of the actual increases in wages and other
costs that went into effect after the freeze
ended.
By the end of the first quarter of 1972,
there was some evidence that the "bulge"
was tapering off and the impact of the
controls was becoming more evident. The
most recent Consumer Price Index con-
tinues this pattern.
As pointed out in the report, consumer
prices rose at a rate of 3.9 percent a year
in the 7 months prior to the freeze, which
began last August 15. In the 7 months
since the freeze started, that rate of in-
crease declined to 2.8 percent-with no
monthly increase registered in March, and
only a small increase experienced in April,
the eighth month.
The quarterly report also contains con-
vincing evidence that workers are begin-
ning to score an impressive net gain in
their purchasing power. Since the eco-
nomic stabilization program began, real
take-home pay for the typical production
worker with three dependents has in-
creased about twice as fast since August as
in the corresponding period before the
freeze.
The national economy is now expand-
ing significantly. This makes the success
of the stabilization program more impor-
tant than ever.
Will this new economic growth result
in real prosperity? Or will it be eroded by
inflation and thus result only in meaning-
less bigger numbers?
The stabilization program can make
the critical difference, and the stabiliza-
tion program will succeed if the American
people continue to give it their full
support.
I am certain this critical public support
will be forthcoming. I believe the Ameri-
can people share this Administration's
determination to hold inflation to an
acceptable rate.
NOTE: The report, covering the period Janu-
ary through March 31, 1972, is entitled
"Economic Stabilization Program Quarterly
Report" (Government Printing Office, 117
pp.).
610
