[51] Feb. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
harm. One of these steps was issuance by
the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment of revised standards for insu-
lation in new federally insured houses. The
new standards for single-family structures,
which have now been issued through the
Federal Housing Administration, reduce
the maximum permissible heat loss by
about one-third for a typical home. The
fuel savings which will result from the
application of these new standards will, in
an average climate, exceed in one year
the cost of the additional insulation
required.
-I am now directing the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to is-
sue revised insulation standards for apart-
ments and other multifamily structures not
covered by the earlier revision. The new
rules will cut maximum permissible heat
loss by 40%.
The savings in fuel costs after a 5-year
period will on the average more than offset
the additional construction costs occa-
sioned by these revised standards.
These stricter insulation standards are
only one example of administrative actions
which can be taken by the Federal Gov-
ernment to eliminate wasteful use of
energy. The Federal Government can and
must provide leadership by finding and
implementing additional ways of reducing
such waste.
-I have therefore instructed the Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality and the
Office of Science and Technology, work-
ing with other Federal agencies, to con-
duct a survey to determine what addi-
tional actions might be taken to conserve
energy in Federal activities.
This survey will look at innovative ways
to reduce wasteful consumption of energy
while also reducing total costs and un-
desirable environmental impact.
RECYCLING
Recycling the technique which treats
many types of solid wastes not as pollu-
tants but as recoverable and reusable "re-
sources out of place"-is an important
part of the answer to the Nation's solid
waste burden. Last year, at my direction,
the General Services Administration be-
gan reorienting government procurement
policies to set a strong Federal example in
the use of recycled products.
-Because Federal tax policy should also
offer recycling incentives, the Treasury
Department is clarifying the availability
of tax exempt treatment industrial reve-
nue bond financing for the construction of
recycling facilities built by private con-
cerns to recycle their own wastes.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSITION
Many environmental problems are in-
fluenced by the way our economy operates.
Conversely, efforts to improve environ-
mental quality have an impact on the
economy. Our national income accounting
does not explicitly recognize the cost of
pollution damages to health, materials,
and aesthetics in the computation of our
economic well-being. Many goods and
services fail to bear the full costs of the
damages they cause from pollution, and
hence are underpriced.
Environmental quality requirements
will affect many of our industries by im-
posing new costs on production. We know
that these impacts fall unevenly on indus-
tries, new and old firms, and on commu-
nities, but little concrete data has been
available. Contract studies have recently
been performed for the Council on En-
vironmental Quality, the Environmental
Protection Agency, and the Department
178
