[350] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
illicit drugs. I personally shook up the
bureaucracy and took steps to create two
new Federal agencies to deal with nar-
cotics-related crime and with addict treat-
ment. The antidrug funding which I have
requested in the current budget is II times
as great as the 1969 level.
We are winning this war. The raging
heroin epidemic of the late 1960's has
been stemmed.
Our domestic law enforcement opera-
tion has arrested twice as many pushers
and has seized illicit drugs at four times
the rate of the previous Administration.
Our rehabilitation and treatment pro-
grams have created more federally funded
drug treatment capacity in the last 12
months than in the 50 years before that.
Our international narcotics control
work in 59 countries has achieved a dou-
bling of global heroin and morphine base
seizures in 1972 alone.
But the job is far from finished. A short
time before Christmas last year, I received
a heart-rending letter from a teenage boy
in the Midwest. He told me in his letter
how his brother, a college student of ex-
ceptional promise, after slipping deeper
and deeper into drug experimentation,
had gone off into the woods with a gun
one day, completely without warning, and
taken his own life.
Listen to the boy's letter: "If we can
stop just one boy from doing what my
brother did, his whole life will have been
worthwhile. . . . You can beat that drug,
Mr. Nixon; you can destroy it before it
destroys any more lives."
This is my answer to this letter: I can-
not beat this problem by myself, but if all
of us work together, we can and we will
beat it.
To do so, we will need more clinics to
treat addicts who need help. That is why
I asked the Congress for speedy approval
of funds to support additional drug treat-
ment facilities.
We will need better cooperation abroad
in apprehending the criminals who pro-
duce and smuggle heroin. That is why I
shall insist on the strictest compliance with
the statute which requires a suspension of
United States military and economic aid
to countries which protect or participate
in the movement of illegal drugs to this
country.
We will need absolute assurance that
convicted drug peddlers will go to jail and
not back to the streets. The dangerous
trend of light or suspended sentences
meted out to convicted pushers by per-
missive judges must be halted. That is
why I shall ask the next Congress to re-
quire stiff mandatory sentences for heroin
traffickers, and to amend other Federal
statutes so as to keep these peddlers of
death off our streets after their arrest.
Wherever more money, more man-
power, or more teeth in the law are needed
to maintain our momentum in the war
against drugs and crime, I will do every-
thing in my power to provide them.
My intention for 1973 and beyond is to
continue and to expand our massive Fed-
eral funding for helping to improve our
local law enforcement.
I will propose to the new Congress a
thorough-going revision of the entire Fed-
eral criminal code, aimed at better pro-
tection of life and property, human rights,
and the domestic peace.
I will move ahead with my comprehen-
sive 10-year reform program for the Fed-
eral prison system, which we launched in
1969.
I will continue to apply the criteria of
strict constructionism and regard for the
public safety in making appointments to
984
