Appendix E
Ruckelshaus will continue to be a strong force
in the policymaking and enforcement areas of
environmental protection.
As I mentioned to you yesterday, Bill Ruckels-
haus was here at the White House yesterday
and met with the President to discuss the En-
vironmental Protection Agency in the second
term. You may want to refer to that in your
stories also.
The President also has asked me to an-
nounce today that he is accepting with great
regret the resignation of Richard C. Van
Dusen, Under Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development. Mr. Van Dusen has served in
this important post since the beginning of this
Administration, and he indicated some time
ago his plans to return to his private law prac-
tice in Detroit. Also I should mention to you
that Dick Van Dusen was here at the White
House yesterday and met with the President
briefly so that they could have a chance to say
goodby and for the President to wish him well
before he departed HUD.
In accepting Dick Van Dusen's resignation,
the President expressed gratitude and admira-
tion for the outstanding job Mr. Van Dusen
has done at HUD, particularly as a driving
force in the decentralization of the Depart-
ment. President Nixon believes Mr. Van
Dusen's performance is a record of the finest
service in the public interest and one that has
won him the highest esteem from his col-
leagues and heartfelt appreciation of President
Nixon.
The President is also accepting today the
resignation of two other officials in the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development:
Norman Watson, Assistant Secretary for Hous-
ing Management, and Eugene A. Gulledge,
Assistant Secretary for Housing Production
and Mortgage Credit. Both individuals plan to
return to private life and the President ex-
presses deep appreciation for their contribu-
tion and for their service.
Also today the President is announcing his
intention to nominate Richard W. Roberts of
Schenectady, New York, to be Director of the
National Bureau of Standards in the Depart-
ment of Commerce. He will succeed Lewis M.
Branscomb, who resigned that position in 1972.
We will have biographical information for you
on that.
Announcing Further Decisions on Personnel
for the Second Term
December 21, 1972
The President has asked me this morning to
announce his intention to nominate Richard
Helms to be Ambassador to Iran. Dick Helms
will succeed Joseph Farland in that post, who
will be returning to Washington to receive an
assignment to another important position. So
Dick Helms will be nominated by the Presi-
dent to be Ambassador to Iran, and Joseph
Farland, the current Ambassador, will be re-
turning to Washington to receive an assignment
to another important post which we will an-
nounce in the near future.
The President is also designating James
Schlesinger, currently Chairman of the Atomic
Energy Commission, for nomination to succeed
Mr. Helms as Director of Central Intelligence.
The President, as you know, met with Di-
rector Helms at Camp David on the 20th of
November, shortly after the election. At that
time, Director Helms reminded the President
and discussed with the President the fact that
the CIA had a general policy under his leader-
ship of having officials retire when they reach
the age of 60. Dick Helms, who will be 60 in
March of next year, expressed the feeling that
he should follow the same retirement policy
which has been in effect at CIA.
The President and Director Helms talked
about that for a period. The President re-
quested that Dick Helms remain in Government
and offered him the position which I have
announced this morning. Dick Helms has ac-
cepted it.
The President, of course, has the greatest
respect and deepest appreciation for the ex-
tremely able and devoted service which Mr.
Helms has given to this country for more than
a generation. As most of you know, he has been
with the CIA since its beginning in 1947. Prior
to that, he was a member of the Office of
Strategic Services during World War II and
has served as Deputy Director of the CIA and
also Director of the CIA since 1966.
The President felt, as I said, that Mr. Helms
should remain in Government service and is
pleased that he has accepted the new position
which I have referred to.
E-23
