Richard Nixon, 1972
May 22 [168]
foundation of healthy competition must
be a willingness to cooperate and recipro-
cate on matters of overriding importance.
Therefore, we do not just meet in an
atmosphere of good will, which I know
we shall have as we have it tonight; we do
not just meet to conclude agreements,
which I hope we shall conclude; we meet
to begin a new age in the relationship
between our two great and powerful
nations.
Looking toward that future, let me
reaffirm to all of you the American com-
mitment: The United States is ready to
work closely with all nations in the
establishment of a peaceful world in which
each nation determines its own destiny.
Our two peoples, the Soviet people and
the American people, learned to admire
each other when we joined together to
defeat a common enemy in a time of war.
We learned to respect each other as ad-
versaries in a time of tension after that
war. Let us now learn to work with each
other in a time of peace.
Let us remember that if we begin to lift
the burden of armed confrontation from
both our peoples, we shall lift the hopes
for peace of all the peoples of the world.
Never have two peoples had a greater
challenge or a greater goal. Let us, the
leaders of our peoples, be worthy of the
hopes of the Soviet people, the hopes of
the American people, the hopes of all the
people on this earth as we work together
toward the goal of a peaceful world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in
Granovit Hall at the Grand Kremlin Palace.
He spoke from a prepared text.
Chairman Podgorny spoke in Russian. A
translation of the advance text of his toast was
made available by the TASS news service as
follows:
Esteemed Mr. President, esteemed Mrs. Nixon,
ladies and gentlemen, comrades:
Let me, on behalf of the Presidium of the
Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. and the Soviet
Government, greet you, Mr. President, your
wife, and all those who accompany you, on
your visit to the Soviet Union. This is the first
official visit by a President of the United States
of America in the history of relations between
our countries. This alone makes your visit and
meetings between you and the Soviet leaders a
momentous event. The results of the talks will
predetermine in many ways prospects of rela-
tions between the Soviet Union and the United
States. Their results will, apparently, have an
effect on the further development of the inter-
national situation either toward a lasting peace
and stronger universal security or toward
greater tension.
We proceed from the fact that personal con-
tacts and frank exchange of opinions between
the leaders of states help search for mutually
acceptable decisions in line with the interests
of the peoples and of preserving peace, and
overcome difficulties caused by factors of dif-
ferent origin and character.
Therefore great importance is attached in
the Soviet Union to Soviet-American talks
which should cover a wide range of questions.
We approach these talks from realistic posi-
tions and will make every effort in accordance
with the principles of our policy to achieve
positive results and try to justify the hopes
placed in our countries and beyond them in
the Soviet-American summit
summit meeting in
Moscow.
We expect a similar approach from the
American side.
Mr. President, you already had today a
meeting with L. I. Brezhnev, General Secretary
of the CPSU Central Committee, during which
an exchange of opinions was started on the
problems of Soviet-American relations and the
present international situation.
The principles of our policy in international
affairs and in relations with other states, the
United States of America included, are well
known. They were recently set forth again most
definitely and clearly in the decisions of the
24th Congress of our Party and the just closed
plenary meeting of the CPSU Central Commit-
tee. We have been guided and intend to be
87-234-74-43
621
