Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
expanding U.S. exports, I proposed, and
the Congress passed, legislation permit-
ting the establishment of the Domestic
International Sales Corporation (DISC).
This will provide limited tax deferral for
income from export sales, thus according
it treatment similar to that accorded in-
come of U.S.-owned production and sales
subsidiaries abroad. This reduces an un-
intended tax incentive to produce over-
seas, instead of domestically, products for
sale abroad. This Administration also
strongly supported legislation, which I
signed into law in August, permitting the
Export-Import Bank to expand its pro-
gram and thereby provide increased as-
sistance in financing U.S. exports.
Along with these measures to promote
our trade interests abroad and boost our
exports we took actions in 1971 to meet
concerns of important elements within
this country through methods other than
restrictive trade legislation:
-We negotiated a voluntary textile
restraint agreement with the four
major textile exporters in the Far
East: Japan, Korea, the Republic of
China and Hong Kong. This will
moderate the recent rapid rate of
growth of woolen and man-made
textile imports from these countries,
which has had a disruptive effect on
jobs in the U.S. textile industry.
--We invoked the multilateral Long-
Term Arrangement on Cotton Tex-
tiles where necessary to restrain rapid
growth in imports of those products.
-We negotiated for an improvement
of the Voluntary Steel Arrangement
in order to limit exports of steel mill
products from Japan and members
of the European Community to the
U.S.
-We continued to enforce anti-dump-
ing laws to protect American indus-
tries from being injured by unfair
pricing by foreign competitors.
-Adjustment assistance, which pro-
vides financial and technical aid to in-
dividual firms and workers injured
by imports, has been made available
in a number of areas. I have directed
that an interagency effort be made
to improve the effectiveness and
timeliness of such assistance.
Trade with Communist Countries. In
1971, opportunities for trade with Com-
munist countries were broadened and in-
creased. This was both consistent with the
evolution of our foreign policy, and of
significant benefit to our trading inter-
ests. Although trade with these nations is
less than one percent of our exports at
present, they are an important potential
market for our products. As relations have
improved, trade has grown. As the former
continues, so will the latter.
Among the major steps this past year
were the following:
-We supported Romania's accession to
the GATT and supported Congres-
sional action to authorize Most
Favored Nation tariff treatment for
that country. Following the recent
liberalization of legislative restric-
tions on the Export-Import Bank's
providing credits for exports to Com-
munist countries, I authorized that
these facilities be provided for our
exports to Romania.
-In April I relaxed the currency con-
trols which had prevented the use of
dollars in transactions with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China. At the same
time I relaxed restrictions on provi-
sion of fuel to ships and aircraft
247
