[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
may differ dramatically from those of
other localities. What helps one group of
children may not be of particular benefit
to others. In these experimental years,
local educational agencies and the schools
have had to start from scratch, and to
learn for themselves how to educate those
who in the past had too often simply been
left to fall further behind.
In the process, some schools did well
and others did not. Some districts bene-
fited by active leadership and community
involvement, while others were slow to
innovate and to break new ground.
While there is a great deal yet to be
learned about the design of successful
compensatory programs, the experience
so far does point in one crucial direction:
to the importance of providing sufficiently
concentrated funding to establish the edu-
cational equivalent of a "critical mass,"
or threshold level. Where funds have been
spread too thinly, they have been wasted
or dissipated with little to show for their
expenditure. Where they have been con-
centrated, the results have been fre-
quently encouraging and sometimes
dramatic.
In a sample of some 10,000 disadvan-
taged pupils in California, 82 percent of
those in projects spending less than $150
extra per pupil showed little or no achieve-
ment gain. Of those students in projects
spending over $250 extra per pupil, 94
percent gained more than one year per
year of exposure; 58 percent gained be-
tween 1.4 and 1.9 years per year of ex-
posure. Throughout the country States
as widely separated as Connecticut and
Florida have recognized a correlation be-
tween a "critical mass" expenditure and
marked effectiveness.
Of late, several important studies have
supported the idea of a "critical mass"
compensatory expenditure to afford dis-
advantaged pupils equal educational op-
portunity. The New York State Com-
mission on the Quality, Cost, and Fi-
nancing of Elementary and Secondary
Education, the National Educational Fi-
nance Project, and the President's Com-
mission on School Finance have all cited
the importance of such a substantial addi-
tional per pupil expenditure for disad-
vantaged pupils.
The program which I propose aims to
assure schools with substantial concentra-
tions of poor children of receiving an aver-
age $300 compensatory education grant
for each child.
In order to encourage voluntary trans-
fers, under circumstances where they
would reduce both racial isolation and
low-income concentration, any school ac-
cepting such transfers would receive the
extra $300 allotted for the transferring
student plus a bonus payment depending
on the proportion of poor children in that
school.
One key to the success of this new ap-
proach would be the "critical mass"
achieved by both increasing and concen-
trating the funds made available; another
would be vigorous administrative follow-
through to ensure that the funds are used
in the intended schools and for the
intended purposes.
THE STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
MORATORIUM ACT
In times of rapid and even headlong
change, there occasionally is an urgent
need for reflection and reassessment. This
is especially true when powerful, historic
forces are moving the Nation toward a
conflict of fundamental principles-a
conflict that can be avoided if each of us
440
