Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 29 [107]
cial services to recipients, making use of
their closer understanding of the needs
of local residents.
AN INVESTMENT IN THE FUTURE
Because we want a better system-not
just a new one-welfare reform will cost
more in the early years and cover more
needy people.
Against the increased initial costs of my
proposals in H.R. 1, however, we must
weigh the unknown future costs-both
human and fiscal-if the present chaotic
system, with its present soaring growth
rates, is continued. The new system con-
tained in H.R. I would be far less costly
in the long run-both in terms of dollars
and in terms of people.
Historians of the future no doubt will
focus on America's 200th birthday-and
the years leading up to that significant
anniversary-as one important point for
measuring the progress of our Republic.
They will find, of course, that over 200
years America's mastery of the industrial
revolution, its bountiful economic system,
its military might and its technological
triumphs helped to make it preeminent in
the family of nations.
They will rightfully highlight our moon
landings, our deep space probes, our
satellite communications, our electronic
innovations, and our extraordinary gross
national product.
Penetrating observers, however, will
also ask other questions:
What did all of this mean to the aver-
age American?
What was the quality of the daily life
and the basic spirit of all the American
people in the 1970's?
How, in particular, did our great Na-
tion provide for those citizens who-
through no fault of their own-were un-
able from time to time to provide for
themselves and their families?
I believe that the program contained in
H.R. 1 will stand us in good stead when
such historical evaluations are considered,
for this is a program which has grown
out of a fundamental concern for our
least fortunate citizens.
The enactment of H.R. I would demon-
strate both our concern for what is re-
sponsible and our concern for what is
compassionate.
The White House,
March 27, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message. Participants in
the news briefing were James D. Hodgson,
Secretary of Labor; and Elliot L. Richardson,
Secretary, and John G. Veneman, Under Secre-
tary, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare.
107 Special Message to the Congress on Executive
Reorganization. March 29, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
The sand is running in the glass, and
the hour is growing late, for enactment of
a critically needed reform, one that merits
the very best support which you as legis-
lators for 208 Americans, and I as their
Chief Executive, are able to give it.
That reform is reorganization of the
executive branch of the Federal Govern-
ment-the most comprehensive and care-
505
