[33] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal efforts. Too many programs
which should be closely related are oper-
ating as very separate entities. As a result,
State and community leaders must often
run a complex obstacle course in order to
obtain development assistance. Frequently
there is poor coordination and wasteful
duplication and in some cases the action
of one Federal agency actually conflicts
with that of another.
The principal reason for this fragmen-
tation has been the failure of the Gov-
ernment to recognize the inter-relationship
among rural, suburban and urban prob-
lems and the need to strengthen the essen-
tial social and economic partnership
between rural America and our great
metropolitan centers.
I believe the proper solution to this
problem is to gather the principal Federal
programs which support community de-
velopment within a single new Depart-
ment of Community Development.
This new department would both
simplify and expedite the tasks of State
and local governments through a broad
range of program and technical support
efforts. Because fewer questions would
have to be resolved in Washington at the
interagency level, the new department
would also expedite the decentralization
of Federal decision-making which this ad-
ministration has already begun. The new
Department of Community Development
would take over most of the functions
now performed by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development; some
of the functions of the Department of
Transportation, the Office of Economic
Opportunity and the Small Business Ad-
ministration; and the responsibilities of
the Department of Commerce with re-
spect to the Title V regional commissions.
Under our revised plan for executive
reorganization, the Department of Agri-
culture would remain as a separate de-
partment focusing on the needs of farmers.
But a number of present Department of
Agriculture development functions would
be moved to the new Department of Com-
munity Development, including the Farm-
ers Home Administration loan and grant
programs for rural community water and
sewer systems and for rural housing; the
Rural Electrification Administration loan
programs for electric and telephone sys-
tems; the recently established Rural Tele-
phone Bank; research programs related
to rural community development con-
ducted by the Economic Development
Division of the Economic Research Serv-
ice; and the programs of the recently es-
tablished Rural Development Service.
Comprehensive reorganization would
mean that every Federal dollar spent on
rural development could have a far greater
impact. I again call on the Congress to
establish this new department, which
would be uniquely capable of launching
a well-developed, well-coordinated cam-
paign to achieve the nation's community
development goals.
A REVENUE SHARING PLAN FOR RURAL
AMERICA
Our revenue sharing plan for rural
America proposes to unite the funding for
a number of existing programs into a
single more flexible resource for rural com-
munity development. Our proposed pro-
gram would add $179 million to the vari-
ous programs to be consolidated, bringing
the total annual program to a level of $1.1
billion. Each State would receive at least
as much under revenue sharing as it re-
130
