[89] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
cluding direct Federal support for such
research and development.
In general, I believe it is appropriate
for the Federal Government to encourage
private research and development to the
extent that the market mechanism is not
effective in bringing needed innovations
into use. This can happen in a number
of circumstances. For example, the sheer
size of some developmental projects is
beyond the reach of private firms par-
ticularly in industries which are frag-
mented into many small companies. In
other cases, the benefits of projects can-
not be captured by private institutions,
even though they may be very significant
for the whole of society. In still other
cases, the risks of certain projects, while
acceptable to society as a whole, are ex-
cessive for individual companies.
In all these cases, Federal support of
private research and development is neces-
sary and desirable. We must see that such
support is made available-through cost-
sharing agreements, procurement policies
or other arrangements.
One example of the benefits of such a
partnership between the Federal Govern-
ment and private enterprise is the pro-
gram I presented last June to meet our
growing need for clean energy. As I out-
lined the Federal role in this effort, I also
indicated that industry's response to these
initiatives would be crucial. That response
has been most encouraging to date. For
example, the electric utilities have already
pledged some $25 million a year for a
period of 10 years for developing a liquid
metal fast breeder reactor demonstration
plant. These pledges have come through
the Edison Electric Institute, the Ameri-
can Public Power Association, and the
National Rural Electric Cooperative As-
sociation. This effort is one part of a larger
effort by the electrical utilities to raise
$150 million annually for research and
development to meet the growing demand
for clean electric power.
At the same time, the gas companies,
through the American Gas Association,
have raised $10 million to accelerate the
effort to convert coal into gas. This sum
represents industry's first year share in
a pilot plant program which will be
financed one-third by industry and two-
thirds by the Federal Government. When
it proves feasible to proceed to the demon-
stration stage, industrial contributions to
this project will be expected to increase.
APPLYING GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED
TECHNOLOGIES
An asset unused is an asset wasted.
Federal research and development activi-
ties generate a great deal of new tech-
nology which could be applied in ways
which go well beyond the immediate mis-
sion of the supporting agency. In such
cases, I believe the Government has a
responsibility to transfer the results of its
research and development activities to
wider use in the private sector.
It was to further this objective that we
created in 1970 the new National Tech-
nical Information Service in the Depart-
ment of Commerce. In addition, the new
incentives programs of the National Sci-
ence Foundation and the National Bureau
of Standards will seek effective means of
improving and accelerating the transfer of
research and development results from
Federal programs to a wider range of
potential users.
One important barrier to the private
development and commercial application
420
