[283] Sept. 1 Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. at
Hickam Air Force Base, Honolulu, Hawaii. He
spoke without referring to notes.
Adm. Noel A. M. Gayler, USN, succeeded
Admiral McCain as Commander of the Pacific
forces.
toward an all-volunteer force, hoping to
reach that goal in June of next year. Too
much emphasis has been put on the fact
that if only we would pay those in the
Armed Forces the same amount of money
that they could get in comparable posi-
tions in civilian life, that that would solve
the problem of getting the volunteers that
we need to maintain the strength that
America must maintain.
That is important, and certainly we
should have adequate pay, comparable
pay, for those who choose the profession
so proudly represented here today. But
even more important—and I say this to
all of the American people today-more
important than the money that we pay to
those who defend America and peace
around the world is the respect which is
due those who wear the uniform of the
United States of America. Let's honor and
respect them.
Every American, every man, every
woman in the armed services of the
United States, can be proud of the rec-
ord of this country over this past century,
and every American in the armed service
of the United States, as we move toward
a period of peace, can be proud of the
fact that he is serving the cause of peace,
because the United States, a strong United
States, let us never forget, is not the enemy
of peace; it is the guardian of peace.
So, finally, I say that in honoring this
magnificent family, John McCain, John
McCain, Jr., John McCain III, we honor
three magnificent men, but I know that
each of them would want it said that not
just these men, but that all the men and
women who serve in the Armed Forces,
are honored today by this ceremony. Let
us always respect the men and women who
maintain the strength that keeps us free.
The President presented the Distinguished
Service Medal to Admiral McCain at the cere-
mony. The citation which accompanied the
award read as follows:
The President of the United States takes
pleasure in presenting the DISTINGUISHED
SERVICE MEDAL (Gold Star in lieu of the Sec-
ond Award) to
ADMIRAL JOHN S. MC CAIN, JR.
UNITED STATES NAVY
for service as set forth in the following
Citation:
For exceptionally meritorious service to the
Government of the United States in a position
of great responsibility as Commander in Chief
Pacific from July 1968 through August 1972.
Admiral McCain's inspiring personal leader-
ship and consummate strategic direction of
military forces in the Pacific Command have
contributed substantially toward reducing the
conflict in Southeast Asia to a level at which
peace and stability are attainable. His rapport
with Asian leaders forged a unity of purpose
and regional cooperation essential to achieving
this goal.
Admiral McCain's perception of national ob-
jectives and strategy has been instrumental to
implementing the Nixon Doctrine in Pacific-
Asia. Further, his foresight and leadership in
implementing the significant military adjust-
ments resulting from the application of the
Nixon Doctrine, the reversion of Okinawa and
the rapidly-changing situation in Southeast
Asia have helped perpetuate the United States
as the bulwark of peace.
By his historic contribution to American
interests in a most difficult period and his un-
swerving dedication to the ideals and aspira-
tions of his country, Admiral McCain has
upheld the highest traditions of the military
profession and the United States Naval Service.
RICHARD NIXON
848
