Richard Nixon, 1972
May 2 [136]
been my privilege to have the opportunity to
do that.
Frankly, I guess it is just an old political
instinct of mine that when you have a fellow
kind of at your mercy, you never let him get
away without trying to prevail on him if you
can. And during dinner I did mention to the
President that I thought this particular gather-
ing would be profoundly interested in some of
his views about some of the problems that this
country has and that this world has. And if
you would be, I think we can prevail on him to
frankly respond to some of your questions if
you would like it.
Mr. President, they talk about the ivory
towers of the White House, but I assure you
that they are not so high nor the walls so
thick that the call of applause cannot permeate
them, and I know that a man with a political
instinct such as you have is always willing to
respond to such acceptance. Need I say more?
Ladies and gentlemen, for what remarks he
would like to make, and what questions he
would like to respond to, the President of the
United States.
Will you please be seated for just a moment,
because before I turn the microphone over to
him, I again want to ask your indulgence to
afford me another very great privilege.
I know what a wonderful woman can do to
a man's life. No one knows that better than I,
unless it is Richard Nixon. So I want the rare
privilege-because, hopefully not, but perhaps
the only time I will ever have the opportunity
on this ranch and on this soil that Nellie and I
love so much-to present to you a marvelous
woman, a lovely lady, a real First Lady of
America, Mrs. Richard Nixon.
135
Memorandum on Appointing a New Chairman of the
Interdepartmental Savings Bonds Committee.
May 1, 1972
Memorandum to the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies:
I have appointed the Secretary of Agri-
culture, Earl L. Butz, as Chairman of the
Interdepartmental Savings Bond Com-
mittee, replacing Maurice H. Stans. The
Secretary of Defense, Melvin Laird, will
remain as Vice-Chairman.
The Savings Bond program is making a
major contribution to the management of
the public debt. What is equally impor-
tant is that it is adding to the economic
security of all individuals who take part.
The success of this program owes a
great deal to the participation of Federal
employees in the Payroll Savings Plan.
Because they are vitally involved in the
operations of our government, the ex-
ample they set for others means much.
Savings Bonds are important to the na-
tion, and the leadership of the Interde-
partmental Savings Bond Committee will
encourage all employees under your direc-
tion to save regularly through the pur-
chase of "Shares in America."
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The memorandum was announced to
the press by the White House.
136 Remarks on the Death of J. Edgar Hoover.
May 2, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
It is with a profound sense of personal
loss that I learned of the death of J. Edgar
Hoover. This truly remarkable man has
served his country for 48 years under eight
Presidents as Director of the FBI with un-
571
