[107] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President's message, together with
additional information on executive reorgani-
zation, is printed in "Papers Relating to the
President's Departmental Reorganization Pro-
gram: A Reference Compilation; Revised
February 1972" (Government Printing Office,
311 pp.).
On March 29, 1972, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the message. Participants in the
news briefing were George P. Shultz, Director,
and Frank C. Carlucci, Associate Director,
Office of Management and Budget.
108 Statement on Receiving the First Report of the National
Commission on Fire Prevention and Control.
March 31, 1972
NINE months ago a National Commis-
sion on Fire Prevention and Control began
a 2-year study of ways to reduce the num-
ber of disasters caused by fire. Today I am
pleased to have received the initial find-
ings of this study from Chairman Richard
Bland and other members of the Com-
mission.
The Commission has impressed upon
me once again how much we pay for fires
through loss of life, needless pain and in-
jury, and damage to property.
The sacrifice of human life is perhaps
most startling, for we continue to suffer
more deaths and injuries from fire than
we did from polio even in its worst years.
During 1971, over 12,000 Americans were
killed in fires and more than 330,000 were
crippled or injured. The 2.5 million fires
of that year also caused nearly $3 billion
in property damage.
Our main line of defense is now made
up of more than one million firemen. To
my great sorrow, firefighting ranks as one
of the most hazardous occupations in
America. Some 210 firemen were killed
in fires last year. We are indeed grateful
for the splendid and heroic efforts of these
men, but their valor should no longer be a
substitute for finding effective ways to pre-
vent fires and to protect firemen in the
hazardous environment in which they
must work.
In its preliminary report, the Commis-
sion has made it clear that in addition to
controlling fires, we must place far greater
emphasis on prevention. Many local fire
departments, for instance, are experi-
encing success in this endeavor by making
periodic inspections of buildings, wiring,
heating, and cooking equipment.
During the next several months, the
Commission will hold regional hearings
across the country, visiting Dallas, Los An-
geles, San Francisco, Chicago, and Wash-
ington, D.C. I am hopeful that these hear-
ings will be a subject of serious concern
in each community, for the Commission
has made an excellent start, and I am sure
it can help us to identify new and more
effective ways to reduce the terrible costs
of fires.
NOTE: Members of the Commission, headed by
Chairman Richard E. Bland, met with the
President at the White House to present and
discuss the 10-page progress report.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Mr. Bland
and W. Howard McClennan, Vice Chairman
of the Commission, on the report.
512
