[317] Sept. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
there might be a tendency to say, "Why
not? Once the war is over, why not? From
a personal standpoint, let's forget it, let
them come back.”
Let me tell you my view. Let me tell you
in terms of another President, Abraham
Lincoln-he was a strong President. He
was a very great President. He was a very
kind man. But he was a man who knew
that you had to have discipline. He was a
man who knew that if the United States
was going to be able to be first, be unified,
and then to continue to have people that
would serve in the armed forces, there
had to be penalties for those who refused
to serve.
And there is a story told in Sandburg's
Lincoln. One day in 1863, Abraham Lin-
coln was in the upstairs office-the office
was then there, they didn't have the East
Wing or the West Wing at that point-
and a messenger brought in a note from a
man who was standing outside at the gate.
He was one who had deserted and gone
to Canada. He had stayed there for a year
or so, and the message came in and he
asked the President for amnesty, for the
right to come back.
And President Lincoln, who was a very
kind man, but also a very strong man,
and one who knew what was right and
what was just, wrote on that little note
these words, as I recall it. He said, "He
may return, but there are hundreds of
thousands of others who served. Some of
them lost their lives, and this man who
went to Canada and who has come back.
he shall stay in prison until he has served
the number of days he was out of this
country before we give him amnesty."
At first blush that would seem harsh,
but on the other hand, what we must
realize, that as we think of the hundreds
of thousands-yes, 22 million Americans
who served their country in Vietnam-I
am sure most of them didn't want to go,
didn't want to leave their families, didn't
want to take all that risk, and some of
them did lose their lives, but they chose
to serve. A few didn't, and under the cir-
cumstances, under the rules, it is essential
that those who serve get the respect that
they deserve and those who chose to desert
must pay the penalty that they have
earned. That, very simply, is the position
that I take on this issue.
Now, one last point. When I was your
age, or perhaps a little younger-let's see.
1932 to 1939-in those years, I was in
high school, later went on to college, then
to law school, finished law school, and
incidentally, worked all the way through.
But in any event, during those periods
this country was in a great depression.
Many people had lost confidence in the
country and I remember sometimes in our
bull sessions we used to say, "Gee, maybe
there is a better place to go. I wonder how
it is in Latin America. I wonder how it is
in Europe, or some place else."
Of course none of us then could afford
to go and find out. We just had to keep
working, because there weren't that many
jobs. Fortunately, the situation has
changed considerably. But let me tell you
this: You are young. You have most of
your lives ahead. And you hear many
things that are wrong about this country,
and there are some. But let me tell you, I
have been to over 80 countries in this
world. I have been to Communist coun-
tries. I have been to socialist countries. I
have been to the great free countries of
Europe and of Asia and of Latin America
and of Africa. I have enjoyed every visit.
I have respected all of the people of the
countries that I have met. But every time
I come back to America, this is what I
906
