Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 28 [380]
The new American majority knows that
government ought to spring from the
people. It should not be a distant alien
force that dictates their everyday lives
from afar. For far too long power has
flowed from the people into the hands of
Federal bureaucrats in Washington. And
the new American majority has agreed
that the time has come to reverse that flow
away from Washington, back to the
States, the counties, the cities, and to the
people.
And together we have begun to succeed.
The historic passage of revenue sharing,
which this Administration has fought for
for so long, means that more power and
more tax dollars are now heading back
where they belong, to local people and
their locally elected leaders. The decision-
making power, the means to carry out
those decisions, are flowing back to the
grassroots. This means better education,
better setting of local priorities, more hope
for our troubled State, city, and county
governments, and an opportunity in the
future for lower property taxes for the
overburdened American homeowner.
Finally, I find that the American peo-
ple today are united in their continued
belief in honest hard work, love of coun-
try, spiritual faith.
What has made America the economic
wonder of the world is not what govern-
ment has done for people, but what peo-
ple have done for themselves. That is why,
while some politicians are calling for re-
distribution of income-seeking to reward
those who do not work more than those
who do this Administration has stood
with the new American majority. We
know that it was the sacrifice and efforts
of hard-working people that built Amer-
ica. We oppose those who would discour-
age
work and reward idleness.
America is a land of opportunity, not a
land of handouts. Each of us deserves a
fair chance to get ahead. But none of us
has the right to expect a free ride—to re-
main idle, to take advantage of other
men's labor.
Each of these basic points I have men-
tioned has played a part in creating the
new American majority. Each of them re-
minds us that there is more that binds us
together as a people than there is separat-
ing us.
My greatest hope for the coming elec-
tions is that we emerge from them a
stronger, not a weaker, people-that when
we look back at the 1972 elections we
can point to them as a mandate for peace,
for progress, and, above all, unity for
Americans.
"This flag which we honor and under
which we serve," said Woodrow Wilson,
"is the emblem of the unity of our power,
our thought and purpose as a nation. It
has no other character than that which
we give it from generation to generation.
The choices are ours."
Once again this November, the choice
is ours. And I urge each of you-whether
you are a Democrat, a Republican, or an
independent-to become a part of the
new American majority, to help us keep
on building a strong America, a just
America-One America embodying the
hopes and faith of all Americans.
Thank you, and good morning.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m.
from the Library at the White House. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio.
Time for the broadcast was purchased by the
Committee for the Re-Election of the President.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
An advance text of his address was released on
the same day.
1057
