Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 2 [1]
ternal policy is Cuba's business, although
we would prefer our system and I think
many Cubans would as well.
But, on the other hand, Cuba is en-
gaged in a constant program of belliger-
ence toward the United States and also
toward its neighbors in the inter-American
community.
Now, I suppose it could be said, what
about China? We point to the Korean
war, we point to what is going on now in
North Vietnam. The difference is that at
this particular time, we have some evi-
dence that the Chinese are now ready to
talk about their role in Asia and our role
in Asia. We think it is well to talk about
it. There has been no indication whatever
that Castro will recede one inch from his
determination of exporting Castro-type
revolution all over the hemisphere. As long
as he is engaged in that kind of operation,
our policy isn't going to change.
MR. RATHER. If he gave you such an
indication, would you move to reestablish
a dialogue with Cuba as you have with
China?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no expecta-
tion whatever of that. We follow Mr. Cas-
tro's activities, his public speeches and the
like, very, very closely. And he thrives,
since he has made virtually a basket case
of Cuba economically, in stirring up trou-
ble in other countries. He couldn't possibly
survive, in my opinion, unless he had this
policy of "foreign devils."
MR. RATHER. Mr. President, I am afraid
in one respect you and I are alike. That is,
we like to talk about foreign policy. But
time moves on and I may be looking for
work tomorrow if we don't begin talking
about some domestic affairs.
THE PRESIDENT. And also, if you don't
ask me those questions, they will say I am
not interested in it.
JETS FOR ISRAEL
[12.] MR. RATHER. But I can't leave-
with your permission, I think we have to
do it fairly quickly-leave without asking
at least one question about the Middle
East. There have been widespread reports
that you have agreed in principle to sell
additional Phantom jets to Israel. Is that
true?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made a deci-
sion, Mr. Rather, implementing a policy
that I have long announced, that we will
not allow the balance, the military bal-
ance, in the Mideast to be shifted.
Now the Soviet Union has been sending
in very significant arms shipments to the
U.A.R. In view of those shipments, as that
continues to escalate, we have had to con-
sider the requests of Israel for planes in
order to see that the balance does not shift.
We have made a commitment in prin-
ciple. As far as implementing that com-
mitment is concerned, however, I-this
is not, of course, the time to go into it.
PUBLIC OPINION AND THE PRESIDENT
[13.] MR. RATHER. Mr. President,
shifting now to domestic affairs, and be-
fore we went into this broadcast, I sought
questions from many of my colleagues in
the White House press corps, and I think
I should tell you that the following ques-
tion was among the most popular of those
submitted.
THE PRESIDENT. Popular with them.
MR. RATHER. Popular with them. And
I hope it will be with you.
Public opinion polls, the Harris poll
was the last one, the Gallup polls before,
indicated that the American people, in
overwhelming majority, give you high
marks for decisiveness, for willingness to
II
