[15] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
space
space research. This vehicle, the space
shuttle, is one that can be recovered and
used again and again, lowering signif-
icantly both the cost and the risk of
operations. The space shuttle would also
open new opportunities in fields such as
weather forecasting, domestic and inter-
national communications, the monitoring
of natural resources, and air traffic safety.
The space shuttle is a wise national in-
vestment. I urge the Congress to approve
this plan so that we can realize these sub-
stantial economies and these substantial
benefits.
Over the last several months, this ad-
ministration has undertaken a major
review of both the problems and the op-
portunities for American technology.
Leading scientists and researchers from
our universities and from industry have
contributed to this study. One important
conclusion we have reached is that much
more needs to be known about the process
of stimulating and applying research and
development. In some cases, for example,
the barriers to progress are financial. In
others they are technical. In still other in-
stances, customs, habits, laws, and regula-
tions are the chief obstacles. We need to
learn more about all these considera-
tions and we intend to do so. One im-
mediate step in this effort will be the
White House Conference on the Indus-
trial World Ahead which will convene
next month and will devote considerable
attention to research and development
questions.
But while our knowledge in this field is
still modest, there are nevertheless a num-
ber of important new steps which we can
take at this time. I will soon present spe-
cific recommendations for such steps in a
special message to the Congress. Among
these proposals will be an increase next
year of $700 million in civilian research
and development spending, a 15 percent
increase over last year's level and a 65
percent increase over 1969. We will place
new emphasis on cooperation with private
research and development, including new
experimental programs for cost sharing
and for technology transfers from the pub-
lic to the private sector. Our program will
include special incentives for smaller high
technology firms, which have an excellent
record of cost effectiveness.
In addition, our Federal agencies which
are highly oriented toward technology-
such as the Atomic Energy Commission
and the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration-will work more closely
with agencies which have a primary social
mission. For example, our outstanding
capabilities in space technology should be
used to help the Department of Transpor-
tation develop better mass transportation
systems. As has been said so often in the
last 2 years, a nation that can send three
people across 240,000 miles of space to the
moon should also be able to send 240,000
people 3 miles across a city to work.
Finally, we will seek to set clear and
intelligent targets for research and de-
velopment, so that our resources can be
focused on projects where an extra effort
is most likely to produce a breakthrough
and where the breakthrough is most likely
to make a difference in our lives. Our ini-
tial efforts will include new or accelerated
activities aimed at:
-creating new sources of clean and
abundant energy;
--developing safe, fast, pollution-free
transportation;
-reducing the loss of life and property
from earthquakes, hurricanes and
other natural disasters;
-developing effective
emergency
72
