[338] Oct. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
my constant, and I trust will always con-
tinue to be, very responsible critics.
I stepped into one on that when you
recall I made, inadvertently, a comment
in Denver about an individual who had
been indicted in California, the Manson
case. I was vigorously criticized for mak-
ing any comment about the case, and so,
of course, I know you would want me to
follow the same single standard by not
commenting on this case.
CAMPAIGN PLANS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, when are you
going to begin intensive campaigning, and
are you going to begin intensive cam-
paigning?
THE PRESIDENT. I repeat, Mr. Warren
[Lucien C. Warren, Buffalo Evening
News], what I have said previously in San
Clemente and at San Francisco. Until the
Congress adjourns, my primary responsi-
bility is to stay here, and particularly to
stay here to fight the battle against bigger
spending that would lead to bigger taxes.
I have made a commitment, and I make
it here again today. There will be no tax
increase in 1973. However, there is one
problem with that commitment. There
will be no Presidential tax increase. But,
we need the cooperation of the Congress,
and there could be a Congressional tax in-
crease. If the Congress, for example, does
not approve the $250 billion ceiling that
we have requested, that is going to make
the chances of avoiding a tax increase
more difficult.
It does not make it impossible, how-
ever, because we have a second line of de-
fense. If the Congress, as appears likely,
continues to pass bills that substantially
exceed the budget, which already is at
the highest limits that our tax income will
pay for, if the Congress continues to pass
bills and send them to the President's
desk that exceed that budget, the Con-
gress will have voted for a tax increase.
However, I still have one weapon left,
that is the veto.
My own prediction is that after talk-
ing to our own leaders and after hearing
from some responsible Democrats in the
House and Senate, that even though the
Congress will probably send to my desk
in the next 2 or 3 weeks a number of bills
that will substantially exceed the budget
and that would result in a Congressional
tax increase, I think my vetoes of those
bills will be sustained and that that will
make it possible for me to keep my com-
mitment for no tax increase.
That shows one of the reasons why it
is important for me to stay on the job here
in Washington until the Congress ad-
journs and until that very great danger
of a tax increase caused by Congressional
overspending is met and defeated.
Now, once the Congress leaves, or once
I see that danger passing, then I can make
plans to go into various parts of the coun-
try. In the meantime, I am going to have
to limit my travel, as I have indicated, to
perhaps once a week, on a day that I see
no significant problems that I need to
attend to here, but I will not do more
than that.
If I have to choose between engaging
in all of the spectaculars of a campaign,
which I have been doing virtually all my
life every 2 years for 25 years-if I have
to choose between that and staying on the
job and doing something that would re-
sult in avoiding a tax increase for the
American people, I am going to stay right
here on the job.
958
