Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. I [282]
on the need for further steps to control
strategic arms.
5. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent exchanged views in a broad perspec-
tive on issues related to economic, trade
and financial matters. The Prime Min-
ister and the President emphasized the
great importance of economic relations
between Japan and the United States.
Both leaders expressed their conviction
that their talks would contribute to closer
cooperation between the two countries
in dealing with economic issues of a bi-
lateral and global nature.
6. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent shared the view that fundamental
reform of the international monetary sys-
tem is essential. They committed their
governments to work rapidly to achieve
such reform. In trade, they reaffirmed the
February 1972 commitments of both
countries to initiate and actively support
multilateral trade negotiations covering
both industry and agriculture in 1973. In
this connection they noted the need in the
forthcoming trade negotiations to lay the
basis for further trade expansion through
reduction of tariff and nontariff barriers
as well as formulations of a multilateral
non-discriminatory safeguard mechanism.
7. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent agreed that both countries would
endeavor to move towards a better
equilibrium in their balance of payments
and trade positions. In this regard, the
President explained the measures under-
taken by the United States to improve its
trade and payments position and stated
that the Government of the United States
was urging U.S. firms to expand the vol-
ume of exports through increased pro-
ductivity and improved market research,
particularly to Japan. The Prime Min-
ister indicated that the Government of
Japan would also try to promote imports
from the United States and that it was the
intention of the Government of Japan to
reduce the imbalance to a more manage-
able size within a reasonable period of
time. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent agreed that it would be most valu-
able to hold future meetings at a high level
to review evolving economic relationships,
and that they intend to hold a meeting of
the Joint United States-Japan Committee
on Trade and Economic Affairs as early
in 1973 as feasible.
8. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent noted the endeavors of the two coun-
tries, in cooperation with other developed
countries, to help bring stability and
prosperity to the developing countries in
Asia and other regions of the world. They
acknowledged the need for adequate
levels of official development assistance on
appropriate terms. They also reaffirmed
that the two governments intend to con-
tinue to help strengthen the international
financial institutions for the purpose of
economic development of the developing
countries.
9. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent reaffirmed the need to promote
efforts to improve the mutual understand-
ing of the cultural, social and other back-
grounds between the peoples of the two
countries. They agreed further that new
and improved programs of cultural and
educational exchange are an important
means to this end. In this connection the
President underlined his high hopes for
the successful activities of the Japan
Foundation to be inaugurated in October
this year.
10. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent noted with satisfaction the growing
momentum of cooperation between the
two countries in increasingly diverse fields
87-234-74– -57
845
