Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 27 [329]
combat role. We have ended the sending
of any draftees to Vietnam. We have pre-
pared the South Vietnamese so that it is
now very clear that they will be able soon
to undertake their complete defense with-
out our assistance.
All of this has been accomplished with-
out staining the honor of the United States
of America. We have not played politics
with the issue, as we might. We have not
blamed the difficulties that we have had
on the previous administrations, as we
might, and then have done something that
would have been very wrong for Amer-
ica: simply get out and blame it on the
other people and hope that the American
people would not regret what would have
been a highly immoral act.
Let me say we are not going to play
politics with it now. We are going to end
our involvement. We will end the war. But
we are going to end it without betraying
our allies, and we are not going to abandon
our prisoners of war or play politics with
our prisoners of war.
But as we think of peace, we in this
country too often have spoken of peace
and thought of peace only in terms of
ending the war. We ended World War I.
We ended World War II. We ended the
Korean war. And then every generation
another one comes along. I think this Ad-
ministration will be remembered not so
much for what we have done in ending the
war which we inherited, but will be
remembered for the actions that we have
taken in changing the world and in re-
ducing the possibility of other wars in the
future.
Oh, I do not mean that because we
have an opening of a dialogue with the
People's Republic of China, whose govern-
ment leads one-fourth of all of the people
that live on this globe, that opening that
dialogue means that we will have no more
difficulties with them and that govern-
ment, because our differences are still
there, the philosophical differences. They
have not changed.
I do not mean that because we have
negotiated with the Soviet Union an un-
precedented series of agreements in the
area of trade, in the area of the environ-
ment, cooperation in space, and most
important of all, a beginning in the limita-
tion of nuclear arms, that that means that
we will not continue to have difficulties
with the Soviet Union because of our dif-
ferences of interests, our differences in
philosophies. They are there, and they
will remain.
But I do suggest this: that we could
have left it as it was. We could have been
left frozen, as we were, in confrontation
with the Soviet Union, not negotiating
those differences, and going down the
road to an inevitable collision with all the
destruction that would bring to America,
to the Soviet Union, and all the people
in the world.
We could have left the People's Repub-
lic of China isolated from us and from the
rest of the world, with the inevitable re-
sult 15, 20 years from now, that 800 mil-
lion, or probably a billion, of the most
capable people in the world might be lined
up against us in an inevitable confronta-
tion.
So we have begun, and I emphasize to-
night that despite the progress we have
made in this field of foreign policy toward
a world of peace, it is only a beginning,
and for 4 more years, the reason we want
it is that we need 4 more years to build
on this beginning. We think we know how
to do it. We think we have demonstrated
that we do know how.
I will not go into detail as to what we
935
