[267] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
into reality. It will not become a reality
if we heed the honest but misguided voices
of those who say we should weaken Amer-
ica today and naively hope for peace
tomorrow.
But it can become a reality if we con-
tinue to follow a responsible, rational for-
eign policy, if we keep America strong
enough to make that policy credible.
Therefore, I say, let us join together—
join together to keep America strong. If
we do this, a strong America can continue
to lead the world toward a just and lasting
peace.
I should like to close my remarks, if I
could, Commander Geiger and my com-
rades in the American Legion, with these
rather personal notes: Having been a
member of the Legion since 1947, spoken
to local posts, then State groups, and then
national conventions, I think I know my
comrades and I know what you want for
your country.
These parting words are what I think
the role of the Legion can be in these
years as we move from war to peace:
First, it is vitally important to keep
America strong; I know you will support
that proposition. Second, it is vitally im-
portant to honor the men who have
served, because, remember, we are now
moving to a volunteer armed force. In
order for that volunteer armed force to be
adequately served, it is going to have to be
something more than money. We are
going to have to give respect to those that
guard the United States in times of peace.
Finally, my third request to my com-
rades in the American Legion is this—in
addition to keeping our country strong
and honoring those who serve, continue
the wonderful work you are doing with
young Americans. I was tremendously
excited to see the young voters that I saw
in Miami over this last week. The fact
that for the first time the 18- to 21-year-
olds are voting means that we have a new
element in American politics. It will be
good for the country and good for both
parties because they bring idealism and
enthusiasm that we need.
But let me say that I have also been
tremendously moved when I have seen
the representatives of Boys Nation and
Girls Nation, and Mrs. Nixon has met
with them, too, when they have come to
Washington. You wonder whether that
kind of work is worthwhile. I will tell you,
it certainly is, because the important
thing for our young Americans to real-
ize—and a great majority of them, I be-
lieve, do realize that-is that they should
not give up on the system, which was the
fashionable thing 3, 4, 5 years ago, is that
they should remember that this American
system is one that you can change peace-
fully by working within the system. Here
is the message to give them: Tell them
that the answer to throwing a rock is to
cast a vote. That is the answer.
Finally, let us also tell them and tell all
of our fellow Americans that we have
nothing to be ashamed of in terms of what
we seek in the world. Oh, we have made
our mistakes in foreign policy. I know
that we look back to World War I-and
there are not so many of those veterans
still here, but some fortunately are still
with us-World War II, Korea, Vietnam.
Do you realize we have sent millions of
Americans abroad in four wars in this
century? But never for the purpose of de-
stroying freedom, only to defend it; never
for the purpose of breaking the peace, only
to keep it.
The United States has had, in terms of
802
