Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 1 [33]
ceives under the current system of cate-
gorical grants. The program would take
effect at the beginning of Fiscal Year 1974.
Rural community development revenue
sharing funds would be paid out to the
States and to Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands and Guam according to a formula
which takes three factors into account: the
State's rural population, the State's rural
per capita income in comparison to the
national average, and the State's change
in rural population compared to the
change in population in all States. In ad-
dition, every State would receive a mini-
mum amount to assure that all States
participate in the
program.
The revenue sharing proposal incor-
porates a requirement for statewide devel-
opment plans to ensure that activities
carried on under the rural community
development revenue sharing program
could be coordinated with activities under
the other general and special revenue
sharing proposals, including those for
urban community development and for
transportation. Each year the States would
prepare a comprehensive statewide devel-
opment plan which would outline spend-
ing intentions for programs in rural areas
and smaller cities, as well as in metro-
politan and suburban areas. It would be
the responsibility of the Governor of each
State to draw up this statewide plan. This
process would be supported by another
major administration initiative, our pro-
posed $100 million planning and manage-
ment grant program.
The development plan would be formu-
lated through a consultative process which
would consider plans submitted by multi-
jurisdictional planning districts, which the
Governors could establish with rural reve-
nue sharing funds. These local planning
organizations would be composed of local
elected officials and would be established
in all areas of the State. One member from
each of these district planning bodies
would sit on a panel to assist the Governor
in the comprehensive planning process.
This process for developing a statewide
plan would ensure that public officials
and the general public itself would focus
attention on the inter-relationships be-
tween rural and urban development
within each State. The plan would iden-
tify potential growth areas and develop-
ment sites as well as areas which are of
special environmental concern. The plan
could also take into account interstate
projects and programs developed through
the regional commission mechanism.
The rural community development
revenue sharing program represents a re-
affirmation of faith in State and local
governments. It is based on the concept
that local people have the best under-
standing of local problems and on the
belief that they have the will and the
ability to move vigorously and intelli-
gently to solve them. The revenue sharing
approach removes the often stifling and
always frustrating strictures which require
that Federal grants be used for narrow
purposes. It provides the flexibility which
State and local governments need in order
to fund those projects which they them-
selves believe would best ensure rational
development in their areas and most effec-
tively enhance the quality of life.
The development plans drawn up
under this program would cover an entire
State. Rural revenue sharing funds would
be spent largely outside metropolitan
areas while urban revenue sharing funds
would be used within those areas. It is im-
portant to note, however, that rural areas
include almost 2800 of the more than
3100 counties in the United States.
131
