[367] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
and we are working on it. And he said,
"Wouldn't it be a very fine thing for
both countries if our doctors could work
together, not separately, to try to find the
cure for this disease?"
Then I pointed out to him something
that may be even surprising to you, unless
you have suffered from this dread disease
in your own family. More people died of
cancer in the United States last year than
the United States lost in killed in action
in all of World War II. Now what I am
saying is this: I say that an initiative that
will have Russian doctors and Chinese
doctors and American doctors working
together is good, because the genius that
will find the answer to that dread disease
and other diseases, it may not be in Amer-
ica, it may be in Russia, it may be in
China, it may be in Latin America. But
you can be sure we now have started on
the road to get the doctors of the world,
regardless of philosophy, working to-
gether on this dread disease, rather than
against each other.
Now, in order to continue to make
progress in making this a safer world, a
safer world when the two super powers,
the Soviet Union and the United States,
will negotiate rather than confront each
other, will limit their arms rather than
engage in an arms race, in order also to
make this a safer world so that the peo-
ple, one-fourth of all the people of the
world who live in the People's Republic
of China can cooperate in some areas with
the United States, let me just tell you my
philosophy.
I know what the great danger is that
hangs over the world: the danger of nu-
clear war. I know the great differences in
philosophies between the Communist sys-
tems and ours, and I say that it is time
that we develop, between governments,
the United States and other governments,
some understandings. Because this is my
desire for you, all of the people of this
country, but particularly this new, young
generation: Let us build a world in which,
despite differences of philosophy between
governments, despite differences between
governments, the people of the world can
be friends wherever they may be.
Now, to accomplish this goal, if we
want to play the role that we want to, to
lead to this generation of peace, the
United States must continue to maintain
the kind of defense that will command
respect throughout the world. That is why
I oppose such programs as would make
the United States have the second strong-
est Navy, the second strongest Air Force,
because let me tell you something: There
is no other nation in the free world that
can deter aggression around the world.
Let me tell you something else: The
small nations in the world, like those in
the Mideast and in other parts of the
world, that depend on the United States
for their survival, those small nations, if
the United States is ever the second
strongest power in the world, would be
living in deadly danger. I pledge to you,
we shall keep the United States in a posi-
tion second to none in its national defense,
because we know we will use it for peace.
If, also, the United States is to be able
to play this role, a role in which we are
building peace for all the world, which I
know all Americans want us to do, it is
also essential that we develop within our
Armed Forces the kind of spirit, the kind
of volunteerism which we will need, be-
cause, as you know, one of the great ac-
complishments of this Administration
which has been little noticed, except
1018
