Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 7 [45]
many Federal grants require State and
local officials to match some percentage
of Federal aid with local money which
could be better spent in other ways to solve
local problems. In many cases, State and
local officials must decide either to accept
Federal aid with its accompanying alloca-
tion of State and local funds or to receive
no Federal aid at all.
Federal maintenance of effort provi-
sions further distort local priorities by re-
quiring State and local governments to
continue projects irrespective of their ef-
fectiveness in meeting their own needs.
Once again, our communities lose more
of the flexibility which would enable them
to meet what they consider their most
pressing needs.
Frustrating and time-consuming proj-
ect approval requirements, a jungle of red
tape, often make it impossible for State
and local governments to count on having
Federal money when it is needed. No mat-
ter how pressing some needs may be, com-
munities must wait, sometimes months or
even years, for the slowly grinding wheels
of bureaucracy to consider each grant in
minute detail.
sepa-
The real problem lies not with the Fed-
eral Government's intentions, but with
how it tries to meet communities' needs-
by undertaking one narrow, inflexible pro-
gram after another. The number of
rate categories has grown until no one is
sure of their boundaries. In 1963, there
were only 160 individual grant programs
amounting to about $8.6 billion, but now
there are over 1,000 such programs
amounting to almost $40 billion. Each
rigid category of additional aid reflects
the worst kind of arrogance: the presump-
tion that only the Federal Government
knows local needs and how to meet them.
If we have faith in the American peo-
ple-and I for one do-then we must
recognize that in thousands of commu-
nities, each with its own problems and
priorities, there live people quite capable
of determining and meeting their own
needs and in all probability doing a better
job of it than the Washington bureauc-
racy. Quite simply, today's local needs
are likely to be met best by local solutions.
The time has clearly come to reform the
way in which the Federal Government
aids local and State authorities. The time
has clearly come when those who serve at
the State and local level and are charged
with the responsibility for finding work-
able solutions to State and local problems
should be given a chance. Clearly, it is
time that Federal aid became truly that,
aid, not rigid and often confusing control.
Waste, confusion, and inefficiency are
too often the price paid by local and State
governments for Federal aid under the
present system. Last year the Federal Gov-
ernment discovered the following cases, to
cite just a few examples:
-One Northcentral State had 93 peo-
ple on its government payroll to do
nothing but apply for Federal educa-
tion grants.
-A study of grant programs in one
Western city revealed that only 15
percent of the Federal funds to that
city went through its mayor or elected
government.
-Federal demands on the time and
attention of local officials is particu-
larly serious. In one small Midwest-
ern city, a part-time mayor had to
attend sixteen separate evening
meetings per month, one with Fed-
161
