Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 29 [276]
I have tried to emphasize to our cam-
paign people, should be to make it a posi-
tive majority rather than a negative ma-
jority. There has been a great deal of talk
with regard to why people should be
against the challenger in this respect,
mainly because his views, as I pointed out
in the acceptance speech, departed from
the bipartisan policy of his predecessors
and departed from their economic
philosophy and some of their basic views.
Now, what we want, however, is a posi-
tive mandate, in other words, what we
are for, not simply what we might be
against or what the country is against.
Now that means that this majority will be
one that we would hope would send us in
with a clear mandate to keep the United
States strong and not to go along with a
$30 billion defense cut which would make
the United States second in the air, the
second strongest Navy, the second strong-
est in missiles, as well as the second on the
ground, which we already are with the
Soviet Union, and would completely de-
stroy the chance for arms limitation and
completely, in my view, destroy the abil-
ity of the United States to be the peace-
maker of the world as the major free
world power.
At home and here are the areas that
we don't often get into in these confer-
ences-that we could have at home the
kind of a mandate where the country
would say we want change, but we want
change that works. It is not a question of
whether it is radical or not. My trip to
China was radical, it was bold, radical,
different. What really matters is: Does it
work? Has it been thought through, or is
it a half-baked scheme where you have
one today and one tomorrow and then
you check the PM's to see whether or not
there is a new one?
As far as this thing is concerned, what
we are saying is that we need a mandate
for revenue sharing, we need a mandate
for welfare reform, we need a mandate
for our programs in the environment, for
our new health programs, a mandate to
continue progress without raising taxes, a
mandate to continue to help those who
are poor without having an enormous in-
crease in the welfare rolls.
Finally, we believe that we need sup-
port in this country-and this is some-
thing that is rather hard to put your finger
on, it is an intangible attitude. There has
been a subtle shift over the last 4 years.
Some may not have seen it. I think I have.
Four
years ago the country was torn apart,
torn apart physically and torn apart in-
side. It has changed very subtly, but very
definitely. What we need in this country
is a new sense of mission, a new sense of
confidence, a new sense of purpose as to
where we are going.
The fact that abroad this country does
not follow Hitlerite policies, that the
President of the United States is not the
number one warmaker of the world, but
that as a matter of fact, the United States,
with its great power, is using it well, and
that the world is fortunate to have the
United States as the most powerful of the
free world nations and at home, that
the United States is not a country where
we are repressive to the poor and play
always to the rich, pointing out the fact,
for example, that when we look at our
tax laws that we provided the biggest indi-
vidual tax reduction in history in 1969 and
at the same time increased the burden for
corporations by $4 billion, that we moved
against the auto companies, for example,
to have them roll back a price increase,
that we moved against other companies
that have been polluting.
837
