Appendix E
icy during the next 4 years. Accordingly, Presi-
dent Nixon considers this appointment of Mr.
Casey to be one of the most important appoint-
ments he is making for the new Administration.
Before his appointment to head the United
States Delegation to Paris, Ambassador Porter
was, as you know, United States Ambassador to
Korea. He began his career in foreign service
in 1937. His years of service in a variety of posts
in Europe and Asia equip him admirably for
the important new position he will be assuming.
Mr. Tarr was appointed to his present posi-
tion in April of 1972, having previously served
as Director of the Selective Service. For the
previous decade, he was president of Lawrence
College in Appleton, Wisconsin.
In appreciation of the distinguished service
and contributions of Deputy Secretary Irwin
and Under Secretary of State Alexis Johnson,
and in line with the President's earlier com-
ments concerning the desire of many top offi-
cials for a change of assignment, the President
has asked both Deputy Secretary Irwin and
Under Secretary Johnson to stay on in the
Administration.
Alexis Johnson at the present time is the
senior officer in the Foreign Service of the
United States, both in personal rank and in
the position he holds. He is the only Foreign
Service officer who currently holds the rank of
a Career Ambassador, the highest rank in the
Foreign Service. To cap a career of exceptional
distinction and dedication, the President will
ask Under Secretary Johnson to accept a major
new assignment commensurate with his special
talents. Details of this assignment will be an-
nounced soon.
John Irwin has been asked by the President
to take a high-level Ambassadorial post, and he
is now considering this request.
Looking ahead, the President feels that the
foreign policy initiatives of the past 4 years
offer great promise for peace and understand-
ing in the world, but he also believes that the
realization of that promise will largely depend
upon the conduct of our foreign policy during
the second 4 years.
In that connection, he is delighted that
Secretary of State Rogers can count on the
support of this strong, new team at the next
level of responsibility at the Department of
State.
Announcing Continuation in the Second Term
of Key Economic Policy Officials
December 1, 1972
The President has asked me to announce this
morning that Secretary George Shultz will con-
tinue as Secretary of the Treasury as we start
the second term of the Nixon Administration.
Secretary Shultz, as you recall, was one of
the original members of President Nixon's
Cabinet, serving first as Secretary of Labor.
Then in 1970, when the Office of Management
and Budget was formed, the President ap-
pointed George Shultz the first Director of the
OMB.
Prior to joining the Administration, Secre-
tary Shultz was dean of the Graduate School
of Business at the University of Chicago, and
he had also served several administrations here
in Washington in an advisory capacity in the
fields of economics and labor relations. It was
during one such assignment for President Eisen-
hower, during the late 1950's, that Mr. Shultz's
ability came to the attention of President
Nixon. President Nixon, then Vice President
of course, worked with George Shultz during
the Eisenhower Administration.
The President has also requested that I an-
nounce today that Herbert Stein will remain as
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advis-
ers. Mr. Stein has agreed to stay on. Mr. Stein is
the only present member of CEA who has
served on the Council since the beginning of
this Administration. He assumed the chairman-
ship in January of 1972. For 2 years prior to
1969, Mr. Stein was a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution, having come there after
many years of distinguished service with the
Committee for Economic Development.
With regard to the Council on International
Economic Policy, which was instituted last year
to coordinate affairs in this increasingly im-
portant area, the President wishes me to an-
nounce this morning that Peter Flanigan will
retain his current responsibilities as Director of
the Council on International Economic Policy
in the second term.
Peter Flanigan, of course, has been a mem-
ber of the White House Staff since the Inaugu-
ration, before which time he was in the
E-4
