[107] Mar. 29 Public Papers of the Presidents
ity commensurate with responsibility at
every level and to make form follow func-
tion intelligently.
fully planned such reorganization since
the executive was first constituted in
George Washington's administration 183
years ago. Its purpose is to make Ameri-
can government a more effective servant
to, and a more responsive instrument of,
the American people. Its method is to
organize departments around the ends
which public policy seeks, rather than (as
too often in the past) around the means
employed in seeking them.
The broad outlines of the reorganiza-
tion proposals which I presented to the
Congress just over a year ago are now
well known. The seven domestic depart-
ments which sprang into being under pres-
sure of necessity one at a time since 1849
would be viewed as a single system for the
first time, and their functions regrouped
accordingly. The product would be four
entirely new, goal-oriented departments
concerned with our communities, our
earth, our economy, and our potential as
individuals-plus revitalized fifth
department concerned with keeping
America in food and fiber.
A Department of Community Devel-
opment, a Department of Natural Re-
sources, a Department of Economic
Affairs, and a Department of Human Re-
sources would be created to replace the
present Departments of Interior, Com-
merce, Labor, Health, Education, and
Welfare and Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and Transportation. And the
Department of Agriculture-under our
plans as I ordered them revised last fall-
would be streamlined to increase its abil-
ity to serve the farmer and so to serve us
all. Several independent Federal agencies
would be drawn into the consolidation
process as appropriate. Further manage-
-ment reforms would be instituted within
the new departments, to provide author-
ELECTING BETTER GOVERNMENT
MACHINERY
I do not speak lightly or loosely in char-
acterizing this measure as critically
needed. To say that we must prepare gov-
ernment to perform satisfactorily in the
years ahead is only another way of saying
that we must provide for its very survival.
This Republic, soon to begin its third
century, will surely grow old unless we
take wise and decisive action to keep it
young. "Adapt or die"-the Darwinian
choice is ours to make.
Hard evidence of this danger
abounds-dismal statistics about the low
effectiveness of Federal spending, case
upon case of national problems stub-
bornly resisting national programs. "Most
Americans today," as I put it in announc-
ing these executive reorganization pro-
posals in my 1971 State of the Union
Message, and again in transmitting the
detailed legislation for them, "are sim-
ply fed up with government at all levels."
For us here and now to make a strong
beginning at making government work
better for the ordinary citizen would
hearten the Nation immensely; and it
would do so honestly, by getting at the
real roots of the fed-up feeling. Yet some
may question whether this political year
is a time when public men can afford to
meet public frustrations head on. "Mol-
lifying gestures, yes," they may say in
effect, "but fundamental reform, no-at
least not in 1972." Our reply should be
that this is a most appropriate year to
move ahead with reorganization.
For what is it, after all, that the people
506
