Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 30 [332]
across the country have appeared at vari-
ous times before 12 different meetings and
dinners and so forth, in the field of cancer.
This shows that our family is with you, as
well as the President in his official
capacity.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:28 a.m. in
the Biltmore Bowl of the Biltmore Hotel where
he was presented with a distinguished service
award by the American Cancer Society.
The conference, jointly sponsored by the
American Cancer Society and the National
Cancer Institute, was attended by more than
1,500 physicians, including cancer specialists
and general practitioners.
Frank J. Rauscher was Director of the Na-
tional Cancer Institute; Dr. A. Hamblin Letton
was president of the American Cancer Society;
and Dr. R. Lee Clark, president and professor
of surgery of the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute in
Houston, was chairman of the program com-
mittee for the conference.
The President spoke from a prepared text.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of his remarks and a fact sheet
on the "Conquest of Cancer" program.
332 Remarks on Signing a Joint Resolution Approving
the Interim Agreement With the Soviet Union on
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms.
September 30, 1972
Gentlemen:
We are gathered here, as you know, for
the signing of the executive agreement,
and I would like to repeat something that
I said in the White House to this group
leaders when I returned from the trip to
Moscow.
of
I pointed out both in my statement to
the Congress and also to the Members of
the Congress, both House and Senate,
who had to consider these agreements,
that we considered this a cooperative
venture and we wanted the Congress to
examine the agreements and to reach a
conclusion, independently of the Execu-
tive, that they were in the interest of the
United States.
The Congress has now so acted. Its
debate has, in both the Senate and the
House, served to inform the American
people of the contents of the agreement,
and also what its implications are.
I think what is particularly pleasing-
pleasing in the sense of how our system
works-is that this agreement has had bi-
partisan support in the fullest sense.
Democrats and Republicans have joined
together in debating it and criticizing
where they felt there was room to criticize,
and finally in voting for it in the form that
it has now reached the desk here, and as
I will sign it.
We have asked you to come to this room
because we do feel this agreement is one
that has a very special significance. All of
you who have been here many times be-
fore know that it was the Cabinet Room
from the period of Abraham Lincoln up
until 1902, when the West Wing was com-
pleted. But it is now known as the Treaty
Room because the war between Spain
and the United States, as you know, was
ended by a treaty signed in this room.
I would simply say in that connection,
this is not a treaty which ends a war. This
is not an agreement which guarantees that
945
