Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 28 [380]
we are seeing the birth of a new American
majority.
It is not a new partisan majority. It
is not a realignment of the old political
coalitions of different interest groups and
blocs.
The new majority is a majority of
Americans from all parts of the country
who agree on certain fundamental values
and principles that are basic to America's
ideals and its experience.
I remember reading once about a sign
outside a church in Greenville, South
Carolina. Its message was simple. It said:
"If God were permissive, he would have
given us Ten Suggestions."
The point, of course, was that at the
base of every great faith or idea, there
are certain fundamental, abiding truths
that must not be destroyed or distorted.
I realize that in this sophisticated age
we hear a lot of scoffing at old-fashioned
faith, morality, and character. But I also
know that the day America loses its moral
character, or the day we forget our re-
ligious heritage, we will cease to be a
great Nation.
For America is more than just a plot of
land-it is an ideal. And that ideal is
what built 13 tiny, struggling colonies into
the freest, mightiest Nation on earth
today.
What is the ideal? George Washington
once called it "the sacred fire of liberty"-
a devotion to freedom and opportunity,
a respect for the rights and dignity of the
individual.
Almost two centuries later, another
great soldier and statesman, President
Dwight D. Eisenhower, gave us a re-
markably similar definition. "America,"
he said, "is best described by one word,
freedom."
Let us never forget that we won that
freedom, and we have kept and expanded
it over the years, because we have re-
mained a single, united people-One
America.
Last month I had the privilege of dedi-
cating a new museum. It was a very
special occasion for me, because this was
no ordinary museum-it was the Amer-
ican Museum of Immigration on Liberty
Island in New York Harbor.
There, at the foot of the Statue of
Liberty, a museum had been created to
commemorate the trials, the tribulations,
and the magnificent accomplishments of
millions of men and women who came to
these shores to build a new life and to be-
come part of a united American people.
Perhaps more than anywhere else, you
can feel the meaning of America there on
Liberty Island, in the shadow of that great
national monument. During the peak
years of immigration, as many as 5,000
immigrants entered New York Harbor
each day, and the first thing they saw,
their first glimpse of America, was that
magnificent statue with its torch held
high.
The world's hopes poured into America,
along with its people. The people were
from every nation on earth. But the hope
was always the same-the burning desire
for freedom and opportunity, the same
hope that motivated the Founding Fathers
in 1776, the same hope that has moti-
vated generation after generation of new
Americans ever since.
Today there are some who say that
that spirit is dead-that we no longer have
the strength of character, idealism, and
faith we once had.
They say that we have become a sick
society, a corrupt society. Some have even
gone so far as to compare us with Hitler's
Germany.
1055
