Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 11 [85]
appropriation of our contributions is espe-
cially important at this time, when funds
available for new lending by this im-
portant institution have been virtually
exhausted.
For Asia, the authority that becomes
effective today will provide an initial
United States contribution to the special
funds of the Asian Development Bank.
This money will be especially important
in the evolving pattern of United States
relations with Asia, helping Asian nations
to become economically self-sufficient.
Other countries have already contributed
substantial amounts to this institution, but
our resources are needed to continue the
momentum that has been established.
The legislation which I sign today is
evidence of the willingness of the United
States to provide the funds required to
carry out these programs. The amounts
called for are within our capabilities.
They are consistent with and have been
taken into account in our budgetary plan-
ning. They are essential if the idea of
multilateral assistance is to remain a
viable concept. And they are necessary if
we are to continue to participate con-
structively in an international effort which
has, in large part because of our past
leadership, played such a major role in
fostering progress in the developing world.
I urge that the Congress act promptly
in appropriating the full amounts author-
ized by this legislation.
NOTE: The President signed the bills in a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, S. 748, relating to the Inter-Amer-
ican Development Bank, is Public Law 92-246
(86 Stat. 59); S. 2010, relating to the Inter-
national Development Association, is Public
Law 92-247 (86 Stat. 60); and S. 749, relating
to the Asian Development Bank, is Public Law
92-245 (86 Stat. 57).
85 Statement Urging Continuation of Radio Free Europe
and Radio Liberty. March 11, 1972
I AM deeply concerned at the imminent
prospect that Radio Free Europe and
Radio Liberty may be compelled to shut
down. With the support of the American
government and people, these two unique
voices of freedom have for many years
been a vital source of uncensored news
and commentary for tens of millions of
people in Eastern Europe and the Soviet
Union.
In this country, we have always set
great store by freedom of communication.
It is therefore only natural that the
American press and the American peo-
ple, as represented by the overwhelming
majority of the Congress, should have ex-
pressed strong backing for Radio Free
Europe and Radio Liberty. Large majori-
ties in both the House of Representatives
and the Senate have affirmed their sup-
port for a continuing role for these two
international broadcasting efforts. It
would be a tragedy if their light should
now be extinguished because of a parlia-
mentary impasse between the two Houses.
4II
