Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [409]
an answer to that. There may be many
answers, but my point is where it is going
to come from. It may come from an Amer-
ican. It may come from a man or a
woman. But it might come from a Russian
or it might come from a Chinese. It may
come from somebody in Africa or Latin
America. What we must do, whatever our
differences may be between governments,
is to work together with other people in
working against common diseases that
afflict mankind, and that is why we have
taken this giant step in both the Soviet
Union and the United States to work to-
gether on that particular problem.
But perhaps most important, and most
remembered by all of you, is the agree-
ment that we entered with regard to the
control and particularly the limitation of
nuclear weapons. It was a first step and
a very important one.
But now comes the second step. It is to
get your approval and get your support
for that second step that I come here
today, for that second step and the second
step we will take in so many other
directions.
For example, we are now going to have
negotiations beginning in late November
with the Soviet Union to further limit
nuclear weapons and reduce the danger
of war. They will make this first agree-
ment seem important, but they will not
make it look nearly as important as it
was, because it will cover more weapons
than previously had been the case. It will
be another great step forward toward re-
ducing the burden of arms on America
and on the Soviet Union, but, more im-
portant, in reducing the threat of war that
hangs over us all.
I want you to know that in these next
4 years, whether it is in dealing with the
Soviet Union or the People's Republic of
China, or in bringing peace to the Mid-
east, a real peace, or in building better
relations with our friends in Latin Amer-
ica or in Africa or wherever the case
might be, we have made a good begin-
ning. The chances for real and lasting
peace in the world are better today than
they have ever been at any time since the
end of World War II. We ask for a chance
to continue that job and to build that
lasting peace, a generation of peace for
all Americans.
Now, to build that, there are some
things we are going to need. We are go-
ing to need a strong America, and here,
again, we have a basic difference between
the two men who seek the Presidency. I
will tell you where I stand. I have sat
across the conference table from the men
in Moscow and Peking. I simply want to
say to you, never send the President of the
United States to negotiate with any power
in the world as the head of the second
strongest nation in the world. Let's keep
America, in that respect, with the power
that it has.
That is why I have to oppose, I have
to oppose those who would make us have
the second strongest navy, the second
strongest air force, the second strongest
army in the world, because when that
day comes, it means that the threat of
war in the world would be infinitely
greater because the United States is the
only nation in the free world that can
deter aggression in the world.
It also means that any chance for re-
duction of arms or limitation of arms in
the future is gone, because if you have
already given it away unilaterally, they
have no reason to give anything to you
in return.
So let us be strong, let us be for peace,
but let us be for peace through strength
1125
