[420] Nov. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
420 Letter Accepting the Resignation of George W. Romney
as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
November 27, 1972
Dear George:
Your resignation as Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development is a source
of special regret to me, even though we
have discussed your desire to leave the
Cabinet for several months. I am grateful
that you have agreed to serve until con-
firmation of a successor, and I accept your
resignation effective at that time.
As a member of the Cabinet, you have
contributed enormously not only of your
time and energies, but also of that
profound concern for the public good that
has been the mark of your life and your
career. Yours has been one of the most
difficult assignments in the government,
and you have handled it with great dedi-
cation and skill. Despite the bleak pros-
pects which confronted the housing in-
dustry in 1969, your creative and deter-
mined actions have helped not only to set
all-time records in housing production
in each of the last two years, but also to
energize a rebounding economy.
Your record is remarkable also for your
forthrightness in pointing out the defi-
ciencies in the untried housing programs
that you were called upon, when taking
office, to administer; for the innovative
ways in which you worked to re-shape
other HUD programs to reverse central
city decay; for the programs you set in
motion to modernize the housing indus-
try, and for your establishment of mech-
anisms to stabilize the industry through
a steadier and broader flow of mortgage
funds. In addition, I have been particu-
larly impressed by your success in decen-
tralizing your department's operations,
and bringing them closer to the commu-
nities and people they are meant to serve.
As you know, I share your concern
with the need to encourage private prob-
lem-solving, and so to reduce the public
temptation to expand the role of govern-
ment beyond its proper limits. I also have
great respect for your long and distin-
guished record of stimulating private and
voluntary action. Thus, although I shall
greatly miss having you as a member of
the Administration, I am confident that
in
your private capacity you will continue
to play a vital and constructive role in
achieving the goals that we seek for
America as we approach the Nation's
200th anniversary.
It has been a great personal pleasure to
work with you during these past four
years. Pat joins me in extending to you and
Lenore our warmest good wishes, and in
the hope that we will continue to see both
of you often in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable George W. Romney, Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20410]
NOTE: Secretary Romney's letter of resigna-
tion, dated November 9, 1972, and released
with the President's letter at Camp David, Md.,
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
In submitting my resignation from the Cabi-
net, I want to thank you for the privilege of
serving the nation under your great leader-
ship. The experience has been a rewarding
and invaluable one that, among other things,
has deepened my understanding of our coun-
try's political processes.
As you know from our several in-depth dis-
1146
