Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
period of domestic turmoil and shifts in
external relationships. China's leaders
have decided to break the isolation that
was partly self-chosen, to explore more
normal relations with other countries, and
to take their place in the international
dialogue.
While the Chinese Revolution ran its
long and tortured course the United
States ended a long history of isolationism
and plunged with zeal and idealism into
worldwide responsibilities. We alone
among the major powers emerged rela-
tively unscathed from the Second World
War. We provided the bulk of both the
plans and resources for security and de-
velopment around the globe. And we
perceived the Communist countries,
including China, as a monolithic bloc with
central direction.
Today, two and a half decades after the
war, new realities are reflected in a new
American approach to foreign policy. The
growing strength and self-confidence of
others allow them to assume greater re-
sponsibilities and us to shift to a more
restrained role. And with the time long
past when one nation could speak for all
Communist countries, we deal with in-
dividual nations on the basis of their
foreign, and not their domestic, policy.
Thus, in February of 1972, after many
vicissitudes, many achievements and our
separate evolution, the U.S. and China
enter this dialogue on a fresh foundation
of national equality and mutual respect.
We are both turning a new page in our
histories.
Despite this hopeful beginning, we re-
main separated by profound differences
in principle and the suspicions of decades.
Until 1971 we had had little meaningful
contact for most of a generation. The
People's Republic's critical public state-
ments and interpretations of history are
well known to us. We have also made our
position clear.
It serves no purpose to gloss over these
sources of division. Neither side pretended
during preparations for my journey, and
neither will pretend afterwards, that we
have solved our basic problems. We can
expect our talks to be marked by the di-
rectness and candor which best serve
leaders whose differences are deep but
whose policies are rooted in realism.
A NEW APPROACH
My journey to the People's Republic
of China marks both an end and a begin-
ning. It is the culmination of three years
of patient mutual effort to pierce the iso-
lation of decades. And it represents the
launching of a new process.
The July 15, 1971 statement on my trip
was sudden and dramatic, but it was pre-
ceded and produced by a carefully de-
veloped series of steps. In fact, no other
U.S. foreign policy move in the past three
years has been approached more
meticulously.
As far back as October 1967, I had
written in the journal Foreign Affairs
that "any American policy toward Asia
must come urgently to grips with the
reality of China," while pointing out that
bold new initiatives without preparation
were inappropriate.
In January 1969 I entered office con-
vinced that a new policy toward the
People's Republic of China was an essen-
tial component of a new American foreign
policy. I was, of course, fully aware of the
profound ideological and political differ-
ences between our countries, and of the
hostility and suspicion to be overcome.
But I believed also that in this era we
87-234-74-18
213
