[268] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have to communicate with those
people.
Our systems of government are differ-
ent. Our philosophies are different. But
what we have to build is a world in which
differences between governments do not
lead to a situation where people cannot be
friends, and that is what we have done,
and that is why we have opened the com-
munication. It reduces the possibility, for
example, of war in the Pacific involving
perhaps the People's Republic, or others.
That is why we have gone to the Soviet
Union. We have gone there and we have
negotiated. We have very great differ-
ences. Our philosophies are totally differ-
ent. Theirs is Communist; ours is free.
But we realize that we either have to learn
to live with our differences or our children
are going to have to die for them. We
don't want that to happen. So that is why
we have negotiated a limitation on nuclear
arms. We have begun to negotiate it, and
more, we trust, will come.
That is why we have negotiated agree-
ments that will peacefully settle some
problems, and that is why we also have
moved toward cooperation.
Let me tell you one interesting thing
about cooperation. We have a wonderful
program in our country which has been
supported by Senator Griffin, of course. I
remember the leadership meeting, in
which he participated as one of the lead-
ers of the Senate, in which we made the
decision to go forward with the program
on cancer.
Congressman O'Hara, of course, sup-
ported it in the House of Representatives.
It is bipartisan. Everybody is for it. We
are spending $100 million to try to find
an answer to cancer in the United States.
Let me tell you something. When I was
in the People's Republic of China and
when I was in Russia, I found leaders of
those countries asking me about our pro-
gram on cancer, "Had we found some-
thing? Would we share it?" And my
answer was, we were making progress.
Whatever we found we would share.
But more important, and this is what
developed out of our Russian trip, we
have now worked it out so that Russian
doctors and American doctors, instead of
exchanging information and then work-
ing separately from each other to try to
find cures for diseases, will work together
in the same room to try to find them.
Let me ask you this question: You have
all studied the history of nations. Where
is the genius, that wonderful genius that
will find the answer to cancer? It may be
a woman. It may be a man. It may be a
black person. It may be a white person.
It might be an American, but it might be
a Russian and it might be a Chinese.
What we have got to do is to build a
world in which, in fighting the great
plagues of disease and hunger, we work
together with people in the world and not
against them. That is what we are trying
to do.
You sometimes wonder, I know, what
people abroad think of us. Let me say,
Mrs. Nixon and I have traveled to 80
countries, countries with many different
political systems. They don't all agree
with us on many things, but you can be
sure of one thing. They respect the United
States of America and in many of those
countries they love America. As I said, not
because we are rich and not because we
are strong, but because we stand for some-
thing which is in their eyes very good.
I noted and I asked Suzanne about
this-that she was of Polish background.
I remembered, as she was introducing me,
my visit to Warsaw, right after I had been
808
