[14] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
20 years, spending on defense has been
brought below spending on human
resources.
As we look to the future, we find en-
couraging progress in our negotiations.
with the Soviet Union on limitation of
strategic arms. And looking further into
the future, we hope there can eventually
be agreement on the mutual reduction of
arms. But until there is such a mutual
agreement, we must maintain the strength
necessary to deter war.
And that is why, because of rising re-
search and development costs, because of
increases in military and civilian pay, be-
cause of the need to proceed with new
weapons systems, my budget for the com-
ing fiscal year will provide for an increase
in defense spending.
Strong military defenses are not the
enemy of peace; they are the guardians
of peace.
There could be no more misguided set
of priorities than one which would tempt
others by weakening America, and thereby
endanger the peace of the world.
In our foreign policy, we have entered
a new era. The world has changed greatly
in the II years since President John Ken-
nedy said in his Inaugural Address,
"..
... we shall pay any price, bear any
burden, meet any hardship, support any
friend, oppose any foe to assure the sur-
vival and the success of liberty."
Our policy has been carefully and de-
liberately adjusted to meet the new reali-
ties of the new world we live in. We make
today only those commitments we are able
and prepared to meet.
Our commitment to freedom remains
strong and unshakable. But others must
bear their share of the burden of defend-
ing freedom around the world.
And so this, then, is our policy:
-We will maintain a nuclear deterrent
adequate to meet any threat to the
security of the United States or of
our allies.
-We will help other nations develop
the capability of defending them-
selves.
-We will faithfully honor all of our
treaty commitments.
-We will act to defend our interests,
whenever and wherever they are
threatened anyplace in the world.
-But where our interests or our treaty
commitments are not involved, our
role will be limited.
-We will not intervene militarily.
-But we will use our influence to
prevent war.
-If war comes, we will use our in-
fluence to stop it.
-Once it is over, we will do our
share in helping to bind up the
wounds of those who have partici-
pated in it.
As you know, I will soon be visting the
People's Republic of China and the
Soviet Union. I go there with no illusions.
We have great differences with both
powers. We shall continue to have great
differences. But peace depends on the
ability of great powers to live together on
the same planet despite their differences.
We would not be true to our obligation
to generations yet unborn if we failed to
seize this moment to do everything in our
power to insure that we will be able to
talk about those differences, rather than
to fight about them, in the future.
As we look back over this century, let
us, in the highest spirit of bipartisanship,
recognize that we can be proud of our
Nation's record in foreign affairs.
America has given more generously of
itself toward maintaining freedom, pre-
36
