[196] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
fenses that will protect the interests of the
United States at home and abroad.
I believe that prompt approval by the
Senate of the treaty limiting defensive
weapons and prompt approval by the
Congress of the agreement limiting certain
classes of offensive weapons will contrib-
ute to the goal that I know all Americans
share a goal of ending the arms race
and building a more peaceful world.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed in
the Family Theater at the White House for
later broadcast on radio and television.
On the same day, the White House released
a letter from Secretary of State William P.
Rogers transmitting to the President the ABM
Treaty and the Interim Agreement on Strategic
Offensive Arms, with agreed interpretations
and unilateral statements. The letter, dated
June 10, 1972, is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 8,
p. 1027).
197 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Antiballistic
Missile Treaty and the Interim Agreement on
Strategic Offensive Arms.
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith the Treaty on the
Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Sys-
tems and the Interim Agreement on Cer-
tain Measures with respect to the Limita-
tion of Strategic Offensive Arms signed
in Moscow on May 26, 1972. Copies of
these agreements are also being forwarded
to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives. I ask the Senate's advice and
consent to ratification of the Treaty, and
an expression of support from both
Houses of the Congress for the Interim
Agreement on Strategic Offensive Arms.
These agreements, the product of a
major effort of this administration, are a
significant step into a new era of mutually
agreed restraint and arms limitation be-
tween the two principal nuclear powers.
The provisions of the agreements are
explained in detail in the Report of the
Secretary of State, which I attach. Their
main effect is this: The ABM Treaty lim-
its the deployment of anti-ballistic missile
systems to two designated areas, and at a
low level. The Interim Agreement limits
the overall level of strategic offensive mis-
sile forces. Together the two agreements
June 13, 1972
provide for a more stable strategic balance
in the next several years than would be
possible if strategic arms competition con-
tinued unchecked. This benefits not only
the United States and the Soviet Union,
but all the nations of the world.
The agreements are an important first
step in checking the arms race, but only a
first step; they do not close off all avenues
of strategic competition. Just as the main-
tenance of a strong strategic posture was
an essential element in the success of these
negotiations, it is now equally essential
that we carry forward a sound strategic
modernization program to maintain our
security and to ensure that more perma-
nent and comprehensive arms limitation
agreements can be reached.
The defense capabilities of the United
States are second to none in the world
today. I am determined that they shall
remain so. The terms of the ABM Treaty
and Interim Agreement will permit the
United States to take the steps we deem
necessary to maintain a strategic posture
which protects our vital interests and
guarantees our continued security.
Besides enhancing our national secu-
674
