[97] Mar. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
problem that one year ago threatened to
assume massive dimensions. This program
now includes all military personnel in the
United States who are being discharged,
sent abroad, or are returning to the United
States from abroad. The programs of the
Veterans Administration will have the
capacity to offer treatment and rehabili-
tation services to some 20,000 addicts in
1972.
-Methadone is proving to be a helpful
tool in the treatment and rehabilitation of
drug users, but this tool is itself subject
to abuse by addicts. The need for daily
doses of methadone can create problems in
the rehabilitation and control process. The
Special Action Office, in conjunction with
the Department of Defense and the Na-
tional Institute for Mental Health, has
initiated testing of a form of long-lasting
methadone which would reduce the num-
ber of times weekly that the drug must be
dispensed to the addict. If this new drug
is effective, the present problems con-
nected with methadone maintenance
could be reduced considerably.
-In conjunction with the National
Bureau of Standards, the Special Action
Office has created a system of unique
identification for use in methadone main-
tenance programs. This system can help
to prevent diversion of methadone into
illegal channels by eliminating duplica-
tion of treatment.
TOWARD A COORDINATED ATTACK
Those who are directly victimized by
drug abuse often victimize others. They
help to create enormous social problems
through criminal activities, through an
antisocial life style, and through the de-
struction of the fabric of the family, which
is at the heart of a strong society. They
deprive our country of their talents, their
skills, and their energy. And, perhaps
worst of all, the victims of drug abuse
often help to create new victims. They
bring others under the domination of
narcotics.
This is why I feel so strongly that no
effective approach can be made to the
problem of drug abuse if it is not a bal-
anced approach. Strong law enforcement
measures are essential. But they must be
coupled with a strong effort to treat those
who have become dependent and to pro-
tect those who are not afflicted from falling
prey to this enemy.
With the signing of the Drug Abuse
Office and Treatment Act, we have writ-
ten into law part of the balanced attack
we need. Meanwhile, other elements of
the attack are also moving forward.
On January 28, 1972, I established by
Executive order [11641] the Office for
Drug Abuse Law Enforcement in the De-
partment of Justice. That Office, under
the direction of Myles J. Ambrose, is giv-
ing the same coordinated and comprehen-
sive attention to the street-level heroin
pusher that the Special Action Office for
Drug Abuse Prevention is giving to the
pusher's victims.
Working through nine regional offices,
the first of which has been established in
New York City, the new enforcement pro-
gram will use special grand juries to gather
information on drug trafficking which can
then be pooled for use by enforcement
agencies at the Federal, State, and local
level. The Office will draw on the Depart-
ments of Justice and the Treasury to assist
State and local agencies in detecting, ar-
resting, and prosecuting heroin traffickers.
Heroin is an import. We do not produce
it in America, and yet we have the world's
largest population of heroin addicts.
456
