[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Soviet treaties with Egypt and India
and Soviet claims to be protecting
the interests of an increasing number
of nations;
-Soviet pilots in Egypt in combat
against Israeli aircraft, the deploy-
ment of a sophisticated air defense
system to Egypt, and the use of
Egyptian airfields for Soviet missions;
and
-Increased Soviet naval presence in
the Mediterranean, the Indian
Ocean and the Western Hemisphere,
particularly in the Caribbean.
Obviously, even with this expanding
Soviet capability to combine military with
economic and political pressures, not all
potential challenges to our interests in-
volve the USSR or other major powers
directly. The need for American military
forces in situations not involving other
nuclear powers should lessen over time
with the success of our cooperative efforts
under the Nixon Doctrine to strengthen
allied national and regional defense forces.
SHAPING OUR COMMON DEFENSE
Drawing on studies completed in the
first years of the Administration, our ef-
forts in 1971 concentrated on designing
U.S. forces and encouraging development
of allied forces to meet more effectively
the threats to security in Europe, Asia, and
other areas of the world.
In Europe we and our allies have un-
dertaken new initiatives to strengthen
NATO. These include:
-Fortifying NATO defenses by con-
structing aircraft shelters, improving
NATO troop mobility, increasing
defenses against armored attack, and
strengthening allied naval forces.
-Utilizing men in command and sup-
port functions more effectively.
-Improving allied reserve force readi-
ness, mobilization capabilities, and
American ability to lift forces to
Europe rapidly in a crisis.
We have also continued consultations
on arrangements to reduce balance of pay-
ments and other costs of maintaining U.S.
forces in Europe. These developments are
discussed in this Report's chapter on
Europe.
This year our allies will continue to
implement their $1 billion five-year
European Defense Improvements Pro-
gram which will further strengthen
NATO air defense, communications,
mobilization, armor, anti-tank, and naval
capabilities. In addition, our NATO allies
are spending more than $3 billion in
1972 for major military equipment which
will further modernize their forces.
We will continue to maintain forces in
Europe that provide a credible capability
to defend our interests.
In 1971 we also concentrated on a
thorough analysis of possible threats, nec-
essary improvements in allied defenses,
and those American forces required to
support our Asian strategy in this decade.
The review covered the full range of U.S.
force options. The following are some pre-
liminary conclusions.
-The U.S. nuclear shield will be main-
tained to protect our Asian allies from
attack or coercion by a nuclear power.
-It will continue to be essential to
maintain strong forward American
deployments, while also providing
appropriate military and economic
assistance.
-Allied military capabilities, especially
in ground forces, are expected to im-
312
