Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
attention on these new opportunities that
we neglect our old friends. That is why I
have met in the last few weeks with the
leaders of two of our hemisphere neigh-
bors, Canada and Brazil, with the leaders
of three great European nations, and with
the Prime Minister of Japan. I believe
these meetings were extremely successful
in cementing our understandings with
these governments as we move forward
together in a fast changing period.
Our consultations with our allies may
not receive as much attention as our talks
with potential adversaries. But this makes
them no less important. The cornerstone
of our foreign policy remains-and will
remain our close bonds with our friends
around the world.
A STRONG DEFENSE: THE GUARDIAN OF
PEACE
There are two additional elements
which are critical to our efforts to
strengthen the structure of peace.
The first of these is the military strength
of the United States.
In the last 3 years we have been moving
from a wartime to a peacetime footing,
from a period of continued confrontation
and arms competition to a period of nego-
tiation and potential arms limitation,
from a period when America often acted
as policeman for the world to a period
when other nations are assuming greater
responsibility for their own defense. I was
recently encouraged, for example, by the
decision of our European allies to increase
their share of the NATO defense budget
by some $1 billion.
As a part of this process, we have ended
the production of chemical and biological
weaponry and have converted two of our
largest facilities for such production to
humanitarian research. We have been
able to reduce and in some periods even
to eliminate draft calls. In 1971, draft
calls-which were as high as 382,000 at
the peak of the Vietnam war-fell below
100,000, the lowest level since 1962. In the
coming year they will be significantly
lower. I am confident that by the middle
of next year we can achieve our goal of
reducing draft calls to zero.
As a result of all these developments,
our defense spending has fallen to 7 per-
cent of our gross national product in the
current fiscal year, compared with 8.3 per-
cent in 1964 and 9.5 percent in 1968. That
figure will be down to 6.4 percent in fiscal
year 1973. Without sacrificing any of our
security interests, we have been able to
bring defense spending below the level of
human resource spending for the first time
in 20 years. This condition is maintained
in my new budget-which also, for the
first time, allocates more money to the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare than to the Department of
Defense.
But just as we avoid extreme reactions
in our political attitudes toward the
world, so we must avoid over-reacting as
we plan for our defense. We have re-
versed spending priorities, but we have
never compromised our national security.
And we never will. For any step which
weakens America's defenses will also
weaken the prospects for peace.
Our plans for the next year call for an
increase in defense spending. That in-
crease is made necessary in part by rising
research and development costs, in part
by military pay increases-which, in turn,
will help us eliminate the draft—and in
part by the need to proceed with new
weapon systems to maintain our security
at an adequate level. Even as we seek with
87-234-74-7
45
