[24] Jan. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Every American who values the very best
in government has reason to be thankful
for your participation.
With my warmest personal regards to
Kathleen and to you,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Maurice H. Stans, Secretary of
Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230]
NOTE: Mr. Stans' letter of resignation, dated
January 17, 1972, and released with the Presi-
dent's letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
By this letter I tender to you my resignation
as Secretary of Commerce, effective on or about
February 15.
My three years in the Department of Com-
merce have been most gratifying. I believe that
the organization and services of the Department
have been significantly improved and that it is
today far more responsive to public needs.
Because there are, as always, important and
interesting items of unfinished business, I leave
with some reluctance. However, I am resigning
to assist in the campaign for your reelection,
and I believe that in this way I can best serve
the interests of the country in 1972.
I am grateful for the privilege of having been
a member of the Cabinet under your inspiring
and effective leadership.
Respectfully yours,
MAURICE H. STANS
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
25 Statement on Nominating Peter G. Peterson To Be
Secretary of Commerce. January 27, 1972
I AM today nominating Peter G. Peterson
to be Secretary of Commerce.
Mr. Peterson has, since February of
1971, served as my Assistant for Inter-
national Economic Affairs as well as
Executive Director of the Council on In-
ternational Economic Policy. His chief re-
sponsibility to the President has been to
review and analyze the world's changing
economic conditions and to translate his
findings into recommended international
economic policies for the decade ahead.
Prior to Mr. Peterson's undertaking this
important mission he was chief executive
of Bell and Howell, where he was active
in all aspects of the commercial sector,
both foreign and domestic.
His experience in government and his
previous industrial experience in the man-
agement of businesses that are both in
technological and competitive fields equip
him well for the broader responsibilities to
which I am nominating him.
I have proposed formation of a new
Department of Economic Affairs where
all of the various economic activities of the
executive branch can be brought together.
One of Mr. Peterson's assignments will be
to bring leadership to this reorganization
effort. I know he shares my concern for
the success of this undertaking.
Because the competition in today's
world is so intense and so demanding of
domestic economic dynamism, I am ask-
ing Mr. Peterson, as the new Secretary of
Commerce, to focus major attention and
energy on the ways in which America's
competitiveness and productivity can be
improved in the years ahead. Toward that
goal, I am asking him to assume the chair-
manship of the National Commission on
Productivity.
Facing, as we are, a new competition in
a new world, we can be satisfied with
nothing less than a new prosperity-with-
out inflation, without war, with high pro-
IIO
