[54] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
When it came to dealing with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, 25 years of hostil-
ity stood in the way. Accordingly, I began
what is now 3 years of the most painstak-
ing and necessarily discreet preparation
for an opening to the world's most popu-
lous nation.
In 2 weeks, I shall begin my journey for
peace to Peking. The agreement to meet,
and the mutual trust needed to make the
arrangements for the first American state
visit to the People's Republic of China is a
breakthrough of great importance.
We do not expect instant solutions to
deep-seated differences. But the visit is a
beginning. Now, in the relations between
our countries, the old exchange of denun-
ciations can be replaced with a construc-
tive exchange of views.
Just as we have established a creative
relationship with our adversaries, we have
developed a more balanced alliance with
our friends.
Not so long ago, our alliances were ad-
dressed exclusively to the containment of
the Soviet Union and the People's Repub-
lic of China. But now there has to be more
to our alliance. It is fairly simple to unite
about what you are against. It is a lot more
complicated to hold together an alliance
on the basis of what you are for.
We do not shy away from this com-
plexity because now, in this time of break-
throughs, there has never been a greater
need for a sense of common purpose
among the non-Communist nations. There
is no requirement that we all march in
lockstep; but there is a need to move for-
ward in the same direction.
And that is why we encourage initiative
and self-reliance on the part of our allies.
That is why our alliance is becoming what
we need in the real world of the
seventies-a dynamic coalition of self-
assured and independent nations.
Our former dependents have become
our competitors. That is good for them,
and it is also good for us.
But as the roles change, the rules
change. The old international monetary
and trading system had become unfair to
the American workers and to American
business. Facing vigorous, healthy com-
petitors, the United States could no longer
be expected to compete with one hand
tied behind its back.
Nothing would have happened unless
we made it happen. Last August, we took
action to stimulate a worldwide settle-
ment of the problem. Within a few
months, a general realignment of curren-
cies took place, the first step toward com-
plete reform.
We succeeded in moving the non-Com-
munist world away from the constant state
of monetary crisis of the past decade, and
we removed a danger to the unity of the
free world.
Let me turn now to Vietnam. This has
been America's longest and most difficult
war. It began long before I became Presi-
dent. And I have been doing everything I
can honorably do to end it.
I have brought almost one-half million
men home from Vietnam. As high as 300
a week were being killed in action when I
took office. This week there were two. We
have reduced air sorties, budget costs, and
draft calls. And we have made the most
generous peace offer in the history of
warfare.
192
