Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
out his responsibilities if offered only a
single recommendation devised to achieve
a bureaucratic consensus.
Three of these groups have the purpose
of preparing policy issues for my consid-
eration, either at a National Security
Council meeting, or by memorandum if
the issue is susceptible to full presentation
in that manner. No issue is handled by
memorandum if any Cabinet officer de-
sires its consideration at a Council
meeting.
-The Senior Review Group is the
workhorse of the system, and handles
the great majority of the policy issues
brought to me for decision. Inter-
departmental Groups, chaired by As-
sistant Secretaries of State, prepare
the initial studies, which are then
reviewed by the SRG to ensure that
the issues, options, and agency views
are fully presented. During my Ad-
ministration the Senior Review
Group has met 130 times.
-The Defense Program Review Com-
mittee analyzes the choices inherent
in defense budget decisions, relating
alternative levels of defense expendi-
ture to other national priorities, both
domestic and foreign.
-The Verification Panel is charged
with the painstaking technical anal-
ysis of arms control issues, including
the verification requirements which
must accompany arms limitations
and the capabilities of weapons sys-
tems whose limitation is being con-
sidered. The Verification Panel also
advises me on negotiating options in
SALT, and on considerations in-
volved in proposals for MBFR.
The National Security Council Intelli-
gence Committee has been added to this
level of the system during the past year.
It advises me on the quality, scope, and
timeliness of the intelligence input to
Presidential decisions, and on the steps
to improve it.
Two additional groups are charged
with the implementation of decisions. In
a Government as large as ours, this re-
quires careful, deliberate, and coordinated
effort. These groups do not develop or
recommend policy courses except where
there may be a need for clarification of
specific aspects of a broad decision already
reached.
-The Under Secretaries Committee,
chaired by the Under Secretary of
State, is the basic instrument for en-
suring effective and uniform execu-
tion of foreign policy decisions
throughout the Government. It has
submitted over 75 memoranda set-
ting forth detailed options, programs,
and recommendations to implement
policy decisions.
--The Washington Special Actions
Group is charged with meeting the
special need for coordination in crisis
situations. Not a decision making
body, the WSAG serves as a manage-
ment team assuring flexible and
timely actions by the responsible de-
partments in the context of Presi-
dential decisions and the developing
situation. It also is responsible for
anticipating future crises, for review-
ing contingency plans prepared by
the Interdepartmental Groups, and
for developing options for NSC con-
sideration. In times of crisis, it is
ported by a special inter-agency task
force established in the Department
of State. There have been 94 meet-
ings of the WSAG during my Admin-
sup-
343
