Richard Nixon, 1972
June 22 [207]
as far as many of the education provisions,
strictly education provisions, they are rec-
ommendations of this Administration. I
think they are very much in the public
interest. If they could be separated from
the rest of the bill, and stand on their own,
there would not be any question about
signing the bill. On the other hand, the
Congress, as you know, did add a provi-
sion, section 803, with regard to busing.
It was certainly a well-intentioned posi-
tion, but from a legal standpoint it is so
vague and so ambiguous that it totally
fails to deal with this highly volatile
issue.
What brought that home to me was
when I asked the Attorney General for an
opinion as to whether or not it could deal
with the problem of the busing order that
has been handed down in Detroit. The
answer is that it is highly doubtful that
section 803 of the higher education act,
in the event that it is signed into law, will
deal with that problem, because of its
vagueness, because of its ambiguity.
The Detroit case is perhaps the most
flagrant example that we have of all of
the busing decisions, moving against all
the principles that I, at least, believe
should be applied in this area. It com-
pletely rejects the neighborhood school
concept. It requires massive busing among
53 different school districts, including the
busing of kindergarten children, up to an
hour and a half a day, and it puts the
objective of some kind of racial balance
or attempting to achieve some kind of
racial balance above that of superior edu-
cation, of quality education for all.
I believe that the fact that this section
803 would not deal with the Detroit case
means that we are going to have other
cases of that type, possibly in other cities
before school begins this fall, and the re-
sponsibility, if we have them, and if we
are unable to stop those orders from go-
ing into effect, falls squarely on the Con-
gress because a very simple moratorium
bill that I have presented to the Congress
and asked for enactment would stop this.
And then the Congress moving forward
and I am glad to see that there has been
some movement in committee at least with
the equal educational opportunities act,
this action on the part of the Congress
would deal with problems like the one
in Detroit.
My own view is that in this whole area
we face very serious problems this fall un-
less the Congress moves on the mora-
torium legislation, clear-cut and soon and
before the school year begins.
I have digressed a bit from the bill. It
is a close call. I will make the decision
tonight and will announce it tomorrow.
But that gives you an idea of some of the
things that have been going through my
mind.
Q. Just to follow that up, if you were to
veto it, sir, what are the prospects do you
think of getting a separate busing bill
and a higher education bill without the
busing?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
that is one of the matters that I have been
discussing with the Congressional lead-
ers--for example, Senator Griffin, who is,
as you know, somewhat interested in this
issue because he comes from Michigan-
and the prospects of getting the higher
education bill here on the President's desk
as it should be, in the proper form, and
then getting an adequate, straight-out
moratorium on new school busing orders,
the prospects are, frankly, somewhat
doubtful.
That is the reason why, in determining
whether I sign this bill or veto it, it is a
697
