Richard Nixon, 1972
June 12 [194]
officer for this occasion.
We will swear in the new members of
the Cabinet in the order that they were
appointed. The first will be the Attorney
General of the United States. I will make
brief remarks about each, and after I
have made my remarks, if the appointee,
or the man who has been confirmed, will
please step up with his wife, who will
hold the Bible for the ceremony, then the
Chief Justice will swear them in.
As far as the Attorney General is con-
cerned, everybody is aware that I
ap-
pointed him
him several months ago.
[Laughter] When I called him the day of
his confirmation, he said it seemed like
several years ago.
But in any event, he has been, as all of
you know, one of my very close friends
over many, many years. But beyond that,
he has been one of the very able men in
this Administration, serving as Deputy
Attorney General. I had great confidence
in his intellectual capacity, in his honesty
and his integrity, in his devotion to the
law of this land, when I appointed him as
Attorney General.
The long ordeal to which he was sub-
mitted when he went to the Senate for
confirmation in no way reduced that con-
fidence. As a matter of fact, it increased
it, because, as many of you have heard
me say on occasion, a great ship is not
tested by smooth sailing, only by rough
seas. Only when a man has been through
adversity do you find out how really
strong he is.
Richard Kleindienst, I always knew,
was intellectually capable. I always knew
that he had total loyalty and devotion to
this country, but now there is no question
that here is a man who is strong in char-
acter and who is at his best when the
going is roughest. He will be a great At-
torney General. And now, to be sworn in
as the 68th Attorney General of the
United States of America, Richard
Kleindienst.
[At this point, Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice
of the United States, administered the oath of
office to Attorney General Kleindienst. The
President then resumed speaking.]
The next member of the Cabinet to be
sworn in did not have quite the ordeal that
Mr. Kleindienst has. As a matter of fact,
when I called him the day that the Senate
confirmed him, I congratulated him on
winning with such a close vote. [Laughter]
I do want you to know that the Senate's
confirmation of him unanimously, how-
ever, only underlined the fact that when
we tried to find the man to succeed Sec-
retary John Connally, the decision was
also a unanimous one. I remembered hav-
ing a long discussion with Secretary Con-
nally at the time that the decision was
made that he would have to leave the
Cabinet, and independently we both
reached the conclusion, unanimously be-
tween the two of us-[laughter]— that the
man best qualified, the first choice for the
next Secretary of the Treasury would be
George Shultz.
You all know his years of Government
service as Secretary of Labor, as Director
of the Office of Budget and Management.
You also, of course, are aware of the fact
that he has an unusual combination of
qualities which qualify him for this posi-
tion. He is a fiscal expert. He is a very re-
spected economist. In addition to that, he
has demonstrated ability in the field of
organization in running a huge depart-
ment, a very important department, and
has, of course, particular competence in
the field of international economics, which
is one of the special responsibilities of the
Secretary of the Treasury.
671
