Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 3 [398]
of inability to pay. The most important
health proposal not acted on by the 92d
Congress was my program for helping
people pay for care.
This program would fill the gaps in
many current health insurance programs.
For example, most working poor fam-
ilies who do not qualify for welfare-
cannot afford adequate health insurance
coverage. Our plan would make adequate
insurance available at no cost-or at a
very low cost-for these families, fam-
ilies who work rather than who go on
welfare.
Second, present plans often fail to pro-
tect families in all income levels against
the catastrophic cost of major illnesses
and accidents. They often have very re-
strictive upper limits, which means that
the insurance often runs out while the
expenses are still running up. Our pro-
gram would provide broad catastrophic
coverage.
Third, present plans often fail to cover
services in doctors' offices. As a result,
many hospitals are crowded with people
who are there because that's the only way
their insurance will pay their expenses.
Our plan would change that, too.
Under our programs, every employer
would have to provide all of his workers
with a health insurance policy, just as
he helps pay for workmen's compensation
and social security today. The employer
would pay at least 65 percent of the
premium cost for the first few years and
75 percent thereafter. And our proposal
would see that every policy provided good,
sound, adequate protection.
One of the clearest choices in the 1972
Presidential election is the choice between
the comprehensive health insurance plan,
which is a private health insurance plan
that I have just described, and our op-
ponents' plan for a medical system which
is paid for by the taxpayers and controlled
by the Federal Government.
Let's take a look at the opposition pro-
gram. According to a report prepared for
the House Ways and Means Committee,
its total cost to the taxpayers each year
would be a staggering $91 billion. This
means that health alone would take up
more than one-third of the entire Fed-
eral budget. Look at this figure. The aver-
age family's Federal tax bill for health
would go from $457 a year today to $1,305
a year, nearly triple, under their program.
There is another point worth noting:
our opponents' claim that all their new
spending programs can be financed by
sweeping cuts in defense and only a few
new taxes. But somehow they managed
to omit this $91 billion item from that
painless version of their budget. A New
York Times editorial was right 2 weeks
ago when it described this as a "major
omission." When that $91 billion is added
in, their budget is nowhere near so pain-
less. It would require a Federal tax in-
crease of 50 percent.
Our opponents' federalized, tax-sup-
ported system would be very costly in
terms of dollars and cents. But it would
also be very costly in terms of the quality
of American medicine. Not only would
our pocketbooks be much poorer, our
health care would be much poorer, too.
If the Government pays all the medi-
cal bills, then only the Government has a
stake in holding down medical costs. This
means that Government officials would
have to approve hospital budgets and set
fee schedules and take other steps that
would eventually lead to the complete
Federal domination of American medi-
1091
