Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [14]
serving peace, alleviating human suffering
around the globe, than any nation has ever
done in the history of man.
We have fought four wars in this cen-
tury, but our power has never been used
to break the peace, only to keep it; never
been used to destroy freedom, only to de-
fend it. We now have within our reach
the goal of insuring that the next genera-
tion can be the first generation in this cen-
tury to be spared the scourges of war.
Turning to our problems at home, we
are making progress toward our goal of a
new prosperity without war.
Industrial production, consumer spend-
ing, retail sales, personal income all have
been rising. Total employment, real in-
come are the highest in history. New
homebuilding starts this past year reached
the highest level ever. Business and con-
sumer confidence have both been rising.
Interest rates are down. The rate of infla-
tion is down. We can look with confidence
to 1972 as the year when the back of in-
flation will be broken.
Now, this a good record, but it is not
good enough-not when we still have an
unemployment rate of 6 percent.
It is not enough to point out that this
was the rate of the early peacetime years
of the sixties, or that if the more than 2
million men released from the Armed
Forces and defense-related industries were
still in their wartime jobs, unemployment
would be far lower.
Our goal in this country is full employ-
ment in peacetime. We intend to meet
that goal, and we can.
The Congress has helped to meet that
goal by passing our job-creating tax pro-
gram last month.
The historic monetary agreements,
agreements that we have reached with the
major European nations, Canada, and
Japan, will help meet it by providing new
markets for American products, new jobs
for American workers.
Our budget will help meet it by being
expansionary without being inflationary—
a job-producing budget that will help take
up the gap as the economy expands to full
employment.
Our program to raise farm income will
help meet it by helping to revitalize rural
America, by giving to America's farmers
their fair share of America's increasing
productivity.
We also will help meet our goal of full
employment in peacetime with a set of
major initiatives to stimulate more imagi-
native use of America's great capacity for
technological advance, and to direct it
toward improving the quality of life for
every American.
In reaching the moon, we demonstrated
what miracles American technology is
capable of achieving. Now the time has
come to move more deliberately toward
making full use of that technology here
on earth, of harnessing the wonders of
science to the service of man.
I shall soon send to the Congress a spe-
cial message proposing a new program
of Federal partnership in technological
research and development-with Federal
incentives to increase private research,
federally supported research on projects
designed to improve our everyday lives in
ways that will range from improving mass
transit to developing new systems of emer-
gency health care that could save thou-
sands of lives annually.
Historically, our superior technology
and high productivity have made it pos-
sible for American workers to be the high-
est paid in the world by far, and yet for
our goods still to compete in world
markets.
37
