[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
against age discrimination in appointment
to Federal jobs.
5. To improve Federal organization for
future efforts,
The Administration will:
-strengthen the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare's Advisory Com-
mittee on Older Americans-providing
it with permanent staff capability to sup-
port its increased responsibilities;
-arrange for the Commissioner of
Aging, in his capacity as Chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Aging, to report
directly to the Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare;
-create a Technical Advisory Com-
mittee on Aging Research in the Office of
the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare to develop a comprehensive plan
for economic, social, psychological, health
and education research on aging.
PROTECTING THE INCOME POSITION OF
OLDER AMERICANS
Perhaps the most striking change in the
lives of most Americans when they turn
65 is the sudden loss of earned income
which comes with retirement. The most
important thing we can do to enhance
the independence and self-reliance of
older Americans is to help them protect
their income position. I have long been
convinced that the best way to help people
in need is not by having Government
vide them with a vast array of bureau-
cratic services but by giving them money
so that they can secure needed services for
themselves. This understanding is funda-
mental to my approach to the problems
of the aging.
pro-
The success of this income-oriented
strategy depends in turn on giving effec-
tive attention to two factors: first, where
older Americans' money comes from and
second, what it is used for.
WHERE THE MONEY COMES FROM: RE-
FORMING AND EXPANDING GOVERNMENT
INCOME PROGRAMS
The most important income source for
most older Americans is social security.
Accordingly, improvements in social secu-
rity have been the centerpiece of this Ad-
ministration's efforts to assist the elderly.
Today, approximately 85 percent of all
Americans over 65 receive regular cash
benefits from social security, while 93 per-
cent of those now reaching age 65 are
eligible to receive such benefits when they
or their spouses retire.
Since 1969, social security cash benefits
have been increased twice-a fifteen per-
cent increase in January of 1970 and an-
other ten percent increase one year later.
These increases represent a $10 billion an-
nual increase in cash income for social
security beneficiaries. As I suggested, how-
ever, in my 1969 message to the Congress
concerning social security reform, bring-
ing benefit payments up to date alone is
not enough. We must also make sure that
benefit payments stay up to date and that
all recipients are treated fairly.
My specific proposals for achieving these
ends are presently contained in the bill
known as H.R. 1-legislation which is of
overwhelming importance for older Amer-
icans. This bill passed the House of Rep-
resentatives in the first session of the 92nd
Congress and is presently pending before
the Senate Finance Committee. I continue
to believe firmly that H.R. 1 is the single
most significant piece of social legislation
to come before the Congress in many
decades.
466
