Richard Nixon, 1972
July 19 [232]
The text and a section-by-section analysis
of the proposed legislation were made available
with the message.
In announcing the message, Press Secre-
tary Ronald L. Ziegler stated: "The President
has also instructed members of his staff to work
with Congress to effect legislation which would
give coverage benefits to victims of the Rapid
231
Sir:
City [South Dakota] disaster equal to those of
the victims of Hurricane Agnes."
On July 19, 1972, the White House released
an announcement of disaster assistance for
Ohio following Tropical Storm Agnes. The an-
nouncement is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 8, p.
1162).
Letter to the Speaker of the House Recommending
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Assistance
Following Tropical Storm Agnes. July 17, 1972
I ask the Congress to consider proposed
supplemental appropriations for fiscal
year 1973 in the amounts of $1,569,800,-
ooo in budget authority and $20,000,000
in proposals not increasing budget
authority.
These appropriations, together with a
$200,000,000 Federal highway emergency
relief authorization request, which will be
sought separately, will provide over $1.8
billion in Federal funds to help repair the
damage caused by Tropical Storm Agnes.
These funds will help the hundreds of
thousands of Americans who are strug-
gling to rebuild their lives after the
destruction wrought by Tropical Storm
232
Agnes. From the earliest days of our Na-
tion, whenever a disaster or hardship
struck, Americans have pulled together,
neighbors helping neighbors. It is fitting
that we carry on this tradition now, in the
wake of the worst natural disaster in
American history, in terms of property
damage and the extent of territory
affected.
The details of these proposals are set
forth in the enclosed letter from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget with whose comments I concur.
Respectfully,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Director Weinberger's letter is printed
in House Document 92-325.
Statement on the Death of Under Secretary of the Interior
William T. Pecora. July 19, 1972
DR. WILLIAM T. Pecora, Under Secre-
tary of the Interior, was a remarkable
civil servant and an internationally re-
spected figure in the scientific com-
munity. His death today is a sad oc-
casion for everyone who has had the
pleasure of working with him and ben-
efiting from his enormous contributions to
our Government.
Dr. Pecora's expertise as a leading au-
thority in the field of geology proved in-
valuable to our country from the day he
joined the Interior Department in 1939.
He built a shining record for 6 years as
Director of the U.S. Geological Survey,
and then for 2 years as Under Secretary
of the Department of the Interior.
Mrs. Nixon and I extend our heartfelt
737
