[314] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
When I met this group in the Rose Gar-
den, I thought of all the groups that make
up America. I thought of all the coun-
tries I have visited, and it is a very great
privilege to have visited them all. My
wife and I together have been to over 80
countries in this world-North America,
South America, Africa, Asia, the first time
to visit the People's Republic of China,
Peking, and then, of course, to Moscow,
as you know.
We met many wonderful people. We
have been impressed by the countries that
we have seen. But you know, when you
come home to America, what you realize
[is] that America is a very unique coun-
try, America is all the world in one na-
tion. It is all here.
Right here in Texas, within 50 miles
of where we are, there is a Polish com-
munity, there is a German community,
there is a Czechoslovakian community,
there are Mexican communities, there are
other various religious groups. There is
one that was founded by people of the
of
Jewish faith,
course Catholics,
Protestants, and the like.
In other words, you don't have to go
out of America to see the world. It is
here. That is why we are a rich country.
We are rich because all the cultures of
the world are here. We are proud of those
of Mexican background who have added
their wonderful warmth and all of their
talent and all of their spirit and all of their
hard work to make this a great country.
We are proud of those of Italian back-
ground, of Polish background, Irish, you
name it, whatever it is. The important
thing is this: I often hear people say,
when they are speaking of this person or
that person, he is an Italian or he is a Ger-
man or he is a Mexican. What I say is,
he is an American. That's what he is.
That brings me now to how very much
you can contribute to your country, this
country, our country-it belongs to all of
us. What a wonderful time to be growing
up in America. What a wonderful time to
be in high school. To think that you are
the first generation of young Americans
to be able to vote at 18 years
of age. You
seniors, most of you, will be voting, if not
this year, next year. To think that you
are going to have a part in determining
the future of your country.
I am not going to talk to you in terms
of whether you should be Democrats or
Republicans. The future of this country is
much more important than what our party
label is. I am simply talking about your
responsibilities and your opportunities as
American citizens with the right and the
power to vote.
In that respect, I think the new genera-
tion of American voters is going to be
good for this country. You are going to
bring enthusiasm to our elective process,
that is for sure. You are going to bring
idealism to it. You are going to bring a
lot of impatience, I am sure of that.
I remember when I was in high school
and in college, too, I used to be so im-
patient with the way things were. I used
to think, "Why can't we change things,
why can't we make them better?" My
mother and father would say, "You have
to wait a little while. It will change. This
country does progress."
But the wonderful thing about young
people is that you are impatient with what
is wrong. You want to change it. And it
is good that you constantly infuse your
communities, your State, your Nation
with that spirit of progress, that spirit
of making this country and this world a
better place in which to live.
So, I urge all of you, as you are here
890
