[89] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Finally, we must appreciate that the
progress we seek requires a new partner-
ship in science and technology-one which
brings together the Federal Government,
private enterprise, State and local govern-
ments, and our universities and research
centers in a coordinated, cooperative effort
to serve the national interest. Each mem-
ber of that partnership must play the role
it can play best; each must respect and
reinforce the unique capacities of the
other members. Only if this happens, only
if our new partnership thrives, can we be
sure that our scientific and technological
resources will be used as effectively as pos-
sible in meeting our priority national
needs.
With a new sense of purpose and a new
sense of partnership, we can make the
1970's a great new era for American sci-
ence and technology. Let us look now at
some of the specific elements in this
process.
STRENGTHENING THE FEDERAL ROLE
The role of the Federal Government in
shaping American science and technology
is pivotal. Of all our Nation's expendi-
tures on research and development, 55
percent are presently funded by the Fed-
eral Government. Directly or indirectly,
the Federal Government supports the em-
ployment of nearly half of all research and
development personnel in the United
States.
A good part of our Federal effort in this
field has been directed in the past toward
our national security needs. Because a
strong national defense is essential to the
maintenance of world peace, our re-
search and development in support of na-
tional security must always be sufficient
to our needs. We must ensure our strategic
deterrent capability, continue the mod-
ernization of our Armed Forces, and
strengthen the overall technological base
that underlies future military systems. For
these reasons, I have proposed a substan-
tial increase for defense research and
development for fiscal year 1973.
In this message, however, I would like
to focus on how we can better apply our
scientific resources in meeting civilian
needs. Since the beginning of this Admin-
istration, I have felt that we should be
doing more to focus our scientific and
technological resources on the problems
of the environment, health, energy, trans-
portation and other pressing domestic
concerns. If my new budget proposals are
accepted, Federal funds for research and
development concerning domestic prob-
lems will be 65 percent greater in the
coming fiscal year than they were in 1969.
But increased funding is not the only
prerequisite for progress in this field. We
also need to spend our scarce resources
more effectively. Accordingly, I have
moved to develop an overall strategic ap-
proach in the allocation of Federal scien-
tific and technological resources. As a part
of this effort, I directed the Domestic
Council last year to examine new tech-
nology opportunities in relation to domes-
tic problems. In all of our planning, we
have been concentrating not only on how
much we spend but also on how we
spend it.
My recommendations for strengthen-
ing the Federal role in science and tech-
nology have been presented to the Con-
gress in my State of the Union message,
in my budget for fiscal year 1973, and in
individual agency presentations. I urge
the Congress to support the various ele-
ments of this new Federal strategy.
1) We are reorienting our space pro-
418
