Richard Nixon, 1972
May 30 [181]
our
let them keep the one thought in mind
that I think is so close to the heart of His
Majesty and so close to my heart: We as
leaders of our countries do our best. We
sometimes make mistakes, but
thoughts, our hopes, our dreams are for
our children—not just our family's chil-
dren but for the children of our countries,
the children of all the world, that they
may have the opportunity to grow up in a
more peaceful world, a more prosperous
world, a more friendly world. And if, in
the brief span of time that each of us
spends in the office he holds, we could
have contributed to that goal, all of the
efforts, all of the time, everything that we
have done would have been worth it.
It is in that spirit that I would like to
propose tonight that our glasses be raised,
of course, to the continued friendship of
the two great peoples-the Iranian people
and the American people-whose friend-
ship goes back so far, as His Majesty has
pointed out, and also to the leadership
which His Majesty has provided for his
country and, of course, to his partner in
that leadership, his Empress.
I would close, if I could, on one in-
formal note. In 1953, right after General
Eisenhower, who was a great friend of
Iran and who was the last American
President to be honored at a state dinner
like this in Iran, right after he had become
President he was talking to me in his
office-and he often used to say that he
didn't know much about politics. That,
of course, is the understatement of the
century for one who won such great
political victories. That day we had had a
meeting with the leaders of the Congress,
Democrats and Republicans, and General
Eisenhower, who was a great judge of men
and of women in a leadership capacity,
made this rather interesting comment:
He said, "I am puzzled about political
leaders. You can't generalize about them."
He said, "Some of those fellows in there
are very intelligent, and others seem to
be a little slow. Some spoke very, very
well, and others were a bit inarticulate."
He said, "About the only thing that I can
think of that political leaders seem to
have in common, successful political lead-
ers, is the ability to marry above
themselves."
What I am simply saying tonight is that
on this particular occasion we propose a
toast, of course, to His Imperial Majesty
the Shahanshah, to his lovely Empress,
who has been by his side, as my wife has
been by my side, through adversity and
also through periods of very great
satisfaction.
So, ladies and gentlemen, if you would
rise and raise your glasses.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 p.m. in
the Niavaran Palace in response to a toast
proposed by the Shah. He spoke from a pre-
pared text.
The Shah's remarks were as follows:
Mr. President:
It is a great pleasure for the Shahbanou and
myself to welcome you Mr. President and Mrs.
Nixon in our country. Your visit is symbolic of
the friendship and deep understanding which
have always marked the relationship between
our two countries and which with the passage
of time have gone from strength to strength.
We Iranians were acquainted with the great
American nation even before the opening of
diplomatic relations between our two coun-
tries through fruitful cultural and educational
cooperation. It is for this reason that our rela-
tionship was from the beginning based on a
truly sincere and spiritual understanding. It
was almost a century and half ago when the
first American school was established in
Oroumieh of Azerbaijan, which is called
Rezaiyeh today. In subsequent years similar
schools were founded in Hamadan, Rasht,
Meshed, and in several other cities of Iran.
But the most important of all these schools was
647
