[268] Aug. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
here in the plane, what he would have
liked for me to say, I remember a conver-
sation I had with him very early in his
Presidency.
We were riding by automobile from
Quantico, the Marine Corps base, back up
to Washington, D.C., and he was
reminiscing about World War II and the
generals who had served under him-
Patton and Bradley and the rest, Simp-
son-all of them, of course, having a dif-
ferent talent, and Eisenhower having the
genius to know how to put each general
in that area where he could do the best.
As we were riding, I asked General
Eisenhower, in the selection of men for
leadership, what was the one quality that
he looked for the most.
You know, how would you answer that
question? I was thinking how I might
answer it.
You say maybe intelligence or maybe
hard work or maybe brilliance or genius
or something like that. But his answer was
something different. He said, "Based on
all of the time that I have worked with
men through the years, and women, I
have found that the quality that is most
important is selflessness."
In other words, not thinking of self, but
thinking of duty, duty to country, duty to
whatever particular assignment that one
happens to have.
Consequently, I think that General
Eisenhower today would rather have me
talk not about him, but really about you,
about your school, and perhaps we could
begin with your teachers.
When he returned from Europe, as you
know, he ran for President of the United
States. Politics was rather difficult for him
and particularly his first speech he made
in Abilene, Kansas, where he had grown
up. He went back to the little high school
that he had attended, and his first words
were, "I thank you humbly for your
teachings." He was referring, of course,
to that small town, which like this-
perhaps this is a bigger town than Abilene.
There was a high school. There was a
community. There was a strong feeling of
community pride. There was a church,
which of course he had attended-many
churches, of course, were there-but
there was a very great loyalty to church
and devotion, and also to school and
community.
But General Eisenhower said, probably
speaking to teachers by that time long
dead, “I thank you for your teachings."
Now, if I could personally reflect for
one moment about your teachers, could I
tell you something of the effect that they
have? Mention has been made of the fact
that one of my daughters is a teacher and
that Mrs. Nixon was a teacher until I
married her. I had to have somebody
support me when I was practicing law on
occasion.
In any event, just running back over a
lifetime and quickly sketching it, see if
you don't remember some of your teach-
ers this way. I remember a wonderful
teacher I had in the fifth grade. Those
were the days when you only had one
teacher for the whole room and all the
subjects. Her name was Miss Burum,
and her specialty was geography. She
loved geography. She loved the world.
Because of her love of geography and all
the nations of the world she inspired every-
body in that classroom to want to travel,
to see the world, to be interested in the
world. It made an impression on me. I
wanted to travel. I wanted to see the
world. That is why I ran for President-
I have seen so many countries as a result.
[Laughter]
804
