[8] Jan. II
Public Papers of the Presidents
better representation for older citizens at
the highest level of government; it has
also revealed that the dimensions of the
job to be done are such that another good
man is needed. Now, with Arthur Flem-
ming's arrival as John Martin's team-
mate, "senior power" doubles its forces at
the White House. Better Federal assist-
ance to the aging should be the result.
9 Remarks at the Swearing In of Arthur S. Flemming as
Special Consultant to the President on Aging.
January 11, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
I welcome Dr. Flemming as an old
friend in swearing him in today. I recall
during the years he served on President
Eisenhower's Cabinet how ably he served
his country. As I bring him into this special
position, I should point out to those mem-
bers of the press corps who did not follow
him then that he had several attributes:
One, he is a man who is tremendously
popular in the Government, and two,
despite that very calm exterior he has, he
is enormously tenacious. Once he starts
working on something, he keeps working
until the job is done. Three, he believes
very deeply in matters before he takes on
an assignment.
I know his heart is deeply committed,
as is his mind, to the problems of the
elderly. I know that as he travels around
the country and sees the problems, that he
will come with his recommendations to
this office. He will not pound the desk, but
he can be even more effective than that in
his quiet, effective way.
I think the elderly have in him one who
will very effectively present a point of view
that needs to be represented here in the
highest office of the White House, elo-
quently, as he does. Also, I believe that we
have in him the man who has the experi-
ence and the background to take this par-
ticular issue, to analyze all its parts, and
to make recommendations, not for the
sake of their being particularly melo-
dramatic, but for the sake of getting things
done in this critical area for our senior
citizens across the land.
Now we will have the swearing-in cere-
mony. I will give the Bible to Mrs. Flem-
ming and Judge Flannery will swear him
in.
[At this point, Thomas A. Flannery, United
States District Judge for the District of Colum-
bia, administered the oath of office. The
President then resumed speaking.]
Dr. Flemming, you will have other oc-
casions when you can talk at greater
length, but now you are recognized for one
minute, if you like.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Dr. Flemming responded as follows:
Mr. President, first of all, may I express to
you my very deep appreciation for the oppor-
tunity that you are affording me to work in
behalf of the older citizens of this country. I am
very, very grateful for the opportunity of, in this
way, becoming a part of your Administration.
You have made very clear to me the duties
and the responsibilities of this position. I feel
that our Nation must accept the concept of the
dignity and worth of every older citizen and I
think it must reflect the acceptance of that con-
cept by what we do, rather than by what we
say.
It is in that spirit that I accept the position
to which you have appointed me, and it is in
28
