Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 28 [330]
back to the United States of America you
realize how fortunate it is to be alive and
to live in the United States of America.
To put it very simply, I want the record
of these next 4 years in the field of foreign
policy leading toward peace, in the field
of domestic policy leading toward oppor-
tunity and jobs and progress for all Amer-
icans, I want those next 4 years to be ones
that will convince this new generation of
voters that this is a great and a good and,
yes, a beautiful country. We must believe
that because it is the truth.
A few months ago a very splendid musi-
cal group entertained in the famous East
Room of the White House where Bob
Hope and Art Linkletter and others have
also entertained. It was a black group
from the Los Angeles area. They got an
immense ovation when they finished. I
walked up, as was the custom, afterwards
to shake hands with the leader and con-
gratulate him. He spoke briefly, very mov-
ingly, to that very fine audience that was
there. He said, "Mr. President, it has been
a very great honor for us to be invited to
appear in the White House." He said,
"You know, it's a long way from Watts
to the White House."
Then I responded to him, and I said,
"Yes, I know, and it's a long way from
Whittier to the White House."
Here, before this great audience of my
oldest friends, you know how long that
road has been. It has had its ups and
downs, its twisting and turning, its de-
feats and its victories. But what I want
for every American, whatever his back-
ground, whatever his beginnings, how-
ever humble, I want him to have the same
opportunity that I could have had and did
have, a boy born in Yorba Linda, grow-
ing up in Whittier, and going to the
White House.
That is the ideal that made America
great and that is what these next 4 years
are going to be about.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:33 p.m. at a
Republican fundraising dinner in the Grand
Ballroom of the Century Plaza Hotel. He spoke
without referring to notes.
Edward W. Carter was chairman of the "Vic-
tory '72" dinner.
330 Statement About the Nation's Economy.
September 28, 1972
NOWHERE in the United States does the
goal of a new prosperity-full employ-
ment without inflation and without war-
mean more than here in California, Amer-
ica's largest State and one whose economy,
as a State, actually ranks ahead of all but
a few of the nations of the world. Cali-
fornians can take satisfaction in our steady
progress toward the new prosperity-
progress in which they share fully.
One of the best measures of our robust
national economic health is the fact that
the growth rate of our total goods and
services produced (gross national prod-
uct)-9.4 percent per annum in the sec-
ond quarter of this year-leads the world
today. Employment is at an alltime high,
with 82 million workers now on the job,
2.6 million more than a year ago. The rate
of inflation has been cut from 4.4 percent
a year ago to only 2.9 percent today.
Most important, as a result of these
gains, the real wage of the average Ameri-
can worker has finally climbed off the
939
