[33] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
take
up this work, opening new doors of
opportunity for all who seek a better life
in rural America.
The White House,
February 1, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message. Participants in
the news briefing were George W. Romney,
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
and Earl L. Butz, Secretary, and Joseph D.
Coffey, Acting Deputy Under Secretary for
Rural Development, Department of Agricul-
ture.
34 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the National Endowment for the Humanities.
February 1, 1972
To the Congress of the United States:
In transmitting this Sixth Annual Re-
port of the National Endowment for the
Humanities, I particularly commend to
your attention the new programs begun
by the Endowment during fiscal year
1971. These programs, created in order
to broaden the uses of the humanities by
the American public, include an experi-
mental program on a statewide basis for
informal adult education in the human-
ities and the Jefferson Lecture on the
Humanities, a national series which will
bring humanistic learning directly to bear
on public affairs.
These new programs and the expansion
of existing programs described in this re-
port were made possible by the strong
support in increased funding given by the
Congress to the Endowment at my re-
quest. Both the executive and legislative
branches have now recognized that the
humanities-languages, history, philos-
ophy, literature and ethics among
others-are an essential tool for restoring
contemporary problems and that the En-
dowment can eventually place this tool
within the grasp of more Americans than
ever before.
Federal support of the National En-
dowment for the Humanities has had the
desired effect of stimulating private giving
and private initiative. I am therefore
happy to report that in fiscal year 1971 the
Endowment received a total of 517 sepa-
rate gifts, about four times the number
received the previous year. These gifts or
pledges, amounting to $2.5 million, made
it possible for the Endowment for the sec-
ond year in a row to draw the full amount
of Federal matching funds appropriated
for that purpose.
It is my pleasure, too, to note that the
Humanities Endowment's Sixth Annual
Report is printed on recycled paper as
a part of this Federal Agency's effort
to make use of the Nation's natural
resources.
The White House,
February 1, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 127-page report is entitled "Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities, Sixth
Annual Report."
136
