[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
tional security planning. The basic issues
we faced demanded a system which en-
sured the most careful analysis of all
relevant facts and views.
-It was essential that my senior ad-
visers and I have the full benefit of a
full and fair presentation of the views
of all agencies within the foreign
affairs community.
-I wanted procedures which enabled
us to concentrate first on basic pur-
poses over the long term and, only
then, on the operational questions of
how to proceed.
-We sought to stimulate creativity in
our foreign policy by requiring that
alternative courses of action be iden-
tified and assessed at every stage of
the process of policy review.
-We needed a systematic planning
effort to lay the groundwork for the
actions that could be required in a
future crisis.
-Our system had to overcome distor-
tion in the policy review process by
ensuring that our analyses proceeded
from a common appreciation of the
facts.
THE APPROACH WE TOOK
One of my first acts as President was to
reaffirm the role of the National Security
Council as the principal forum for Presi-
dential review, coordination, and control
of U.S. Government activity in the field
of national security and foreign affairs. To
support the Council we established a sys-
tem of committees, each with specific
responsibilities and each including rep-
resentatives of all Government agencies
concerned with the problem at hand. All
parts of the NSC system have as their
common purpose to provide me with a
clear statement of the issues, realistic op-
tions for dealing with them, and the im-
plications of each option for our long
term objectives. A second purpose of the
system is to ensure that after a decision is
made, it is communicated to the agencies
involved with precision and implemented
effectively by them.
The apex
of the system is the National
Security Council itself. Its statutory mem-
bers are the President, the Vice President,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, and the Director of the Office of
Emergency Preparedness. The Secretary
of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the
Director of Central Intelligence, and the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
regularly attend Council meetings, as well
as others at my invitation. So far, during
my Administration, the Council has met
73 times. The Council does not, of course,
make decisions. Its discussions put the is-
sues and choices in sharp focus and give
me the counsel of my senior advisers as the
final step in a process of comprehensive
review before I make a decision.
Supporting and assisting the National
Security Council are six senior bodies,
each at the Under Secretary level. Though
they have slightly different membership,
the primary differences among them lie in
their authority and function, and in the
experts on whom they rely. Each has rep-
resentation from the interested agencies.
These groups ensure that each agency's
views are fully and fairly presented, that
dissent is not stifled, and that differences
are not compromised away before being
presented to me. They ensure that I get
the views of each agency, refined by the
analysis and criticism of the other con-
cerned agencies. No President could carry
342
