Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [15]
last summer. And on July 12 of last year
I signed the Emergency Employment Act
of 1971, providing more than 130,000 jobs
in the public sector.
In the manpower field, as in others,
there is also an important unfinished
agenda. At the top of this list is my Special
Revenue Sharing program for man-
power-a bill which would provide more
Federal dollars for manpower training
while increasing substantially the impact
of each dollar by allowing States and
cities to tailor training to local labor con-
ditions. My welfare reform proposals are
also pertinent in this context, since they
are built around the goal of moving people
from welfare rolls to payrolls. To help in
this effort, H.R. I would provide transi-
tional opportunities in community service
employment for another 200,000 persons.
The Career Education program can also
have an important long-range influence
on the way we use our manpower. And so
can a major new thrust which I am an-
nouncing today to stimulate more imag-
inative use of America's great strength in
science and technology.
MARSHALLING SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY
As we work to build a more productive,
more competitive, more prosperous Amer-
ica, we will do well to remember the keys
to our progress in the past. There have
been many, including the competitive
nature of our free enterprise system; the
energy of our working men and women;
and the abundant gifts of nature. One
other quality which has always been a key
to progress is our special bent for tech-
nology, our singular ability to harness the
discoveries of science in the service of man.
At least from the time of Benjamin
Franklin, American ingenuity has en-
joyed a wide international reputation. We
have been known as a people who could
"build a better mousetrap"-and this
capacity has been one important reason
for both our domestic prosperity and our
international strength.
In recent years, America has focused a
large share of its technological energy on
projects for defense and for space. These
projects have had great value. Defense
technology has helped us preserve our
freedom and protect the peace. Space
technology has enabled us to share un-
paralleled adventures and to lift our sights
beyond earth's bounds. The daily life of
the average man has also been improved
by much of our defense and space re-
search-for example, by work on radar,
jet engines, nuclear reactors, communi-
cations and weather satellites, and com-
puters. Defense and space projects have
also enabled us to build and maintain our
general technological capacity, which—
as a result-can now be more readily
applied to civilian purposes.
America must continue with strong and
sensible programs of research and devel-
opment for defense and for space. I have
felt for some time, however, that we
should also be doing more to apply our
scientific and technological genius directly
to domestic opportunities. Toward this
end, I have already increased our civilian
research and development budget by more
than 40 percent since 1969 and have di-
rected the National Science Foundation to
give more attention to this area.
I have also reoriented our space pro-
gram so that it will have even greater do-
mestic benefits. As a part of this effort, I
recently announced support for the de-
velopment of a new earth orbital vehicle
that promises to introduce a new era in
71
