Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 27 [376]
which would have provided substantial
expansion while recognizing competing
priorities in other program areas the
Congress amassed a budget-breaking ad-
ditional increase of $1.8 billion. I vetoed
this in August because it was clearly ex-
cessive and unwarranted.
The bill now before me contains the
same face amount as the measure I previ-
ously vetoed. In a partial concession to
that veto, however, H.R. 16654 contains
authority for the over-spending to be held
to $535 million-a result that would still
amount to pressure for higher taxes.
This Administration is second to none
in its demonstrated concern and clear
accomplishments in health, education and
manpower matters. My budget repre-
sented a balanced and rational approach
to the funding of many high priority do-
mestic programs in a time of tight budget
resources, while continuing this Adminis-
tration's shift of priorities and funds to-
ward the human resources activities of the
Government.
H.R. 16654 is as unwarranted as the
version I vetoed last August.
Public Works and Economic Develop-
ment Act Amendments of 1972 (H.R.
16071)—
This bill would unnecessarily add vast
new authorizations for Federal programs
which have been shown to be ineffective
in creating jobs or stimulating timely
economic development. Public works
projects have notoriously long lead
times-so by the time this spending be-
came fully effective, the need for such
stimulation would be passed and the
stimulation would be inflationary.
The bill would stimulate increased
bureaucracy in the regional commissions
by using them as a funding rather than a
planning and coordinating level of
Government.
It would also provide assistance to
workers and firms affected by Federal
environmental actions. These provisions
would be highly inequitable and almost
impossible to administer. The unemploy-
ment benefits provision would fragment
and undermine our basic Federal-State
unemployment insurance system and its
costs would be essentially uncontrollable.
The proposed pollution control facilities
loan program has only vague and un-
specified objectives.
Amendments to the Mining and
Mineral Policy Act (S. 635)—
This bill would authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to provide matching cate-
gorical grants to establish and support a
mineral research and training institute in
each of the 50 States and Puerto Rico, as
well as grants for related research and
demonstration projects. It would frag-
ment our research effort and destroy its
priorities. Such an inflexible program
would preclude us from taking advantage
of the best research talents of the Na-
tion—wherever they may be. The Federal
Government's ongoing programs of simi-
lar and related kinds of research, currently
funded at about $40 million annually,
have provided a flexible and efficient
means of meeting minerals problems of
the highest national priority and can
readily be adapted to continue to do so.
Airport Development Acceleration Act
(S. 3755)—
This bill would increase Federal ex-
penditures and raise percentage participa-
tion in categorical grant programs with
specific and limited purposes. I believe
this would be inconsistent with sound fis-
cal policy. Airport development funds
1043
