Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 27 [131]
legislation will vastly expand the opportu-
nities for minority entrepreneurs, and this
expansion should not be delayed.
The Minority Enterprise Small Business
Investment Act, as you know, would fall
within the purview of the responsibilities
of the Small Business Administration. Ad-
ministrator Thomas Kleppe is prepared
to testify in support of this legislation,
which is urgently needed, and he awaits
your invitation.
Not only will the MESBIC legislation
expand available capital to give minority
businessmen a greater "piece of the ac-
tion," but it will in turn stimulate the
employment of minority individuals and
provide inroads into the unacceptably
high unemployment rate for minorities.
I am most hopeful that your Committee
and the Subcommittee on Small Business
will schedule the MESBIC legislation for
hearings in early May, so that it can be
presented at an early date for considera-
tion by the House of Representatives. I
certainly hope that I can count on you to
join with me to achieve the all-important
goal of providing expanded, new opportu-
nities for minority Americans.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, Com-
mittee on Banking and Currency, House of
Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
Dear Bill:
I think you know that I am strongly
committed to the Minority Enterprise
program. My proposed MESBIC legisla-
tion would substantially increase the busi-
ness opportunities for minority Ameri-
cans, and would in turn help to provide
jobs for minority individuals facing an
unacceptably high unemployment rate.
We should avoid delay on this bill. The
minority community recognizes that the
opportunity for a "piece of the action" is
the avenue to economic equality, and they
know the time is now.
It is of great importance that the
MESBIC legislation be given early at-
tention by Congress. I hope you will use
your good offices to influence a schedul-
ing of early hearings, and prompt con-
sideration of the legislation by the House
of Representatives.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable William B. Widnall, House of Rep-
resentatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
NOTE: The letters were dated April 25, 1972,
and released April 27.
131 Statement Designating Russell E. Train as Special
Representative to a Meeting of the International
Whaling Commission.
I AM pleased to announce today that the
Honorable Russell E. Train, Chairman
of the Council on Environmental Quality,
will serve as my special representative to
the meeting in London this June of the
International Whaling Commission.
April 27, 1972
Mr. Train's participation in this meet-
ing demonstrates the high priority which
my Administration attaches to the protec-
tion of whales. It is my hope that other
governments will also take steps to
strengthen the work of the International
555
