Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 20 [14]
need which I have not previously covered,
but which must be placed on the national
agenda.
We long have looked in this Nation to
the local property tax as the main source
of financing for public primary and sec-
ondary education.
As a result, soaring school costs, soaring
property tax rates now threaten both our
communities and our schools. They
threaten communities because property
taxes, which more than doubled in the
10 years from 1960 to '70, have become
one of the most oppressive and discrim-
inatory of all taxes, hitting most cruelly
at the elderly and the retired; and they
threaten schools, as hard-pressed voters
understandably reject new bond issues at
the polls.
The problem has been given even
greater urgency by four recent court de-
cisions, which have held that the conven-
tional method of financing schools
through local property taxes is discrim-
inatory and unconstitutional.
Nearly 2 years ago, I named a special
Presidential commission to study the prob-
lems of school finance, and I also directed
the Federal departments to look into the
same problems. We are developing com-
prehensive proposals to meet these
problems.
This issue involves two complex and
interrelated sets of problems: support of
the schools and the basic relationships of
Federal, State, and local governments in
any tax reforms.
Under the leadership of the Secretary
of the Treasury, we are carefully review-
ing all of the tax aspects, and I have this
week enlisted the Advisory Commission
on Intergovernmental Relations in ad-
dressing the intergovernmental relations
aspects.
I have asked this bipartisan Commis-
sion to review our proposals for Federal
action to cope with the gathering crisis
of school finance and property taxes. Later
in the year, when both Commissions have
completed their studies, I shall make my
final recommendations for relieving the
burden of property taxes and providing
both fair and adequate financing for our
children's education.
These recommendations will be revolu-
tionary. But all these recommendations,
however, will be rooted in one funda-
mental principle with which there can be
no compromise: Local school boards must
have control over local schools.
As we look ahead over the coming
decades, vast new growth and change are
not only certainties, they will be the domi-
nant reality of this world, and particularly
of our life in America.
Surveying the certainty of rapid
change, we can be like a fallen rider
caught in the stirrups or we can sit high
in the saddle, the masters of change, di-
recting it on a course we choose.
The secret of mastering change in to-
day's world is to reach back to old and
proven principles, and to adapt them
with imagination and intelligence to the
new realities of a new age.
That is what we have done in the pro-
posals that I have laid before the Con-
gress. They are rooted in basic principles
that are as enduring as human nature, as
robust as the American experience; and
they are responsive to new conditions.
Thus they represent a spirit of change that
is truly renewal.
As we look back at those old principles,
we find them as timely as they are timeless.
We believe in independence, and self-
reliance, and the creative value of the
competitive spirit.
39
