Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 3 [334]
334 Remarks at a Ceremony Marking Entry Into Force
of the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic
Missile Systems and the Interim Agreement on the
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms.
October 3, 1972
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Foreign Minister,
Mr. Secretary of State, members of the
Cabinet, Members of the Congress, and
all of our distinguished guests:
As has already been indicated, the
documents we have signed today place
into force the first limitation on offensive
and defensive nuclear arms ever entered
into, and particularly it is important that
this limitation is entered into between the
Soviet Union and the United States of
America.
On this particular occasion, I would
like to pay a personal tribute to and ex-
press the thanks of the Nation to the
Members of the House and the Senate
who, in a bipartisan manner, gave ap-
proval and support to these historic
agreements.
Also, I would like to pay tribute to and
express personal appreciation to the scores
of people in both governments who are
not seated here at the table, but who
worked with those at the table in working
out the details of these agreements and
their substance over almost 3 years.
It would not be fair to mention the
names of all of them, or even a few, but
I am sure that everyone would appreciate
the fact that I would say that one name
particularly comes to mind today, a
former Ambassador from the United
States to the Soviet Union, who also
served with Ambassador [Gerard C.]
Smith on the delegation to SALT
from the United States-Ambassador
Llewellyn Thompson.
It can truly be said of him, as it can be
said of so many others who have worked
in this field, that he gave his life to the
cause of peace.
On this occasion, we recognize that
these agreements mean the first step in
limiting the burden of nuclear arms as
far as our two nations are concerned.
Also, these agreements mean a first step
in reducing the danger of war in the world
and increasing the chances of peace.
I have used the term "first step" quite
deliberately, because-while these agree-
ments have enormous significance in the
ban on defensive nuclear weapons beyond
the points that are covered in the agree-
ment and in the treaty, an enormous sig-
nificance in terms of the limitation of
certain offensive categories-there re-
mains a significant number of categories
in the nuclear field that are not covered.
And that is why I share the views that
have been expressed by Foreign Minister
Gromyko that we must now move from
this first step to the vitally important next
step in which we consider the whole range
of offensive nuclear weapons and try to
find agreement between our two nations.
in that field.
And then beyond, after that step is
taken, we can look to the possibility of re-
ducing the burden of nuclear arms and
eventually to the possibility of limitations
and restrictions on the use of such arms.
What we are in effect witnessing today,
947
