Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
strength over the long term to ensure
against potential dangers in the future.
Our security assistance programs will con-
tribute to the strengthening of our allies
and a more equitable sharing of defense
burdens in our common interest.
This is a year of historic new oppor-
tunities for building a more stable world.
The continuing cohesiveness of our alli-
ances and the continuing strength of our
common defense are essential to achieving
this goal.
PART VI: THE IMPERATIVE OF
GLOBAL COOPERATION
-The United Nations
-The New Dimensions of Diplomacy
THE UNITED NATIONS
"With the world in urgent need of a
dynamic, effective international organiza-
tion, it is appropriate for us as a people
and as individuals to renew our sense of
tough-minded dedication to making the
UN work."
Proclamation of
United Nations Day
July 9, 1971
The United Nations is an experiment
in cooperation among nations. It is a mis-
take to assume that its success is fore-
ordained or its ultimate result altogether
predictable. It is a mistake either to exag-
gerate its capability or to underestimate
its potential.
No one knows what role time and suc-
cess might bring to the United Nations.
It is conceivable that it may ultimately
come to play a definitive role in the settle-
ment of international disputes. But that is
for the future to determine.
We have reached a point at which it
is no service to the idea of the United
Nations and no contribution to its future
to blink at its limitations. We believe the
United Nations is now entering a crucial
period. A pervasive skepticism concerning
the UN is widespread, and was reflected in
the speeches made in the recent General
Assembly session and in several actions
taken by the Congress of the United
States. Our obligation to the future re-
quires that we face that fact squarely. We
believe that the time has come for a large
dose of realism and candor in United
States policy toward the United Nations.
The United Nations is not a world gov-
ernment, rendering and enforcing sov-
ereign judgments on conflicts between its
members. Rather, it is itself a collection of
sovereign states, and the unique virtue on
which it must rely is the ability to en-
courage accommodation of conflicting
sovereign interests. It has only limited au-
thority to do more. It is unlikely to grow
in authority if it does less.
This Administration will, therefore-
as it has since its beginning-strive to
focus the United Nations constructively
on the tasks it does best. They are many
and they are important. We will, above
all, conduct our UN activities in such a
way as to preserve and enhance the po-
tential of the world organization to grow,
as the world grows, toward understanding,
tolerance and the sublimation of national
conflicts of interest.
This requires that we be frank in as-
sessing the weaknesses in the current UN
structure and performance, and in as-
serting the need for improvements. We
will do this not only because the UN's
health is essential to the present, but be-
cause we attach profound importance to
its future.
325
