[239] July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
issues so that the American people can
make their choice between two: the pres-
ent President and the challenger, who
honestly so basically disagree on funda-
mental ends and goals for the American
people.
CRITICS OF U.S. BOMBING POLICY
[5] Q. Mr. President, are we to
understand perhaps that now that "Stop
Bombing the Dikes" has been made a
political slogan this year, that perhaps
those who have gotten behind it have not
thoroughly checked the background of
those accusations?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not use the word
"naive" unintentionally. The North Viet-
namese are very skillful at propaganda.
They have, of course, brought those who
have been invited into the country to the
areas where they have found bomb
damage. They have not gone to any great
pains to fill those holes, which they would
naturally want to do before the possibility
of rain and flood again comes to the
North.
In my view, this is a deliberate attempt
on the part of the North Vietnamese to
create an extraneous issue, to divert at-
tention from one of the most barbaric in-
vasions in history, compounded by a viola-
tion of all concepts of international law
in handling the prisoners of war. For
them, with their policy of deliberate mur-
der and assassination and otherwise at-
tacks on civilians for the purpose of kill-
ing civilians, for them to try to seize on
this and divert attention from them, first,
to me it is a patent propaganda effort, and
it is one that I think needs to be answered.
We have to, of course, be responsible
for what we do. But it is time that in this
terribly difficult war some Americans, or
that most of us, should perhaps realize
that when we talk about morality, that it
is never an easy question.
If I can digress for a moment, then I
will come to your followup question on
the other matter. I remember one of the
first conversations I had with President
Eisenhower about war. We were riding
back from Quantico. You may remember
it. Charlie Wilson 2 used to have those
meetings in Quantico of the Defense
Establishment people. He asked me to ride
back with him. It was very early in the
Administration, in the first year.
He was talking a little about the deci-
sions he had to make in World War II.
One of the questions I raised with him
was: Here, on our part, the deliberate
bombing of German cities, the tragedy
of Dresden, of Essen, of Hamburg, not to
mention Berlin. General Eisenhower said
that was a terribly difficult decision for us,
the strategic bombing of civilians in Ger-
many. But he said, "On the moral ques-
tion, we had to answer to ourselves this
fundamental problem." He said, "The
height of immorality would be to allow
Hitler to rule Europe."
Now, in our case we have not gone that
far. We are not going to bomb civilian
targets in the North. We are not using
the great power that could finish off North
Vietnam in an afternoon, and we will not.
But it would be the height of immorality
for the United States at this point to leave
Vietnam, and in leaving, to turn over to
the North Vietnamese the fate of 17 mil-
lion South Vietnamese who do not want
a Communist government, to turn it over
to them.
2
That is what this is about. That is the
" Charles E. Wilson was Secretary of Defense
1953-57.
748
