Richard Nixon, 1972
July 25 [235]
tition of such disasters by requiring that
specified navigational equipment be car-
ried aboard certain vessels, specifying con-
ditions of operation that must be met by
vessels using automatic pilot, and requir-
ing that all ships subject to the Conven-
tion carry adequate and up-to-date
nautical publications.
The 1969 amendments are designed to
improve requirements for firemen's out-
fits and personal equipment in cargo ships
as well as requirements for lifebuoys, life-
jackets, radio installations and shipborne
navigational equipment.
235
For the information of the Senate, I am
also transmitting the report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the
amendments.
I recommend that the Senate give swift
and favorable consideration to all of these
amendments.
The White House,
July 24, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the amendments and the
report of the Secretary of State are printed
in Senate Executive O (92d Cong., 2d sess.).
Statement About a Report of the Property Review Board.
July 25, 1972
MEMBERS of the Property Review
Board reported to me today on major
new initiatives that are underway to im-
prove the management of Federal real
property. I am especially pleased to note
the progress under the Legacy of Parks
program which has now reached 39
States, leading to the creation of 144 new
parks.
The Federal public lands belong to all
Americans and are part of the heritage
and birthright of every citizen. They are
the breathing space of the Nation, and
it is essential that they be preserved for
future generations.
Government must work as the trustee
for the future to ensure that the environ-
mental, ecological, and recreational val-
ues of these lands will be safeguarded.
Our goal, the goal of the Property Review
Board--to manage our public lands
wisely and well to best serve the greatest
number has resulted in more parks
and recreational opportunities for all
Americans.
By returning federally owned land to
States and localities to fill locally deter-
mined needs, the Property Management
Program administered by the Board is re-
versing the trend of the past decade to-
wards government so big it loses touch
with its citizens.
The program is a creative avenue for
Federal, State, and local cooperation in
achieving two of this Administration's
principal domestic aims-bringing gov-
ernment closer to the people and improv-
ing our environment.
NOTE: Members of the Property Review Board
met with the President at the White House to
present their report entitled "New Directions
in Federal Real Property Management: A
Progress Report by the President's Property
Review Board" (31 pp. plus annexes).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the report. Participants in the news
briefing were Donald Rumsfeld, Counsellor to
the President and Chairman, Property Review
Board, and Darrell M. Trent, Executive Sec-
retary of the Board.
739
