Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 4 [405]
As peace in Vietnam comes closer, we can
look to the larger world and the long-term
future with hope and satisfaction.
Four years ago I promised that we
would move from an era of confrontation
to an era of negotiation. I also said that
we would maintain our own strength and
work to restore that of our alliances, be-
cause the way to make real progress
toward peace is to negotiate from strength
and not from weakness. Because we have
done so, the world today is more peace-
ful by far than it was 4 years ago. The
prospects for a full generation of peace
are brighter than at any time since the
end of World War II.
In the past 4 years, we have concluded
more and more significant agreements
with the Soviets than in all the previous
years since World War II. We have ended
nearly a quarter century of mutual iso-
lation between the United States and the
People's Republic of China. All over the
world, the tide toward negotiation is
moving. North and South Korea are
negotiating with one another. East and
West Germany are negotiating with one
another. A cease-fire has been in effect for
more than 2 years in the Middle East. The
leaders of India and Pakistan are talking
with one another. The nations of Europe,
of NATO, and of the Warsaw Pact are
preparing to meet next year in a European
Security Conference, and preparations are
underway for negotiations on mutual and
balanced reduction of armed forces in
Central Europe.
All this is evidence of solid progress
toward a world in which we can talk
about our differences rather than fight
about them.
Nineteen hundred seventy-two has been
a year of more achievement for peace than
any year since the end of World War II.
This progress did not just happen by itself.
In my Inaugural Address nearly 4
years ago, I said that the greatest honor
history can bestow is the title of peace-
maker, but I also pointed out that peace
does not come through wishing for it,
that there is no substitute for days and
even years of patient and prolonged
diplomacy.
For the past 4 years this Nation has en-
gaged in patient and prolonged diplo-
macy in every corner of the world, and
we have also maintained the strength that
has made our diplomacy credible and
peace possible. As a result, we are well
on the way toward erecting what I have
often referred to as a structure of peace,
a structure that rests on the hard concrete
of common interests and mutual agree-
ments, and not on the shifting sands of
naive sentimentality.
That term, "a structure of peace,"
speaks an important truth about the
nature of peace in today's world. Peace
cannot be wished into being. It has to be
carefully and painstakingly built in many
ways and on many fronts, through net-
works of alliances, through respect for
commitments, through patient negoti-
ations, through balancing military forces
and expanding economic interdepend-
ence, through reaching one agreement
that opens the way to others, through de-
veloping patterns of international be-
havior that will be accepted by other
powers. Most important of all, the struc-
ture of peace has to be built in such a
way that all those who might be tempted
to destroy it will instead have a stake in
preserving it.
In the past 4 years, my efforts to build
that structure of peace have taken me to
22 countries, including four world capitals
never visited by an American President
IIII
