Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
endeavors of all Asian states will give that
structure substance and durability.
I am convinced that the United States
can set itself no more worthy goal than
fostering in Asia the self-reliance that
made our own nation great. National and
regional cohesion among these nations is
the natural companion-as well as the
precondition-of restraint by the major
powers. If the transition to a new struc-
ture of peace is not to founder, we must
meet the challenge of relating our efforts
to Asia's needs. To do otherwise would
mock our sacrifices in Vietnam, discour-
age the parallel efforts of our Japanese
and Australian allies, and make irrelevant
our effort to build a bridge with our
adversaries.
LATIN AMERICA
"The destiny of every nation within our
inter-American system remains of fore-
most concern to the United States."
Message to the
Inter-American Press Association
October 25, 1971
Our association with our sister repub-
lics of the Western Hemisphere has al-
ways been unique in our foreign relations.
Geography, history, a common heritage of
self-government, and shared interests in
the world at large have traditionally given
our hemisphere relations a special
durability.
When I came into office, however, the
premises of our Latin American policy in
the postwar period could no longer be un-
critically accepted. The easy assumption
of hemispheric community-reinforced
by shared experience in the Second World
War and by the new inter-American sys-
tem-was being severely challenged by the
new intensity of nationalism, pluralism,
and pressures for change. The ambitious
U.S. undertaking to lead the whole con-
tinent to democracy and progress-
exemplified by our directive role in the
Alliance for Progress-could not be sus-
tained in a new period of accelerating ex-
pectations and greater assertion by Latin
Americans themselves of their right and
capacity to determine their own future.
These challenges were inherent in the
new political environment of the 1970's.
United States policy was hardly respon-
sible for all the problems our relationship
faced; nor could a new U.S. policy solve
them. This, in fact, was one of the most
obvious lessons we had to learn from our
postwar experience. But the United States
needed a new approach to hemispheric
policy in order to respond to new condi-
tions constructively and to lay the basis
of a more mature political relationship
with Latin American nations.
We needed, and we undertook, a funda-
mental rethinking of our premises.
We concluded, first, that geography
and history and U.S. interests did give our
relationship with Latin America a spe-
cial and continuing-importance. We
could not treat Latin America as simply
another region of the developing world.
The hemisphere is unique and our politi-
cal ties in it are unique.
We could see also that the growing
sense of national and regional identity in
Latin America was expressing itself in-
creasingly in terms of differentiation from
the United States. Henceforth a sense of
hemisphere-wide community could be sus-
tained only on a new, more realistic basis.
The problems in our relationship were, at
their roots, political. Solutions would be
found in reconciliation of basic interests,
not merely in economic programs. Of
259
