Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [268]
But it was part of the educational proc-
ess far beyond that. The interest that was
developed by a young student so many
years ago came at that time. Then I re-
member another teacher in high school.
Her name was Miss Ernstberger. She was
tough, really hard. In fact, I found that
my best teachers, looking back, were the
ones who were the toughest. I mean by
that they graded the hardest. I didn't like
the grades, but I have to say the teachers
were pretty good because they made me
work hard.
I would like to say to all the parents,
back up the teachers. They are usually
right whenever they are handling prob-
lems. Miss Ernstberger I had when I was
a sophomore in high school. I hated math.
Math was hard for me. In fact, it was
hard for me all my life.
I could never tell you how embarrassed
I was, you know, when our children were
growing up and going to grade schools.
Now and then, of course, my wife, Mrs.
Nixon, having been a teacher, could help
them a lot with their homework, but they
sometimes would ask me to help too, and
I would try and they would ask me to help
them with their math. So, I looked at the
math book. It was that new math. I
couldn't even learn the old math, let alone
the new math. [Laughter]
Let me tell you what I learned from
Miss Ernstberger. I didn't learn much
math. The subject was geometry, a very,
very difficult subject, and at the end of the
year, I recall she gave an assignment of a
problem. She said whatever members of
the class could bring back the solution to
that problem in the morning would get an
A in the course. I recall that I stayed up
all night long working on that problem.
I finally got the answer.
It isn't the point that I got it, because
I still hated geometry, even though I got
the problem and the A. Incidentally, when
I got the chance to elect subjects in college
I didn't take any more math.
But the point I make is that from Miss
Ernstberger I learned something that is
terribly important-stick to it. And par-
ticularly the test of a person, of a boy or a
girl, are those subjects that are hardest for
you, not the ones that are the easiest. The
teachers that can inspire you and make
you put your nose to the grindstone and
get it done, those are the ones you want to
be thankful for.
Then I remember another teacher. This
was a man, this teacher, and I was a fresh-
man in college. He taught history. He
loved history and he loved books. I re-
member him getting before the class and
lecturing. He would have a book in his
hand, some new book that we had not
read, and he would fondle that book so
affectionately. He would say, "This is a
wonderful book. This is a beautiful book.
You have just got to read it."
And what happened out of all that? He
inspired some of us-I know he inspired
me-with a love for history and for bi-
ography. So, I carried that throughout
my life, and it helped me in years later in
developing the background that I had to
have for the law and eventually for politics
and all the rest.
Since I am speaking in a school gym-
nasium, I don't want to leave out my
coach. Now, let me say, being in this school
gymnasium, on the floor, is something
new for me. I was usually in the bleachers
or on the bench. I was never out here. But
I remember my coach very well. He was
an American Indian. We called him
"Chief," Chief Newman. He was an all-
American football star for the University
of Southern California back in 1923 or
805
!
