Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
tions that you have for a few minutes, and
we will not keep you too long, unless the
questions take too long.
QUESTIONS
VIETNAM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, do you antici-
pate any developments in Vietnam other
than those courageous statements we
heard on the television the other night,
that you might tell us here?
THE PRESIDENT. Briefly I would re-
spond by saying that the evaluation of the
situation in Vietnam today is the same
that I gave then.
As General Abrams reported then, and
as he has updated his report as of today,
the South Vietnamese on the ground are
resisting very bravely a massive Commu-
nist North Vietnamese invasion of South
Vietnam. That invasion will continue.
The offensive will continue in its intensity,
and we can expect over the next 4 to 5
weeks that there will be some battles lost
by the South Vietnamese and some will be
won, but it is his professional judgment—
General Abrams' professional judgment—
that the South Vietnamese will be able to
hold and deny to the North Vietnamese
their goal, which, of course, is to impose
on the people of South Vietnam a Com-
munist government.
Now to keep it all in perspective, let us
understand that when we hear about this
town or that one that is under attack, we
must remember that as of this time, the
North Vietnamese have utterly failed in
their ability to rally the South Vietnamese
people to their cause.
We also must remember that despite
their moving in on certain territory and in
certain towns, that over 90 percent of the
people of South Vietnam are still under
the Government of South Vietnam, and
not under control of the Communists.
So keeping it in perspective, while we
can expect, and should expect, as is al-
ways the case in a war of any kind, and
particularly a war of this type-we can
expect some days when the news may be
a South Vietnamese setback, and other
days when it will be otherwise. It is the
view, the professional view of the man on
the spot, best able to judge, that the South
Vietnamese will be able to hold, pro-
vided-and this comes to what we do-
provided the United States continues to
furnish the air and naval support that we
have been furnishing to stop this invasion.
Now, without repeating what I said last
Wednesday night, but simply to underline
it, I would like to make just two or three
points quickly, frankly, to this group of
friends here in Texas.
Questions have been raised about the
decision that I have made, which is to the
effect that as long as the North Viet-
namese were conducting an invasion and
an offensive in South Vietnam, and were
killing South Vietnamese and Americans
in South Vietnam, that I would, as Com-
mander in Chief of our Armed Forces,
order air and naval strikes on military
targets in North Vietnam.
I realize that that decision has caused
considerable controversy in this country.
I understand why that would be the case.
There are many people who believe that
the United States has done enough in
South Vietnam, that what we should do is
to find a way to get out as quickly as we
can, and let whatever the consequences
are flow from that, which would mean, of
course, a Communist takeover.
Let me tell you the reasons why I feel
that it is vitally important that the United
559
