Richard Nixon, 1974
June 15 [182]
work together for a goal to which we are
both deeply dedicated, the cause of peace
not only between and among the nations
in this area but for all peoples in the
world.
And so, I think we can safely say that
after 6,000 years of history, this great city
is seeing again something happening,
something that will change not only the
relations between our two countries but
something that can change the world and
make it a better world for all of us.
And for that and many other reasons,
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon and I, Dr.
Kissinger, and all of your American guests
are proud to be here tonight in your
company as your guests.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
10:45 p.m. in the Orient Club in response to
remarks by President Asad.
President Asad spoke in Arabic. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, honored guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
I am indeed happy to extend a warm wel-
come to President Richard Nixon and to Mrs.
Nixon, also to our honored American guests,
wishing them all a happy stay in our country.
Mr. President, as we extend greetings to the
American people through you, we also express
appreciation for your visit which has a historic
significance, considering that you are the first
President of the United States to pay a visit to
our country. Your visit, Mr. President, is espe-
cially meaningful in that it is taking place in an
important juncture in the modern history of
our region and after a long period of estrange-
ment between our two countries. It is also mean-
ingful in that it constitutes a part of the tour
which you have declared to be dedicated to
efforts aimed at establishing a just and durable
peace in our region.
We welcome every sincere endeavor aimed
at achieving a just peace, and we wish you full
success in your efforts. I should also make it
clear that peace is a genuine attribute of the
Arab nation and that we have a real interest
in such a peace. We desire a stability based on
real freedom in order to ensure for ourselves a
many-sided progress that would ultimately re-
store to our people the ability to play an appro-
priate role in the activities of the international
community, wherewith to serve both themselves
and humanity at large.
For a long period of time, the Arab nation
has struggled to achieve peace. However, it has
faced difficulties, and obstacles have been
placed in its way. Moreover, it has been sub-
jected to pressures and threats that have aimed
at depriving it both of freedom and of the
exercise of its free will, as well as at making it
abandon the principles with regards to which
it refuses all compromise.
Our nation, whose land was the cradle of
the most ancient civilizations and the birth-
place of monotheistic religions and which,
through its long history, made rich contribu-
tions to culture, is a productive nation that
harbors no harm to anyone. It has no other aim
than living freely in its land and reconstructing
its life in all fields so as to be able to resume
contributing to humanity under peaceful
conditions.
It cannot do this, however, while it feels that
its fate and land are threatened and its freedom
violated through the occupation of parts of its
territory and while millions of our nation, from
Palestine and other Arab lands, are dispersed.
For 26 years now, the people of Palestine
have lived homeless and completely deprived
of their legitimate rights, which have been rec-
ognized by international law and conventions
as well as confirmed-almost every year since
1947 by resolutions of the United Nations.
This made them despair of the justice of man
and international organizations, because the
more they complained against injustice, the
more aggressions were heaped upon them and
the more their rights were ignored by their
aggressors, who have gone so far as to
deny these rights and even to deny the very
existence of the Palestinian people. By doing
this, they have forced the Palestinian people
to follow a path not of their own choice in order
to remind the world of their existence and of
their case. No peace can be established in this
region unless a real and just solution is found
for the Palestinian question.
Mr. President, you can imagine the extent
of the disappointment of the Arab people dur-
513
