[182] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing the past years when they saw that the
efforts that they had exerted and the sacrifices
they had made to achieve peace and justice
were being spurned and rejected. They were
likewise disheartened by the failure of efforts
aimed at redressing their grievances.
The only lasting and durable peace in this
region would be a peace that would terminate
Israeli occupation, restore the land to its peo-
ple, remove the grievances inflicted upon the
people of Palestine, and ensure them of their
legitimate national rights.
During the last few years, efforts were made
to impose a fait accompli that has all the ele-
ments of renewed war and bloodshed and is far
removed from the pathway to peace. We had
to resist those efforts, as we did, first, in the
October war and, then, in its extension, the
Golan war, when it was proved that a fait
accompli based on occupation and aggression
cannot last.
It was also proved that reliance on force to
extract from others what was their legal rights
constitutes disregard to human values on one
hand and a lack of vision on the other hand.
Furthermore, a fact, repeatedly reaffirmed
throughout different historical events, has been
reasserted, namely, the fact that any triumph
which is not based on right and justice, if it
may be called a triumph, is only a temporary
one and a feeble one which is bound sooner or
later to collapse once the strong wind of good
right and justice start blowing.
Real peace is an urgent demand and a press-
ing need for all peoples of the world. Such
peace should be based on ensuring the rights of
peoples and removing their grievances.
Indeed, world peace in the present age has
become the ideal of humanity-an ideal which
governments seek and for which peoples strug-
gle. But this peace is almost impossible to
achieve without establishing a just peace in this
region which is one of the pivotal points of the
world.
Mr. President, we hope that your visit to
the Syrian Arab Republic will mark the begin-
ning of a new phase of relations between our
two countries, a phase based on mutual respect,
unselfish cooperation, and adherence to the
principles of the United Nations Charter. We
are confident that the existence of such rela-
tionship serves the interests of our peoples.
We believe that the key to understanding and
the essence of sound relations between any two
states lies in a frank and clear approach. Hence
our eagerness that our talks should be frank
and clear in the hope that, through this, we
can arrive at a common conception regarding
subjects of discussion and a common under-
standing of the elements constituting a just
peace in our region. There is no doubt that this
would help us to take firm steps leading to a
peace that fulfills the interests of the Arab
people and all other peoples of the world.
Mr. President, we fully appreciate your per-
sonal role and American political initiatives as
well as the importance of these initiatives and
their effect on international détente. We ap-
preciate your desire for good and friendly re-
lations in our region and your endeavor to
establish a durable and firm peace in it. We
have witnessed a manifestation of this new
attitude in the mission you entrusted to your
Secretary of State, Dr. Henry Kissinger, to con-
tribute to the realization of a first step along
the road of a permanent and lasting peace. We
appreciate the great efforts he exerted during
the talks for the disengagement of forces on the
Syrian front.
It is very important that we should regard
what has been achieved as a prelude to the
next stage which should establish peace on a
firm and real foundation. This is the great chal-
lenge to meeting which the efforts of all sincere
supporters of peace should be directed.
Mr. President, you will be soon celebrating
in the United States the Bicentennial of in-
dependence. Let us not forget the lofty prin-
ciples for which you fought the American War
of Independence-above all, the principle of
liberty.
I am happy to refer to the fact that a large
number of U.S. citizens are of Syrian descent
and have proved themselves to be good citizens
in all fields of life. This should serve as an urge
to enhance friendship between the two peoples.
Let us open a new page and begin a new
phase in the relations between our two countries
in which freedom and justice are emphasized,
the causes of aggression are removed, and ac-
tions are performed with the support and back-
ing of our two peoples in order to serve the
good of the whole humanity.
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I wish
514
