Richard Nixon, 1974
July 21 [227]
world that has been inhabited continu-
ally-and of course, Jerusalem, and then
finally in Amman, Jordan.
The fact that an American President-
and here it was not just the man, it was
more than that, it was the United States
of America as the leader of the free
world that we have after so many years
of difficulty with many of these nations
were received in that way, tells us some-
thing about America's role in the world.
Let me put it quite bluntly. We have
made our mistakes in foreign policy over
the years. Looking at this century, when
we consider the four wars in which we
have been engaged, we can be proud that
the United States has always fought to de-
fend freedom and never to destroy it.
We have always fought to keep the
peace, to bring peace, and never to break
the peace. And consequently, the United
States, in all parts of the world, is re-
spected. The United States, in most parts
of the world, is not only respected but
there is real affection for the American
people and for our government. And in
any event, we are not feared, not feared
in terms insofar as any fear that the
United States would use its great power
and its great wealth for the purpose of
conquest or destruction or breaking the
peace.
As we look back over those events and
as we look at the current problem that we
have in the Mediterranean, I would only
suggest this: that we Americans are a very
impatient people. We like to think that
there is an instant solution to every prob-
lem, and we are impatient when we get a
war over with; peace, isn't it wonderful,
we can just take it for granted.
We must recognize that for the balance
of our lives, for the balance of this cen-
tury and, perhaps, well into the next cen-
tury-and no one can look further than
that, but certainly well into the next cen-
tury a strong, responsible United States
of America is indispensable if peace is to
be kept in the world. There is no one else
that can play that role. There is no other
nation in the free world that can take up
that great responsibility, and so we have
that responsibility.
We believe over the past 52 years that
we have met it and met it reasonably well.
We think more progress has been made in
that period toward building a peaceful
world than has been made in any similar
period, certainly in this century and prob-
ably in this period of modern civilization.
There is a chance now, a very real
chance that due to the profound changes
that have been made-the new relations
with the People's Republic of China, the
new relationship with the Soviet Union,
the beginning of a peaceful era in the
Middle East-that as a result of these pro-
found changes, the chance for peace to
survive on a world basis is better now than
it has been at any time in this century.
And yet, anytime that we say that,
when we have an incident like the one that
has occurred over the past few days in-
volving America's friends and allies, it
shows us how fragile that structure is. It
shows us how much it needs constantly to
be tended. It shows us how important it is
that not only the United States of America
but particularly the leadership of the
United States of America assume the re-
sponsibility of world leadership which is
ours and never back away from it because
that might be the easier course.
It also explains something else that
I think is very important that Roy has
touched upon tangentially, at least, and
that is apart from the man, the Office of
the Presidency must never be weakened,
603
