[168] June 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
168 Letter Responding to House Judiciary Committee
Subpoenas Requiring Production of Presidential Tape
Recordings and Documents. June 10, 1974
Dear Mr. Chairman:
In your letter of May 30, you describe
as "a grave matter" my refusal to comply
with the Committee's subpoenas of
May 15. You state that "under the Con-
stitution it is not within the power of the
President to conduct an inquiry into his
own impeachment,” and add that "Com-
mittee members will be free to consider
whether your refusals warrant the drawing
of adverse inferences concerning the sub-
stance of the materials..."
The question of the respective rights
and responsibilities of the Executive and
Legislative branches is one of the cardinal
questions raised by a proceeding such as
the one the Committee is now conduct-
ing. I believe, therefore, that I should
point out certain considerations which
I believe are compelling.
First, it is quite clear that this is not a
case of "the President conduct (ing) an
inquiry into his own impeachment." The
Committee is conducting its inquiry; the
Committee has had extensive and un-
precedented cooperation from the White
House. The question at issue is not who
conducts the inquiry, but where the line is
to be drawn on an apparently endlessly
escalating spiral of demands for confiden-
tial Presidential tapes and documents. The
Committee asserts that it should be the
sole judge of Presidential confidentiality.
I cannot accept such a doctrine; no Presi-
dent could accept such a doctrine, which
has never before been seriously asserted.
What is commonly referred to now as
"executive privilege" is part and parcel
of the basic doctrine of separation of
powers the establishment, by the Con-
stitution, of three separate and co-equal
branches of Government. While many
functions of Government require the con-
currence or interaction of two or more
branches, each branch historically has
been steadfast in maintaining its own in-
dependence by turning back attempts of
the others, whenever made, to assert an
authority to invade, without consent, the
privacy of its own deliberations.
Thus each house of the Congress has
always maintained that it alone shall de-
cide what should be provided, if anything,
and in what form, in response to a judicial
subpoena. This standing doctrine was
summed up in a resolution adopted by the
Senate on March 8, 1962, in connection
with subpoenas issued by a Federal court
in the trial of James Hoffa, which read:
"Resolved, that by the privileges of the
Senate of the United States no evidence
under the control and in the possession of
the Senate of the United States can, by
the mandate of process of the ordinary
courts of justice, be taken from the con-
trol or possession, but by its permis-
sion . .". More recently, in the case of
Lt. William Calley, the chairman of the
House Armed Services subcommittee re-
fused to make available for the court-
martial proceeding testimony that had
been given before the subcommittee in
executive session-testimony which Lt.
Calley claimed would be exculpatory. In
refusing, the subcommittee chairman,
Representative Hébert, explained that the
Congress is "an independent branch of
the Government, separate from but equal
478
