[121] Apr. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
sities I know places like Millsaps I
went to school with a fellow from
Millsaps. And believe me, as a Washing-
ton Redskins fan, I know what Archie
Manning did to us in the New Orleans
Saints game. And to all of those in this
great State, whether it be from "Ole Miss"
or Mississippi State or one of the other
universities or colleges, let me say, if you
ever find a good quarterback who can
throw and who can run and who is young,
call me, not George Allen. We need that
kind of a quarterback or fullback.ยน
This also gives me an opportunity, in
responding to the Governor, to pay trib-
ute to the Mississippi delegation in the
Congress of the United States. Sometimes,
those who are served by their Senators
and Congressmen have to be told by some-
one from outside what really great men
they are.
I want you to know that having served
with these men for 5 years-most of
them I can say that no State in the
Union is represented by men in the Con-
gress of the United States who more
vigorously speak up for their States and
for the Nation than has the State of
Mississippi.
Senator Jim Eastland, the President
pro tem of the Senate, as you know, the
fourth ranking office in all of this great
country.
Senator John Stennis, when they write
profiles in courage, he will be there.
And since I can't mention all of the
bipartisan delegation in the House of
Representatives, I will just refer to my
good friend, Sonny Montgomery. And
ยน Archie Manning was quarterback for the
New Orleans Saints professional football team.
George H. Allen was head coach and general
manager of the Washington Redskins pro-
fessional football team.
having said "bipartisan," let me tell you
something about this delegation that I
have seen through the years.
I have found that we have had many
very, very strong, tough votes and debates
over these years when America's power
was being tested, but more important,
America's character and America's will
and its determination and its sense of
destiny. And I can assure you that when-
ever the issue was the honor of America
or the strength of America or respect for
America, Mississippi spoke as one voice
for America and not for any one party.
And in these times, that is the kind
of representation that we need in the
Congress, in the Senate-be it Democrat
or Republican. In these times, you can
be proud that you have that kind of
representation.
I realize that this is an anniversary for
you, too. This is the 25th anniversary, I
understand, of the Mississippi Economic
Council. And on such an occasion, a
proper theme, therefore, is for me to not
only look back but also to look forward
to the next 25 years.
And particularly for those who are
younger, those who will be the new Sena-
tors and Congressmen 15, 20, 25 years
from now, for all of those who have your
lives ahead, let's look back a moment and
see where we have come and where we
have been and how we have withstood the
trials that we have been through.
I remember the end of World War II.
We came out of that war, and we thought,
with the United Nations, with all that the
world had been through, that this would
be a new era of peace, and yet it was not.
In these past 25 years, this Nation has
gone through two very difficult and very
unpopular wars-first in Korea and then
in Vietnam. And in these past 25 years,
380
