[96] Mar. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
personal tour of some of those facilities.
He is to report to me directly within 60
days.
Some of you may recall that in a recent
White House press conference, one of the
most spirited reporters in Washington,
Sarah McClendon of Texas, asked me
why some veterans studying under the
G.I. bill were not receiving their Govern-
ment checks or were receiving them long
after they were due.
That was a good question, and the next
day I asked the Veterans Administration
for an answer. I discovered that each
month during the school year the Veterans
Administration mails out over 1 million
checks. Unfortunately, from time to time
a fraction of them are delayed or mis-
directed. Students move to new addresses,
computer printouts are slow, the paper-
work is detailed.
The reasons for the occasional delays
are generally understandable, but they
are of very little consolation to the young
men and women whose studies and fam-
ily budgets are disrupted as a result. We
owe it to our veterans to be absolutely
sure that we are doing the best job possible
for them.
And due in large part to Miss McClen-
don and others who have brought prob-
lems to our attention, the Veterans
Administration is now engaged in a major
effort to improve their operations. To
make still further improvements, I have
directed the Administrator of Veterans
Affairs and the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to set up a crack
management team which will take a hard
look at the services provided by the VA
across the board.
Veterans need to know if we can find a
better way of delivering checks on time.
They need to know if there is a better
way of obtaining medical services. They
need to know if there is a better way to
find training and jobs.
Those are the kinds of questions I want
answered from this new look at veterans
affairs, and I am asking for those answers
within 8 weeks.
Beyond that, we need to develop a
more effective and coordinated approach
to veterans affairs on a permanent basis.
The health and welfare of our veterans is
one of the biggest concerns of the Federal
Government.
The Veterans Administration is the
second largest agency in the Government.
It has the third largest budget. There are
additional veterans programs in 17 other
departments. The Labor Department, for
instance, helps veterans with their train-
ing and employment needs. ACTION,
the agency for volunteer action, has just
launched a cooperative program with the
Veterans Administration to reach Viet-
nam-era veterans in communities where
they live, to encourage them to take ad-
vantage of their G.I. benefits.
To ensure that we have policies which
pull together the activities of the entire
Government and more fully meet the
needs of the veterans, I am today creat-
ing a new Domestic Council Committee
on Veterans Services. It will be chaired
by the Administrator of Veterans Affairs,
Mr. Donald Johnson. Its membership
will include four members of the Cabinet
and others.
I personally urge today that all veterans
take advantage of the full range of bene-
fits that are now available in this country.
Nothing would please me more than to
recommend more money for these pro-
grams as more veterans participate.
Each of you listening to me can help,
too. You can help by employing the vet-
330
