[59] Feb. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
nation based on this principle. By the time
Dwight Eisenhower was President, Amer-
ica had passed through a tragic civil war
and two bloody World Wars fought in
defense of the same principle. But it is
not on the battlefield alone that individual
liberties are threatened and must be de-
fended. In peace as well as in war, social,
economic, political, and technological
forces are constantly at work that can
either help or hinder the individual Amer-
ican's quest for "life, liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness."
Many things are necessary to lead a full,
free life-good health, economic and edu-
cational opportunity, and a fair break in
the marketplace, to name a few. But none
of these is more important than the most
basic of all individual rights, the right to
privacy. A system that fails to respect its
citizens' right to privacy fails to respect the
citizens themselves.
There are, of course, many facts which
modern government must know in order
to function. As a result, a vast store of
personal data has been built up over the
years. With the advent of the computer in
the 1960's, this data gathering process has
become a big business in the United
States over $20 billion a year-and the
names of over 150 million Americans are
now in computer banks scattered across
the country.
At no time in the past has our Govern-
ment known so much about so many of its
individual citizens. This new knowledge
brings with it an awesome potential for
harm as well as good and an equally
awesome responsibility on those who have
that knowledge. Though well-intentioned,
Government bureaucracies seem to thrive
on collecting additional information. That
information is now stored in over 7,000
Government computers. Collection of new
information will always be necessary. But
there must also be reasonable limits on
what is collected and how it is used.
The same process has been at work in
the private sector where computers and
modern data technology have placed vast
quantities of personal information in the
hands of bankers, employers, charitable
organizations, and credit agencies.
On the positive side, the availability
of this information serves us all in many
important ways.
Without computer technology, it would,
for example, be almost impossible to proc-
ess and deliver 27 million social security
checks every month, to send out veterans
benefits, to ensure that Medicare pay-
ments are properly made.
Law enforcement agencies would not
and could not combat new and sophisti-
cated criminal activities without the use
of the latest technical developments in the
data field, whether in helping to trace
stolen goods or in helping to track down
and identify criminals.
In the private sector, the banking in-
dustry could not even start to cope with
the vast volume of personal checks which
are issued and cashed daily without using
computer technology.
No modern industrial society can sur-
vive without computers and data proc-
essing and especially a society with high
living standards and even higher expecta-
tions such as ours.
Many of the good things in life that
Americans take for granted would be im-
possible, or impossibly high-priced, with-
out data retrieval systems and computer
technology. But until the day comes when
science finds a way of installing a con-
science in every computer, we must de-
velop human, personal safeguards that
prevent computers from becoming huge,
196
