[54] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Defense, has developed concepts for use in
calculating the pertinent deficit once the
receipt and expenditure information be-
comes available for all of fiscal year 1974.
An inter-agency committee within the Ex-
ecutive Branch has prepared recommen-
dations concerning what acceptable ac-
tions our Allies could take to offset the
expected deficit. Applying the concepts
developed by the working group chaired
by the Department of Commerce, the De-
partment of Defense estimates that U.S.
expenditures entering the balance of pay-
ments as a result of the deployment of
forces in NATO Europe in fulfillment of
treaty commitments and obligations of
the United States in fiscal year 1974 will
be approximately $2.1 billion. In re-
sponse to a U.S. request, a study is now
underway in NATO to collect more com-
plete data than in the past on Allied mili-
tary procurement from the U.S. in fiscal
year 1974. A high level of military pro-
curement will be essential if the require-
ments of Section 812 are to be met.
Bilateral offset negotiations with the
FRG [Federal Republic of Germany]
constitute the major element in our
effort to obtain Allied payments to offset
these expenditures. The current discus-
sions are based on a German offer which
represents an increase over the amount
of military procurement and budgetary
support included in the FY 1972-73
agreement. However, major cost increases
of deploying our forces in Germany, inter-
national economic and financial develop-
ments, and the multilateral burdensharing
discussions have combined to make the
negotiations unusually complex and time
consuming. Once a satisfactory bilateral
offset agreement has been concluded, we
will look to our other Allies for the re-
maining amount needed to offset our
estimated expenditures of approximately
$2.1 billion. Although the energy crisis
and the changing overall balance of pay-
ments positions of the U.S. and the Euro-
pean NATO countries have made it more
difficult for the other Allies to respond
promptly to our request for burdenshar-
ing assistance, we are continuing to stress
to them the urgent need to develop a
specific program to ensure that our mili-
tary expenditures are fully offset.
Action to reduce the U.S. balance of
payments costs and budgetary burdens
associated with the stationing of U.S.
forces in NATO Europe, while impor-
tant, are not the only measure of equity in
sharing the common defense burden. Our
European Allies are continuing to im-
prove their forces for NATO. These im-
provements, reflected in increasing Euro-
pean defense budgets, are an important
aspect in sharing the defense burden. We
are encouraging our Allies to continue
these improvements and, when possible,
to direct their increased spending into
areas which serve also to reduce the U.S.
share of the common burden.
The White House,
February 20, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
182
