Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 7 [9]
8 Memorandum of Disapproval of a Bill To Amend
the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964.
January 4, 1974
I REGRET that I cannot approve H.R.
10511, a bill to amend the Urban Mass
Transportation Act of 1964. Unfortu-
nately, this bill has evolved so as to become
an antitransit measure.
In its favor is the fact that H.R. 10511
would facilitate the use of Urban Mass
Transportation monies for the purchase
of buses by allowing such equipment to be
used for charter services. Unfortunately,
however, the bill would leave in effect the
prohibition against using buses purchased
with Federal-Aid Highway funds in char-
ter activities. By creating different stand-
ards for the purchase of buses from the
two programs, the bill would discourage
the use of highway funds for mass transit
purposes. It would thus undermine one of
the central achievements of the Federal-
Aid Highway Act of 1973, the provision
giving greater flexibility to States and
communities in meeting their transporta-
tion problems. This we cannot afford.
I strongly supported legislation which
applied uniformly to both the Federal-
Aid Highway program and the Urban
Mass Transportation program. The Sen-
ate version of the bill provided flexibility,
encouraging bus purchases from both of
these funding sources. It is essential that
our communities' mass transit companies
can use their buses to produce badly
needed charter revenues, and I will con-
tinue to press for this balanced flexibility.
As we face gasoline shortages and an
increasing demand for public transporta-
tion, we should do all we can to afford
local officials genuine flexibility to use
Federal-Aid Highway funds to improve
mass transit if they so desire. I am with-
holding my signature from H.R. 10511
because this legislation would work
directly against that objective.
I urge the Congress to act early in the
next session to relax the charter prohibi-
tion uniformly with respect to both the
Federal-Aid Highway program and the
Urban Mass Transportation program. If
this action is taken promptly, our mass
transit systems need not suffer any adverse
consequences.
The White House,
January 3, 1974-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the memorandum, dated
January 3, 1974, was released on January 4 at
San Clemente, Calif.
9 Statement About the Legacy of Parks Program.
January 7, 1974
TODAY I am pleased to announce an
important milestone in our Legacy of
Parks program. With the addition of 34
properties being made available for State
and local parks and recreational purposes,
we have brought to 400 the number of
Legacy of Parks properties which have
been created in the less than 3 years the
program has been in existence.
I am greatly pleased with this record.
7
