Richard Nixon, 1974
June 14 [178]
|
to the works of peace, and we believe that
this is again something which has the sup-
port of your people and of the American
people, based on what we have seen in
our visit here.
You have referred, Mr. President, to the
fact that while we have made very signif-
icant progress by reason of the negotia-
tions that have taken place today in re-
moving roadblocks which have existed
toward a final, equitable, permanent peace
agreement, that there is still a long road to
travel. We recognize that, as you recog-
nize it, and we look forward to attempt-
ing to work with you, with other govern-
ments involved in attempting to find
solutions to these problems, because we be-
lieve that in the final analysis, it is the
per-
manent peace settlement which is in the
interest of every government in the area
and every nation in the area. And it is not
our intention, as you have indicated it is
not your intention, that what we have
done to date is final. It is a beginning, a
very good beginning, and it has been
followed up very substantially by this bi-
lateral understanding which we have
signed today. But there is more to be
done on both fronts, and we look forward
to working with you in accomplishing
those goals.
And finally, Mr. President, I would not
want this moment to pass without reflect-
ing on those few minutes that we had,
through your courtesy, standing by the
Pyramids, thinking back over the thou-
sands of years of history which your peo-
ple have known and history which is the
common heritage of the civilization of our
world today.
We think of the great things that your
people have done in the past, but as we
stood there, I thought also of the even
greater things that you, your govern-
ment-now that we move into an era of
peace, now that we will have coopera-
tion with the U.S. and with other govern-
ments as well, I am sure, in accomplish-
ing peaceful goals, we think that Egypt
now is at the beginning—it is almost trite
to say it not only of a new era but the
beginning of what can be the greatest
progress this nation has known for many
generations and even centuries.
That is your goal. You have spoken
feelingly to me about that goal as we have
seen your people-so many of them-
the farmers, the workers, the teachers, the
professional people, and the others,
whether in the countryside, in Cairo, or
in Alexandria.
It is a great goal, and you can be
sure, Mr. President, that we in America
share that goal with you. And as far as
the principles stated in the papers that
we have just signed are concerned, you can
be sure we do not consider this just another
piece of paper. It has the backing of our
Government officially, it has my personal
backing, and it also has the heartfelt sup-
port, I am sure, of the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
12:45 p.m. in the Palace Theater of Abdin
Palace in Cairo, in response to remarks by
President Sadat.
President Sadat spoke in Arabic. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Great guest of Egypt, the President, Richard
Nixon, distinguished guests, ladies and gentle-
men:
I am indeed happy to be able to speak to
you once again at the end of this visit which we
all share the view that it is a visit which is both
historic and of paramount importance because
of the significance that it bears in steering
American-Egyptian relations once again to-
wards the path of friendship and cooperation
501
