Richard Nixon, 1974
June 6 [166]
reflection of America's broader hopes and
responsibilities. And I say to you gentle-
men, these are hopes and responsibilities
each of you will be helping to meet as you
journey to your first duty stations.
As long as you do your duty, as long as
the people and the Government support
you, the America, the country you love
and serve, will survive.
Today, each one of you becomes a cus-
todian of a noble tradition of service. As
the first class to have begun its studies in
the post-Vietnam era, it falls to you to
serve in such a way that the graduates
who follow you in the years to come will
enter a United States Navy that is strong,
that is prepared, and is respected, and
above all, a navy and a nation at honor-
able peace with all nations in the world.
One hundred and seventy years ago,
after Nelson's great victory at Trafalgar,
Prime Minister William Pitt was honored
at a dinner at London's historic Guild-
hall. He was hailed as the savior of Eu-
rope. He responded to that toast with a
brief speech that has been named by Lord
Curzon as one of the three masterpieces
of English eloquence.
Listen to his words: I return you many
thanks for the honor you have done me.
But no single man will save Europe. Eng-
land has saved herself by her exertions and
will, I trust, save Europe by her example.
Today, 170 years later, we can say, no
single nation can save the world, but
America can and will save herself by
her exertions and will, we trust, by our
example, save the cause of peace and free-
dom for the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:49 a.m. at
the Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium. An
advance text of his remarks was released on
the same day.
Vice Adm. William P. Mack, USN, was
Superintendent of the United States Naval
Academy.
166
Remarks at a Luncheon With Prince Fahd of
Saudi Arabia.
June 6, 1974
Your Royal Highness and all of our dis-
tinguished guests from Saudi Arabia and
from the United States:
It is very appropriate that we are hav-
ing this luncheon, the last social function
at the White House prior to a visit to the
Mideast by the President of the United
States. This visit is one that comes at a
time that we are developing a hopeful,
new relationship with the nations in that
area, and particularly with the Arab na-
tions, some of which we have not had very
helpful or, shall we say, close relations
with in the past because of events on the
international scene.
But as we welcome our friends from
Saudi Arabia, it seems to me very impor-
tant to say to this company, and also to
say it to all of those who may hear or read
these words in America and in the world,
that America's interest in the Mideast is
not solely and not even primarily dictated
by what we call those pragmatic selfish
concerns that usually are the factor most
important in foreign policy.
For example, there are those who might
say we receive our Saudi friends here in
this company and the President of the
United States welcomes the opportunity
to go there because Saudi Arabia is the
473
