Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 8 [105]
Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan was
present as the President signed the bill in the
Oval Office.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the Fair Labor Standards
Amendments of 1974.
105 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on Aeronautics and Space Activities. April 8, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report
on our Nation's progress in aeronautics
and space activities during 1973.
This year has been particularly signifi-
cant in that many past efforts to apply the
benefits of space technology and informa-
tion to the solution of problems on Earth
are now coming to fruition. Experimental
data from the manned Skylab station and
the unmanned Earth Resources Technol-
ogy Satellite are already being used opera-
tionally for resource discovery and man-
agement, environmental information,
land use planning, and other applications.
Communications satellites have become
one of the principal methods of interna-
tional communication and are an impor-
tant factor in meeting national defense
needs. They will also add another dimen-
sion to our domestic telecommunications
systems when the first of four authorized
domestic satellite systems is launched in
1974. Similarly, weather satellites are now
our chief source of synoptic global and
local weather data. Efforts are continuing
to develop capabilities for worldwide two-
week weather forecasts by the beginning
of the next decade. The use of satellites for
efficient and safe routing of civilian and
military ships and airplanes is being
studied. Demonstration programs are now
underway aimed at improving our health
and education delivery systems using
space-age techniques.
Skylab has given us new information on
the energy characteristics of our sun. This
knowledge should help our understanding
of thermo-nuclear processes and contrib-
ute to the future development of new
energy sources. Knowledge of these proc-
esses may also help us understand the
sun's effect on our planet.
Skylab has proven that man can effec-
tively work and live in space for extended
periods of time. Experiments in space
manufacturing may also lead to new and
improved materials for use on Earth.
Development of the reusable Space
Shuttle progressed during 1973. The Shut-
tle will reduce the costs of space activity
by providing an efficient, economical
means of launching, servicing and retriev-
ing space payloads. Recognizing the Shut-
tle's importance, the European Space
Conference has agreed to construct a
space laboratory-Spacelab-for use with
the Shuttle.
Notable progress has also been made
with the Soviet Union in preparing the
Apollo-Soyuz Test Project scheduled for
1975. We are continuing to cooperate with
other nations in space activities and shar-
ing of scientific information. These efforts
contribute to global peace and prosperity.
While we stress the use of current tech-
nology to solve current problems, we are
employing unmanned spacecraft to stim-
ulate further advances in technology and
to obtain knowledge that can aid us in
solving future problems. Pioneer 10 gave
us our first closeup glimpse of Jupiter and
339
