[42] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
portation without environmental dam-
age, without wasted energy, and if
possible, without congestion.
Let me turn now from the problem of
transportation within our cities to the
problem of transportation between our
cities.
A healthy rail system is essential to the
development of a balanced transportation
system.
Nothing has hindered the economic
health of our Nation's rail systems more
than the outmoded and complex Federal
regulations which govern those systems.
These regulations have prevented the
railroads from maintaining a competi-
tive position with other forms of
transportation.
The collapse of the Penn Central Rail-
road is ample evidence of the wrong-
headedness of this approach. While we
cannot afford to let our railroads fail,
neither can we afford to bail them out
every time they get in trouble. Our econ-
omy cannot afford it, and our taxpayers
will not tolerate it.
If we are to revitalize our railroads,
we must shift the focus of our concern
from outmoded rules to economic reali-
ties. We cannot meet jet-age transporta-
tion requirements with horse-and-buggy
regulations.
The inability of our railroads to com-
pete with other forms of transportation
has seriously affected this vital industry.
The railroads often cannot afford to
make necessary improvements in tracks,
terminals, and equipment. The result has
been a steady deterioration of service.
To modernize and revitalize our sys-
tem of rail transportation, I will submit
to the Congress next week the Transpor-
tation Improvement Act of 1974. This
act is aimed at restoring this Nation's
railroads to their proper place in the na-
tional transportation system.
The proposal would authorize $2 bil-
lion in Federal loan guarantees to help
railroads invest in their tracks, their ter-
minals, and their equipment. These loan
guarantees are not a signal that we in-
tend to provide public handouts to our
railroads. They are, on the contrary,
intended to restore the railroads to a posi-
tion in which they can once again com-
pete economically with other methods of
transportation and, thereby, support
themselves without Federal assistance.
But this cannot happen until we adjust
the Federal regulations which created
the problem in the first place. Therefore,
the transportation improvement act
would significantly overhaul Federal reg-
ulations governing rail freight carriers.
In addition, it would eliminate the prac-
tice of discrimination through taxation
which has further contributed to the
economic problems of our railroads.
One of the most significant moments
in our history occurred in 1869 when the
Union Pacific Railroad, building west
from Omaha, met the Central Pacific,
building east from Sacramento. The
joining of our Nation in this manner
opened a whole new era of economic
growth for America. Today our railroads
are more necessary than ever. They make
extremely efficient use of fuel with little
negative effect on the environment, and
they deliver nearly 35 percent of the Na-
tion's freight at low cost. The essential
tracks are there, the system that criss-
crosses the country with a web of steel
rails is in place. Now we must make it
work again.
As we act to improve our urban and
148
