[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
we weren't talking to for 20 years-the
People's Republic of China. Why? Be-
cause they are the leaders of one-fourth
of all of the people on this Earth, and it
is far better to talk to them now than it
is to wait until later when they would be a
very, very great super power with, of
course, the ability to use that strength even
against us or our allies.
Second, we have started negotiations,
some of them heavily criticized by mem-
bers of the press and others, with the
Soviet Union. Those negotiations have
resulted in finally beginning to limit nu-
clear arms, avoiding a crisis or at least
avoiding a confrontation in the Mideast
developing into a crisis which could have
been far worse, and also a number of
other areas that we think are quite
helpful.
Now, at a time that we have begun to
seek better relations with those who are
our adversaries, it was my thought that
this
year, 1974, should be a year in which
we should shore up and develop a better
relationship and a closer relationship and
consultation with our friends.
That is what the "Year of Europe" was
about. We have made considerable prog-
ress on it.
As far as agreement with regard to se-
curity-in other words, the NATO Alli-
ance the declarations that were being
prepared for a possible meeting at the
summit by heads of government have
gone very well. Now, in the political and
economic field, in the dealings between
"The Nine"-the European Commu-
nity and the United States, those dis-
cussions have not gone well. They have
not gone well due to the fact that "The
Nine," at times, have not consulted with
us, we think, fully or in time and, second,
in some areas have actually taken a posi-
tion which is hostile to the United States.
Now, under the circumstances, there-
fore, the trip that we had thought I would
take to Brussels, and other European lead-
ers would take to Brussels, to sign a com-
munique with regard to the new relation-
ship not only with regard to security but
also in the economic and political field, I
felt should be postponed. I felt it should
be postponed for this reason: You must
never go to the summit unless you know
what is on the other side. And when you
go to the summit and summit leaders have
broad differences and paper them over
with diplomatic doubletalk, that does not
serve the cause of good relations.
That is why some rather direct state-
ment needed to be made from this side of
the Atlantic with regard to our concern.
And I would say that with regard to the
nations of Europe, that we have had
communications from other European
leaders. I believe that we are going to
work out the differences that we have in
the economic and political field.
I do not mean by that, that we are not
going to continue to be competitors, be-
cause the free Europe, the European Com-
munity, will be a great economic unit.
But I do mean that at a time that the
United States furnishes the security shield
for Europe, that we can at least expect
from our European allies and friends that
they will consult with us and not work ac-
tively against us in the political field or
the economic field. It is that point I was
trying to make.
The other point that I made I would
like to elaborate on, too. Some have
thought that as a result of my statement in
Chicago, that I would go along with the
Mansfield amendment or others to uni-
294
