[14] Jan. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
shall do everything in my power to prevent
the big oil companies and other major
energy producers from making an uncon-
scionable profit out of this crisis. Too many
Americans have sacrificed too much to
allow that to happen.
That is why I shall urge the Congress,
when it reconvenes on Monday, to act
immediately on the windfall profits tax
that I requested last month. This tax
would require that windfall profits either
be turned over to the Government or be
invested in the development of new sup-
plies, supplies that will be vitally needed
in the years ahead.
Private profiteering at the expense of
public sacrifice must never be tolerated in
a free country.
Another question many people are ask-
ing, to put it bluntly, is whether there is
really an energy shortage at all. If so, how
serious is it? I am just as interested as you
are in getting at the truth in this matter.
That is why, when the Congress returns,
I will propose legislation requiring the oil
companies to provide a full and constant
accounting of their inventories, their pro-
duction, their costs, and their reserves.
This legislation will make it possible
for the Federal Government to monitor
these supplies independently.
In the meantime, to be sure that the
information I am getting is accurate and
complete, I have directed the Federal
Energy Office to conduct a thorough audit
of the records of all the major domestic oil
companies. They will have several hun-
dred inspectors in the field. If more inspec-
tors are needed, they will be provided. If
the reports are not satisfactory, I shall ask
the heads of the major oil companies to
meet with me personally in Washington
so that I can get the facts I need to make
decisions that are right and that are best
for all Americans.
I assure you that I shall not allow the
American people to be the victims of a
"snow job" in a crisis which affects the
jobs, the comfort, and the very way of life
of millions of Americans.
I have also directed that an immediate
review be made of the international tax
structure to ensure that American com-
panies which are developing energy re-
sources abroad are not permitted to avail
themselves of special tax advantages
abroad. I have also ordered a review of
other tax laws affecting companies that
produce energy.
Based on the best information I have
been able to get, this is my analysis of the
energy crisis at this time:
The shortages are genuine, they may
become more severe, and they are poten-
tially, therefore, dangerous.
Last year, the United States consumed
roughly 18 million barrels of petroleum,
in one form or another, every day.
We produce over 11 million barrels a
day from our own resources here in this
country.
The differences must be made up by
imports from foreign producers.
Because of the Mideast oil embargo,
however, my chief adviser, Mr. William
Simon, in the energy area, now advises
that during the first 3 months of 1974, our
imports will fall short of our normal de-
mands by 2.7 million barrels a day. That
shortfall is the heart of the current
emergency.
The economic stress now felt by the
United States is having an even stronger
impact upon Western Europe, Japan, and
many developing countries because they
lack the domestic resources we have in
this country.
In the long run, the producing nations
14
