[47] Feb. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
other people. The word "concern" is a
good word.
There is another word, however, that
many in this audience would not know,
but that I am familiar with, that perhaps
describes this hospital better than any-
thing else. It is the Hebrew word tsdakah.
You know what it means. It does not
mean charity in the sense of doing some-
thing for somebody because it is your duty,
because there are less fortunate, not the
condescension that charity might mean to
some, but tsdakah means do it because it
is right, it is just, do justly in your rela-
tions with your fellow human beings. That
is what Cedars of Lebanon is all about.
Ladies and gentlemen, as we think of
this center, therefore, we thank those who
contributed to make it possible. We ex-
press our appreciation to the medical
profession, not only the doctors and the
nurses but the technicians who with their
personal devotion and dedication will
make it something more than a beautiful
building, but will create that spirit that is
so important to the recovery of an indi-
vidual who may be plagued with illness.
And finally, there is one other thought
that occurs to me which, I think, relates
our whole program of health care to a
goal that we all share today, and that is
the goal of peace in the world. We are
very fortunate that for the first time in 12
years, the United States is at peace with
every nation in the world today.
Now, that peace was hard to gain, and
it is not easy to keep. And we must not
assume that it can be kept without
strength, without firmness, without diplo-
macy, and without leadership by the
United States, because the hope of any
small nation in the world to survive rests
right here in the United States of Amer-
ica, and we must be worthy of those hopes.
But let's move away from security, the
peacekeeping things that we are all so
concerned about. Let's move to other
initiatives that are tremendously impor-
tant and that can come in the years ahead
if we can keep the peace.
Just 2 years ago, Mrs. Nixon and I
visited the People's Republic of China.
They have a system of government that I
disagree with and that you disagree with,
and they disagree with ours. But one-
fourth of all the people of the world live
there. And so, therefore, we should have
relations with them for the purpose of
avoiding a conflict in war. But there is
another reason.
Just a few months ago, as a result of
that visit, there came into my office 15
doctors from the People's Republic of
China. That is the first time in 25 years
that doctors from the country in which
one-fourth of all the people of the world
live had ever visited the United States of
America. And as I met them and talked
to them through an interpreter, I realized
that if we are really going to do everything
that we should and can to find a cure or a
number of cures to the various types of
cancer, which is one of the great goals we
have, if we are going to do everything we
can to develop better medical facilities
and also the answers to other diseases that
today are mysteries even to the great
technical medical profession that we have,
the answer is not necessarily only going
to be found in America.
Oh, we have the best laboratories, I am
sure. We have the best equipment in
America. I think perhaps we have more
qualified medical doctors and scientists in
America in this field than any place in the
world. But there are only 200 million
Americans, and there are 3 billion that
live in this world, and where is the genius,
168
