Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 1 [29]
increasing production and assuring the
stability of supplies. There are many
others.
I. We have discovered that we no
longer have a surplus of food, in the sense
of producing more than we need either
to consume at home or to sell abroad in
order to pay for the things we buy abroad.
We no longer have great reserves of food
in storage and acreage withheld from use.
We have freed the American farmer to
produce as much as he can and we should
keep him free. American agriculture is,
and should be, heavily involved in ex-
ports. This means that the American food
price level and the American consumer
are directly influenced by the forces of
world demand and supply. International
cooperation is needed to promote food
production and the maintenance of stocks
adequate to shield consumers from the
more extreme variations of output. At the
call of the Secretary of State, preparations
are now being made for a conference on
this subject to be held under United
Nations auspices.
II. Our ability to buy abroad what is
produced more efficiently abroad, and to
sell abroad what we produce more effi-
ciently, contributes to the productivity of
the American economy. At my recom-
mendation the countries of the world are
now preparing to negotiate new steps in
foreign trade policy which will further
invigorate this beneficial process. I urge
the Congress to enact promptly the trade
legislation I have proposed to permit the
United States to participate in these
negotiations.
III. One of our most essential indus-
tries-freight transportation-is unfortu-
nately shot through with inefficiencies.
Many of these inefficiencies are the result
of obsolete, shortsighted, and excessive
regulation. Hundreds of millions and
probably billions of dollars a year could be
saved by unleashing carriers and shippers
to carry the freight on the most efficient
mode of transportation, in the most effi-
cient way. I have sent to the Congress
new proposals to this end.
IV. In 1973, as in 1972, relatively few
days of work were lost as a result of in-
dustrial disputes. Continuation of this rec-
ord would be a valuable contribution to
the level and stability of production. I
have appointed a Commission on Indus-
trial Peace, composed of leaders of man-
agement and labor with an impartial
chairman, to make recommendations for
bringing that about.
V. In addition to the major research
and development effort to provide secure
supplies of energy, without abusing our
natural environment in doing so, this Ad-
ministration is continuing its support of
research and development projects that
will help maintain a healthy rate of inno-
vation and productivity growth in the rest
of our economy. These activities will be
supported at record levels in the coming
year, and we are also trying to get a higher
return for every dollar we spend.
VI. An indispensable source of eco-
nomic growth is saving and investment in
productive facilities. It should be the pol-
icy of government to interfere with this
process as little as possible. The govern-
ment should not absorb private savings
into financing its deficits in times when
private investment would otherwise utilize
all the private saving. Our basic budget
policy of balancing the budget or running
a surplus under conditions of high em-
ployment carries out this principle. More-
over, taxation should not depress produc-
tive investment by unduly burdening its
return. We should not indulge in demo-
109
