[43] Feb. 11
II
Public Papers of the Presidents
would say, in virtually every country rep-
resented here today. There are people,
very well-intentioned people, but people
who, I think, are erroneous with regard to
their views, who in each of our countries
would take the point of view that now
that we have peace, the time has come
for-they would not call it isolationism—
but basically for each country to look after
its own interest.
There are those who say that at the
time when we needed the mutual security
which built the great alliances in the past
no longer exists or at least not to the same
extent.
I would be less than candid if I were
not to say that within the United States
there has been growing in recent years—
and perhaps it has been accelerated to a
certain extent by our very difficult experi-
ence in Vietnam-a growing sense of
isolationism, not just about security-
those, for example, who believe that the
United States unilaterally should with-
draw forces from Europe and, for that
matter, withdraw its forces from all over
the world and make our treaty commit-
ments to other nations in the Far East and
in Europe meaningless-but also with
regard to trade where those who com-
pletely oppose the initiatives we have
undertaken in the trade area and who
oppose even some of the initiatives in the
international monetary area that you are
all familiar with.
I think the ladies and gentlemen in this
room are aware of the fact that this Ad-
ministration—and I would like to point
out that I believe that the view I now
express goes far beyond simply a partisan
viewpoint, because there are many
Democrats as well as Republicans who
support the point of view that I will now
express-reject the idea that the United
States should now listen to the voices of
isolation which plagued us before World
War II and which always seems to rise to
a new crescendo after each war in which
we were engaged.
We reject it, for example, in the field
of trade. We believe that it is vitally im-
portant to go forward with the great trade
initiatives that have been undertaken, as
Secretary Shultz has often stated in his
meetings with his counterparts repre-
sented here at this meeting.
We believe it is vitally important in
the field of monetary affairs that the
United States play a responsible role with
other nations in the free world in de-
veloping a more stable system, one that
will not be affected by the shocks that
have so often, over the past 10 years,
shaken the world monetary institutions
to their very foundations.
We also believe this in the terms of
security, as I have already indicated,
where we oppose the idea that the United
States, because we have entered into a
period of peace which we long wanted,
now can reduce its forces unilaterally
without having a compensatory reduction
among others or where the United States
will turn away from the treaty commit-
ments that it has, whether it is in Europe
or in Asia.
Let me now relate this particular dis-
cussion in the field of security, in the field
of trade, in the field of monetary affairs
to the subject of energy.
Here, I think it is understandable that
leaders, and those who affect leaders in
each of the countries that we represent,
might well take the point of view that
each nation for its own reasons should,
in effect, go into business for itself, that
152
