[137] May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing 4,000 fine young men and women to
go forth in the service of their communi-
ties, of their States, of the Nation, and
as I will point out, also of the entire
human race.
On an occasion like this, it is of course,
customary to talk, as we should, about the
future. It is, however, on an occasion like
this, certainly not appropriate to disregard
problems of the present. I know, for exam-
ple, from talking to both of your two great
Senators and to the two Congressmen
who are here-John Jarman, Happy
Camp, Senator Bartlett, Senator Bell-
mon-that farmers in Oklahoma, like
farmers in other places, are concerned
by the effect of the energy crisis on them,
the shortages in fertilizer and in other
areas.
I know that the cattlemen, for example,
are concerned in Oklahoma, as they are
in every other part of the country, be-
cause after a very, very good 2 years, they
have a tough year this year because of a
cost price squeeze. I know, too, that every
housewife or budgetkeeper, should we
say-is concerned about the problem of
inflation, which is not limited to America.
It is worldwide, as you know, but that
makes it no less a difficult problem or one
that we should be less concerned by, the
fact that it is others' as well as our own.
And I know, too, that those who are in-
terested in our country have been con-
cerned, as I have been deeply concerned,
by the political problems that we have had
in Washington.
I can only say on this nonpolitical oc-
casion, this: that having presented all of
the evidence to the Congress of the United
States, I trust that the House of Repre-
sentatives will act promptly so that we
can reach a decision, so that the President,
the Congress can get on with the people's
business, as we should.
And having spoken of some of those
problems, let me also remind ourselves of
some of those things on this magnificent
evening we can be thankful for. We can
be thankful that for the first time in 12
years, the United States is at peace with
every nation in the world.
We can be thankful that for the first
time in 8 years, every American prisoner
of war is home where he belongs and that
he came home on his feet and not on his
knees.
And most of all—and I say this not only
to those in the graduating class but to the
juniors and sophomores and the freshmen
and, I trust, the generation to come-we
can be thankful that for the first time in
25 years, no young American is being
drafted to serve in the Armed Forces of
the United States.
As we look at our economic situation,
we see its problems. But just a few weeks
ago in Paris, I talked to the leaders of 35
nations, the great nations of Europe and
of Asia and some of the smaller nations of
Latin America and Africa. I talked to
them of their problems, and we talked of
ours. And today, on this beautiful evening,
we can also be thankful that whatever our
problems are, that in America, Americans
enjoy more freedom, more opportunity,
better jobs, higher wages, and a greater
chance for a great future than in any place
in the world.
That is America. This is a great and a
good country. But we must go from here
to more greatness. As you study history,
you will inevitably find that the time of a
nation's potential destruction is not when
it is weak, but when it is strong, or ap-
pears to be; not when it is poor,
poor, but when
428
