Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 6 [70]
should not require as the price for telling
the truth getting immunity. That was my
view then; it is my view now.
I should also point out that in the case
of Mr. Ehrlichman, Mr. Haldeman, Mr.
Colson-all of whom have been in-
dicted-it is significant to note that none
of them have used the shield of the fifth
amendment, as they could have, and pled
self-incrimination.
None of them have bargained for pleas,
as they could have in order to get a lighter
sentence. Each of them has testified freely
before the committee; each of them has
testified before the grand jury; each ap-
parently believes in his innocence.
Under these circumstances, while they
have been convicted in the press over and
over again, while they have been con-
victed before committees over and over
again, they are now before a court, and
they are entitled to, they will receive from
me and, I think, from every fairminded
American the presumption of innocence
individual is entitled to, because
that any
a court of law is the proper place for such
matters to be decided.
OIL EMBARGO
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Secretary Kis-
singer has reported to you on his recent
Middle East mission. Did he bring an
optimistic report on the lifting of the oil
embargo?
THE PRESIDENT. The oil embargo is a
matter the discussion of which would not
serve a useful purpose at this time, except
to say that a meeting is now scheduled,
as I understand it, on the 11th of March
by the oil-producing countries.
It will take place in Egypt, I think,
which, of course, is not an oil-producing
country, but where apparently the
Egyptians have some influence on that
decision.ยน
However, as I pointed out about 10 days
ago in my news conference, progress on
the diplomatic front, while it is not linked
to lifting of the embargo, inevitably has
an effect on it.
We have had progress on the diplomatic
front, first the settlement for the disen-
gagement on the Egyptian front, and sec-
ond, while it is an even more difficult
problem than the Egyptian disengage-
ment, the agreement of the Syrians and
the Israelis to come to Washington 2 weeks
from now to discuss how a disengagement
can be worked out on the Syrian front.
The United States will use its influence
just as strongly as we can with both parties
to get a disengagement on the Syrian front
as quickly as possible, which is just and
equitable to both sides.
We believe that the progress-the mo-
tion, I should describe, that is taking place
on the diplomatic front, will inevitably
have a constructive effect on the oil-
producing companies [countries] insofar
as their decision on the embargo, but I am
going to leave that decision to them be-
cause indicating what they will do might
lead them to do otherwise.
MARCH 21ST MEETING
said
[14.] Q. Mr.
President, you
earlier, if my notes are correct, that on
March 21, Mr. Dean told you for the first
* The embargo talks, originally scheduled for
March 10, 1974, in Cairo, Egypt, were post-
poned when three of the oil-producing coun-
tries-Algeria, Libya, and Syria-failed to send
representatives. The meeting took place on
March 13 in Tripoli, Libya.
237
