Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 4 [32]
diplomacy. To be effective, statesmanship
must be backed by credible military
strength. The 1975 budget provides for
the defense forces essential to protect our
national security and to maintain the
credibility and effectiveness of our diplo-
matic efforts to preserve world peace.
Increases in spending for military func-
tions are necessary for both 1974 and 1975.
Outlays of $85.8 billion are proposed for
1975, compared to $79.5 billion for 1974.
These figures include the outlay impacts
of proposed supplemental appropriations.
These increases are required to improve
the readiness of our armed forces, to build
up levels of essential equipment and sup-
plies, and to meet today's higher costs of
maintaining force levels. They would also
provide for a vigorous research and devel-
opment effort that would enable us to
produce new weapon systems if they are
needed to maintain the strategic balance.
Because of the urgency I attach to a
strong defense effort, I am recommending
supplemental appropriations for 1974. An
increase of $2.8 billion in budget author-
ity is proposed to improve combat readi-
ness and modernize forces, to augment
munitions stock levels in accordance with
lessons learned in the Middle East war,
and to meet higher fuel costs.
The increases proposed for defense
should be viewed in the context of the
substantial—but prudent-reduction in
our defense forces that has taken place
since I took office. This reduction has
resulted primarily from our success in
bringing about a general easing of world
tensions, in achieving mutual arms limita-
tions, and in improving weapons systems
and military efficiency. We have 36%
fewer men under arms today than we had
in 1968. In constant dollar terms, we will
spend substantially less for defense in 1975
than we did in 1964, before the Vietnam
buildup began.
The dollar costs of defense manpower
are much higher with an all-volunteer
armed force than they were under the
draft. The Nation is now paying the full
real costs of its defense in dollar terms;
we no longer "tax" the young by com-
manding their services at less than their
market value. I hope that we will never
again need a draft.
Strengthening international economic
cooperation is essential to our quest for
peace. Expansion of peaceful trade rela-
tionships helps bind together the peoples
of the world. We have already made con-
siderable progress toward international
monetary reform, progress which has
helped bring about dramatic improve-
ment in our balance of payments. The
Trade Reform Act, now before the Con-
gress,
would authorize U.S. participation
in a new round of international discussions
to reduce trade barriers. Failure to enact
this measure in a responsible form could
result in a wave of trade protectionism
that would undermine the economic well-
being of all nations. I urge the Congress
to approve it.
This budget provides for the continua-
tion of our foreign assistance programs to
strengthen the economies of developing
nations, to provide humanitarian assist-
ance and disaster relief, and to help
friendly nations provide for their own
defense.
MEETING THE NATION'S NEEDS FOR
ENERGY AND BASIC RESOURCES
Until recent years, this country was
largely self-sufficient in energy produc-
tion. The rapidly growing demands of our
households and industries for more and
117
