Richard Nixon, 1974
May 7 [131]
sponsibilities of the FEO through June 30,
1976, including:
-Fuel allocation and pricing regula-
tion;
-energy data collection and analysis;
and
-broad energy planning with particu-
lar emphasis on energy conservation
and expansion of energy supplies.
As a first priority, I have directed FEA
to work with other Government agencies
to prepare a comprehensive plan for
achieving the goals of Project Independ-
ence the capacity for energy self-suffi-
ciency by 1980.
The creation of the Federal Energy Ad-
ministration is an important accomplish-
ment, but we should recognize that by no
stretch of the imagination have we yet
overcome the energy challenge. There are
now disturbing indications that with the
passage of the immediate crisis-a crisis
that we weathered much better than the
critics ever expected-many Americans
believe that good conservation habits can
be forgotten.
We need continued conservation and
major new initiatives to expand our en-
ergy supplies for the future. We must get
on with the actions that are needed to
meet the goals of Project Independence-
to reduce the vulnerability of the United
States to threats from other nations arising
from our growing dependence upon
for-
eign sources of energy.
The Nation is fortunate in having
abundant energy resources. Now, with the
help of the Congress, we must act to accel-
erate the development of those resources.
Private industry is already moving ahead
with investments to increase the produc-
tion of coal, oil, and natural gas. The Gov-
ernment can assist by removing obstacles
to efficient energy production.
The FEA, working with other Federal
agencies, will make an important con-
tribution to these efforts. Federal agencies
are encouraging new methods of produc-
ing energy, such as the commercial use of
geothermal energy and oil from our vast
oil shale reserves. Further, we are sup-
porting research and development to find
new and better ways of using our abun-
dant coal resources and to capture the
benefits of solar energy and nuclear fusion.
These efforts will be expanded if the
Congress provides the greatly increased
funding I have requested for fiscal year
1975-
But still more remains to be done by the
Congress and the Nation if we are to
bring energy supplies and demand into
balance. There are now 16 key Adminis-
tration proposals awaiting action on Capi-
tol Hill, some of them for as long as 3
years. These measures are vital to both the
conservation of energy and the expansion
of supplies, and I urge once again that the
Congress move forward more swiftly in
acting on these bills.
As witnessed by the enactment of the
Federal Energy Administration Act, we
are making encouraging headway on the
organizational front. I am also pleased to
note that the Senate Government Opera-
tions Committee is moving ahead with
favorable action on the proposal I sub-
mitted last June, and which the House
of Representatives passed in December,
to create an Energy Research and Devel-
opment Administration. This new orga-
nization, ERDA, would spearhead the Na-
tion's extensive R&D efforts in energy.
I would urge similar speed on bills that
would greatly expand our domestic
supplies.
One proposal of particular importance
is the Natural Gas Supply Act which I
417
