[42] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
shown once again that when industry or
any segment of the American economy
has acute problems because of the energy
crisis, the Federal Government will act
promptly to find a responsible and just
solution. This will continue to be our
policy in the future.
But in no instance will we tolerate
violence from those with grievances.
Those who willfully break the law can
expect no sympathy from those who en-
force the law. We intend to enforce the
Federal laws, and we will give State and
local officials the assistance they need to
enforce their laws.
It is important to emphasize that dur-
ing the recent stoppage, despite the threats
of violence from a handful of desperadoes,
at least 80 percent of the Nation's truck-
ers, to their very great credit, stayed on
the job. I want to commend those truckers
and all of their leaders, such as Frank
Fitzsimmons, who heads the country's
largest single union, the Teamsters, for
their responsible actions during this
period.
At the urging of several leaders of the
independent truckers, who recognize that
the actions taken by the Government are
just and are reasonable, many of the
trucks are already back in operation, and
our highways are generally free from
violence.
And now it is time to get all the trucks
back on the road.
The trucking industry plays a critical
role in our economy, and it is essential
that the truckers continue to provide food,
fuel, and other supplies to all Americans.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:07 p.m. from
a room adjoining the Oval Office at the White
House. His remarks were broadcast live on
nationwide radio.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
43 Remarks at a Working Dinner of the Washington Energy
Conference. February 11, 1974
Gentlemen and Miss Ray: 1
It is for all of us in this house a very
great honor to have such a distinguished
company on this occasion.
And as I welcome the foreign ministers
of the 12 nations that are represented at
this conference, as well as the finance
ministers and other ministers of economic
affairs, I want you to know that we are
privileged to have you here again. Most
of you have been here before when either
the heads of government or heads of state
have visited the United States.
ยน Dixy Lee Ray was Chairman of the Atomic
Energy Commission.
In speaking to you today, I am not
going to get into some of the technical
matters that I understand have been
covered at rather considerable length in
your discussions earlier in the day.
I thought that perhaps it would be more
useful for this distinguished company if
I were to speak to you not simply in terms
of the energy problem, which very prop-
erly has been the subject of primary dis-
cussion, but to put that problem in a larger
context of the world in which we live and
the other problems which we face to which
that, of course, is very, very closely related.
I think everybody in this room is aware
of the fact that we are here at what I
150
