[43] Feb. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
We cannot yet expect solutions. The time is
too short for this, and we are not yet suffi-
ciently aware of the community of our interests.
The problems are varied. The degree of de-
pendence differs from one industrialized coun-
try to the other. It was a good thing, therefore,
that the least dependent country, the United
States, has taken the initiative to convene the
present conference.
The question of the right price will continue
to occupy us for quite some time. There can be
no dispute that before the outbreak of the crisis
the price of crude oil was too low in view of
the existing market situation. As early as the
late sixties, the crude oil market had changed
from a buyer's to a seller's market without this
having had any effect on prices, but there is
no doubt that the prices demanded now are too
high.
In the medium and long term, they would
have adverse effects on the oil-producing coun-
tries, too. It will be essential for producers and
consumers jointly to find the price that assures
the long-term competitiveness of oil as com-
pared with other energy sources.
This question cannot be considered among
industrialized countries alone. The result would
be bound to arouse the suspicion of the produc-
ing countries.
At long last, producers and consumers will
have to get together to develop a joint basic
concept.
And finally, let us not forget the economic
and the monetary consequences of the present
international emergency situation. It is not
only the industrialized countries that suffer
from them. Many developing countries which
do not have oil resources of their own are also
affected, in that an unbearable burden is im-
posed on their already unfavorable foreign
exchange balance.
This gives rise to great complexities. The dis-
order in the international monetary system, the
frequent change of parities were one of the
causes for the upward movement of oil prices.
We now have to make a point of avoiding that
the price changes on their part do not make the
international monetary structure disintegrate
altogether.
Our governments are now called upon to act
jointly. The prosperity of our nations is based
on the orderly development of international
trade. Its disruption would be to nobody's inter-
est. It would benefit neither energy producers
nor the producers of raw materials in general.
Nor would it be to the advantage of either
developing or industrialized countries.
This again confirms the truth of the words
of John Donne, "No man is an island, entire of
itself." It is now essential for us that we stand
the test. We all must bear social responsibility,
social responsibility in the widest sense of the
word, towards the community of nations and
towards our own citizens.
I raise my glass and drink to the health of
our host, the President of the United States,
and to the well-being of the American people,
to that of the countries' representatives at the
conference, and to the success of our joint
efforts.
44 Remarks at a Ceremony Commemorating the Birth
February 12, 1974
of Abraham Lincoln.
All of the distinguished guests on the
platform, and ladies and gentlemen and
our guests who are listening on radio and
television:
As I was reading about the Lincoln
Memorial before coming down here this
morning, I found that of all of the great
historical sights in the Washington area,
the Lincoln Memorial is visited more
often than any other by far.
As a matter of fact, I have learned,
I will say to Mr. Walker of the Park
Service, that the Memorial has been
visited so often and has received so much
wear and tear that it perhaps is going
to have to have some substantial work
done to build it back up so that it can take
all the traffic.
The question that I would like to ad-
dress briefly this morning on Lincoln's
156
