[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
additional critical energy facilities. This
legislation will be directed toward:
-advanced approval of adequate
sites for energy facilities on a regional
basis;
-better coordination of the various
approvals now required by all levels of
Government;
-and improved long range planning
of energy facility requirements.
Changes in the Clean Air Act
The Clean Air Act has provided the
basis for major improvements in air qual-
ity and we must continue our progress
toward even greater improvement. How-
ever, during the current energy shortage,
it has become clear that some changes in
the act are needed to provide greater flex-
ibility in deadlines and other require-
ments. The special energy legislation now
before the Congress would permit tem-
porary relaxation in some requirements
applicable to power plants when an ade-
quate supply of clean energy is not avail-
able. It would also extend the deadlines
for the reduction of emissions from auto-
mobiles. I hope the Congress will move
quickly to grant authority for temporary
relaxation of requirements and freezing
the standards for auto emissions-now
applicable to 1975 model cars-for two
additional years. This latter action will
permit auto manufacturers to concentrate
greater attention on improving fuel econ-
omy while retaining a fixed target for
lower emissions. These changes can be
made without significantly adverse effect
on our progress in improving air quality.
The Congress has also been advised by
the Environmental Protection Agency of
evidence demonstrating that the reduc-
tions of nitrogen oxides from automobiles
as required by the Clean Air Act are un-
necessarily stringent and that technology
to achieve the reductions is not yet prac-
ticable. In addition, the Congress has been
advised by the Environmental Protection
Agency that deadlines cannot be met for
meeting air quality standards in some
metropolitan areas without drastically
curtailing the use of motor vehicles. For
instance, these deadlines would require
that motor vehicle usage in Los Angeles
be reduced by as much as 87 percent.
An extensive review is now underway
within the executive branch of the impli-
cations of court decisions which require
that EPA act to prevent "significant de-
terioration" of air quality-a requirement
that is not defined in either the law or
court decisions. This matter has far-reach-
ing implications for public policy regard-
ing land use as well as air quality. Changes
in the law may thus be required to deal
with this problem, and we will consult
with the Congress as appropriate.
We must continue to assess the impact
of actions required by the Clean Air Act
so that there will be a basis for sound de-
cisions that provide an appropriate bal-
ance among our objectives for environ-
mental quality, economic and social
growth, energy supply and national
security.
IV. NEW ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS
AND STUDIES
In addition to preparing the legisla-
tive proposals above, I have directed that
a number of executive actions be taken
and additional legislative studies be made
which could help us to succeed with Proj-
ect Independence. Among these actions
are the following:
28
