[125] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
throughout this land, speaking courage-
ously for what he believes in, for the cause
of conservatism for his party and for the
country he has served and loves so well.
And second, his colleague, Paul Fan-
nin. Paul Fannin is one of those men in
the United States Senate who does not
speak very often, but because he speaks
with such intelligence and such courage
and such ability, he is listened to. He is,
in my view, the top expert on energy in
America today, and he is a valuable man
for Arizona and the Nation.
And now, moving to the House of
Representatives—not as a lower body,
they don't like to be called that; having
been a Member of both bodies, I know-
I can say this: that Arizona can be proud
that it is the home not only of the man who
is now the Republican leader of the House
of Representatives but a man that I pre-
dict will be, in the future, the Speaker of
the House, Johnny Rhodes.
And his colleagues, I mention Sam
Steiger, who represents that little town,
mile high, in Prescott, that I knew so
many years ago, and a man who is one of
the Nation's top experts and my top ad-
viser in the field of land use, who believes
that those decisions should be made here
and not in Washington, D.C.
As some of you have probably noted,
I am somewhat of a baseball fan. I have
learned that in this audience tonight is a
man who will be inducted into the Hall of
Fame in Cooperstown next year, Jocko
Conlan. And I would like to say that
Jocko Conlan and the people of Ari-
zona can be proud of his son-when Jocko
Conlan was there as an umpire, and I
have seen him, he called them as he saw
them. And his son, John, calls them as
he sees them for the best interests of
America and his district and his State.
I would not want this opportunity to
pass, also, without expressing my appre-
ciation for the services of a new member
of our Cabinet, a Counsellor to the Presi-
dent, Dean Burch.
There are many subjects that I want to
address tonight. I want to look primarily
with you to the future of America, as I
know you want to look to the future of
America. Whatever we are-Democrats
or Republicans-we want a better future
for America and the world. I want to dis-
pose, however, of one subject that has, of
course, as Jack Williams implied, com-
manded a great deal of headlines over
the past year.
In this past week, as you are aware,
I have furnished not only to the Congress
but to the American people all of the
relevant evidence with regard to an issue
that has been of very great interest to the
American people. And I simply say this
tonight: The time has come to get Water-
gate behind us and get on with the busi-
ness of America.
The time has come for the President
and the Congress to devote their full at-
tention to what you, the people of Arizona
and America, think are of your great
concerns.
And so, tonight, I want to talk to you
not about what we are against, but what
we are for. I believe that is what Ameri-
cans desperately want to hear.
We have heard so much about what is
wrong about America. Let's hear some-
thing that is right about America. And
you will hear it tonight.
I begin with the issue that Jack Wil-
liams mentioned very graciously and gen-
erously in his introduction, and that is
the issue that we are all concerned about,
the issue of peace for America and peace
in the world.
404
