[32] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
more energy, however, have now out-
stripped available low-cost domestic sup-
plies. During the past few years we have
become dangerously dependent on im-
ported petroleum, which until recently
was low in price. Development of rela-
tively high-cost domestic sources has
lagged.
Three years ago, in the first energy mes-
sage delivered to the Congress by any
President, I warned that the long era of
abundant low-cost supplies of energy was
drawing to a close. I proposed an ex-
panded program to produce greater sup-
plies of clean energy. Last April, in my
second energy message, I warned that if
existing trends continued unchecked, the
Nation would face a serious energy prob-
lem; I proposed legislative action to meet
this challenge. Since then, I have repeated
my previous warnings and proposed
urgent measures to restore our capability
for energy self-sufficiency. The interrup-
tion of oil exports by Arab countries fol-
lowing the Middle East war last October
has aggravated the energy problem and
underscored sharply the need for this
country to regain its ability to be self-
sufficient in energy. I have taken all re-
sponsible actions I can within my existing
authority to meet this challenge.
The 1975 budget reflects a compre-
hensive national energy policy to deal
with current shortages and provides funds
to initiate the Federal portion of Project
Independence, an accelerated private and
governmental effort to reestablish our
capability for self-sufficiency in energy by
1980. I anticipate that the research and
development component of this program
will require about $10 billion in Govern-
ment funds during its first 5 years; greater
amounts may be needed thereafter. These
funds will complement an even larger re-
search and development investment in the
private sector, which I will continue to
encourage.
Higher prices will be necessary to
stimulate development of adequate sup-
plies of fuel through the mechanism of
the free market. To assure that this will
not result in excess profits for oil pro-
ducers, I have proposed an emergency
windfall profits tax on these producers.
Other elements of my comprehensive
national energy policy include:
-reorganization of Federal adminis-
trative machinery to deal more effec-
tively with short- and long-term
energy needs;
-stringent energy conservation meas-
ures and mandatory allocation of
petroleum products as long as short-
ages persist;
-mandatory reporting of oil produc-
tion, inventories, reserves, and costs;
—modernization of regulations for rail-
roads in order to permit energy sav-
ings and other economies;
-policies to accelerate development of
domestic oil and gas reserves, includ-
ing removal of ceilings on wellhead
prices for new natural gas, produc-
tion from the Elk Hills, Calif., Naval
Petroleum Reserve, and develop-
ment by private industry of western
oil shale and of off-shore oil and gas
deposits;
-measures to permit increased use of
our vast coal reserves, including en-
vironmental safeguards for surface
mining, conversion of oil-fired elec-
tric powerplants to coal, improve-
ment of mining techniques, and
accelerated efforts to develop tech-
nology for coal gasification, coal
liquefaction, advanced combustion
systems, and pollution control;
118
