[223] July 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
talked to Rabbi Korff, that caravans have
come all the way from California, from
States in the Mountain States, the Mid-
west, the Northeast, and I am very grate-
ful for the fact that all of you have done
this on your own expense because you be-
lieve in something.
I am particularly indebted to you for
personal reasons. But others will follow
me in this office, beginning in 1977 when
I shall have finished my term of office to
which I was elected. And those future
Presidents will thank you, all of you in
this group tonight and your hundreds of
thousands of colleagues across the Nation,
for rallying behind the Office of the Presi-
dency at this crucial time.
You have persisted under the most ad-
verse and sometimes the unfairest sort of
criticism. You have never wavered. You
have not lost your faith when many would
like to see you do so. And you have not
quit when quitting might have been easier,
and you are not going to quit, because we
are going to continue until we win.
As long as you have this kind of strength
in fighting for a cause you believe in, a
cause bigger than yourselves, as long as
America has this kind of strength, we shall
never fail to remain, in Lincoln's words,
"the last, best hope of earth."
I also want to express my appreciation
for the tribute you are paying tonight
especially to members of the White House
Staff and others within the executive
branch. The men and women you are
honoring deserve the praise of all Ameri-
cans, for they are unstinting but often
unsung in their service to the country,
service that most of them render at great
personal sacrifice. And by your support
for them and for the Office of the Presi-
dency, you make it possible for all of us
to carry out our responsibilities more
effectively.
While I know Rabbi Korff would not
want me to have this personal reference, I
do think that all of those with whom he
has worked will appreciate it, as I do.
Rabbi Korff's eloquence, his intelligence,
his dedication have been a great source of
strength to me and all of us in these
difficult times.
I want to thank each and every one of
you for your friendship and support. I just
wish I could be there to shake hands with
each of you and to thank you personally.
And I say in conclusion, let us continue
to work together, because together we
shall keep America on its great mission
of bringing a new era of peace with jus-
tice for the world and progress and op-
portunity for every American at home.
Thank you very much.
RABBI KORFF. Would you listen, Mr.
President, to the response of the people.
(Crowd chanting "We love Nixon.")
Mr. President, I am happy to tell you
that more delegates than we expected have
arrived, and the overflow had to be ac-
commodated in additional ballrooms. We
are very grateful for the spirit that unites
us and very grateful for the leadership
you have given us, and we love you dearly.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't tell you
again how very much I have appreciated
all the work that has gone into not only
this dinner but also the hours and hours
and days and days of work that have gone
into all of your efforts to date. And you
can be sure that I shall do everything that
I can to be worthy of your trust. And you
can be sure I shall not let you down.
RABBI KORFF. Mr. President, may I,
with your kind permission, as you pointed
out your White House Staff, I would like
596
