[207] July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
equivalent of 75 million barrels of oil or
approximately $600 million in reduced
costs to the taxpayer for energy.
I am also pleased by a report I have
received from the Secretary of Commerce,
Frederick B. Dent, on the progress made
by business in response to the voluntary
program I asked him to undertake with
the business community. He reports that
energy consumption in the industrial sec-
tor was reduced by 5 percent per unit of
output during the period of October 1973
through January 1974. This rate of sav-
ings, which the Secretary expects will be
maintained or exceeded in 1974 by all of
commerce and industry, represents an an-
nual savings of the equivalent of 425 mil-
lion barrels of oil. He indicates that 8,000
chief executives have pledged to under-
take energy management programs and
that some individual companies are re-
porting savings in excess of 20 percent.
Many companies are also reporting that
improved energy management is reducing
their costs and increasing productivity.
Since private industry accounts for ap-
proximately 65 percent or two-thirds of
our country's energy consumption, these
savings will have a significant impact upon
our national consumption levels.
We learned last winter that all of us can
contribute to energy conservation. Volun-
tary actions by millions of Americans
were a critically important factor in bring-
ing our Nation through the oil crisis. The
continuing accomplishments of the Fed-
eral Government and of business and in-
dustry should serve as a splendid example
of the way that further savings can be
achieved and, as part of Project Inde-
pendence, will advance us toward our ulti-
mate goal of self-sufficiency in energy.
I welcome this opportunity to commend
the Federal departments and agencies as
well as private industry for their fine
leadership. In the final analysis, of course,
their efforts alone are not enough. Every
American must join in this cause. Our
ability to achieve energy independence
will depend heavily upon the conserva-
tion efforts of all segments-consumers,
business, and government.
208 Toasts of the President and General Secretary Brezhnev
at a Dinner in Moscow Honoring Soviet Leaders.
July 2, 1974
Mr. General Secretary Brezhnev, Presi-
dent Podgorny, Prime Minister Kosygin,
and all of our distinguished guests from
the Soviet Union and our guests from the
United States:
Mr. General Secretary, it is difficult to
express in words how much we have ap-
preciated the hospitality, the boundless
hospitality, you have extended to all of
us from our American party. And we are
honored to have you in this house tonight.
As we look back over the last 5 days,
we have many unforgettable memories:
the magnificent dinner the first night in
the Kremlin; the superb performance at
the Bolshoi Theater which, in effect, al-
lowed us through music, through dance,
through song to visit virtually all of the
Soviet Union; and then, the first oppor-
tunity that most of us have had, and cer-
564
