[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
problems in universities, businesses, and
government are unparalleled.
I have no doubt that the bringing to-
gether of these natural and human re-
sources can propel us toward an era of
energy independence.
It will take time. But along the way we
will assure that no groups of Americans
are better off because other groups are
suffering. We will assure that the genius
of the free enterprise system is maintained
and not destroyed by its response to this
crisis.
Years from now, let us look back upon
the energy crisis of the 1970s as a time
when the American spirit reasserted it-
self for the lasting benefit of America and
the world.
The White House,
January 23, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
18 Remarks About the Special Message to the Congress on the
Energy Crisis. January 23, 1974
THE ENERGY CRISIS is now touching
the lives of millions of Americans. And
just as the people of this country are doing
their part to meet this crisis, now it is time
for the Federal Government, your Gov-
ernment, to do its part by enacting legis-
lation that will accomplish these goals.
In a meeting with the legislative lead-
ers this morning, I set forth these primary
objectives that I consider to be of the
highest priority for the Congress as it
begins its new session:
First, we must protect the jobs of
American workers.
-Second, we must prevent price goug-
ing when you buy gas for your car and
heating oil for your homes.
-Third, we will compel the oil com-
panies and other energy producers to pro-
vide the public with complete informa-
tion on their supplies. And we will prevent
them from making windfall profits
as a result of the sacrifices that you are
making.
Today, I asked the Congress to enact
over 15 different legislative measures
which will accomplish these goals. In the
next few weeks, I will be sending up addi-
tional proposals to get this job done. This
legislation is urgently needed to meet the
current crisis and to assure that we, the
United States, can become self-sufficient
in energy by 1980 and not be dependent
upon any other country for our energy
needs.
For several weeks now, millions of
Americans have voluntarily accepted
sacrifices in their comfort and convenience
so that no American would suffer hard-
ship because of the energy crisis.
It is that sacrifice that has helped us to
get through this emergency so far. If that
kind of cooperation by millions of Amer-
icans continues, it means that we can
help to avoid gas rationing this spring.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:37 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His remarks
were filmed for later broadcast on radio and
television.
Earlier in the day, the bipartisan Congres-
sional leadership, meeting with the President
at the White House, was briefed on the Presi-
dent's energy message by Federal Energy Ad-
ministrator William E. Simon. On the same
day, the White House released a fact sheet and
the transcript of a news briefing on the message
by Mr. Simon and Frederick W. Hickman, As-
sistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy.
32
