[56] Feb. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
56 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Legislation To
Control Drug Trafficking. February 21, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
One of the leading concerns of this
Administration over the past five years has
been the problem of drug abuse in Amer-
ica. In the 1960's, the number of heroin
users increased substantially, reaching
more than a half-million by 1971, and
we saw an increase in the abuse of other
narcotic and non-narcotic drugs.
With the cooperation of the Congress,
and with the assistance of many foreign
nations that were involved, we have un-
dertaken a massive response to a problem
which was assuming massive proportions.
Our response has been balanced between
rehabilitation for drug users, and strong
enforcement against drug traffickers. It is
compassionate, thorough and tough-and
it has been highly effective.
REHABILITATION
In 1971, Federally-financed treatment
programs for drug abuse were assisting
20,000 people. Today, these programs,
linked with State and local drug abuse
treatment programs have a capacity for
helping more than 160,000 people.
In 1972, we had some 30,000 people on
waiting lists for treatment of heroin addic-
tion. Today, these waiting lists have been
virtually eliminated. Those who formerly
resorted to crime to support a drug habit
because treatment was unavailable no
longer have that excuse for their criminal
activities. Those who want help can get
that help.
There are those who need help but are
unwilling to seek it. We are doing every-
thing possible to encourage them to come
in out of the cold. As an incentive to those
who are not motivated to seek help on
their own, Federal agencies are increas-
ing their support of local programs to
provide treatment for addicts and abusers
who become involved in the criminal jus-
tice system.
ENFORCEMENT
Federal drug investigation and intelli-
gence responsibilities have been consoli-
dated in the new Drug Enforcement
Administration of the Justice Department
to provide the strongest possible spearhead
in the attack on America's number one
public enemy.
International seizures of opiates have
increased sharply in the last year. The
number of Federal drug-related arrests
has jumped from over 15,000 in fiscal year
1972 to almost 25,000 in fiscal year 1973.
The continuing heroin shortage in the
East Coast is an encouraging sign of suc-
cess in the effort to stem the flow of this
dangerous drug into our country. I am in-
formed that the price of a milligram of
heroin in New York City has tripled in the
past 24 months. The purity of that heroin
which is available was reduced by almost
half in the same period. While we cannot
solve the drug problem without treating
those who are addicted, the most impor-
tant factor in seeking a solution will be
continued reduction of illicit drug sup-
plies. If we are to eliminate the supply
of illicit drugs we must remove from our
society those who deal in these drugs.
I am determined to maintain and in-
crease the pressure on those who traffic
192
