Richard Nixon, 1974
June 14 [178]
your vast experience and your universally
acknowledged reputation as a statesman who
dedicated his energy to knock hard on the doors
that have been shut on intricate political prob-
lems and opened through your wisdom and
your ability to move at the proper time without
hesitation, this being on record, I do not
hesitate to state that you and your people will
spare no effort in effecting what is right and
establishing a just and durable peace in this
region as well.
I wanted to express to you at this stage,
before the end of your historic visit to Egypt,
my gratification and that of my people. Yet,
however hard I try to find the suitable words
for that, they also thought of what you have
personally witnessed and felt since you set foot
on our soil and while you were en route from
Cairo to Alexandria, our second capital.
We are now in this historic city which was
the stage for many historic battles, among
which were those of Abukir between the British
and the French and that of El-Alamein on the
outskirts of Alexandria.
Parallel with all that, it has been a source of
continuing culture and science, thus deservedly
it was the center and a lighthouse for our well-
known civilization. In this great city, with its
historic values, its unique strategic position, and
direct contact with all countries of the world
without exception, you were received by the
people of Alexandria as you were received on
the way here, too, and in Cairo by their fellow
citizens who express to you and, through you,
to the American people their feelings of friend-
ship and their belief in the idealistic value of
building for peace which conforms with what
has been known of Egypt even before its recent
history and its creative civilizations which were
an endowment to the peoples of the world.
As I mentioned before, the 6th of October
was the key to all that occurred. The unhesitat-
ing attitude of your country under your leader-
ship and through the enormous efforts exerted
by your Secretary of State is to be considered the
first step on the road to peace and to a warm
and sincere relationship between our two
peoples.
For all that, Mr. President, let me say that
nothing exceeds my delight at your visit except
my gratification that you and Mrs. Nixon were
able to come. Related to this is my gratification
at your invitation for me and Mrs. Sadat to
visit your great country to meet directly with
your people and your officials.
Until we meet again, I ask you to take with
you to the American people our appreciation
and our warm and friendly feelings as well as
recollections which I sincerely hope will be
renewed when next we meet in the near future.
Allow me to invite you all, dear friends, to
drink a toast to the friendship between the
American people and the Egyptian people, as
well as a toast in honor of the President of the
United States.
President Nixon and Mrs. Nixon.
178 Remarks on Signing the "Principles of Relations and
Cooperation Between Egypt and the United States."
June 14, 1974
Mr. President and ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, I first want to endorse
very enthusiastically your very generous
compliment to our Secretary of State for
the role he has played, along with mem-
bers of the U.S. team, in working out the
various problems to which
to which you have
referred.
And on my part, may I pay my respects
to Foreign Secretary Fahmy¹ for the role
that he has played, and members of your
team, in working out many of the details
and also many of the hard, substantive
issues that have confronted us.
We are both fortunate, I believe, in the
¹ Ismail Fahmy was Minister of Foreign Af-
fairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
499
