Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
laterally reduce our forces, and I am sure
that question was in your mind as well.
I will not go along with that regardless
of what happens in terms of the economic
and political arrangements, because it is
in the vital interests of peace in the world
and in the interests of the security of
America as well as Europe that that alli-
ance be continued and that there be no
reduction of American forces in Europe
unless it is mutually agreed with the War-
saw Pact and, of course, with the Soviet
Union.
That, of course, will be one of the sub-
jects we will discuss when I go to meet
with Mr. Brezhnev.
So, I will continue to work for a con-
tinuation of cooperation in that field. The
point I was making in Chicago, and I
must speak very bluntly-and everyone in
this audience knows it-there is growing
in America a new sense of isolationism.
After Korea, after Vietnam, many Ameri-
cans say, "Let us bring everybody home.
We have carried the burden long enough.
Bring them home from Europe, bring
them home from Korea and other places
in the world, and we will take care of
ourselves."
That is good short-range politics. It is
disastrous long-term statesmanship, be-
cause the United States must play, as the
major free world power, a positive role
in Europe and in Asia, if we are to be
able to have a generation of peace and
perhaps an even longer period of peace.
And so will we continue to work with
our European friends even though we, at
times, disagree. But they must understand
that in the event that their policies in the
political and economic fields appear to be
hostile to us, it is going to be hard for any
President, including this President, strong
as I am for the alliance, to get through
the Congress the necessary appropriations
to continue doing what I think we have
to do for their security and ours.
That point needs to be made. I think
they understand it. And as a result of their
understanding it, I believe we are going
to make progress in the economic and
political fields.
COOPERATION WITH SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
AND HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
[17] Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
Dan Rather, with CBS News. [Sustained
audience reaction]
Mr. President-Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. Are you running for
something? [Laughter]
Q. No, sir, Mr. President; are you?
[Laughter]
Mr. President, I believe earlier that
you said that you had cooperated com-
pletely with the grand jury investigation.
It was my impression-and I could be
wrong about this-but that the record
shows that that is not quite the fact; that
number one, that the grand jury asked
that you come down and tell your side of
some stories they had heard, and that you
declined to do that. Number two, that the
Special Watergate Prosecutor, Mr. Jawor-
ski, indicated in a letter to the Senate that
he did not get all of the evidence that he
thought he needed, and I would be in-
terested in hearing you reconcile what I
believe is on the record of these previous
statements.
My basic question is this: That in re-
cent days you have, in effect, attempted
to define the limits of the House Judiciary
Committee investigation, what evidence
that they have access to. Now, since the
Constitution, and I think, without quali-
fication, clearly assigns to the House of
295
