[90] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
ernment restrictions that inhibit the
development of the energies of the great
people of the United States of America.
And third, we need strength in another
area. It is more difficult to describe, but
it is perhaps more important even than
the other two, because America can be
the strongest nation militarily and the
richest nation economically, but if Ameri-
cans lack this third area of strength, we
will not be able to play the great role
which we must play if a world of peace is
to be built, and that is, we need strength
of purpose. We need a sense of destiny.
We need a recognition on the part of the
people of this great country that we live
at one of those great historic turning
points in history in which this Nation of
200 million holds the fate of the whole
world in its hands.
Overstatement, you say? Look at the
world. Look at the free world. There is no
other nation that can do it, and none that
will. Look at the other parts of the world,
and you will see what the proposition
would be, in the event the United States
bugged out in a sense of responsibilities
in the world.
And so, a strong America militarily,
economically, and strong in purpose, that
is what we need, and that is what we
stand for. But when I speak of that strong
America, I realize that sometimes, par-
ticularly among our young people, that is
not a very popular cause.
Haven't you often
you often heard it said,
"Wouldn't it be wonderful if the United
States didn't have to carry these great
burdens in the world? Wouldn't it be
wonderful if we could turn away from
these great budgets that we have to have
in the military field and concentrate
solely on building prosperity and health
and welfare here in the United States of
America?" And my answer is, if the
United States were alone in the world,
that would be true. My answer is, if some-
one else could carry this burden, that
would be true.
But my answer is that a prosperous
United States and a United States with
the best health and welfare and trans-
portation programs in the world is not
going to mean anything unless we have
peace in the world, and for that reason
we must recognize that this is not a bur-
den to be borne and borne simply by cry-
ing out against it, but it is a challenge and
an opportunity to be met, because now I
come to something that will inspire young
people and older Americans as well, I
hope, and it is this:
We are a great people, but a people,
history tells us, can only be great when
it is engaged in a great enterprise; a people
can only be great when it is engaged in an
enterprise greater than itself.
That was true of America from the
beginning. American statesmen from the
time of our beginning spoke of America
meaning something, not just to America
but to the whole world. It was not quite
true then, but it is totally true today.
And so, today the peace of the world
is in our hands. Whether America fur-
nishes the leadership, whether we main-
tain the strength militarily, economically,
in a purpose, that is in our hands. And
that is what your cause is.
And I say to you, my friends, tonight
that is a great cause. I say to you that as
you have come to this dinner and, I trust,
enjoyed the program, and as you will be
watching these candidates, remember,
there is more work to do, there is more
money to be raised. But it isn't simply
322
