Richard Nixon, 1974
May 28 [157]
lative Branch and the private sector to
examine the possibilities of critical short-
ages and propose improved methods of
foreseeing or averting them.
In the same spirit of working together
I call the attention of the Congress to
some of the policy implications of the
Council's report.
1. Too much government spending is
the spark that most often sets off infla-
tionary explosions. As a minimum we
must avoid exceeding the expenditures
for next year proposed in the Budget. We
must work together to cut where we safely
can. We must so discipline our present
decisions that they do not commit us to
excessive spending in the future.
2. We must avoid the temptation of tax
reduction without expenditure reduction.
3. The proposals I submitted in April
1973 for improving the unemployment
compensation system, and the further
steps which I recommended in February
1974, should be promptly enacted. To try
to keep the economy permanently pumped
up to achieve an arbitrarily-selected full-
employment goal would be inflationary
and self-defeating. To fail to provide the
best unemployment compensation system
we can is inexcusable.
4. While the immediate energy crisis has
passed we must not be lulled into com-
placency on that subject. There is urgent
need for legislative actions now which
will improve the possibility of having the
least-cost, secure energy in the future.
These actions include:
a) Deregulation of natural gas.
b) Establishment of standards govern-
ing strip-mining of coal.
c) Authority for the Secretary of the
Interior to license deep-water ports.
d) Deferral of deadlines for meeting
secondary air quality standards that
impede the use of coal.
e) Steps to accelerate site approval for
energy facilities.
f) Establishment of the proposed En-
ergy Research and Development
Administration with an adequate
budget.
5. The future of inflation and employ-
ment in the United States depends in part
on the further development of open and
secure economic relations with the rest of
the world. I hope that Congress will pass
a trade bill enabling the U.S. to negotiate
for that without forcing us to turn our
back on a part of the world that is eco-
nomically and politically important.
This is not a complete list of legislative
proposals affecting the economy. I have
said nothing about health insurance, or
tax reform, or workmen's compensation
or dozens of other relevant matters. Ob-
viously, there is much for all of us to do.
There is so much to do that we cannot
afford to waste time arguing about
whether our problems are greater or
smaller than our blessings. If we con-
centrate on working together on the
problems we shall be better off, both for
the solutions reached and for the work-
ing together.
The White House,
RICHARD NIXON
May 28, 1974-
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Economic Developments and Policies:
A Report of the Council of Economic Advis-
ers-Transmitted to the Congress by the Presi-
dent May 28, 1974" (Government Printing
Office, 44 pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the report
by Herbert Stein, Chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers.
461
