Richard Nixon, 1974
July 2 [207]
being made possible by careful planning,
by precise engineering, by a process of
working and building together, step by
step, to reach a goal that we share, and
this is the way that together we can build
a peace, a peace that will last.
One of the greatest of your writers, Leo
Tolstoy, once told this story. A very old
man was planting apple trees. He was
asked: "What are you planting apple trees
for? It will be a long time before they
bear fruit, and you will not live to eat a
single apple."
The old man replied, "I will never eat
them, but others will, and they will thank
me."
Our two nations bear a shared respon-
sibility toward the entire world. And we,
207
too, must plant now so that future genera-
tions will reap a harvest of peace-a peace
in which our children can live together as
brothers and sisters, joining hands across
the ocean in friendship and ushering in a
new era in which war is behind us and in
which together, in peace, we can work
toward a better life for our people and for
all people.
Spasibo y do svidaniye. [Thank you and
goodby.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:01 p.m. in the
Green Room at the Grand Kremlin Palace,
Moscow. His address was broadcast live on
radio and television in the Soviet Union and
simultaneously, via satellite, in the United
States.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
Statement About Energy Conservation Efforts by
the Federal Government and the Business Community.
July 2, 1974
THE ENERGY crisis in America has
passed, but the energy challenge is as great
as ever. Our goal must be to develop the
capacity for self-sufficiency in energy, and
to achieve this goal we must continue our
efforts to both expand energy supplies and
conserve energy.
In June of last year, I directed the
Federal departments and agencies to re-
duce their anticipated energy consump-
tion by at least 7 percent over the succeed-
ing 12-month period.ยน At the same time, I
appealed to consumers, to industry, and
to other organizations to join in a nation-
wide, voluntary campaign of energy
conservation.
John C. Sawhill, the Administrator of
ยน See 1973 volume, Item 191.
the Federal Energy Administration, has
now reported to me on the progress of the
Federal effort. The achievements are im-
pressive. During the third quarter of the
Federal program, savings in the non-
defense agencies amounted to 19 percent
of anticipated energy usage, while sav-
ings by the Defense Department rose to
31 percent. The composite savings of 30
percent for the quarter exceed the records
of 20 and 26 percent, respectively,
achieved during the first and second quar-
ters of fiscal year 1974. Figures for the
fourth quarter are not yet available, but
when they are, we are confident that the
Federal Government will have far ex-
ceeded our original goals for the year.
The total savings for the first 9 months
of the Federal program represent the
563
