Richard Nixon, 1974
June 27 [202]
Unless they speak with one voice, how can
they play a part in diplomacy, make original
contributions to more equitable relations be-
tween the industrialized states and those that
are trying to develop and, finally, uphold the
essential democratic values?
The assertion of that European identity will
foster more thorough cooperation and will give
the transatlantic dialog the nature of a con-
versation between equal partners who take care
to show respect for each other and are united
in a joint venture.
The Alliance is permanently confronted with
the internal problems of states, the loosening
of bonds, and the weariness of efforts. But due
to Western solidarity and to the habit of living
together, it may be stated-and seems rather
paradoxical that after adding up the prob-
lems before it, the Alliance has always been in
better health than might have been feared.
Of course, the Alliance is challenged, and
if it were not, anxiety would have to be felt
about its vitality. No viable and active institu-
tion fails to make headway between the pres-
sures of opposing forces.
Twenty-five years after its establishment, the
governments have confirmed the commitments
entered into and have placed them in the con-
text of the new requirements. After having
justified its existence in the past, the Alliance
remains one of the guarantees of our future.
It is with a thought to that future that I re-
quest you to join me in raising your glasses to
our continued cooperation.
Later the same day, the President held
separate meetings with Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt of the Federal Republic of Germany,
Prime Minister Harold Wilson of Great Britain,
and Prime Minister Mariano Rumor of Italy at
the residence of the United States Ambassador
to Belgium.
That evening, the President hosted a recep-
tion at the United States Ambassador's resi-
dence for delegates to the NATO meeting,
senior NATO staff members, senior Belgian
officials, and American officials in Brussels.
202 Toasts of the President and Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev,
General Secretary of the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union, at a Dinner
in Moscow. June 27, 1974
Mr. General Secretary Brezhnev, Presi-
dent Podgorny, Premier Kosygin, all
distinguished guests:
To you, Mr. General Secretary, on be-
half of all of your American guests, I ex-
press our grateful appreciation for not
only the hospitality you have extended to
us tonight but for the very generous words
of friendship you have just spoken.
And I am very gratified that I shall have
the opportunity to see more of your great
country on this visit, and I trust that on
your next visit to the United States next
year, you will be able to see more of our
country as well.
All of us gathered here tonight are for-
tunate to be present at a moment of great
historical significance. Two years ago in
this place, we began a process which has
resulted in a profound change in the rela-
tions between the two strongest nations
in the world.
We have moved in those 2 years from
confrontation to coexistence to coopera-
tion. And while, as the General Secretary
has correctly pointed out, we have many
problems yet to negotiate on, the success
of our negotiations to date gives a good
indication of the progress we can and will
make in this third summit meeting.
553
