[221] July 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
our best career employees will increase
their managerial perspective and expertise
and will learn more effective ways of ad-
ministering significant governmental
activities such as delivery of health care,
transportation, and community develop-
ment.
Special program emphasis of this kind,
when coupled with curriculum offerings
in up-to-date management, will equip our
public executives to meet the demands of
highly complex programs so that they will
deliver what they promise to the Ameri-
can people. To support the planning, in-
stallation, and continuing conduct of these
special educational programs and to en-
sure that the best candidates are selected
on a competitive basis, I propose that they
be centrally financed and administered by
the Civil Service Commission.
Second, I propose to increase the man-
agement capability of State and local pro-
gram managers through additional post-
graduate education. Under the authority
of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act,
State and local government personnel will
have the opportunity to collaborate with
their Federal colleagues in the Program
Management Fellowship if they so choose.
Having key leaders from Federal, State,
and local governments learn together
about management as it applies to their
program responsibilities should improve
the program delivery capability at all
levels of government. To support this new
program, to increase the level of short-
term management training available to
State and local managers, and to continue
to improve personnel management will
require amending the Intergovernmental
Personnel Act (IPA) and a doubling of
the current $15 million appropriation re-
quest for the IPA Program. With these
funds it will be possible to educate,
through long-term programs alone, ap-
proximately 250 State and local managers
a year, while paying a portion of their
salaries. I hope this approach will encour-
age State and local governments to in-
crease their own development and training
of executives.
My third proposal is to accelerate the
management development of career Fed-
eral executives through short-term train-
ing courses. I am asking the Civil Service
Commission to move promptly to acquire
a permanent facility for the Federal Exec-
utive Institute on the professional and
graduate grounds of the University of Vir-
ginia. The Federal Executive Institute has
already demonstrated its value. Now it is
time to enlarge its capability. The In-
stitute would be enlarged and have its
functions expanded to handle the knowl-
edge and skill needs of our future execu-
tives. The Federal Government looks
forward to cooperating with the State of
Virginia in this effort.
IMPROVING CAREER EXECUTIVE
PERSONNEL SYSTEMS
Executive performance in the Federal
government is currently hampered by a
cumbersome, fragmented personnel sys-
tem, by weak selection procedures, and by
the absence of financial incentives for
career employees. To rectify these condi-
tions, I am taking four actions.
Federal executives are employed under
a number of appointing authorities which
make the effective management and utili-
zation of this valuable resource very diffi-
cult. There can be no comprehensive,
periodic review of each agency's total
need for positions by either the Civil Serv-
ice Commission or the Congress. Further,
the manner in which a majority of these
592
