[196] June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be completed early next year and will
serve as the basis for consideration of a
national program for combating these
sources of pollution. These domestic Colo-
rado River desalting projects are pre-
mature because they have been authorized
before the Federal role in a national water
pollution program could be properly de-
veloped on the basis of these current State
studies.
Also, the financial arrangement for the
development of these projects is, to a large
extent, contrary to those policies estab-
lished by this Administration and the Con-
gress for placing most of the financial
responsibility for pollution abatement on
those who are causing the pollution prob-
lem or, in the case of natural pollution,
placing the cost of water purification on
the water users. When a national Federal
program for controlling pollution of this
kind is finally developed, I will recom-
mend to the Congress that these Colorado
River projects be altered if necessary to
conform with these policies.
197 Statement About Restraint in Federal Expenditures.
June 24, 1974
THE MOST effective weapon for com-
bating inflation, as I have said re-
peatedly, is a policy of fiscal and monetary
restraint by the Federal Government.
Recent increases in consumer prices,
while disappointing, only serve to reem-
phasize the importance of rigor and
patience in sticking to that course.
In pursuit of this objective, I have just
completed a review of our budgetary
policies with my chief economic advisers.
It now appears that the deficit for the fis-
cal year ending this Sunday will be much
lower than forecast earlier this year. The
overall deficit for the year should be ap-
proximately $3 billion, which is $2 billion
less than forecast.
At my request, Counsellor Rush, the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, and my other key advisers are
determining ways by which we can hold
down Federal expenditures for the next 2
fiscal years. We are doing everything we
can, under existing legislation, to restrict
expenditures in fiscal year 1975 to no more
than $300 billion. That figure would be
about $5 billion less than our most recent
estimates and, if achieved, would also re-
duce the projected deficit for that year
from approximately $11 billion to $6
billion.
For fiscal year 1976, our objective is to
bring the budget into balance. In early
July, the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget will be sending new
guidelines to the departments and agen-
cies to achieve that goal.
All of these projections for the Federal
budget should be good news for family
budgets, but I would stress that they can
be realized only if both the Administra-
tion and the Congress exert a maximum
effort to hold the line. Within the execu-
tive branch, we are determined to do
everything we can to hold expenditures to
a reasonable minimum.
We hope that the Congress will fully
cooperate in this effort by rejecting waste-
ful and inflationary proposals and by re-
sisting suggestions for a tax cut. All of our
544
