[43] Feb. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
us and, I know, for some of the countries
represented here. That is good short-term
politics.
To me it is, long-term, very bad states-
manship, and I say it for this reason: that
if the energy-consuming nations, each of
them, rather than working together, not
as a combine at the expense of the oil-
producing nations because it is in their
interest as well that we meet in order to
develop a common policy that will assure
a stable supply at a price that will be
reasonable for them and reasonable for
us--but I would suggest that where we do
follow that kind of a policy, it is possibly
good short-term politics, but disastrous
long-term statesmanship for this reason,
because if each of the nations in effect
goes off on its own or, as I have put it,
goes into business for himself, the inevita-
ble effect will be this: It will drive the
prices of energy up, it will drive our
economies down, and it will drive all of
us apart.
That is not in the interest of, certainly,
the United States, and I would respect-
fully suggest it is not in the interest of the
nations of the free world represented at
this very distinguished gathering tonight.
I would simply conclude with this
thought. Sometimes it is thought that the
United States, because we are in a posi-
tion of rather considerable military power
and economic strength, tends to throw its
weight around. We do not intend to do
that.
What we do want to do, as I have
already indicated, is to build in the field of
security, on that great base which brought
us where we are, the beginning of what
we think can be an era of permanent
peace in the world.
And what we want to do, however, is
that having achieved peace in the sense of
the absence of war, we will not follow a
generation plagued with wars with a gen-
eration plagued with economic warfare.
I would be less than candid also if I
were not to say that competition among
free peoples is inevitable, and it is desir-
able. We welcome it. You welcome it.
But I am simply suggesting that this
conference, in which there has been a
spirited discussion, as it should be, in
which there has been consideration of our
mutual interest, as there should be, I be-
lieve that the, let me put it, the "en-
lightened selfish interest" of each nation
here is better served by cooperation in
security, by cooperation in trade, and by
cooperation in developing our sources of
energy and in acquiring the energy we
need to keep the great industrial complex
of the free world moving ahead to ever
and ever higher plateaus.
And so, gentlemen, all of our distin-
guished guests tonight, I want to thank
you for the work that you have done in
coming to this conference.
As Mr. Sharp pointed out, it was called
perhaps on rather short notice, and yet, the
problem was one that required immediate
attention. I thank you for coming. I urge
you to continue the deliberations that
you are already engaged in, looking
toward a goal greater than who is going
to make the best deal next month, next
year, on his energy, but looking at the
problem in terms of the common goal we
all have of building a structure of peace
in the world that will last.
Security and economic considerations
are inevitably linked, and energy cannot
be separated from either. And it is for
that reason that when we talk about de-
veloping policies in the energy field that
we are talking about one of the funda-
mental pillars in that structure of peace
154
