[70] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
sible, and the cuts, if they are made, will
be ones that will not weaken the United
States.
PAYMENTS TO DEFENDANTS
[18.] Q. Mr. President, just to follow
up an earlier question about Watergate
and the indictments, I was wondering if
you figured out, sir, why the payment of
$75,000 in alleged hush money occurred
the same day you said you disapproved of
the practice? I am talking about the
March 21st conversation.
THE PRESIDENT. I have no information.
as to when a payment was made, to what
you have referred. All I have information
on is as to my own actions and my own
directions, and my actions and directions
were clear and very precise. I did not
authorize payments, and I did not have
knowledge of payments to which you have
referred.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
CROSS-EXAMINATION OF THE PRESIDENT
[19.] Q. Mr. President, can I ask
you-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Lisagor
[Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News] isn't
wire service, but he always has a question.
71
Q. -some legal scholars, including
Senator Ervin, have said that the truth
will never be fully established unless all
witnesses subject themselves or submit to
cross-examination. Are there circum-
stances under which you would submit to
cross-examination if it would serve to
clear up this Watergate affair?
THE PRESIDENT. Well first, Mr. Lisa-
gor, I will do nothing to weaken the Office
of the Presidency. And to submit to cross-
examination under circumstances that
would, in effect, put the President in the
box when he was not indicted, in effect,
by the House of Representatives-where
he would be in the box if he went to the
Senate I think would be improper.
However, as far as I am concerned, as I
have indicated, I will have written inter-
rogatories, and I will be willing to meet
with the ranking members of the Judi-
ciary Committee, both of whom, I under-
stand, are very good lawyers and very good
cross-examiners, to take any questions that
they may have if they have any at the con-
clusion of their own investigation.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-seventh news
conference was held at 7:31 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House on Wednesday,
March 6, 1974. It was broadcast live on na-
tionwide radio and television.
Statement on Signing a Bill Providing for Development
and Preservation of Water Resources.
I TAKE pleasure today in signing H.R.
10203, the Water Resources Development
Act of 1974. This bill is evidence of the
legislation that can be achieved when the
executive and legislative branches work
together in a spirit of compromise.
March 7, 1974
The projects authorized in this bill-
which will cost more than $1 billion-
have been authorized for advanced en-
gineering and design only. Under this new
two-stage authorization system, both the
President and the Congress will have
!
240
