Richard Nixon, 1974
June 10 [169]
clearly state: "The claim of a privilege,
whether in the present proceeding or in a
prior occasion, is not the proper subject
of comment by judge or counsel. No in-
ference may be drawn therefrom."
Those are legal arguments. The com-
mon-sense argument is that a claim of
privilege, which is valid under the doctrine
of separation of powers and is designed to
protect the principle of separation of
powers, must be accepted without adverse
inference or else the privilege itself is
undermined, and the separation of powers
nullified.
A proceeding such as the present one
places a great strain on our Constitutional
system, and on the pattern of practice of
self-restraint by the three branches that
has maintained the balances of that sys-
tem for nearly two centuries. Whenever
one branch attempts to press too hard in
intruding on the Constitutional preroga-
tives of another, that balance is threat-
169
ened. From the start of these proceed-
ings, I have tried to cooperate as far as
I reasonably could in order to avert a
Constitutional confrontation. But I am
determined to do nothing which, by the
precedents it set, would render the
Executive branch henceforth and forever-
more subservient to the Legislative
branch, and would thereby destroy
the Constitutional balance. This is
the key issue in my insistence that the
Executive must remain the final arbiter
of demands on its confidentiality, just as
the Legislative and Judicial branches
must remain the final arbiters of demands
on their confidentiality.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Peter W. Rodino, Jr., Chair-
man, Committee on the Judiciary, House of
Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated June 9,
1974, was released on June 10.
Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House Transmitting a Defense Reorganization
Order. June 10, 1974
UPON THE ADVICE of the Secretary
of the Army, the Secretary of Defense has
recently approved a reorganization within
the Department of the Army designed to
streamline Army Staff operations and
realize personnel savings at the head-
quarters level.
I am enclosing for transmittal to the
Chairman of the Armed Services Com-
mittee a communication from the Secre-
tary of Defense together with a Defense
Reorganization Order issued pursuant to
section 125 of title 10, United States Code,
and required to effect the transfer inci-
dent to the reorganization of certain
statutory functions within the Depart-
ment of the Army.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Gerald R. Ford, Presi-
dent of the Senate, and the Honorable Carl
Albert, Speaker of the House of Representatives.
481
