Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [211]
purpose, but in a larger sense, all of these
visits were directed toward the same pur-
pose, and they are all interacted and in-
terconnected.
Among the nations of the Middle East,
among those of the Western Alliance, and
between the United States and the Soviet
Union, new patterns are emerging, pat-
terns that hold out to the world the
brightest hopes in a generation for a just
and lasting peace that all of us can en-
joy.
In the Middle East a generation of
bitter hostility, punctuated by four wars,
is now giving way to a new spirit in which
both sides are searching earnestly for the
keys to a peaceful resolution of their dif-
ferences.
In the Western Alliance, 25 years after
NATO was founded, there has been given
a new birth, a new life to that organiza-
tion as embodied in the Declaration on
Atlantic Relations that we signed 7 days
ago in Brussels at the NATO heads-of-
government meeting before going on to
Moscow. In the series of United States-
Soviet summits that we began in 1972, we
have been charting a new relationship be-
tween the world's two most powerful na-
tions, a new relationship which is de-
signed to insure that these two nations will
work together in peace, rather than to
confront each other in an atmosphere of
distrust and tension which could lead, if
it were not corrected, to war.
At this year's summit, we advanced
further the relationship that we began 2
years ago in Moscow and that we con-
tinued at last year's summit in the United
States. In the communique we issued ear-
lier today in Moscow, both sides com-
mitted themselves to this goal, the im-
perative necessity of making the process
of improving United States-Soviet rela-
tions irreversible.
This sums up what the whole broad pat-
tern of our expanding range of agreements
is designed to achieve, to make the im-
provement not just a one-day headline,
not just a one-day sensation, but a con-
tinuing, irreversible process that will build
its own momentum and will develop into
a permanent peace.
At this year's meeting, we reached a
number of important agreements, both
in the field of arms limitation and also in
the field of peaceful cooperation. In the
field of arms limitation, three of the agree-
ments we reached are of special note. One
of those involves the exceedingly difficult
question of offensive strategic nuclear
arms, and this base, as we know, is in-
volved in that particular kind of opera-
tion.
Two years ago, we signed an interim
agreement on offensive strategic weapons
covering the 5-year period until 1977. This
year, we decided that this interim agree-
ment should be followed by a new agree-
ment to cover the period until 1985. We
agreed that this should deal with both
quantitative and qualitative aspects of
strategic nuclear weapons, that it should
be concluded well above and well before,
I should say, the expiration of the pres-
ent agreement.
We also agreed that the extensive work
we have already done toward hammering
out such a long-range agreement should
go forward at Geneva in the immediate
future on the basis of instructions grow-
ing out of our talks at the highest level
during the past week.
Now, the two sides have not yet reached
a final accord on the terms of an agree-
ment. This is a difficult and a very com-
579
