Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 19 [14]
will also suffer. We are, therefore, ap-
proaching a point where the oil embargo
and the increase in prices on the inter-
national market is self-defeating for every-
one. Clearly, we must have a cooperative,
international accommodation on both
supplies and prices.
In pursuit of that goal, I have invited
the leaders of major energy-consuming
nations to send representatives to the
United States to discuss these matters.
They will convene here in Washington on
February 11 to discuss the pricing prob-
lem and other matters relating to the
current emergency.
But regardless of the success we have in
increasing petroleum imports and in sta-
bilizing prices through diplomatic means,
we must continue to move forward toward
achieving a capacity for self-sufficiency in
energy right here at home.
America is a rich, a strong, and a good
country. We must set for ourselves this
goal: We must never again be caught in a
foreign-made crisis where the United
States is dependent on any other coun-
try, friendly or unfriendly, for the energy
we need to produce our jobs, to heat our
homes, to furnish our transportation for
wherever we want to go.
Late last year, I announced the begin-
ning of Project Independence, a full-scale
effort to provide the capacity to meet
American energy needs with American en-
ergy resources by 1980. As an important
part of that project, the head of the Fed-
eral Energy Office, William Simon, will
mount a major effort this year to acceler-
ate the development of new energy sup-
plies for the future.
Most of the money and the work for
Project Independence must come from
private enterprise. But the Federal Gov-
ernment also has a vital role to play. It
must be a catalyst for industrial initiative.
It must clear away the redtape that lies in
the way of expanding our supplies, and it
must provide the seed money for research
and development.
Many of these Federal responsibilities
can only be met with new legislation. That
is why, over the next few weeks, I shall
submit to the Congress a broad legislative
package of energy initiatives and urge it
to place these requests at the very top of
the Congressional agenda for 1974. If we
are to be successful in dealing with our
long-term energy needs, the Congress must
play its part, and I believe that the Con-
gress, after returning from their districts
over the Christmas holidays, will agree
that the people want them to play their
part along with the Administration.
The burden of energy conservation, of
cutbacks and inconvenience, of occasional
discomfort, continued concern is not, I
can assure you, an artificial one. It is real.
During the Second World War, Winston
Churchill was once asked why England
was fighting Hitler. He answered, "If we
stop, you will find out."
If we should choose to believe that our
efforts in fighting the energy crisis are
unnecessary, if we permit ourselves to
slacken our efforts and slide back into
the wasteful consumption of energy, then
the full force of the energy crisis will be
brought home to America in a most deva-
stating fashion, and there will be no longer
any question in anyone's mind about the
reality of the crisis.
The distance between the winter of
1974 and the springtime of energy inde-
pendence for the United States remains
great. We must proceed with confidence
in our ability to do the job. Far more im-
portantly, we must act now, as one people,
to do the job that must be done.
43-437 O 75-4
15
