Richard Nixon, 1974
June 12 [174]
the United States, exerted under your leader-
ship and wise guidance, have led, in a very
concrete way, to the consolidation of the cease-
fire decisions of the Security Council, both on
the Syrian and Egyptian fronts. And despite
the fact that this is but one step, it is, however,
a right one and in the right direction, and with-
out it, no progress could have been achieved
on the long road to peace.
As you have mentioned, Mr. President, on
many occasions, starting by your inaugural
statement, you have dedicated this era for
peace through negotiations rather than con-
frontation.
I am fully aware that you share with me the
belief that this is a unique moment and a major
turning point which should not be lost, but
rather, grasped with vigilance, persistence, and
dedication to build a durable and honorable
peace.
On my behalf and on behalf of the Egyptian
people, and in my own name, I welcome you,
Mr. President, and Mrs. Nixon.
174 Toasts of the President and President Anwar el-Sadat of
Egypt at a State Dinner in Cairo. June 12, 1974
Mr. President, Mrs. Sadat, and all of the
very distinguished guests attending this
magnificent banquet here in Cairo:
Mr. President, it has been a very great
honor and a privilege for Mrs. Nixon and
me to travel to many countries over the
past 27 years. As a matter of fact, this is
the 83d nation that I have had the privi-
lege of visiting. There have been many
memorable days over those years in those
countries. But I can say tonight that I can
think of no day that will stay more in our
memory, that will bring back such pleas-
ant memories of those things that occurred
than this historic day that we have spent
with you here in Cairo. I say this for a
number of reasons.
First, because of the heartwarming re-
ception we received-and we know we
received it for the American people that
we represented as we drove from the
airport into Cairo. We have seen big
crowds before, but as has often been said,
you can get a crowd out, but you cannot
make that crowd smile unless they want
to smile. And we felt that we could sense
the heart of Egypt on this occasion and
on this day. And through their hearts they
reached ours, and we believe they reached
the hearts of the American people, be-
cause we in America want to be friends
of this nation and its people, and that
traditional Egyptian-American friend-
ship which goes back over so many years-
which has been disturbed at times over
the past generation—that friendship has
now been restored.
This day's events signify and symbolize
that restoration, and also, this day's events,
we trust, will initiate a new era in our
relations in which the Egyptian people,
the American people will be able to work
together, dedicating their energies to solv-
ing the problems of peace and thereby
developing the progress that both peoples
want in both of our countries as well as in
other countries in the world.
Another reason we will remember this
day is, of course, this magnificent banquet
tonight, and we only wish that time would
permit more of an opportunity for us to
talk to each and every one of the very
distinguished guests who are here, those
from your country, the distinguished am-
bassadors from most of the countries of
the world, and of course, those guests from
the United States you have been so kind
to have.
487
