Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 29 [23]
proved the conference version of S. 2589,
the pending Emergency Energy Act.
The time and opportunity now exist
for refining this legislation which was so
hastily put together during the closing
days of the last Session. We have been able
to make do without emergency legislation
thus far, and I urge you and your col-
leagues to take the additional time re-
quired for developing a truly responsible
product.
You have already been furnished with
a listing of thirteen sections of the bill
which present difficulties. Some of these
provisions have no place in this bill and
should be deleted, while others can be
modified through the use of reasonable
alternatives.
We do not need the Federal Energy
Emergency Administration proposed in
this bill the Congress itself is close to
providing us with a far better organization
through separate legislation.
The subject of windfall profits should
be addressed through a rational tax
scheme using the normal legislative proc-
ess. I am confident the Congress will
quickly complete the work on a windfall
profits tax.
Unemployment cannot be effectively
dealt with by a system that seeks to find
a tenuous connection with the energy
crisis. Rather, it should be identified and
treated swiftly for its own sake. We have
an alternative for accomplishing this
through a system which would respond
in terms of the labor market conditions
where the affected individuals work, re-
gardless of the cause of unemployment.
I am already committed to a proposal
which will provide both Government and
the public with needed information from
the oil industry-without the indiscrimi-
nate burden of work and the flood of un-
wieldy data which this bill would produce.
The pending Emergency Energy Act
can provide useful authorities in helping
resolve the energy emergency now before
us, but not without further efforts from
you and your colleagues.
I understand there will be a motion to
recommit the conference report, and I
strongly support such action. Should
recommittal take place I pledge the full
support and cooperation of the Adminis-
tration in working with the Congress to
produce the result we all desire.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Hugh Scott, United States
Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
23 Letter to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Expressing Support for Extension of the National
Cancer Act of 1971. January 29, 1974
Dear Cap:
It has come to my attention that you
will appear tomorrow at Senate hearings
called to consider the extension of the
National Cancer Act of 1971 when it ex-
pires on June 30. I want you to know
that I strongly support an extension of
this Act with whatever improvements
might be made in consultation between
the Executive Branch and the Congress.
I continue to have strong and continu-
ing interest in this program. I remain just
45
