Richard Nixon, 1974
June 17 [187]
tions have been created where there were
no relations before and where an Ameri-
can presence, where it is desired by both
parties concerned or all parties concerned,
is there to be used and used effectively.
And so, as I look to the future, I would
say this is no time to be certainly Pollyan-
naish about what the future may be. These
problems are difficult. The divisions are
deep, and some of them go back over
many, many years. But also, this is a time
when there can and must and should be
hope-hope because of this new element
that has been brought into it, not simply
because it is the United States, but be-
cause our particular role in the world at
this time in the world's history is one that
I think we have demonstrated is a peace-
maker role, whether in Asia or in Europe
or anywhere else.
To me the greatest challenge to Ameri-
can foreign policy, even greater than end-
ing the war in Vietnam in an honor-
able way, which was essential for our
further foreign policy successes, even
greater than the challenge that was con-
fronted when we had the opening to the
leaders of those who led over one-fourth
of all the people of the world, the People's
Republic of China, even greater than
opening a new dialog with those who led
the great super power, the Soviet Union,
is this very complex and difficult problem
which we find here in the Mideast, be-
cause it is not one nation, it is several. It
is not one single problem, there are several.
And there are differences of opinions
among the people, among the leaders,
among the nations on so many of these
problems. And it is this reason, therefore,
Your Majesty, that I do not talk tonight
simply with that easy optimism that will
lull everyone into a false sense of secu-
rity, but that I do talk with a confidence
based on what I think are some new de-
velopments that have reason to give us
hope.
And I can assure you that we on our
part will do all that we can to keep the
momentum going, because it must con-
tinue until we come to what we might
term the end of the journey. And the end
will not be reached until we are satisfied
that a just and durable peace, one that
will last, has been established in this part
of the world.
Finally, Your Majesty, let me say that
I look forward to our talks tomorrow. This
is a small nation, but it is headed, as I in-
dicated earlier, by a very courageous
leader and also, I have learned, by a very
wise leader. Your Majesty has proved to
be, in every talk I have had with him, one
who is understanding of the problems of
those who oppose him, one who under-
stands the issues of the whole area, one
who is fair, one who sees things not simply
from one side but from the other side as
well.
Sometimes the word "moderate" is
used, and it is used in a condemning way.
But I would say it is this kind of respon-
sible leadership-strong, responsible, call
it moderate if you want-that is going to
lead to that peace that both of our na-
tions and all the nations in this area seek.
And so with that, I know that all of
you
will want to join me in responding to the
toast which has been given by His Maj-
esty, by speaking, first, of the traditional
Jordanian-American friendship which
was strong already and will be even
stronger after our meetings and speaking,
second, of the new relationship of friend-
ship which has been established between
the United States and what is called the
Arab world, although that is a statement
that perhaps oversimplifies a more com-
531
