Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
tiated in 1971, has made massive strides
in bringing parks to the people. To date,
400 separate parcels covering almost 60,-
000 acres of under-utilized Federal lands
in all 50 States have been turned over to
State and local governments for park and
recreational use. Many of them are near
congested urban areas. We will continue
to expedite transfer of additional surplus
properties to State and local governments
for park and recreation use.
IMPROVING THE WORLD ENVIRONMENT
On our small planet, pollution knows
no boundaries. World concern for the
environment is as necessary as it is en-
couraging. Many significant international
actions have been taken in recent years,
and the United States can be proud of its
leadership.
These actions have included the sign-
ing of international conventions to protect
endangered species of wildlife, to regulate
ocean dumping, to extend the national
park concept to the world, and to control
marine pollution.
A United Nations Environment Pro-
gram was established last year. With it,
the UN Environment Program Fund
came into being, fulfilling a proposal I had
made in 1972.
Under the US-USSR Environment
Agreement, which I signed in Moscow in
May, 1972, Soviet and American scien-
tists and environmentalists have been
actively working together on serious envi-
ronmental problems.
THE CHALLENGE AHEAD
As part of this Administration's con-
tinuing effort to conserve outdoor recrea-
tion areas, my new budget will propose
full funding of the Land and Water
Conservation Fund for 1975. Nearly
two-thirds will aid State and local govern-
ments in acquiring their own recreation
lands and facilities. Coupled with the
change I have proposed in the formula
for allocating funds to the States, this
measure would encourage the develop-
ment of more recreational sites closer to
the places where people live and work.
This year we have the unique opportu-
nity and responsibility to determine the
future use of enormous land areas in
America's last great frontier-Alaska. Last
month, in accordance with the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act, I trans-
mitted to the Congress recommendations
that would add 83.47 million acres in
Alaska to the National Park, National
Forest, Wildlife Refuge and Wild and
Scenic Rivers Systems. If the Alaska
frontier is thoughtlessly developed, it will
be gone forever. But we now have the
opportunity to make considered judg-
ments as to the appropriate uses of these
outstanding Alaskan lands for the Ameri-
can people of all future generations.
This session of the Congress has before
it 17 major natural resources and environ-
ment proposals that I have previously
submitted, and on which I again recom-
mend action. These include:
-Department of Energy and Natural
Resources: While I discuss this new de-
partment elsewhere in this message, I want
to reemphasize that I consider it of car-
dinal importance in ensuring that com-
plex, interrelated environmental and
natural resource issues receive an appro-
priately wide policy overview and admin-
istrative coordination.
-National Land Use Policy: Adoption
of the National Land Use Policy Act, first
proposed in 1971, remains a high priority
81
