Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 29 [122]
not only the facts but also the evidence
that demonstrates those facts.
I want there to be no question remain-
ing about the fact that the President has
nothing to hide in this matter.
The impeachment of a President is a
remedy of last resort; it is the most solemn
act of our entire constitutional process.
Now, regardless of whether or not it suc-
ceeded, the action of the House, in voting
a formal accusation requiring trial by the
Senate, would put the Nation through a
wrenching ordeal it has endured only
once in its lifetime, a century ago, and
never since America has become a world
power with global responsibilities.
The impact of such an ordeal would be
felt throughout the world, and it would
have its effect on the lives of all Americans
for many years to come.
Because this is an issue that profoundly
affects all the American people, in addi-
tion to turning over these transcripts to
the House Judiciary Committee, I have
directed that they should all be made
public-all of these that you see here.
To complete the record, I shall also
release to the public transcripts of all those
portions of the tapes already turned over
to the Special Prosecutor and to the com-
mittee that relate to Presidential actions
or knowledge of the Watergate affair.
During the past year, the wildest accu-
sations have been given banner headlines
and ready credence as well. Rumor, gossip,
innuendo, accounts from unnamed sources
of what a prospective witness might testify
to, have filled the morning newspapers
and then are repeated on the evening
newscasts day after day.
Time and again, a familiar pattern
repeated itself. A charge would be re-
ported the first day as what it was-just
an allegation. But it would then be re-
ferred back to the next day and thereafter
as if it were true.
The distinction between fact and specu-
lation grew blurred. Eventually, all seeped
into the public consciousness as a vague
general impression of massive wrong-
doing, implicating everybody, gaining
credibility by its endless repetition.
The basic question at issue today is
whether the President personally acted
improperly in the Watergate matter.
Month after month of rumor, insinuation,
and charges by just one Watergate wit-
ness-John Dean-suggested that the
President did act improperly.
This sparked the demands for an im-
peachment inquiry. This is the question
that must be answered. And this is the
question that will be answered by these
transcripts that I have ordered published
tomorrow.
These transcripts cover hour upon hour
of discussions that I held with Mr. Halde-
man, John Ehrlichman, John Dean, John
Mitchell, former Attorney General Klein-
dienst, Assistant Attorney General Peter-
sen, and others with regard to Watergate.
They were discussions in which I was
probing to find out what had happened,
who was responsible, what were the vari-
ous degrees of responsibilities, what were
the legal culpabilities, what were the po-
litical ramifications, and what actions
were necessary and appropriate on the
part of the President.
I realize that these transcripts will pro-
vide grist for many sensational stories in
the press. Parts will seem to be contra-
dictory with one another, and parts will
be in conflict with some of the testimony
given in the Senate Watergate committee
hearings.
I have been reluctant to release these
tapes, not just because they will embarrass
391
