Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 29 [122]
I22
Address to the Nation Announcing Answer to the House
Judiciary Committee Subpoena for Additional
Presidential Tape Recordings.
Good evening:
I have asked for this time tonight in
order to announce my answer to the House
Judiciary Committee's subpoena for addi-
tional Watergate tapes, and to tell you
something about the actions I shall be
taking tomorrow-about what I hope
they will mean to you and about the very
difficult choices that were presented to
me.
These actions will at last, once and
for all, show that what I knew and what
I did with regard to the Watergate break-
in and coverup were just as I have de-
scribed them to you from the very
beginning.
I have spent many hours during the
past few weeks thinking about what I
would say to the American people if I
were to reach the decision I shall an-
nounce tonight. And so, my words have
not been lightly chosen; I can assure you
they are deeply felt.
It was almost 2 years ago, in June 1972
that five men broke into the Democratic
National Committee headquarters in
Washington. It turned out that they were
connected with my reelection committee,
and the Watergate break-in became a
major issue in the campaign.
The full resources of the FBI and the
Justice Department were used to investi-
gate the incident thoroughly. I instructed
my staff and campaign aides to cooperate
fully with the investigation. The FBI
conducted nearly 1,500 interviews. For 9
months-until March 1973-I was as-
sured by those charged with conducting
and monitoring the investigations that no
April 29, 1974
one in the White House was involved.
Nevertheless, for more than a year,
there have been allegations and insinua-
tions that I knew about the planning of
the Watergate break-in and that I was
involved in an extensive plot to cover it
up. The House Judiciary Committee is
now investigating these charges.
On March 6, I ordered all materials
that I had previously furnished to the
Special Prosecutor turned over to the
committee. These included tape record-
ings of 19 Presidential conversations and
more than 700 documents from private
White House files.
On April 11, the Judiciary Committee
issued a subpoena for 42 additional tapes
of conversations which it contended were
necessary for its investigation. I agreed to
respond to that subpoena by tomorrow.
In these folders that you see over here
on my left are more than 1,200 pages of
transcripts of private conversations I par-
ticipated in between September 15, 1972,
and April 27 of 1973 with my principal
aides and associates with regard to Water-
gate. They include all the relevant
portions of all of the subpoenaed conver-
sations that were recorded, that is, all
portions that relate to the question of
what I knew about Watergate or the
coverup and what I did about it.
They also include transcripts of other
conversations which were not subpoenaed,
but which have a significant bearing on
the question of Presidential actions with
regard to Watergate. These will be deliv-
ered to the committee tomorrow.
In these transcripts, portions not rele-
389
