Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 14 [47]
help long life, I am sure, from having
very briefly seen the various facilities that
are so modern that we inspected. It is a
beautiful building, but when I speak of
the beauty of this Cedars of Lebanon, let
me tell you where the real beauty is.
It isn't in the buildings, but it is in the
people that made it possible. It is in the
doctors and the nurses and all the rest
who worked on it.
Now, the doctors don't need to be told
how very important they are; they know.
But let me say that this is an occasion to
pay a tribute to the nurses, the techni-
cians, hundreds of thousands of them in
America, who work for good health.
I can only say from the very brief ex-
perience and they have been very brief,
fortunately, because I have been blessed
with good health-but the very few times
I have been in the hospital, let me say it
is always much more pleasant to see a
nurse come in than the doctor come in.
And I do know this: As I told one of
the lovely young ladies who works in this
complex, who is going to go back to nurs-
ing after she completes this technical
work, I said the most important thing you
can do for a patient is to raise his spirit;
the most important thing you can do is to
make him or her, no matter how ill he is,
feel that he has a will to live, that he
wants to live, that he is going to get well.
And that is something that can come
not simply from highly technical opera-
tions and examinations but is something
that all of those in the health care profes-
sion must be dedicated to with their hearts
and their minds and their souls, and that
brings me back to my original theme.
Great institutions, private institutions
like Cedars of Lebanon, the great medi-
cal profession that we have in the United
States is one that is personal, that is in-
dividual, that relates to the person him-
self, and that will have just as much effect
in making people well as the professional
or the technical aspects that money can
buy as far as the Federal Government or
any other government is concerned.
So, I congratulate today the doctors,
the nurses, the technicians, all who are
working in this complex. And may I also
now pay tribute to another group, those,
the board of trustees, have been intro-
duced, but the hundreds of people-and
there are perhaps thousands here in this
audience and listening to me—who in the
Miami area contributed the money to
make this possible.
You know there was an easier way, and
that gets back to whether it should be all-
Government or whether it should build
on the great private health care system
that we have in this country. The easier
way is just increase the taxes, throw the
private health care system out, and let
the Government do it all.
But let me tell you, in addition to re-
ducing the quality of medical care, it
does something else to the spirit of Amer-
ica that is very important.
It is good for us, all of us, to contribute
to the well-being of other people and to
do it personally and not simply through
our taxes to an impersonal government.
All of us in the various religious faiths that
we represent know certain words that are
used. There are some of those in the Prot-
estant and Catholic faith who, when they
make contributions to a hospital and so
forth, use the word charity. That is a good
word. It means you are trying to help
somebody who is less fortunate. The
Quakers to whom I belong-my Quaker
grandmother, who always used the plain
speech in talking to her gandchildren,
said they must always have a concern for
167
