[209] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
significance expressing the determination
of the participating states to build their
mutual relations on a solid jointly elab-
orated basis. The US and USSR will
make every effort, in cooperation with the
other participants, to find solutions ac-
ceptable to all for the remaining problems.
Both Sides expressed their conviction
that successful completion of the Confer-
ence on Security and Cooperation in
Europe would be an outstanding event in
the interests of establishing a lasting
peace. Proceeding from this assumption
the USA and the USSR expressed them-
selves in favor of the final stage of the
Conference taking place at an early date.
Both Sides also proceed from the assump-
tion that the results of the negotiations
will permit the Conference to be con-
cluded at the highest level, which would
correspond to the historic significance of
the Conference for the future of Europe
and lend greater authority to the impor-
tance of the Conference's decisions.
Both Sides reaffirmed the lasting
significance for a favorable development
of the situation in Europe of the treaties
and agreements concluded in recent years
between European states with different
social systems.
They expressed satisfaction with the
admission to the United Nations of the
Federal Republic of Germany and the
German Democratic Republic.
Both Sides also stressed that the Quad-
ripartite Agreement of September 3, 1971,
must continue to play a key role in ensur-
ing stability and détente in Europe. The
US and USSR consider that the strict and
consistent implementation of this Agree-
ment by all parties concerned is an essen-
tial condition for the maintenance and
strengthening of mutual confidence and
stability in the center of Europe.
The USA and the USSR believe that,
in order to strengthen stability and secu-
rity in Europe, the relaxation of political
tension on this continent should be ac-
companied by measures to reduce military
tensions.
They therefore attach importance to
the current negotiations on the mutual
reduction of forces and armaments and
associated measures in Central Europe,
in which they are participating. The two
Sides expressed the hope that these nego-
tiations will result in concrete decisions
ensuring the undiminished security of any
of the parties and preventing unilateral
military advantage.
MIDDLE EAST
Both Sides believe that the removal of
the danger of war and tension in the
Middle East is a task of paramount im-
portance and urgency, and therefore, the
only alternative is the achievement, on
the basis of UN Security Council Reso-
lution 338, of a just and lasting peace
settlement in which should be taken into
account the legitimate interests of all
peoples in the Middle East, including the
Palestinian people, and the right to ex-
istence of all states in the area.
As Co-Chairmen of the Geneva Peace
Conference on the Middle East, the USA
and the USSR consider it important that
the Conference resume its work as soon as
possible, with the question of other partic-
ipants from the Middle East area to be
discussed at the Conference. Both Sides
see the main purpose of the Geneva Peace
Conference, the achievement of which
they will promote in every way, as the
establishment of just and stable peace in
the Middle East.
They agreed that the USA and the
572
