[74] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Smithsonian. Bicentennial plans in the
Nation's Capital also include many pro-
grams that will directly benefit local citi-
zens and increase their appreciation for
America's rich and diverse heritage and
enrich their daily lives-programs such as
a neighborhood preservation housing
project and cultural and folk art activities.
The success of the Bicentennial will be
measured by the number of people who
participate in it. The more people who
participate, the better it will be. Citizens
of Charleston, South Carolina, are set-
ting an especially good example in this
respect. In this old southern port, which
served as an important military base dur-
ing the Revolution, one out of every 12
citizens is already participating in Bicen-
tennial projects and events, including the
construction of a naval museum, develop-
ment of a Bicentennial park, and exten-
sive restoration of many of the city's build-
ings dating back to colonial days.
But a city doesn't have to be over 200
years old to participate. The American
adventure that began in 1776 has kept on
going ever since. It is the only successful
continuous revolution in the history of
the world, and every generation of Amer-
ica, from its Founding Fathers down to
the present day, has played a part.
Take the case of Denver, Colorado.
Colorado will be celebrating its own 100th
anniversary in 1976 and is coordinating
its local celebration with the Nation's
200th birthday. Among the goals the
people of Denver have set for themselves
are the completion of a new performing
arts center and a new sports arena.
In my native State of California, an-
other aspect of the American life will be
explored. Individual programs will depict
the Spanish-American, Black, Chinese,
and Japanese contributions to Califor-
nia life-each an important part of the
great American experience.
One of the finest examples of commu-
nity action comes from the little town of
Clarendon, Texas, where the townspeople
are building a community amphitheater
with bricks made by the local schoolchil-
dren. Each brick will be signed by the
child who made it and will be a part of
the overall structure.
To me and, I am sure, to millions of
other Americans, that amphitheater will
represent, in miniature, the spirit that
built America.
Our Bicentennial observance could not
possibly realize its full potential or meet
our high expectations without the sup-
port of the free enterprise system which
has made our country what it is today-
the best and strongest nation in history.
Interest among private groups and or-
ganizations is developing, and we welcome
their involvement.
The American Express Company, for
example, has donated funds for a face-
lifting of the Statue of Liberty. That his-
toric symbol of hope in New York Harbor
will get a thorough cleanup and reglazing.
The company has also produced a docu-
mentary film highlighting the great con-
tributions made to our country by the
many ethnic groups who crossed the seas
to find a new home in America.
Civic, youth, and religious groups, such
as the Boy and Girl Scouts and the Jay-
cees, are also mounting voluntary Bicen-
tennial programs.
Invitations have also been extended to
130 foreign nations, and within the next
few months, many of them are expected
to announce plans for exhibits and other
projects in communities across the
country.
There are many other projects now un-
254
