Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 28 [21]
Vietnam-era veterans. Payments to each
trainee have increased sharply-by 1975
they will be more than double the level of
1969. To help meet the rising cost of
living, my budget will request an addi-
tional $200 million to provide an 8 per-
cent increase in education benefits in 1975.
INCREASING PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT OF
VETERANS
No group of veterans is more in the
minds and hearts of Americans today than
those who have recently returned from
Vietnam and our Nation's longest war.
Beyond the readjustment problems faced
by veterans of past wars, this Adminis-
tration has recognized that the Vietnam-
era veteran faces special challenges in
re-entering a highly complex and competi-
tive civilian society. We have done our
best to help him meet those challenges.
Of particular importance have been
our efforts in the field of employment. In
1970, for example, more than a million
veterans left the Armed Services and
entered the civilian economy. By October
of that year, the unemployment rate for
Vietnam-era veterans had grown very
serious. This led to the launching of the
Administration's job placement efforts
which have so far helped 2.2 million re-
turning veterans to find jobs. The unem-
ployment rate for Vietnam-era veterans,
which once far exceeded that of the gen-
eral public, was reduced from a high of
II percent in early 1971 to 4.4 percent
by the end of 1973. Both Government
and the private sector-through Jobs for
Veterans and the National Alliance of
Businessmen-played a part in this re-
markable success story. We intend to con-
tinue these efforts. In fiscal year 1974 our
goal is to place 1.2 million additional
veterans in jobs or training programs.
PAYING TRIBUTE TO ALL AMERICAN
VETERANS
The tangible benefits extended to our
veterans such as medical assistance, edu-
cation grants and pensions are only one
of the ways that America should repay
her debts to the men and women who
have served her well. We should also
accord them a high degree of respect and
appreciation in our everyday contacts
with them. And we should set aside cer-
tain days each year to commemorate their
heroic deeds.
In 1974, there should be at least two
occasions on which we pay special honor
to those who have served in the Vietnam
conflict.
One such commemoration was held
yesterday, January 27, the first anniver-
sary of the Vietnam ceasefire. I officially
proclaimed that day as National MIA
Awareness Day. There are still 1,300
Americans missing and unaccounted for
in Southeast Asia, and there are more
than 1,100 American casualties whose
bodies have never been recovered. Their
experiences, as well as those of their rela-
tives and loved ones, have been a wrench-
ing sacrifice that deserves special recogni-
tion. That is why we set aside a special
day dedicated to these Americans and
to their families.
In honoring the missing and fallen in
the Vietnam conflict, we should also re-
member the countless others who served
and survived that war. Last month I was
pleased to sign into law a joint resolution
of the Congress authorizing me to pro-
claim March 29th of this year as "Viet-
43
