Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 5 [33]
American people and the question that
we are now addressing is not simply end-
ing a war and having a peace that simply
is an interlude between wars but to have
something that we haven't had in this
country for a century, a whole generation
of peace, or longer, we would trust.
And that is why the initiatives that we
have made in these past 5 years, our trips
to China, to Moscow, to other parts of the
world, our negotiations rather than con-
frontation with leaders of systems of gov-
ernment with which we totally disagree
but with whom we must negotiate or ac-
cept the consequences of a confrontation
that is unacceptable to either side in a
nuclear war.
And so, as we have moved in this direc-
tion, I would say to you today that I think
the chances of building not just the tempo-
rary peace of "My, the war is over, the
war in Vietnam so far away that cost so
much not only abroad but at home, not
only among those who died but those who
suffered in prisons and, of course, in our
own society. But now that that war is over,
now we have peace, isn't it wonderful?"
The answer is, it will be wonderful only
if we continue the kind of diplomacy that
will build a lasting structure of peace that
will avoid those brushfire wars that could
spread into a world conflagration, that will
have the great powers meeting and dis-
cussing differences, even recognizing that
they are very far apart in their interests.
It is this that is, in outline, the strategy
of this Administration in working toward
fulfilling the kind of legacy we would like
to leave, a legacy of peace for the next
generation.
You also have a legacy to leave. You, of
course, can help in building the legacy of
peace by supporting peace initiatives when
you think they are right. But I go back
to what Mr. Gandhi said: "It is health
which is real wealth..." And you who are
members of the American Hospital Asso-
ciation and your colleagues in the medical
professions, you can help leave a legacy
where America, which is, of course, the
wealthiest country in the world, is also
the healthiest country in the world, where
America makes a great stride forward in
your time in providing not only the best
medical care but making it available to
those who cannot afford it as well as those
who can. That is a great goal, and it is
one that I commend to you as being a goal
that should join all of you together but
would have the support of all Americans.
And so may I say to you, Mr. Kauff-
man, to the distinguished delegates and
your guests, we are working together to-
ward the same goal. I hope that we can
leave a legacy of peace, and I hope also
that we can make progress in many domes-
tic areas. But on the domestic front there
is no area in which I think people are
more concerned and in which a greater
contribution can be made than in the field
of health. The Nation's health is in your
hands, and we want to work with you in
taking this great health care system that
you have helped to build and make it
better, make it better by making it more
available to all of the people of this great
land. That is a great goal, and you will
leave a great legacy.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10a.m. in the
International Ballroom of the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel. He was introduced by John W.
Kauffman, chairman of the Association's House
of Delegates.
131
