Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 26 [87]
through controls-the way to lower prices
is through greater production.
We have a similar example, for exam-
ple, in the case of fuel. You recall
that it was necessary for me to veto an
energy bill. The energy bill had a very
attractive provision in it. It provided for
a rollback of gasoline prices. Now, there
is nothing that anybody in public office
would like to do better than to roll back
prices. Maybe gasoline should be 20 cents
a gallon, which it was when I used to
work at a service station many, many years
ago. Everybody would like it. But if it
were 20 cents a gallon, there would be no
gasoline. We would have to have ration-
ing. We would also have to have even
longer lines than we have passed through
in the past.
And so in the field of energy, as in the
field of agriculture, it is our policy to go
forward with a program of increasing pro-
duction, increasing production, of avoid-
ing controls, and through that increased
production, to provide the incentives that
will see that all Americans will share
in what we believe will be an increasing
prosperity for the American people, and
of course, that means the American
farmer will share in it as well.
I should point out one other factor that
I think would be of interest to this group,
and that is, that when we talk to consumer
groups, it is important to make the point
that Earl Butz has often made and I
have made it in speeches-that food, de-
spite the fact that when we go to the
supermarket it appears to be very highly
priced, that food is still the best bargain
in America of any country in the world.
The American housewife, budget-
keeper, pays a lower percentage of her in-
come, for the family income, of the fam-
ily budget for food than of any house-
wife or budgetkeeper in the world. This
speaks well for the Nation's farmers, and
it also speaks well, certainly, for the type
of policy that has resulted in the fact that
with even fewer farmers than we have ever
had, they are producing more, and as a
result, that we are the best fed, best
clothed people in the world. And as far
as our food is concerned, it takes a lower
percentage of the consumer's income than
in any country in the world, poor or rich,
and I think that particular statement can
be backed up by statistical facts, in case
anyone would question it, and I doubt
if anybody in this particular audience
would question it.
That, of course, is small comfort, I can
tell you, if you are talking to a group of
consumers, because as you well know, it is
a question of how much does a hambur-
ger cost today, what is the price of bread,
what about the price of vegetables when
they come in. And if those prices are up,
that has an enormous effect, impact on
that consumer, and always there is an at-
tempt to find an easy way out, and the easy
way usually in the past has been to say,
"Why not control it?"
We have tried that way. It does not
work, and certainly as far as this Admin-
istration is concerned, we do not intend
to try it again.
One final point I would make, I think
has been often made before farm audi-
ences, but it should be made so that all of
the American people would be aware of
it, and that is what an enormous asset
America's tremendous productivity on the
farm is to us in helping to build a world
of peace.
Whenever there is a famine any place
in the world, what nation is the most
generous-the United States of America.
Not just because we are the richest but
311
