[244] Aug. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
will have hastened the start of that process
of healing which is so desperately needed
in America.
I regret deeply any injuries that may
have been done in the course of the events
that led to this decision. I would say only
that if some of my judgments were
wrong and some were wrong-they were
made in what I believed at the time to be
the best interest of the Nation.
To those who have stood with me dur-
ing these past difficult months to my
family, my friends, to many others who
joined in supporting my cause because
they believed it was right-I will be
eternally grateful for your support.
And to those who have not felt able to
give me your support, let me say I leave
with no bitterness toward those who have
opposed me, because all of us, in the final
analysis, have been concerned with the
good of the country, however our judg-
ments might differ.
So, let us all now join together in af-
firming that common commitment and in
helping our new President succeed for
the benefit of all Americans.
I shall leave this office with regret at
not completing my term, but with grati-
tude for the privilege of serving as your
President for the past 52 years. These
years have been a momentous time in the
history of our Nation and the world. They
have been a time of achievement in which
we can all be proud, achievements that
represent the shared efforts of the Admin-
istration, the Congress, and the people.
But the challenges ahead are equally
great, and they, too, will require the sup-
port and the efforts of the Congress and
the people working in cooperation with
the new Administration.
We have ended America's longest war,
but in the work of securing a lasting
peace in the world, the goals ahead are
even more far-reaching and more diffi-
cult. We must complete a structure of
peace so that it will be said of this genera-
tion, our generation of Americans, by the
people of all nations, not only that we
ended one war but that we prevented fu-
ture wars.
We have unlocked the doors that for a
quarter of a century stood between the
United States and the People's Republic
of China.
We must now ensure that the one
quarter of the world's people who live in
the People's Republic of China will be
and remain not our enemies, but our
friends.
In the Middle East, 100 million people
in the Arab countries, many of whom have
considered us their enemy for nearly 20
years, now look on us as their friends.
We must continue to build on that friend-
ship so that peace can settle at last over
the Middle East and so that the cradle
of civilization will not become its grave.
Together with the Soviet Union, we
have made the crucial breakthroughs that
have begun the process of limiting nuclear
arms. But we must set as our goal not just
limiting but reducing and, finally, destroy-
ing these terrible weapons so that they
cannot destroy civilization and so that the
threat of nuclear war will no longer hang
over the world and the people.
We have opened the new relation with
the Soviet Union. We must continue to
develop and expand that new relationship
so that the two strongest nations of the
world will live together in cooperation,
rather than confrontation.
Around the world-in Asia, in Africa,
in Latin America, in the Middle East-
there are millions of people who live in
terrible poverty, even starvation. We must
628
