[41] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
not represented, so with all of the prob-
lems that we have with organized labor,
let me say, as George has often said-and
I agree—it is better to have a group that
is responsible that you can deal with, no
matter how tough they are, than one
where you can't have anybody that can
make the contract. Isn't that what the
lesson to this is?
What I was saying with Usery, Usery
also has that rare ability which so many
of us lack, politicians have a little more
than some of you statesmen, but that rare
ability you know, in the meeting yester-
day he said, "Now look, let me take this
statement and put it in the language the
drivers will understand."
Now, that doesn't talk down to them,
but he says there are certain ways you
talk. He says, "I know how these fellows
react." Rather than using surcharge or
passthrough or something like that, they
understand a cost-price squeeze. They
understand you can get a full tank at 80
percent of the stops-you know, things of
that sort.
GEORGE P. SHULTZ [Secretary of the
Treasury]. Well, Usery has another char-
42
acteristic, he can sit there all night long.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, stamina. He has
got as much stamina as Kissinger.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House where he
was meeting with Secretary Shultz and other
Administration officials to discuss plans for
the meeting of oil-consuming nations which
was held the following week.
The remarks took place during a portion of
the meeting when reporters and photographers
were invited to be present.
In his remarks, the President was referring to
W. J. Usery, Director of the Federal Mediation
and Conciliation Service, and Frank E. Fitz-
simmons, general president of the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters.
On February 8, 1974, the President met with
Mr. Usery, Attorney General William B. Saxbe,
Secretary of Transportation Claude S. Brine-
gar, and Administrator William E. Simon of
the Federal Energy Office to discuss measures
to alleviate conditions causing the truck stop-
pages by independent operators. On the same
day, the White House released a transcript of
their news briefing on the meeting.
An opening statement made by Mr. Simon
at a February 5 news briefing and remarks by
Deputy Press Secretary Gerald L. Warren on
February 7 with regard to the truck stoppages
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 10, pp. 177 and 190).
Radio Address About Proposed Transportation
Legislation. February 9, 1974
Good afternoon:
From the earliest days of our history,
transportation has played a vital role in
the progress of America. Clipper ships,
canal boats, toll roads, and railroads fed
the American economy, linked commu-
nities across our expanding Nation, and
joined our Nation with the world. Mass
production of the automobile, linked with
the most advanced highway system in the
world, has made us a nation on wheels.
We have the largest and most diverse
transportation system in the world today.
As our society shifts and grows and as
our economy expands, we must ensure
that the effectiveness of this system keeps
pace with the changing demands placed
upon it. In the past 5 years, we have made
great forward strides in this effort.
We have completed major sections of
the Interstate Highway System.
The Airport and Airway Development
146
