Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 19 [50]
step in strengthening the mature partner-
ship in this hemisphere to which I am
strongly committed.
Investment disputes in recent years
have unfortunately troubled our tradi-
tionally good relations with a few Latin
American countries. We are gratified at
the successful outcome of these particular
negotiations. The best solution to these
problems is for the parties involved to
settle their disputes directly. But there is
a clear need for a new approach-for a
way to solve such problems without
lengthy negotiations and without com-
plicating good relations between friends.
We should establish an effective, impartial
mechanism to resolve these questions
within the inter-American family. I have
asked the Secretary of State to explore
this possibility when he meets later this
week with the Latin American and Carib-
bean foreign ministers in Mexico City.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet on the agreement and the
negotiations leading to its conclusion. The fact
sheet is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 10, p. 223).
50 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
Location of New Federal Facilities in Rural Areas.
February 19, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the third an-
nual report on the location of new Fed-
eral offices and other facilities in rural
areas of America.
The enactment of the Rural Develop-
ment Act of 1972 has further strength-
ened the Federal Government's commit-
ment toward raising the economic level
of rural America. This Administration
strongly supports this objective of mak-
ing rural America a better place to work
and enjoy life by providing financial and
technical assistance to rural communities.
This report reflects the efforts of all
executive departments and agencies in
giving first priority to locating their new
offices and other facilities in rural areas
as required by the Agricultural Act of
1970.
Our efforts this past fiscal year have re-
sulted in the placing of 51.8 percent of
the newly located offices and other facili-
ties in rural areas. This accomplishment
substantiates the support of this Adminis-
tration in attaining this Nation's objective
of balanced and beneficial growth.
The White House,
February 19, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: "The Third Annual Report on the Lo-
cation of New Federal Offices and Other Facil-
ities" was prepared within the executive
departments and agencies and compiled by the
Department of Agriculture for transmittal to
the Congress by the President.
43-437 O 75 - 14
175
