[14] Jan. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
With the proud dedication we Ameri-
cans have always displayed when con-
fronted with great challenges, we can and
we will achieve the great goal of Project
Where energy is con-
Independence. Where
cerned, we, the American people, shall be
the sole masters of our fate.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:06 p.m. from
a room adjoining the Oval Office at the White
House. The address was broadcast live on na-
tionwide radio.
15 Statement About the Death of Lewis L. Strauss.
January 22, 1974
IT FALLS to few men in any generation
to open up a totally new chapter in hu-
man history. Lewis L. Strauss, as Chair-
man of the Atomic Energy Commission,
was one of those few.
Under his direction, America began the
crucial pioneering work of harnessing the
atom for peaceful purposes. His vision
and his leadership literally helped us to
convert the most lethal of swords into the
most promising of plowshares.
Lewis Strauss was a businessman of
brilliance, a major philanthropist, an out-
standing naval officer, and a superb pub-
lic servant. But above all, Lewis Strauss
was a trailblazer-a patriot who opened
up new vistas and a new technology for
America and the world.
Mrs. Nixon and I join with all our
fellow citizens in mourning the passing of
this outstanding American.
NOTE: Mr. Strauss, 77, died in Brandy Station,
Va., on January 21, 1974. He was Chairman
of the Atomic Energy Commission from 1953
to 1958 and served as Acting Secretary of
Commerce from 1958 to 1959.
16 Message to the Congress Transmitting the Cost of Living
Council's Quarterly Report on the Economic
Stabilization Program. January 22, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit to the Congress
the most recent quarterly report of the
Economic Stabilization Program, cover-
ing the period July 1, 1973 through
September 30, 1973.
The third quarter of 1973 was a time
of strong continued growth for the Ameri-
can economy. Our gross national product
grew to $1304 billion, an increase of $32
billion over the previous quarter, repre-
senting a growth rate of 3.4 percent in
real terms. Unemployment dropped to 4.8
percent, its eighth consecutive quarterly
decline, as the number of people em-
ployed increased by over 450,000. The
dollar strengthened internationally, gain-
ing by fully one percent against the trade
weighted average for currency of other
members of the Organization for Eco-
nomic Cooperation and Development.
The picture was not as bright as we
would have liked in the third quarter as
far as inflation was concerned. Consumer
prices continued to climb, reflecting in-
creasing worldwide competition for prod-
ucts. A freeze was imposed in mid-June
to arrest the inflationary spiral and to
16
