Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 25 [121]
it will not happen. It cannot and it will
not happen because in addition to our
military strength and economic strength,
the character of the American people,
the spirit of the American people is strong.
I can assure you that is the case, what-
ever the handwringers and the doom
cryers say. It is strong all over this country,
and it is strong here in Mississippi.
What kind of a spirit is it? The Gov-
ernor referred to that visit to Gulfport. I
remember it very well. It was in 1969. I
was returning from California. The war
then in Vietnam had just reached its peak,
and we were beginning to develop the long
process that finally brought it to an end.
And someone from Mississippi, I think
the two Senators and Congressmen, called
and said, "Can't you stop down at Gulf-
port and give those people a lift?" And so
our plane dropped down at Gulfport. I
remember it was in the dusk of the eve-
ning, and there were tens of thousands of
people there.
And you know what? They told me I
was supposed to give them a lift. They gave
me a lift. They were wonderful people.
I remember one man I talked to you
know, you would like to talk to everybody,
but you can only talk to a few. As I went
down the line shaking hands-he was a
young man, a farmer, obviously. He was
holding his little girl in his arms.
She was about 6 years of age. I will tell
you how I can guess. She had two teeth
out in front. And I said to him, "Well,
how are you doing?" He said, "Well, I lost
my home, I lost my barn, I lost my car, I
lost my tractor, but," he said, “I got my
wife, I got my little girl, and," he said,
"I love my country, and I love my State,
and I am going to see it through. We are
going to come back." That is the spirit
that made America.
My final remarks I address not to the
older generation, who are here in such
great numbers, but primarily to your sons
and your daughters and to the younger
generation represented in the balconies
and behind me as well.
We often think that we live in the worst
of times. We often think, wouldn't it be
better if we lived someplace else or were
born at a different time? Let me say to
this younger generation, don't ever buy
that, not about America, not about your-
self, and not about the time in which
you live, because you have a great future.
Our country is going to be and will
continue to be the most prosperous. Our
country will continue to have more prog-
ress and more opportunity for every
person in this country, whatever his back-
ground, whatever his color or race or
creed.
Our country is going to continue to
have more freedom than any other coun-
try, but it has more than that. When an
individual lives only for himself, he can-
not be a great individual. When a nation
lives only for itself, it loses whatever op-
portunity it has to be great.
President de Gaulle once said to me in
1963, when I visited him when I was out
of office, he said, you know, France is
never her true self unless she is engaged
in a great enterprise.
America today—and this I say to our
young people-we, you, are engaged in
truly a great enterprise, not the works of
war, but the works of peace. In your
hands, in our hands, is the key to peace
for America and for the world for genera-
tions to come. What we do or fail to do
will determine the future of Americans,
but also of 3 billion people on this Earth.
And the question is, will America, with
all of its wealth, with all of its strength
387
