Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 26 [87]
We are now in a period when we no
longer, for the first time in 25 years, are
drafting young men for the armed serv-
ices. That is, of course, good news for all
Americans. It is good news, of course, to
those who live in America's heartland.
But I should point out that in order for
us not just to end a war but to build a last-
ing peace, America must continue to lead.
We must be strong militarily, we must be
strong economically. I think we will do
both of those.
But we also must have the determina-
tion, we must have the character not to
bug out insofar as world leadership is con-
cerned simply because the burden has been
so great, because if we do take that road,
there is no other free nation that can
take up that burden, and the result for
all the world and for us, eventually, would
be tragic indeed.
And so I conclude simply by saying
that as I look at American agriculture
today and those that represent it, I see it
as one of the strongest elements of our
great free society. It is essential to our
program for building a lasting peace.
But I say, also, that those who work
in agriculture and it isn't just those few,
and they are very few compared to the
whole population who work on our farms,
but those who are working in the related
industries that also serve the farm-that
those who are in that area, that they make
an enormous contribution in terms of
providing the character, in terms of
pro-
viding basically the courage which this
Nation needs and which the world needs
if America is to meet its responsibilities
in the world.
My projection about the future then
is, I think we are entering an era in which
we may for the first time see a generation
grow up without a war. I think we are
also entering an era in which there will
be expanded trade among all nations of
the world, in which the standard of living
for all nations in the world will gradually
rise and for the United States as well; and
I think, too, looking at the United States
itself, while we have passed through and
are passing through, still, problems in our
economy, primarily energy-related, that
the prospect for the future is good.
I think 1974 will be a good year for this
economy, and that means a good year for
America's farmers. I think '75 will be an
even better year. And when we come to
our 200th anniversary in 1976, I know it
will be the best year in all America's
history.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:42 p.m. in
the Executive Briefing Room at the Old Execu-
tive Office Building, where he and other Ad-
ministration officials were briefing editors of
national agricultural trade and professional
magazines.
Earlier in the day, Earl L. Butz, Secretary
of Agriculture; William E. Simon, Administra-
tor, and John C. Sawhill, Deputy Administra-
tor of the Federal Energy Office; Members of
Congress; and agricultural leaders met with
the President at the White House to discuss
the effects of the energy situation on farmers.
313
