Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 27 [90]
As a matter of fact, I think we are
going to field the best group of candidates
that we have since the year 1966 when we
gained 47 seats in the House and 3 in the
Senate.
Now, I come to the second question:
Do they have a chance to win? And here
I know that there is always a tendency
in the spring of an election year to assume
that that is the time you determine
whether or not your horse or your candi-
date, in this case the candidate, has a
chance to win.
And I have seen, of course, as you have,
some of the predictions that our candi-
dates may not do so well this fall. But I
would remind you a little of political his-
tory, and that is, never bet on what the
situation is in the spring, because in the
fall it will be different. And it will be
different this year because we are going
to win in the fall.
I go back quite a few years in political
campaigning. I remember the year 1948
I had won both nominations—we could
run on both tickets in California in that
year in the primary-and consequently,
I traveled all over the country that year,
and I remember how high our hopes were
in the year 1948.
We thought that all of our candidates
were going to win, or most all of them, in
those close contested districts, because the
economy was in a slowdown, there were
other problems that seemed to plague the
current administration at that time. And
then in the spring, after that spring, came
the summer, and then came the fall, and
what happened?
The economy picked up, the adminis-
tration came up higher in terms of public
support, and instead of winning, we found
that we lost control of both the House
and the Senate. That is on the negative
side.
Now let's turn to a good year-1966.
It was just the reverse. I remember early
in 1966 and some of you from across
this country will remember-that I was
out of the office at the time, trying to get
back in, of course, but I was out then,
but I was traveling all over the country
for various fundraising events, and our
people weren't very optimistic.
We had suffered a tremendous defeat in
1964. And in the spring of 1966, particu-
larly the early months of 1966, it didn't
seem that good. And I made a rather
rash prediction to a group of press men
at that time, in about March of that year.
I predicted that we would pick up 40 seats
in the House, 3 in the Senate, and 8 Gov-
ernors. I missed a little. We got 47 seats
in the House, 3 in the Senate, and 8 Gov-
ernors. And the reason was because what
appeared to be a good year for the ad-
ministration in the spring of 1966 turned
out to be bad in the fall because of an
unpopular war that came to the attention
of the voters.
Let's look at the lessons of those two
campaigns. In 1948, it was the economy
which was poor in the spring and very
good in the fall. In 1966, it was foreign
policy, the issue of peace, in which the
prospects early in the year did not seem
certainly very detrimental to the admin-
istration and those running on the ad-
ministration tickets, but in the fall in
which it was most detrimental to them.
And so, when you come right down to
it, there are two great issues that move
people in campaigns-just to oversim-
plify it, as we often do in our public ap-
pearances peace and prosperity.
And I can tell you that first, on the
317
