[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
years still to be ratified. Affirmative ac-
tion in this session is of the utmost
importance.
I will continue to pursue a balanced
approach to the drug problem in the next
year by emphasizing both vigorous law
enforcement, and treatment and rehabili-
tation programs to help speed the return
of ex-addicts to productive lives in society.
ENHANCING THE ENVIRONMENT
Both our Nation and the world have
made imposing strides during recent years
in coping with the problems of our natural
environment. Building upon well-justified
concerns, we have created institutions, de-
veloped policies and strategies, and deep-
ened public understanding of the problems
that face us.
Now we are entering the second phase
of environmental action. It may prove to
be a more difficult period.
In this second phase, we will be looking
at our environmental problems in new
ways which are more complex and far-
reaching than those to which we have
been accustomed. We must be concerned
not only with clean air, clean water and
wise land use but also with the interaction
of these environmental efforts with our
need to expand our energy supplies and to
maintain general prosperity.
In facing up to these tough, new prob-
lems, we can draw strength from the prog-
ress we have already made and from the
knowledge that there can be no turning
back from our general commitment to
preserve and enhance the environment
in which we live.
Our record over these past five years
includes the vigorous enforcement of air
quality legislation and of strengthened
water quality and pesticide control legis-
lation, the enactment of new authorities
to control noise and ocean dumping, regu-
lations to prevent oil and other spills in
our ports and waterways, and legislation
establishing major new parks, recreation
and wilderness areas.
We have also tried to reorganize the
Federal structure in ways that are more
responsive to environmental needs. The
National Environmental Policy Act,
passed in 1969, has provided a basis for
reform in our Federal agencies and has
given citizens a greater opportunity to
contribute to environmental decisions. In
1970, I established the Environmental
Protection Agency and National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration to pro-
vide more coordinated and vigorous envi-
ronmental management. Also in that year,
I appointed the first Council on Environ-
inental Quality.
PRODUCING RESULTS
The results of our vigorous anti-pollu-
tion efforts are now being seen and felt.
In our major cities, levels of dangerous
sulfur oxides and particulates have
declined, and pollutants from automobiles
have been reduced. Water pollution is be-
ing conquered, assisted by a massive Fed-
eral commitment of over $14 billion in
municipal treatment plants during this
Administration. Major misuses of pesti-
cides are now under control, and major
sources of noise are being regulated for
the first time.
During these five years, Federal agen-
cies have acquired over 800,000 additional
acres for preservation for future genera-
tions, many of them near our heavily-
populated urban centers such as New York
and San Francisco. In addition, the
Legacy of Parks program, which I ini-
80
