Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 24 [119]
cant shift in intergovernmental responsi-
bilities." The Manpower Report I am
sending you today provides important new
information concerning the step-by-step
implementation of this long-needed trans-
fer of manpower program planning and
design responsibilities to units of govern-
ment which are best equipped to measure
and meet local needs. From now on, State
and local governments will be able to de-
cide for themselves what kind of man-
power services they require, for how long
and in what quantity—and I am con-
vinced that they will be able to provide
such services more efficiently and more
promptly than was possible under the
ceding system of federally-managed
categorical programs.
pre-
Among other important topics discussed
in this report is the energy shortage and
the measures taken by the Department of
Labor and other agencies of Government
to minimize the temporary disruptions of
the labor market caused by the energy
crisis. The report reveals that, in spite of
these disruptions, 1973 was a good year
for labor. The number of those employed
as of December numbered nearly 86 mil-
lion. In the past 2 years alone, over 4.1
million Americans entered the labor force,
including significant numbers of women
and younger workers. While the unem-
ployment rate has moved upward tempo-
rarily after many months of steady de-
cline, we should not overlook the sizable
increases during the same time-span in
the number of new jobs and newly em-
ployed Americans.
For the convenience of the Congress,
this edition of the Manpower Report
brings together in one volume an overview
of numerous manpower activities carried
out under separate legislative mandates.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 22, 1974.
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Manpower Report of the President-
Including Reports by the U.S. Department of
Labor and the U.S. Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, Transmitted to the
Congress April 1974" (Government Printing
Office, 387 pp.).
119 Special Message to the Congress Transmitting Proposed
Legislation for Funding of Foreign Assistance Programs
in Fiscal Year 1975.
April 24, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
For more than twenty five years, Amer-
ica has generously provided foreign assist-
ance to other nations, helping them to
develop their economies, to meet the hu-
manitarian needs of their people and to
provide for their own defense.
During this era foreign aid has become
an indispensable element of our foreign
policy. Without it, America would risk
isolating herself from responsible involve-
ment in an international community upon
which the survival of our own economic,
social and political institutions rests. With
the continuation of a healthy foreign aid
program, this Nation can continue to lead
world progress toward building a lasting
structure of peace.
Now that we have ended the longest
war in our history and no American troops
are serving in combat for the first time in
more than a decade, there is a temptation
373
