Appendix B
February
20 Republican Congressional leaders met with
the President in the Cabinet Room at the
White House to discuss campaign reform,
as well as the emergency energy bill and
the health message.
20 Vice President Ford met with the President
at the White House.
21 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House.
21 Fifteen Boy Scouts and Explorers presented
the Scouts' annual report to the President
in a ceremony at the White House.
22 The President met with a group of ad-
visers at the White House to discuss the
economy and the energy crisis. Participat-
ing in the meeting were: George P. Shultz,
Secretary of the Treasury; Roy L. Ash,
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget; William E. Simon, Administrator
of the Federal Energy Office; John T. Dun-
lop, Director of the Cost of Living Council;
and Herbert Stein, Chairman of the Council
of Economic Advisers.
22 The President greeted members of the
National Citizens' Committee for Fairness.
to the Presidency at a White House recep-
tion.
26 The President opened the first meeting of
the Domestic Council Committee on the
Right of Privacy in the Cabinet Room.
26 The President hosted a dinner at the White
House for Directors of the U.S.-U.S.S.R.
Trade and Economic Council who were in
Washington for the first joint meeting of
the Council.
27 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Vice President Ford
and members of the Republican Congres-
sional leadership-Senators Hugh Scott
and Robert P. Griffin and Representatives
John J. Rhodes and Leslie C. Arends.
27 Counsellor Anne L. Armstrong met with
the President at the White House to discuss
plans for the Bicentennial celebration.
February
28 Senator William Lloyd Scott of Virginia
met with the President at the White House.
28 The White House announced: The Gov-
ernments of Egypt and the United States
have agreed to resume diplomatic relations
on February 28, 1974. The two Govern-
ments express the hope that this step will
develop and strengthen relations between
their countries and contribute substantially
to better mutual understanding and co-
operation. The Government of Egypt has
named Dr. Ashraf Ghorbal as Ambassador
to the United States. The President of the
United States intends to nominate Mr. Her-
mann Eilts as Ambassador to Egypt.
28 Hernan Navarro, president, and William
R. Joyce, secretary of the Consular Corps.
of Washington, called on the President at
the White House to present him with a
certificate of membership. The corps is
composed of all foreign consular officers
located in the District of Columbia.
28 The President hosted a dinner at the White
House for approximately 30 Members of
Congress and their wives.
March
I The President met with a group of ad-
visers at the White House to discuss the
energy problem and its impact on the
economy. Participating in the meeting
were: George P. Shultz, Secretary of the
Treasury; Roy L. Ash, Director of the
Office of Management and Budget; Wil-
liam E. Simon, Administrator of the Fed-
eral Energy Office; Herbert Stein, Chair-
man of the Council of Economic Advisers;
and John T. Dunlop, Director of the Cost
of Living Council.
1 Mayor Tom Stuart, Leo Howard, Lon
Smith, and Roy Pitts-all of Meridian,
Miss.-called on the President at the White
House. They presented him with a state-
ment of support signed by 20,000 Mississip-
pians. They were accompanied by Repre-
sentative G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery.
656
