[166] June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
greatest producer of oil in the world, and
we buy some oil from them. But a relation-
ship between two countries bound to-
gether only by oil would not last very
long.
Our very distinguished guest, His Royal
Highness Prince Fahd, brought this home
to me in our constructive discussions this
morning when he said, "The friendship
between Saudi Arabia and the United
States goes back many years before we
discovered the enormous oil reserves of
that country."
And it is that friendship which binds
us together; it is that friendship that we
honor today; it is that kind of friendship
that we wish to develop with the nations
we will visit on this trip and the other
nations in that area.
And I can only say, speaking personally,
that while I have not had the privilege
of being to Saudi Arabia before, I have
valued for over 20 years a very close, per-
sonal friendship with King Faisal, with
many members of this company who are
here today, and I know whereof I speak
when I say that, yes, we have interests
which bring us together, but even more
important, we have friendship that will
last long after any interests might
disappear.
And to that friendship between two
great countries, it is in that spirit that I
propose a toast today to His Royal
Highness.
Gentlemen, will you rise to His Royal
Highness Prince Fahd, and friendship be-
tween the Saudi Arabian and the Amer-
ican people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House at the
luncheon for Prince Fahd Ibn Abd al-Aziz Al
Saud, Second Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Interior of Saudi Arabia, and other
Saudi Arabian officials.
Prince Fahd responded to the President's re-
marks in Arabic. His remarks were translated
by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, distinguished guests:
It is a great source of pleasure for me to find
myself here in this great country, among my
American friends, headed by President Nixon.
The sentiments so eloquently expressed by the
President, when he said that what binds us is
an age-old friendship, is exactly the sentiment
I would like to reiterate and to emphasize, that
it is this kind of friendship that we have always
sought, that we will continue to seek, namely,
the friendship that is not based on just things
material but that springs from the heart.
Mr. President, the great role that you, aided
by your very able Secretary of State, played in
trying circumstances in the Middle East for
bringing about the achievements that have so
far been brought about, will be immortalized
by history, will be chalked up as an excellent,
commendable, brilliant mark for the United
States as such, for the United States President,
United States Government, and the United
States people.
This is precisely the great role that we feel
is tailored for the United States of America
to play, because it is this country that has
sounded for many a year the clarion of free-
dom, of independence, stability, and prosperity
for the whole world.
The Arab world, particularly those countries
that you, Mr. President, will be visiting, those
countries are looking forward to the days of
your visits because of the symbolism unfolded
on that day, the symbolism of friendship, of
your United States efforts to work for peace and
prosperity, not only for the Near Eastern area
but for the world at large.
Therefore, I beseech Almighty God to guide
your steps, to grant you divine guidance and
the power and the will to achieve those things,
to reach those goals that we know you cherish
for the good of humanity and for the world.
We realize that the future is never smooth,
the future will probably hold some difficulties,
but we do not consider them insurmountable
because, given the stout heart and the great
will that you have, Mr. President, that the
474
