Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 13 [45]
revenues were less than operating costs.
To make up the difference, the railroads
have sought to charge higher rates on
other, more profitable lines. Economic
distortions have been inevitable, so that
today we often have railroads carrying
freight on short runs even though trucks
would be more efficient, while trucks carry
freight on some of the longer hauls even
though the railroads would be more
efficient.
The inability to compete in a more open
market has seriously affected the railroad
industry. Often railroads cannot afford
to make necessary improvements in tracks,
terminals and equipment, and their serv-
ice has steadily declined.
Within recent years the Federal Gov-
ernment has been forced to rescue the
Penn Central railroad from collapse and,
through the Regional Rail Reorganization
Act of 1973, to save seven other railroads
of the Midwest and Northeast from un-
dergoing liquidation. While we cannot
afford to let railroads like the Penn Cen-
tral fail, neither can we afford to bail
them out every time they get in trouble.
Our economy cannot afford it, and our
taxpayers will not tolerate it. If we are to
revitalize this industry we must instead
find a modern approach to Federal regu-
lation of railroads.
To serve that purpose, I am today sub-
mitting to the Congress the Transporta-
tion Improvement Act of 1974, a bill
aimed at restoring this Nation's railroads
to their proper place in the national trans-
portation system.
This new legislation would substan-
tially overhaul the Interstate Commerce
Act to permit liberalized railroad aban-
donment in cases where rail service is con-
tinually shown to be uneconomic. State
and local governments, as well as private
interest parties, would have the opportu-
nity to provide an operating subsidy to
a railroad for the continuation of such
uneconomical service or to arrange out-
right purchase of the right of way if that
is their desire. Furthermore, substitute
service by land or water carrier would
be required prior to abandonment.
Beyond this liberalization in abandon-
ment policies, the bill would provide im-
provements in the rate-making proce-
dures and would abolish discriminatory
State and local taxation of interstate rail
carriers. If rail managers are truly to
direct their own affairs, the ability to raise
or lower rates without engaging in a pro-
tracted and complex rate-making process
is essential.
The Transportation Improvement Act
would also provide significant financial
assistance to the railroads for long-term
improvements. Some $2 billion in Federal
loan guarantees would be provided to
finance improvements in rights of way,
terminals, and other operational facilities
and systems and rolling stock where
needed. In addition, $35 million would
be available for a research effort to im-
prove freight car utilization through de-
sign of a national rolling stock schedule
and control system.
The thrust of this entire legislation is
to revitalize and modernize freight rail
service throughout the country and to
provide an economic regulatory environ-
ment which would permit the sort of
efficient and economical service that can
only result from fair competition, free
from burdensome and unnecessary
regulation.
I recognize that this bill would not
solve several basic problems that con-
front our railways. In the future, substan-
tial investments will be needed in better
163
