Richard Nixon, 1974
June 17 [186]
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to raise your
glasses to drink to the health of an outstand-
ing statesman and world leader whose con-
tribution to build a better world and to bring
peace has brought hope to our whole genera-
tion.
To the President of the United States of
America and to the great people of America.
Lechayim U' L'shalom-all the best.
Lechayim-all the best.
Earlier in the day, the President and Mrs.
Nixon called on Mrs. Golda Meir at her
residence in Jerusalem. Mrs. Meir was Prime
Minister of Israel from March 1969 to June
1974.
186 Joint Statement Following Discussions With
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel.
THE PRESIDENT of the United States,
Richard Nixon, visited Israel June 16-17,
1974. This is the first visit ever to have
been paid by an American President to
the State of Israel. It symbolizes the
unique relationship, the common heritage
and the close and historic ties that have
long existed between the United States
and Israel.
President Nixon and Prime Minister
Rabin held extensive and cordial talks on
matters of mutual interest to the United
States and Israel and reviewed the excel-
lent relations between their two countries.
They discussed in a spirit of mutual un-
derstanding the efforts of both countries
to achieve a just and lasting peace which
will provide security for all States in the
area and the need to build a structure of
peace in the world. United States Secre-
tary of State Henry Kissinger and mem-
bers of the Israeli Cabinet participated in
these talks.
Prime Minister Rabin expressed Israel's
appreciation for the outstanding and ef-
fective role of the United States in the
quest for peace under the leadership of
President Nixon assisted by the tireless
efforts of Secretary Kissinger and indi-
cated Israel's intention to participate in
further negotiations with a view to
achieving peace treaties with its neighbors
June 17, 1974
which will permit each State to pursue its
legitimate rights in dignity and security.
President Nixon and Prime Minister
Rabin agreed that peace and progress in
the Middle East are essential if global
peace is to be assured. Peace will be
achieved through a process of continuing
negotiations between the parties con-
cerned as called for by U.N. Security
Council Resolution 338 of October 22,
1973.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed on the necessity to work energeti-
cally to promote peace between Israel and
the Arab States. They agreed that States
living in peace should conduct their re-
lationship in accordance with the pur-
poses and principles of the United Na-
tions Charter, and the U.N. Declaration
on Principles of International Law con-
cerning Friendly Relations and Co-opera-
tion among States which provides that
every State has the duty to refrain from
organizing or encouraging the organiza-
tion of irregular forces or armed bands in-
cluding mercenaries for incursion into the
territory of another State. They con-
demned acts of violence and terror caus-
ing the loss of innocent human lives.
The President and the Prime Minister
expressed their great pleasure in the inti-
mate cooperation which characterizes the
525
