Appendix B
May
23 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Senators Russell B.
Long and Wallace F. Bennett to discuss the
trade reform bill pending before the Sen-
ate Finance Committee.
23 Aziz Ahmed, Pakistani Minister of State
for Foreign Affairs and Defense, met with
the President at the White House.
23 The President met with eight members of
the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of
the U.S.S.R. who were visiting the United
States at the invitation of the Congress.
23 Vice President Ford met with the Presi-
dent in the Oval Office at the White House.
23 The President met at the White House
with a group of economic advisers. Partici-
pating in the meeting were: Secretary of
the Treasury William E. Simon, Director
Roy L. Ash of the Office of Management
and Budget, Chairman Arthur F. Burns of
the Federal Reserve Board, Chairman Her-
bert Stein of the Council of Economic Ad-
visers, and Director John T. Dunlop of the
Cost of Living Council.
28 The President met with the Cabinet at
the White House.
28 The President greeted a delegation of eight
local government officials from the Soviet
Union who were visiting the United States
at the invitation of the National Governors'
Conference. The President then met sepa-
rately with Soviet Ambassador A. F. Dobry-
nin who had accompanied the delegation.
29 Eleven Congressmen were the President's
guests for dinner on board the Presiden-
tial yacht Sequoia.
30 Vice President Ford met with the Presi-
dent in the Oval Office at the White House
to discuss developments in the Middle East
and other foreign policy matters.
May
31 Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger
breakfasted with the President at the White
House and reported on his trip to the Mid-
dle East and the achievement of the Syrian-
Israeli disengagement agreement.
31 The bipartisan Congressional leadership
met with the President at the White House.
Secretary of State Kissinger briefed the
leaders on the Syrian-Israeli disengagement
agreement.
31 The White House announced: The Gov-
ernments of the United States and Egypt
agreed today to the formation of a joint
cooperation commission which will be de-
signed to promote intensified cooperation
in the economic, scientific and cultural
fields between the two countries. Both Gov-
ernments are convinced that such a joint
commission will enable the United States
and Egypt to develop far-reaching pro-
grams to their mutual benefit. Today's
agreement is a result of a series of discus-
sions between President Anwar Sadat and
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and
reflects the deep desire of the two coun-
tries to strengthen their overall relation-
ships. In agreeing to establish this joint
commission, both Governments are further
reaffirming their hope that a lasting and
just peace in the Middle East will be
realized thus helping the people of the area
enjoy the rewards of stability and develop-
ment. The commission will be chaired by
the foreign ministers of each country. It
will establish working groups. Its first meet-
ing will take place in the near future.
31 E. Ross Adair, who resigned as United
States Ambassador to Ethiopia, paid a fare-
well call on the President at the White
House.
31 Counsellors Anne L. Armstrong, Dean
Burch, and Kenneth Rush and Assistant to
the President Kenneth R. Cole, Jr., met
with the President at the White House to
discuss pending legislation and other do-
mestic matters.
662
