[21] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
hospitals since 1969, and my budget pro-
posals for fiscal year 1975 will provide
for an additional 7,600 medical personnel.
Veterans Administration hospital con-
struction funding in fiscal 1975 will reach
an all-time high of $276 million and, when
these funds are brought to bear, the VA
will be in the midst of its greatest program
of hospital construction in history.
As I look forward to proposing my Na-
tional Health Insurance plan-to make
more and better health care available to
all Americans-it will be more than ever
important to take the VA's health care
system into consideration. It is my strong
view that it should continue as a system,
under VA, to insure the proper care of
eligible veterans. The Veterans Adminis-
tration now operates the largest civilian
medical care system in the world. It is
only fitting that it remain one of the best.
NEW INITIATIVES TO PROVIDE FOR OUR
VETERANS
Two important Administration initia-
tives in veterans affairs should receive the
attention of the Congress in its coming
session.
(1) PENSION REFINEMENTS TO HELP THE
NEEDIEST
In the field of pensions, Administration
proposals will benefit one million veterans
and 1.3 million survivors of veterans in
economic need due to age, disability or
loss of a breadwinner. Although VA pen-
sions have been increased by 27 percent
since 1969, some of the most needy are
least provided for under the current struc-
ture. Many needy veterans and their wives
receive less money from the pension sys-
tem than they would from welfare and no
automatic adjustment is provided for in-
creases in the cost of living. There are
other inequities as well.
As I mentioned in my message to the
Congress on national legislative goals on
September 10, 1973, refinement of the
Veterans Administration pension program
is necessary. The program has so many
problems that it cannot be corrected un-
less the entire framework of the program
is restructured.
I regard the following principles as
vital to a realistic and equitable VA pen-
sion program, and I will propose legisla-
tion to achieve these goals:
-VA pensioners should have some
regularized way of receiving cost-of-living
adjustments in VA pension payments tied
to the automatic increases now available
to social security recipients.
-The VA pension program should be
structured to assure that additional in-
come flows to the neediest pensioners.
This objective would involve raising VA
payments to those pensioners who receive
less total income than adult welfare
recipients under recent amendments to
the Social Security Act. In addition, a
family's total income should be considered
in determining the amount of pension
needed.
-Veterans and widows should be
treated equally with regard to income
and pension payments.
2) INCREASE IN EDUCATION BENEFITS
The cost of living is also a problem for
those veterans now taking advantage of
the GI bill to further their training or
education. They need additional help if
their allowances are to keep pace with
inflation. There are 2.1 million current
beneficiaries of the GI bill, most of them
42
