Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 6 [70]
of the year, I would say toward the middle
of the year we will see the prices of energy
being kept in check and, we trust, even
moving downward.
As far as food is concerned, if the De-
partment of Agriculture's reports are
accurate and if the weather holds up prop-
erly, we will have a record food crop,
particularly a record wheat crop, and that
will tend to bring the price upsurge in
food under control.
And so, as far as the future is concerned
for inflation, while it is still a very sticky
problem and will remain so for some time,
we see the problem being much less dif-
ficult as the year goes on than it is at the
present time.
Now, the other point that I should
make is that when you talk about the con-
sumer revolt, that, of course, relates, I
suppose, to the economy in general. I saw
a report, as you may have, this afternoon
from the University of Fennsylvania,
where they indicated that they thought we
were either in, or headed for, a recession.
I state again, based on my consultation
with my own economic advisers and also
consultation with people outside the Gov-
ernment, the best advice I can get, that
there will not be a recession in 1974.
I think that progress that we will make
on the energy front, progress that we are
going to make on the food front, and also
the continued strength in other areas of
the economy will mean that the last half
of the year will see an upward turn in
the economy.
I believe, in other words, that we are
not going to see a situation where we have
rising prices as well as rising unemploy-
ment, which, of course, would mean a
recession. That, of course, is a projection
that I give, based not simply on my knowl-
edge but based on all of the facts that I
am able to get from the economists who
should know something about it.
NEWS CONFERENCES; CAMPAIGN REFORM
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
ask two questions, if I may. One is that you
surprised a lot of us by calling a second
news conference within 8 days, and I am
wondering if that is the start of a new
policy. Secondly, I would like to ask this
question: It has always been the custom
that foreign money from foreign citizens
is permitted to be accepted and spent in
American political campaigns at all levels,
and in your campaign in 1972, I think, at
least $150,000 came in from foreign
citizens. Do you think that is right, and
if not, will your campaign financing re-
form bill include a prohibition of that kind
of money?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact, I
think Mr. Harlow,¹ on a, shall we say, leak
basis, has already indicated some of the
answers to the second part of the question.
And the leaks in this case are correct. All
contributions from foreign sources are pro-
hibited under the campaign reform that
we have recommended.
And going further, I think you might
be interested to know some of the other
items that are actually going to be in the
reform package. One is that all cash con-
tributions are prohibited if they are above
$50. All contributions in cases of Presi-
dential campaigns will be limited to
$15,000 per person per candidate—in the
case of Congressional and Senatorial cam-
paigns, $3,000.
¹Bryce N. Harlow, Counsellor to the Presi-
dent.
233
