Appendix B-Additional White House Announcements
NOTE: This appendix lists items of general interest which were announced to the press during
1974 but which are not noted elsewhere in this volume. Routine announcements of appointments,
nominations, resignations, and retirements may be found in the Digest of Other White House
Announcements in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents on the date of the
announcement.
January
2 The President approved a second time ex-
tension for the report of the Emergency
Board created on November 1, 1973, by
Executive Order 11745, to investigate a
labor dispute involving the Long Island
Rail Road. The extension permitted the
Board to file its findings and recommen-
dations by January 14, 1974, instead of
January 4.
9 The President, Mrs. Nixon, Tricia Cox, and
C. G. Rebozo drove to Palm Desert, Calif.,
where they stayed at the home of Ambassa-
dor and Mrs. Walter H. Annenberg and
celebrated the President's 61st birthday.
16 Anthony D. Marshall met with the Presi-
dent at the White House prior to assuming
his post as United States Ambassador to
Kenya.
17 Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment James T. Lynn met with the President
at the White House to discuss the recent
drop in housing starts. The President di-
rected Secretary Lynn to develop various
options for the Federal Government to fol-
low in dealing with the situation.
17 Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan met
with the President at the White House to
discuss pension reform legislation and em-
ployment problems resulting from the en-
ergy crisis.
17 Lord Cromer, British Ambassador to the
United States, paid a farewell call on the
President at the White House.
January
18 The President met separately with Senate
Minority Leader Hugh Scott and House
Minority Leader John J. Rhodes to discuss
the legislative calendar for the second ses-
sion of the 93d Congress.
18 John W. Dixon, president of the 1973
Christmas Pageant of Peace Committee,
called on the President at the White House
to present him with the committee's first
"Peace Award" in recognition of his initia-
tives in Vietnam and China. Also partici-
pating in the ceremony were Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary of the Interior, and Ron-
ald H. Walker, Director of the National
Park Service.
18 Attorney General William B. Saxbe met
with the President at the White House to
discuss legislation in the upcoming session
of the Congress.
21 Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger met
with the President at the White House prior
to their meeting with the bipartisan Con-
gressional leadership. Secretary Kissinger
discussed his trips to the Middle East, be-
gining January 11, which concluded in the
agreement to disengage and separate Israeli-
Egyptian forces.
21 The President met with Donald C. Alex-
ander, Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
and John C. Sawhill, Deputy Administra-
tor, and William Walker, General Counsel,
Federal Energy Office, to discuss plans for
an IRS audit of major oil companies.
653
