[61] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
energy and the rest, so that we can get the
supplies up, because the answer to higher
prices is not simply controls. Controls
have been tried, and controls have been
found wanting. The answer to higher
prices is to get up the supplies. That will
bring the price down.
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, to follow up Miss
Thomas' question, you say you will coop-
erate with the Judiciary Committee, but
you can't say yet precisely to what extent.
Can you tell us if you anticipate you will
be able to cooperate at least to the extent
you cooperated with Mr. Jaworski in
terms of turning over to the Judiciary
Committee roughly the same tapes and
documents that Mr. Jaworski has? 2
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is a matter,
Mr. Jarriel [Tom Jarriel, ABC News], that
has been discussed by Mr. St. Clair with
Mr. Doar, and the decision will be made,
based on what arrangements are devel-
oped between the two for the confiden-
tiality of those particular items where they
must remain confidential and also based
on whether or not turning over to the
committee will, in any way, jeopardize the
rights of defendants or impair the ability
of the prosecution to carry on its proper
functions in the cases that may develop.
It is a matter that we are talking about,
and it is a matter where we will be coop-
erative within those guidelines.
On February 15, 1974, the White House
released a statement by James D. St. Clair
summarizing the steps taken by the Adminis-
tration to cooperate with the Special Prosecutor.
The statement, released at Key Biscayne, Fla.,
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 10, p. 214).
DEFINITION OF IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, may I follow on
to my colleague's question and also to Miss
Thomas' question. Within the past week
or 10 days, the House Judiciary Commit-
tee and the Justice Department have is-
sued differing interpretations of what, by
constitutional definition, is an impeach-
able offense for a President.
Now, as we all know, you are an ex-
perienced student of the Constitution, and
I think people would be interested to
know what you consider to be an impeach-
able offense for a President, particularly
on the dividing line, whether it requires
that the House determine that they be-
lieve that the President may have com-
mitted a crime or whether dereliction of
duty, not upholding the Constitution, is
enough in itself to constitute an impeach-
able offense?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Rather
[Dan Rather, CBS News], you don't have
to be a constitutional lawyer to know that
the Constitution is very precise in defin-
ing what is an impeachable offense. And
in this respect it is the opinion of White
House Counsel and a number of other
constitutional lawyers, who are perhaps
more up-to-date on this than I am at this
time, that a criminal offense on the part of
the President is the requirement for
impeachment.
This is a matter which will be pre-
sented, however, to the committee by Mr.
St. Clair in a brief which he presently is
preparing.3
On February 28, 1974, the White House
issued the text of a 61-page document sub-
mitted to the House Judiciary Committee en-
titled "An Analysis of the Constitutional Stand-
ards for Impeachment." The text is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 10, p. 270).
202
