Richard Nixon, 1974
May 8 [134]
controls, but the answer is more
productivity.
He argues for that, he stands for that,
and in business he practiced that, and in
his personal life, I understand, he prac-
tices productivity. [Laughter]
He has one distinction in which he can
one-up any member of the Cabinet, be-
cause here, we are very proud to say, along
with his lovely wife, Mrs. Simon, we have
seven Simon children.
And so, to the man who believes in
productivity and who practices it, I am
proud to present the new Secretary of the
Treasury, Mr. William Simon.
[At this point, Secretary Simon responded to
the President's remarks. The President then
resumed speaking.]
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we had a
very long economic meeting yesterday—
over 2 hours-and Bill Simon came down
very hard for keeping Government spend-
ing down, for austere policies in terms of
Government spending as one of the tools
that Government could use in order to
deal with the problem of inflation, rec-
ognizing, of course, that the final answer
is productivity of the economy, which we
all support.
And so, before planning this program,
we were wondering if this man of auster-
ity would approve of some Government
funds being used for what occurs right
134
now. It occurred to me, however, that not
only because there are so many distin-
guished guests but because we have this
wonderful family here—and young peo-
ple are always just a little hungry—we
should have refreshments.
Now we will have the refreshments.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Secretary Simon responded to the Presi-
dent's remarks as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Members of the
Cabinet, distinguished Members of Congress,
my family, and friends:
To serve one's country under any circum-
stance is a privilege, but to serve one's country
in the extreme position of responsibility as
Secretary of the Treasury is not only a privilege,
it is a rare opportunity.
The number one problem facing us in our
country today is, obviously, inflation. The solu-
tion to this problem is going to require a de-
termination, a political will, a close cooperation
between the executive and the legislative branch
of our Government.
I promise you, as indeed I have in the past,
to work closely and cooperatively with the
Congress on these issues, as well as all the other
critical issues that we face.
In carrying out my responsibilities, Mr. Presi-
dent, I pledge to you that I will approach all
of the problems with a humility and a deter-
mination, that I will justify the faith that you
have placed in me, the faith that the Senate
in confirming me placed in me, as well as that
of the American people.
Thank you.
Statement About Voter Approval of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Charter. May 8, 1974
THE STRONG VOTE by the citizens of
the District of Columbia in favor of the
home rule charter is a most welcome de-
velopment. I am pleased that District
voters have chosen to set the city firmly
on the path toward local self-government.
It is most appropriate as we approach our
Nation's Bicentennial that the residents of
the National Capital should again exercise
their rights to elect their own local officials.
The new government will offer the
means for greater decisionmaking respon-
421
