Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
great influence in the U.N., and it is quite
true that it has great influence within cer-
tain bodies within the U.N.
And I think the only recourse for the
United States, rather than getting out of
the U.N. and leaving the whole game to
them, is to stay in and attempt to see to it
that our influence counterbalances theirs
whenever we think theirs is wrong. That
would be my response at this point.
U.S. POSITIONS AND THE WORLD
SITUATION
[15.] Q. Mr. President, regarding your
comment that we must continue to move
forward on the world front, the Wall
Street Journal and the Chicago Sun-
Times today both carry articles about
mounting evidence that our foreign policy
position with the Soviets, the Arabs, and
our former European partners is now
deteriorating. They say that the tem-
porary suspension of the oil embargo is
likely to be an on-again off-again Soviet-
Arab policy and that our declining
influence abroad will lead to many prob-
lems at home and abroad, including con-
tinued rising prices for gasoline and many
other basic necessities of life here at home.
Would you please give us your comments?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is rather hard
to respond to both of those publications in
the small time that I have, but let me say,
first: Early this year, predictions were
made that there would be a worldwide
recession, you recall, and that was one of
the reasons that people projected an 8 to
10 percent unemployment in the United
States at this time, which has not oc-
curred.
There will be apparently no worldwide
recession, and second, there will be no
recession in the United States. The diffi-
culties are going to continue for a time,
but in the second half of this year we ex-
pect to see the economy moving up, un-
employment moving down, and inflation
abating. As far as the entire situation
worldwide is concerned, however, your
question allows me to make a statement
with regard not only to the Soviet Union
but also with regard to Europe, which
should be more on the front burner than
it is because of the enormous importance
of the European-American alliance to
stability in the world.
I have already responded with regard to
the Soviet Union and the People's Repub-
lic of China. We have difficulties, we have
differences, but it is far better to be talk-
ing about them rather than fighting about
them, and we will continue that policy.
Second, with regard to the Mideast, the
Mideast has had four wars in a genera-
tion. That is just four too many in an area
that is very poor and one that needs peace
and needs it desperately. And at the
present time, the influence of the United
States in the Mideast, the fact that we
have restored relations with Egypt, that
we are moving in all of the area of the
Mideast toward creating a permanent
peace, is going to be one of the major
legacies of this Administration, I would
hope.
Third, with regard to Europe, the prob-
lem there is complicated by the fact that
our European friends and we had agreed
somewhat earlier that we would try, on the
25th anniversary of NATO, which oc-
curs in April, that we would try to reach
common declarations on the security front
with regard to the Atlantic Alliance and
also on the economic and political front
where the United States has to deal with
what is called "The Nine," or the Eu-
ropean Common Market countries.
275
