[61] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
any form, and if asked, would you testify?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe it is a
matter of record that the Special Prosecu-
tor transmitted a request that I testify
before the grand jury, and on constitu-
tional grounds, I respectfully declined to
do so.
I did offer, of course, to respond to any
interrogatories that the Special Prosecutor
might want to submit or to meet with him.
personally and answer questions, and he
indicated that he did not want to proceed
in that way.
SENATE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
[9.] Q. Mr. President, however an
impeachable offense is defined, under the
system, the impeachment proceeding is
the courtroom of the President. You have
said many times that these matters belong
in the courts. So, wouldn't it be in your
best interests and in the best interest of
the country to have this matter finally
resolved in a proper judicial forum, that
is, a full impeachment trial in the Senate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, a full impeach-
ment trial in the Senate, under our Con-
stitution, comes only when the House de-
termines that there is an impeachable
offense. It is my belief that the House,
after it conducts its inquiry, will not reach
that determination. I do not expect to
be impeached.
THE SHAH OF IRAN AND THE OIL EMBARGO
[10.] Q. Mr. President, the Shah of
Iran said in an interview that the United
States is getting as much oil now as it
did before the embargo, and Mr. Simon
of the Federal Energy Office said that
such a statement is irresponsible and reck-
less. Can you straighten us out? Are we
getting as much oil, and why would the
Shah say this?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I would not say
that the Shah was irresponsible and reck-
less. However, his information, I think, is
different from ours, and we have good
reason to know what we are getting.
We are getting substantially less from
the oil-producing countries in the Mideast
than we were before the embargo. That
is why we are, of course, very anxious to
get the embargo lifted as soon as possible.
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
[11] Q. Mr. President, you have told
the American people that there will be
no recession this year. If the unemploy-
ment rate should go above 52 percent
of the labor force, what do you plan to do
about this as an antirecession move, and
would that include a tax cut?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to my
statement that there will be no recession,
I have met with my economic advisers
just last week. I went over this question
in great detail.
We are going through what I would
say is a downturn in the economy at this
point, but not a recession. And for the
balance of the year, the prospects are
good. They are good, because we are going
to be dealing with the energy crisis-
what was a crisis—as a problem. That will
be helpful.
We expect to have an increase insofar
as food is concerned, and as far as other
elements of the economy are concerned,
there are very great areas of strength. The
last half of the year we expect to be on an
upward curve rather than the down curve.
However, those are projections made
by economists, and I gave directions to the
Office of Management and Budget, Mr.
204
