[186] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
warm relationship between their two
countries and peoples. They agreed to do
everything possible to broaden and deepen
still further that relationship in order to
serve the interests of both countries and
to further the cause of peace.
President Nixon reiterated the commit-
ment of the United States to the long-
term security of Israel and to the prin-
ciple that each State has the right to exist
within secure borders and to pursue its
own legitimate interests in peace.
Prime Minister Rabin expressed his ap-
preciation for the U.S. military supplies
to Israel during the October War and
thereafter. The President affirmed the
continuing and long-term nature of the
military supply relationship between the
two countries, and reiterated his view that
the strengthening of Israel's ability to de-
fend itself is essential in order to prevent
further hostilities and to maintain condi-
tions conducive to progress towards peace.
An Israeli Defense Ministry delegation.
will soon come to Washington in order
to work out the concrete details relating
to long-term military supplies.
President Nixon affirmed the strong
continuing support of the United States
for Israel's economic development. Prime
Minister Rabin expressed the gratitude of
Israel for the substantial help which the
United States has provided, particularly
in recent years. The President and Prime
Minister agreed that future economic as-
sistance from the United States would
continue and would be the subject of long-
range planning between their govern-
ments. The President affirmed that the
United States, in accordance with Con-
gressional authorization, will continue to
provide substantial economic assistance
for Israel at levels needed to assist Israel
to offset the heavy additional costs in-
herent in assuring Israel's military capa-
bility for the maintenance of peace.
In the economic field, the President and
the Prime Minister noted with satisfac-
tion the effective working relationship be-
tween their governments at all levels and
the depth of the relationship between the
economies of the two nations. They agreed
to strengthen and develop the framework
of their bilateral relations. The primary
goal will be to establish a firmer and more
clearly defined structure of consultation
and cooperation. Where appropriate, they
will set up special bi-national committees.
Both sides recognize the importance of
investments in Israel by American com-
panies, the transmission of general know-
how and marketing assistance, and
cooperation of American companies with
Israeli counterparts on research and de-
velopment. The United States Govern-
ment will encourage ventures by Ameri-
can enterprises and private investment in
Israel designed to increase Israel's eco-
nomic growth, including in the fields of
industry, power, and tourism. They agreed
to begin immediately negotiations for
concrete arrangements to implement such
policy including in the area of avoidance
of double taxation.
The President and Prime Minister an-
nounce that their two governments will
negotiate an agreement on cooperation in
the field of nuclear energy, technology and
the supply of fuel from the United States
under agreed safeguards. This agreement
will in particular take account of the in-
tention of the Government of Israel to
purchase power-reactors from the United
States. These will secure additional and
alternative sources of electricity for the
rapidly developing Israel economy. As an
526
