Richard Nixon, 1974
May 4 [128]
went into it, came from the people. And
to the people of this State we give you
the congratulations for a magnificent
achievement.
And it is that spirit, that spirit of in-
dividual enterprise, that spirit of doing
things and not depending upon someone
else to do them for you, it is that spirit
that developed the West and the North-
west. It is that spirit that will continue to
make America a great nation, we trust, in
the years ahead.
There is one other aspect of the en-
vironment to which I should like to refer,
and it is particularly appropriate that
I refer to it in the presence of these very
distinguished representatives from the
other nations who have exhibits here for
Expo '74.
We can have good jobs and fine secu-
rity and good health and clean air and
clean water, and it will make no difference
unless we find a way for the great nations
of the world to settle their differences at
the conference table and not on the battle-
field. And that is why we have opened, as
you know, negotiations with those who
might have been our adversaries, negotia-
tions which did not mean that either we
or they agreed with each other in terms
of philosophy, but negotiations that had
one overriding concern, and that is this:
World War I was destructive, World War
II was destructive; there cannot be world
war III, because it will destroy not only
the nations that participate in it, it will
destroy civilization as we know it, and we
cannot let that happen, and we will not
let it happen. That is what we must do if
we are to have the kind of environment
that we want for the future.
And now in the presence of the repre-
sentative from the Soviet Union-as he
knows, I will soon be having another
round of talks with Mr. Brezhnev and his
colleagues in Moscow. We will not agree
on all things, we will have sharp debates,
but let me tell you this: Whether it is
with him or whether it is with leaders of
other countries they are allied with or neu-
tral countries in the world, there is no
disagreement with regard to the need for
all nations to cooperate, share their knowl-
edge and their brains in cleaning up the
environment of the world. We are not just
talking about the environment of Spokane
or the State of Washington or of the
United States but of this whole globe on
which we live. And that is a great enter-
prise that Expo '74 will be remembered
for in the
years ahead.
Because, as we look at where the great
ideas, the great breakthroughs come
which deal with the scourges which have
afflicted mankind from the beginning of
civilization, we find that no one can pre-
dict that it will come from one nation or
from one continent or from one race, be-
cause that spark of genius might be in
the Americas, it might be in Asia, it might
be in Latin America, it might be in Af-
rica. What we have to realize is that
among the 3 billion people that live on
this Earth, there are those men and wom-
en who have within themselves that genius
that will find new answers that will help
us to get the clean air and the clean water
and all the other things that we want to
have a clean environment.
And going further than that, in that
whole world we must recognize that that
spark of genius that will find the answer
to the diseases that plague mankind, it
may not be here in America, it may be in
some other country. But the important
thing for us to remember in this period
when we have ended America's longest
war and when we are moving through a
413
