[201] June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
continuing political problems which will
always be present in free societies.
If we look at those problems that we
presently confront, by themselves and at
the moment, they seem overwhelming. But
today, around this table, we can be thank-
ful that the problems we face today, as
distinguished from 5 years ago, are pri-
marily the problems of peace rather than
the problems of war. And this is progress.
It is progress, although it does not mean
that the task we have as leaders is easier,
because in fact, it is more difficult, more
difficult because peace is not something
that is achieved at a certain time and then
signed and sealed by a treaty which brings
it into being.
Peace is a process in which agreements
and treaties and understandings must con-
tinually be made and continually be re-
affirmed, whereas in the case of war, once
it ends then peace in the sense of absence
of war begins as the result of the signing
of a document or some other kind of
agreement.
And so, to those gathered here on this
historic occasion, I recognize, as all of you
recognize, that the challenges that we
confront today in building a structure of
peace are as great in their way, and in
some ways more great because they are
more complex than the challenges of lead-
ing nations in war.
This is an anniversary, a 25th anniver-
sary, and usually we think of an anni-
versary as an end of an era; this, I think,
we would all rather think of as the begin-
ning of an era.
This great Alliance, in its first 25 years,
came into being and was indispensable for
the purpose of saving freedom and pre-
serving the peace in Europe. This Alli-
ance, for the next 25 years, will have a
greater goal and a broader one of pre-
serving freedom wherever it exists, but
also of building a structure of peace, not
only for Europe and the Atlantic com-
munity but for all the world. This is a
great goal for an alliance and it is a great
goal to which all of us as leaders can be
proud that we are dedicated to it.
I think, for example, back 15 years
when a very young, but very wise king
addressed a joint session of the Con-
gress of the United States, when I was
then I thought I was a young Vice
President presiding along with the
Speaker over that session. And I remem-
ber well what he said. He said that it takes
20 years of peace or more to make a man
It takes only 20 seconds of war to destroy
him.
gen-
And so, when we think of peace, we are
thinking not only of ourselves-looking
back on the years we have been privileged
to serve our nations-but we are think-
ing of generation upon generation of
young people all over this world, young
people who have not known a full
eration of peace in this century, young
people who live in nations who share to-
tally different philosophies from ours, but
young people with the idealism, with the
hopes, with the drive that is so charac-
teristic of youth wherever they are in
whatever nation anyplace in the world.
And we, in this great community of
ours, can be proud that for the past 25
years, we have served the cause of pre-
serving peace. For the next 25 years, we
can broaden that cause, as I have indi-
cated, to serve the cause of peace not only
for Europe and the Atlantic community
but for all mankind.
When I spoke at the beginning, of the
new relationships that have been devel-
oped between the People's Republic of
China and, for example, the United
550
