[108] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is also one that will have the doctors
working for their patients and not for the
Federal Government, and we want that
kind of a program, I am sure, in America.
In the field of education, since so many
schools are represented here, I noticed
how much pride there was. The people
from MacArthur High School are proud
of their school. The people from Freeland
High are proud of their school. The stu-
dents from Bridgeport are proud of their
school. And that is why our program for
education is based on this principle, that
the decisions with regard to the spending
of money you get from Washington should
not be made by bureaucrats in Washing-
ton, but should be made by your own
school districts right here in the State of
Michigan, and why we believe in your
own neighborhood school, that those who
want to go to school should go to that
school which is closest to home. This is
something that everybody believes in and
something, certainly, that you can
support.
And one other point, finally, that I
should make. We have all heard of the
welfare programs in this country, and
we want every individual who needs help
to receive it. But we need a program, a
program which must come from Washing-
ton, D.C., in which it is never more profit-
able for a man to go on welfare than to
go to work, and that is something that I
think the people in this district would
support.
I mention these particular points. Let
me say, what can you do about it? Well,
you, of course, can do something about it
by your votes. You must choose between
candidates. I can only say this with regard
to your candidate for the Congress of the
United States. I knew Jim Harvey for 13
years. He was one of the hardest working
men that was ever in the Congress. He
was always there whenever there was a
vote to be cast. He knew his district, and
he represented the people of his district,
and he wasn't controlled by anybody else.
What you need in the Congress of the
United States is a man who will be a full-
time Congressman, not a part-time Con-
gressman. What you need is a man who
knows the people of this district and who
will speak for them. What you need is a
man that is not controlled by big labor or
big business, but only by you, the people
of this particular area. And what you
need is one who sincerely understands
your problems and will work for them.
And I think you have such a man in the
man who worked for 13 years with Jim
Harvey, your candidate for the Congress
of the United States.
I have one final point, and then we
must go on to our motorcade up through
the "Thumb” area. I have just returned
from Europe, as you know. There I met
with the heads of 35 governments-Com-
munist governments, the Soviet Union
and China, and, of course, the govern-
ments of the free world, the great nations
of Europe, Latin America, Africa, and
Asia-and as I met with them, every one
of them was concerned about the future
of peace in the world.
We have ended wars before, as you
know, but we have had four in this cen-
tury, and then it has always been followed
by another one. The veterans of World
War II saw their younger brothers or sons
fight in Korea, and the veterans of Korea
saw their younger brothers or sons fight in
Vietnam.
What we want now is peace that will
last, peace for not just a few years but for
a generation and longer. And we can have
it, but we need a strong America, an
348
