Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 9 [106]
area and learn from that what we should
do across the country in other areas.
I will be glad to go to other areas if a
Presidential visit would be helpful, but
the main purpose here is to come and see
on the site what it is like. You know, you
read about this, we saw it on television, I
heard about it; I read about it, but until
you walk along and have a chance to meet
a few people, see what the spirit of the
people is, what they want to do, you don't
really know, first, what they have been
through, and also you don't know the
other factor, and that is that this town is
not going to die, this town has the will to
live.
It has a combat spirit. It is going to
make it, and as long as it has got the spirit,
then your Government is going to do
everything it can to see that it isn't just
spirit alone, that you have the money, the
loans, everything else that is needed to be
of assistance.
[3] XENIA (Young Men's Christian As-
sociation Building, approximately 1:30
p.m.)
Q. Mr. President, these people need
immediate help, sir, no redtape. What can
you possibly tell them?
THE PRESIDENT. The reason that I am
here is so the redtape will be cut through.
We have had a lot of experience in han-
dling disasters, as you know. We had Hur-
ricane Camille in 1969, we had Hurricane
Agnes in 1972, and now we have this
disaster here.
As I pointed out, of all the disasters I
have seen in terms of just total sheer
devastation, visual devastation, this is the
worst, even worse than an earthquake in
Anchorage. That is the closest thing to it
that I saw in 1964.
Now, what can we do? What we have
set up is what we call a one-window
service. That is where you cut through the
redtape.
The difficulty in the past is that you
have about eight or ten Government pro-
grams and nobody knows where to go.
So, we are setting up in each area one
office where somebody can come in and
he can find out about how he gets a small
business loan, if he is trying to put his
business on its feet; what he can do about
mobile housing, if he is trying to do that;
what he can do about education; what he
can do about getting food, and all the rest.
But the problems, in a nutshell, in all
disasters, are the same. You start with
housing. People have got to have a place
to live. And then you go on to food.
People have got to have something to eat.
And we are taking care of that with the
help, of course, of volunteer agencies.
Then you go to education. You have
got to have the schools rebuilt, and until
they are rebuilt, we have got to have
temporary facilities or have them trans-
ported to other schools in the area.
And finally, and probably most impor-
tant in the long term, are jobs. That is
why I am putting emphasis on the fact
that every one of the companies in here,
small and large, that were wiped out or
damaged can get loans which will go
beyond their insurance.
What I find is an interesting thing, not
surprising. A small businessman told me
that he employed 12 people and that his
whole shop, which was an upholstery shop,
was knocked out.
I said, "Well, how much did the insur-
ance cover?" He said, "Only 50 percent."
Well, you see, obviously he is going to need
more money in order to get on his feet.
And through our small business loans, we
are going to provide additional funds for
343
