[202] June 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
you, Mr. President, 2 years ago and which we
resolutely intend to pursue, for it meets the
fundamental interest of the peoples of the two
countries and the interests of world peace.
Experience shows that progress along this
path requires effort, sometimes quite a bit of it.
The relaxation of tension in Soviet-American
relations, as in international relations generally,
comes up against rather active resistance. There
is no need for me to dwell on this subject since
our American guests know better and in more
detail than we about those who oppose inter-
national détente, who favor whipping up the
arms race and returning to the methods and
mores of the cold war.
I just want to express my firm conviction
that the policy of such individuals—whether
they themselves know it or not-has nothing
in common with the interests of the peoples.
It is a policy that attests most likely to the
unwillingness or inability of its proponents to
take a sober look at the realities of the present-
day world.
We are confident, however, that the peoples
will support those who seek to assure their
peaceful future and a tranquil life for millions
of people, not those who sow enmity and dis-
trust. That is why we believe that the good
results it has proved possible to achieve in
Soviet-American relations in the last 2 years
shall not be erased, particularly since their im-
provement has already justified itself and has
in many respects given practical proof of its
usefulness for both sides and for the world as
a whole.
Today the task, as we see it, is to consolidate
the successes already achieved and to advance
further along the main road that we have
jointly chosen to follow. The third round of
Soviet-American summit talks has begun. We
shall be discussing both the further develop-
ment of bilateral relations and a number of
international problems.
Although we have different viewpoints on
several matters, we shall seek, and I feel not
unsuccessfully, agreed ways toward the fur-
ther consolidation of peace and mutually ad-
vantageous cooperation. I believe it can defi-
nitely be said that our talks will proceed in a
businesslike and constructive spirit. We, for
our part, express the hope that this time as
well our meeting will be as fruitful as the
preceding meetings in Moscow and
Washington.
Esteemed Mr. President, I do hope that you
and Mrs. Nixon feel well on Moscow soil in
the Kremlin residence with which you are al-
ready familiar. Soon you will be seeing the
southern coast of the Crimea, where on the
Black Sea shores hundreds of thousands and
even millions of our country's workers, farmers,
and office employees annually spend their
vacations at health resorts. I do hope you like
the Crimea. We certainly love it.
For my part, I shall be glad to reciprocate to
some extent the hospitality that was accorded
to us last summer on the Pacific Coast in San
Clemente. I trust that in the Crimea there
will be no less comfortable a setting for quiet
and productive discussions.
I also hope that the visit to the Hero City
of Minsk, the capital of Soviet Byelorussia, will
also be interesting for you, Mr. President. This
title of honor has been conferred upon the
Byelorussian capital for its outstanding feat of
arms in the years of our joint struggle against
the Hitlerite aggressors.
Of course, we would have liked you to see
more of the Soviet Union and to travel around
our country, but since you have not been able
to make your visit a longer one, I should like to
express the wish that it should prove to be at
least as useful and pleasant as possible.
May I propose a toast to the health of the
President of the United States, Mr. Richard
Nixon, and Mrs. Nixon.
To the health of all the American guests
present in this hall.
To peace and friendship between the peo-
ples of the Soviet Union and the United States
of America.
To lasting peace all over the world.
On June 28, 1974, in addition to meeting
with Soviet officials, the President participated
in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of
the Unknown Soldier in the Aleksandrov Gar-
dens. That evening, the President and Mrs.
Nixon attended a performance at the Bolshoi
Theater.
556
