Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 8 [72]
to share with you my reasons for opposing
a raid on the public treasury to pay for
political campaigns. This is popularly
called public financing.
In reality, it is compulsory financing by
the American taxpayer of political cam-
paigns. It is unhealthy, it reduces our
freedoms, and it would have the effect of
undermining the very foundation of our
democratic process.
Underwriting political campaigns from
the United States Treasury would not
only divert tax dollars from pressing na-
tional needs but would also require tax-
payers to sponsor political candidates and
parties with which they might totally
disagree.
This procedure would take your
money—no matter what your political
preference and distribute it to candi-
dates for whom your voluntary support
might be withheld.
In effect, that process would be taxa-
tion without representation. It would, in
other words, violate the very precept for
which our Nation declared its independ-
ence and fought a war for that independ-
ence. You work too hard for your money
to have it spent on candidates or in cam-
paigns that you don't know about or don't
care about or even oppose.
Thomas Jefferson, who so eloquently
committed to words the spirit of the Revo-
lution, said, at another time, "To compel
a man to furnish contributions of money
for the propagation of opinions which he
disbelieves and abhors, is sinful and
tyrannical."
The courts have already struck down
this type of financing when labor unions
have tried to make campaign contribu-
tions from compulsory dues, and I see no
reason now to place this same type of bur-
den on the back of the American tax-
payer. One thing we don't need in this
country is to add politicians to the Federal
dole.
Public financing could give incumbents
unfair advantages over relatively unknown
but capable challengers, and at this time
in our history, this Nation, all of our leg-
islative bodies-particularly the Congress
of the United States-needs new blood,
new leadership.
Moreover, it would close off the one
avenue that hundreds of thousands of citi-
zens choose to participate in the electoral
process.
Our goal should be to disclose dona-
tions, not to foreclose them. We need to
open up the election process, not put it
in the closed hands of Washington
bureaucrats.
I have also proposed reform in the area
of campaign practices. We must firmly
move to prohibit the organized and inten-
tional disruption of a candidate's cam-
paign by his opponents as well as to pre-
vent the use of tactics which impede or
deny entry at a campaign rally.
I recall in the campaign of 1968 the
violent demonstrations that took place
where Senator Humphrey and I were con-
cerned, demonstrations which had the ef-
fect finally in some cases of denying us the
right to speak.
Once and for all, we should move to end
such anti-democratic practices as stuffing
ballot boxes, the rigging of voting ma-
chines, other practices which affect the
electoral process in the most pernicious
manner.
The third general area of reform in
which I have submitted proposals to the
Congress deals with the length of cam-
paigns. Campaigns should be true tests of
a candidate's appeal to the voters, rather
than endurance contests.
243
