Richard Nixon, 1974
May 22 [150]
compassionate assistance to the victims of
natural disasters.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on provisions of the act.
150 Statement About Proposed Amendments to the
Elementary and Secondary Education Act.
May 22, 1974
I AM disheartened by the action taken
in the Senate Monday on the education
amendments of 1974. I previously indi-
cated my intention to veto the committee
version of S. 1539. While some improve-
ments were made on the floor to S. 1539,
the bill, as it now stands, would solve few
of the problems that must be solved if we
are to improve the quality of public edu-
cation in America, and it contains provi-
sions which would create several new
problems.
Consolidation of present funding proce-
dures is essential if the Federal Govern-
ment is to be a source of assistance rather
than a bottleneck in the funding of ele-
mentary, secondary, and adult educa-
tional programs. While the Senate has
moved toward consolidation of some pro-
grams, it has not moved nearly far enough.
Where it has provided for consolidation,
it has needlessly mandated funding levels
for these programs, and it has added nu-
merous other categorical assistance pro-
grams.
The Senate bill, far from cutting bu-
reaucratic redtape, would create 16 new
bureaucratic structures, prohibit decen-
tralization of decisionmaking, and add
cumbersome, time-consuming, and re-
strictive administrative procedures.
I am concerned with the fact that the
Senate bill fails to deal with the need
for complete reform of the impact aid
program. At present, the Federal taxpayer
is subsidizing education for children of
Federal employees in areas where this sup-
port is wholly unwarranted and consti-
tutes a needless subsidy.
I must once again state my unequiv-
ocal opposition to forced busing for the
purpose of achieving racial balance. The
experience of the past 5 years across Amer-
ica shows that we can dismantle dual
school systems without resorting to mas-
sive forced busing. We must recognize that
the goal is not to bus children for the sake
of busing, but to provide the finest educa-
tion we can for the sake of our children.
This can be accomplished best in neigh-
borhood schools under educational poli-
cies established at the local level, and not
imposed by the Federal Government. As I
have indicated previously, I support the
the busing provision of H.R. 69 over those
contained in the Senate bill.
Finally, I have urged in the strongest
terms the necessity of advance funding for
consolidated programs under an accept-
able elementary and secondary education
bill. State and local governments must
know before the school term begins what
the Federal portion of their budgets will
be if they are to be able to plan their
academic programs effectively and effi-
ciently. When legislation is sent to me
that I can approve, I will send a supple-
mental appropriation request to the Con-
gress to enable forward funding of these
programs.
449
