Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 9 [106]
ricane Agnes in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania-and it is hard to tell the difference
among them all, but I would say that in
terms of destruction, just total devasta-
tion, this is the worst I have seen.
It doesn't mean that the others didn't
have great suffering. But for example,
when you see an earthquake, and most of
you haven't, in Anchorage, you walk
along the street there, and you will find a
great gap of 12, 15 feet and the houses
all down in it, and that is a terrible thing
to see.
But here you see total devastation in
one area, and then other areas not touched
at all, so I would say this is perhaps, when
you look at it from the air, the most dev-
astating disaster that I have seen.
As you know, it affects not only the
State of Ohio. We have already had disas-
ter declarations in six different States, and
the Federal Government is moving in
with every resource that we have.¹
Q. Mr. President, I am Robert John-
son, B Company
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, how long will
the Guard be here?
MR. JOHNSON. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. We are checking that
out with our people here. We will have
you here only as long as you are needed,
but I want to say that one of the things
¹ On April 4, 1974, following a meeting with
the President, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development James T. Lynn announced at a
White House news briefing that the President
had signed disaster declarations for Alabama,
Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, and Tennessee. Sec-
retary Lynn's statement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 10, p. 386). An announcement of the
President's signing of a disaster declaration for
Georgia was released on April 5 and is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 10, p. 387).
we have been very proud of is the way
the Guard has handled itself in all these
other disasters.
Without the Guard coming in-and I
know under very difficult circumstances
because basically you are all volunteers—
without your coming in and handling
these things, we would have a much worse
problem. We are very appreciative of
what you have done. We will get you out
just as soon as the job is done. Fair
enough?
MR. JOHNSON. Fair enough, sir.
[2.] XENIA (Disaster Control Center,
approximately 1:15 p.m.)
Certainly, this is the worst devastation
I have seen in the many disasters I have
had the opportunity or the responsibility
to look at. But as far as the spirit is con-
cerned, it is great.
I haven't found a person yet who said
he was going to pick up stakes and get out.
And it is really very heartening, very
heartwarming, to see people who lost their
homes and their schools are down, maybe
their jobs aren't there, and they say,
"We
are going to tough it through, we are going
to stick it out."
So, this town will come back, it will
come back. I think it will come back and
be stronger and better than it was before,
and it was a very good town before. That
would be my prediction.
I think it is somewhat, as I have said,
like what happened to San Francisco at
the turn of the century when they had the
fire and the earthquake and everybody
said it was finished. Well, now it is one of
the most beautiful cities in the world.
I have noticed an interesting thing
about Xenia, that there are a number of
new subdivisions, beautiful homes, that
have been built. They are all right. And
341
