[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
the response of the public, and their ac-
tions will in turn be based upon their
recognition that an energy crisis actually
exists and that it has not been contrived
for the benefit of big business. For weeks,
believing that the crisis is genuine, mil-
lions of Americans have made sacrifices
in their comfort and convenience so that
no Americans would have to suffer per-
sonal hardships. Those sacrifices are con-
tinuing today, and they will be needed in
the future. It is up to the leaders of the
Nation to ensure that the public trust is
not abused.
As President, I am deeply committed to
a firm policy: We must not permit private
profiteering at the expense of public sacri-
fice. The sacrifices made by the American
people must be for the benefit of all the
people, not just for the benefit of big busi-
ness. In equal measure, we must not per-
mit the big oil companies or any other
major domestic energy producers to ma-
nipulate the public by withholding infor-
mation on their energy supplies. That in-
formation must be made available to the
public, and it must be accurate and
complete.
The windfall profits tax that I outlined
last December and am again asking the
Congress to pass would serve this policy by
preventing major domestic energy pro-
ducers from making unconscionable prof-
its as a result of the energy crisis. It would
exact a tax of up to 85 percent on receipts
from sales of crude oil above the ceiling
set by the Cost of Living Council in
December of 1973.
3. ENERGY-RELATED UNEMPLOYMENT
INSURANCE
The energy emergency will undoubtedly
result in some dislocation within the econ-
omy. Selected labor market areas may
experience unusually large rises in un-
employment despite our best efforts to
minimize economic disruption. Jobs in
those areas may become harder than usual
to find. Therefore, as an integral part of
the same philosophy which had led me to
seek a windfall profits tax that prevents a
few people from benefitting unduly from
the energy emergency, I will also recom-
mend new unemployment insurance meas-
ures to cushion American workers against
the shocks of economic adjustment. Last
April, I submitted legislation to improve
the unemployment insurance program by
increasing benefit levels and expanding
coverage. I call again for the enactment
of those measures. In addition, I will sub-
mit unemployment insurance amend-
ments that would, on enactment, extend
the duration of benefit entitlement and
expand coverage in those labor market
areas that experience significant increases
in the level of unemployment. These pro-
visions, coupled with the recently enacted
Comprehensive Employment and Train-
ing Act will provide a solid foundation
for the more rapid re-absorption of work-
ers into the Nation's economy.
4. MANDATORY REPORTING OF INFORMA-
TION BY PRIVATE INDUSTRY
The information now provided to the
public and to the Government by the
energy industry is insufficient for public
planning purposes. This is a serious defi-
ciency which has understandably become
a matter of intense public interest. To cor-
rect it, I will shortly submit legislation re-
quiring major energy producers to provide
to the Government a full and constant
accounting of their inventories, their pro-
duction and their reserves. Where required
22
