[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
that our cities and towns can benefit from
this program as soon as possible.
I also urged the 93rd Congress to pass
the Responsive Government Act that I
submitted last year. This measure would
enable State and local officials to improve
their planning, decision-making and
managerial capabilities through broad-
based, flexible grants.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Over $12 billion has been invested in
rural development through Agriculture
Department programs alone during the
five years of this Administration. Annual
Federal funding for these rural develop-
ment programs has been tripled during
that time. These funds have been spent
for:
-Rural housing, where more than $6.4
billion has been provided through 487,000
housing loans.
-Electrification and telephone sys-
tems, where over $3 billion has been spent
to bring service to 177,000 new rural
consumers.
-Water and waste disposal, where
some 8,500 loans and grants totaling $1.4
billion have been provided to rural com-
munities for water and waste disposal
systems.
-Loans to farmers, who received more
than 489,000 loans totaling over $4.2
billion.
In addition to these efforts under De-
partment of Agriculture programs, almost
200 other Federal programs have had a
significant impact on rural areas. As a
result, rural residents receive as much
Federal support per capita as residents of
urban areas.
During the past year we have markedly
increased our activity on behalf of the
Nation's rural residents:
-During 1973, the Rural Develop-
ment Act was funded for the first time to
provide over $750 million in loans and
grants to States under procedures which
give them a new flexibility in promoting
rural industrialization and in improving
the quality of rural life.
-An interim rural housing policy was
developed, placing greater emphasis on
more effectively utilizing existing housing
and making Farmers Home Administra-
tion programs more responsive to those
with the greatest housing needs.
-To ensure continuing Government
attention to rural development needs, this
Administration has also created both a
special Cabinet-level Rural Development
Committee and the new post of Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture for Rural
Development.
As we look to the future patterns of na-
tional growth, we must never forget that
the prosperity, the vitality and the char-
acter of rural America are essential cor-
nerstones of our Nation's balanced growth.
It is essential that rural America receive
its proper share of our attention—and I
am determined that this shall be the case.
HELPING DISASTER VICTIMS
Seldom is swift and effective Govern-
ment action needed so urgently as when a
natural disaster strikes.
Since taking office, I have had to
declare over 160 major disasters in 42
States and in 3 territories. In recent years,
the amount of Federal assistance given to
disaster victims has been greatly ex-
84
