Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 23 [86]
ing the Basic Educational Opportunity
Grants program.
This program is designed to insure that
every qualified student in America has an
opportunity for post-secondary education,
whether in college or vocational school.
This program, fully funded, would offer
every eligible student a maximum grant of
$1,400 per year. He would receive less to
the extent that his family could reason-
ably be expected to contribute toward
his expenses.
The law establishing this program is
now on the books, but the Congress has
not yet responded to my request of 1973
that we provide the money it takes to do
the job. I again urge the Congress to pro-
vide these funds $1.3 billion in the
budget I submitted earlier in February.
This program will not provide total
financing of education beyond high school.
American parents are not asking for Gov-
ernment to do the whole job of enabling
their children to continue their education.
But it will provide significant assistance to
eligible students.
An important companion to the Basic
Grant program is the Guaranteed Student
Loan program. During the coming year,
this program will provide almost 1 mil-
lion students with loans averaging $1,250
each. At my direction, the Secretaries
of HEW and the Treasury will soon be
contacting the Nation's lending institu-
tions to urge them to increase the funds
which they make available for student
loans. In addition, we have proposed to
the Congress several measures designed to
increase the availability of loan funds-
including an increase in loan ceilings.
I intend to take every step that is nec-
essary to make sure that student loan funds
are as widely available as the need—both
for students who will be qualifying for
Basic Grants and for students from fami-
lies who do not need a grant but want to
spread the cost of education over several
years by borrowing funds.
The programs I have discussed today
and our other programs in education are
designed for one basic purpose-to pro-
vide a chance for every American child
to realize the full benefits of a great edu-
cation system. During the past 5 years, we
have made significant progress toward
that goal.
We have established a new program of
Basic Educational Opportunity Grants to
further our goal that no qualified student
be denied access to education after high
school for lack of money.
We have provided special aid for local
school districts to help them deal with
problems of desegregation.
We have created a National Institute
of Education to marshal our research skill
systematically so that we can better un-
derstand how students learn, how they can
be taught more effectively.
We have provided support to develop
new ways of helping children learn to
read.
We have substantially increased support
to colleges serving minorities and students
from economically disadvantaged back-
grounds.
We have done well. But we can do
better.
A century ago, the great British states-
man Benjamin Disraeli said of his own.
nation: "Upon the education of the peo-
ple of this country the fate of this country
depends." Precisely the same is true of
the United States.
We have, in less than 200 years, devel-
oped the finest system of education that
305
