Richard Nixon, 1974
June 26 [201]
view, EPA Administrator Russell Train
submitted proposed amendments to the
Clean Air Act to the Congress on behalf
of the Administration.
Since the bill that I have signed deals
in only a limited way with the problem of
insuring that our environmental priori-
ties and our energy needs are managed
201
Toasts of the President and
at a Luncheon in Brussels.
Your Majesty, my colleagues from the At-
lantic community, and distinguished
guests:
Your Majesty, we are all most grateful
for your eloquent remarks, and we can
think of no more appropriate place or
time in which to celebrate what in effect
is an anniversary.
As I stand in this place, I think back
5 years when you so graciously hosted a
luncheon on my first visit to NATO.
I think back over what has happened over
those 5 years. It is perhaps safe to say that
more profound changes have occurred in
the world in those 5 years than have oc-
curred in any peacetime period in this
century.
There has been the opening of a dialog
between the United States, as well as
other nations, but between the United
States and the People's Republic of China,
where one-fourth of all the world's people
live. We have substituted for a period of
confrontation with the Soviet Union a
period of negotiation. And other nations
as well in the European and Atlantic
community have done so.
The very long and difficult war in Viet-
nam has ended, and most recently, de-
velopments have occurred in the Mideast
evenhandedly, I urge the Congress to re-
view the Administration's proposed
amendments and to act quickly and favor-
ably upon them.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14368, approved
June 22, 1974, is Public Law 93-319 (88 Stat.
246).
King Baudouin of Belgium
June 26, 1974
which, while only a first step, are never-
theless a most hopeful step toward a goal
that every nation around this table repre-
sented has an interest in-the goal of a
permanent and just peace in that crit-
ically important part of the world.
And as we look over those 5 years of
developments, we, of course, can see how
much the world has changed. We also
can see how much the world can change
and be changed in the future, provided
we continue the strength, the purpose of
this great Alliance, without which most
of these great initiatives could not have
been undertaken and would not have
succeeded.
Today in the brief talks I have had with
some of my colleagues in the Atlantic
community and also in the meeting this
morning, the plenary session, I have heard
raised, very justifiably, the issues that
are on the minds of every leader in the
industrial, more advanced nations of the
world today—the problem of inflation, the
problem of energy, the problem of inter-
national monetary matters, balance of
payments-economic problems generally.
And of course, all of us are recognizing
the fact that in various nations, in addi-
tion to economic problems, there are the
549
