[128] May 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Washington, under the leadership of Gov-
ernor Evans, I think is generally recog-
nized to be the first State in the Nation
in terms of trying to protect the environ-
ment. We congratulate this State, its Gov-
ernor, and its legislators.
And then, it is a great privilege to be
here on this sparkling, beautiful day to
speak about what this particular occasion
means, not only for now and the days
ahead in this summer-when I hope that
hundreds of thousands, and maybe mil-
lions, will come to see it but, looking
down through the pages of history perhaps
to the year 2000, 25 years from now, when
we celebrate a new year that comes once
in 1,000 years and when we look back to
see what we did now to make that a new
year that was not only the greatest new
year for America but for every nation in
the world.
Today, we speak of the environment in
terms—as we should of cleaning up the
air and water, of a legacy of parks, of all
of those other things that have to do with
making our cities and our towns and our
countryside more beautiful for our chil-
dren and those that follow us.
The environment means all those
things, but environment also means other
things to people. It means, for example,
for every family in America a job so that
he can enjoy the environment around him.
And there are those who sometimes say
that the two are in conflict, that it is
impossible to have a great, productive
society like America-the most industrial-
ized nation in the world-and a clean
environment.
We have gone through a period in the
energy crisis when there have been evi-
dences that these two great interests-one,
production which would provide jobs, and
two, a clean environment-seem to come
in conflict. But let me tell you what the
answer is. We can have both, and we shall
have both. And the way we can have both
is to develop the great resources of this
country in a way that they will not pollute
the atmosphere, that they will contribute
to a clean environment.
And that is why we are going forward in
terms of our huge Government programs
in research and development for the pur-
pose of seeing that our coal resources can
be developed into a clean fuel. That is
why we are going forward in our pro-
grams for the development of solar energy
and nuclear power which, of course,
would be clean fuel.
And I can assure all of you here that
your Federal Government, working with
the States, working with private enter-
prise, can and will achieve the goal of not
only a better and cleaner environment in
terms of our water and our air but also
the jobs, the opportunity for all Americans
that is so important for us to enjoy an
environment.
Another aspect of environment that oc-
curs to each of us, of course, is what this
magnificent Expo is going to leave as a
legacy. It will leave, I trust, some of these
beautiful buildings. It will leave a 100-
acre park in the heart of the city of Spo-
kane, which was once a blighted area.
These will be physical monuments to what
you, the citizens of Spokane and the State
of Washington, have done in putting on
Expo '74.
But beyond those material things, it will
leave something else, and that is a new
spirit. And what impressed me as I read
about how this Expo came about was
that the idea did not come from Wash-
ington, D.C., it came from Washington
State. Those who worked on it, those who
conceived it, and most of the money that
412
