[231] July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
stable and held a clinic up until 1929. And we
registered, to start with, 509 patients, and I
checked the other day and there are pretty
close to 207,000 in the Orthopedic Hospital, to
say nothing of all the private cases that I have
had.
Of course, at my age, I am getting many
cases that are 40 and 50 years of followups,
which you have to live quite a while to get the
types of people I have had.
The most important thing that I call the pay-
off is the fact that these people who many of
them are adults that I took care of when they
were babies and made them walk again, club-
footed children, and then when I realize what
they are accomplishing-they are not on the
welfare rolls, and they are holding down good
jobs and having families and one thing and
another, and that is what I call the payoff.
No amount of money can ever give you the
satisfaction that that does.
I want to thank you again very much.
232 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report of the National Heart and Lung
Advisory Council. July 29, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit the First Annual
Report of the National Heart and Lung
Advisory Council, prepared in accordance
with the requirement of Public Law 92-
423, the "National Heart, Blood Vessel,
Lung, and Blood Act of 1972."
It should be noted that funds for the
Heart and Lung Institute have been in-
creased greatly in recent years: from $195
million in 1971 to $286 million in 1974,
to $309 million proposed for 1975. In
short, the Administration's actions on the
heart and lung program clearly identify it
as an area of very high priority.
While there are recommendations in
the Council's report that are at variance
with the Administration's views, the
Council's Report merits serious considera-
tion and will be closely studied and eval-
uated. I am forwarding the report so that
the Congress may also have it available
for its deliberations.
The White House,
July 29, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, entitled "National Heart,
Blood Vessel, Lung, and Blood Program-First
Annual Report of the National Heart and
Lung Advisory Council" (25 pp. plus appen-
dixes), was published by the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
233 Message to the Senate Transmitting an Amended Text
to the Convention on Facilitation of International
Maritime Traffic, 1965.
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the
advice and consent of the Senate to its
acceptance, a copy of an amended text
to Article VII of the Convention on
Facilitation of International Maritime
July 29, 1974
Traffic, 1965. The amended text was
adopted at a brief special conference in
London in November 1973 and has been
referred to the Contracting Governments
for their acceptance. The report of the
Department of State concerning the
616
