[242] Aug. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
242 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Trade Agreements Program for 1973.
August 8, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 402 (a) of
the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (TEA),
I transmit herewith the Eighteenth An-
nual Report of the President on the Trade
Agreements Program. This report covers
developments in the year ending Decem-
ber 31, 1973.
Last year was a particularly important
one for United States and world trade, as
this report demonstrates in detail. Un-
questionably the highlight occurred last
September in Tokyo, when the ministers
of 105 sovereign nations joined to declare
their support for a new round of multi-
lateral trade negotiations, the seventh
since the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) was signed in 1947.
This round represents a major initiative of
the United States, along with initiatives in
the international monetary field, begun
in the fall of 1971. The charter for these
negotiations, as embodied in the Declara-
tion of Tokyo, is the most ambitious yet.
The purpose of these talks is no less
than to modernize a world trading system
which, though it has well served the
world's peoples and brought about the
many benefits of a four-fold expansion of
trade, is no longer capable of responding
to the needs and realities of a rapidly
changing and increasingly interdependent
world economy.
First, these talks are aimed not only at
the continuing need to facilitate trade by
lowering tariffs, but at reducing today's
most pervasive and restrictive export
inhibitors, so-called non-tariff trade bar-
riers (NTBs). Unless these can be effec-
tively dealt with, no major exporting
nation-especially the United States-can
hope to remain competitive in today's and
tomorrow's world markets. And loss of
competitiveness abroad can threaten the
viability of firms and lead to loss of mar-
kets at home.
Second, the inflationary pressure of in-
creased costs has become a major inter-
national problem which must be dealt
with multilaterally if we are to adequately
deal with inflation domestically.
Third, the need to maintain access to
vital raw materials, energy, and food re-
quires negotiated assurances for such ac-
cess to supplies as well as to markets.
Fourth, economic issues should be
managed and negotiated in parallel with
political and security issues, in order to
make progress on all three fronts.
Finally, we must encourage sovereign
governments to work within an acceptable
international framework to deal with such
problems as import safeguards and export
subsidies. At the same time we must have
the authority to defend our legitimate na-
tional interests and manage domestic con-
cerns in the context of an up-to-date, re-
sponsive and responsible international sys-
tem.
None of these objectives can be accom-
plished without the appropriate legisla-
tive authorization. This authority-care-
fully balanced with provisions for the
most effective Congressional and public
participation in our trade policy-making
and negotiating
negotiating since GATT was
formed-is represented in the Trade Re-
form Act, which I submitted to the Con-
624
