Richard Nixon, 1974
[185]
June 16
I have had the great privilege over the
past 27 years to travel to over 80 coun-
tries. I have met most of the leaders of
the world. Some were called great, some
near great, and some were called things
much worse than that. I also have had a
chance as President to meet, talk to, and
evaluate most of the leaders on the cur-
rent scene today and those who have been
on it over the past 5 years.
And I can say to this audience here
gathered in the Knesset in Israel that no
leader I have met, no president, no king,
no prime minister, or any other leader
has demonstrated in the meetings that I
have had with that leader greater courage,
greater intelligence, and greater stamina,
greater determination, and greater dedi-
cation to her country than Prime Minis-
ter Meir.
The President has informed me that
this is the first state dinner that has been
held in this room, this great hall, since she
left that post, and consequently, I thought
that I, having worked with her, having
become her friend, and she has been my
friend, that I might have the honor and
the privilege to ask you to join me in a
toast to the former Prime Minister.
Prime Minister Golda Meir. To Golda.
MRS. MEIR. As President Nixon says,
presidents can do almost anything, and
President Nixon has done many things
that nobody would have thought of doing.
All I can say, Mr. President, as friends
and as an Israeli citizen to a great Ameri-
can President, thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. In responding also to
the very eloquent remarks of President
Katzir, it gives me an opportunity to re-
flect for a moment on the contribution
that has been made to my country, the
United States of America, by those of
Jewish background. I could mention them
in many fields, and the names are legion.
Their accomplishments in many cases cer-
tainly exceed those of any group that we
could possibly imagine. And I suppose that
sometimes those who do not know Amer-
ica and do not know our system wonder
how it happens.
We have no quota system. We don't do
it because we are trying to recognize peo-
ple, because they happen to represent a
particular group in the society. Oh, there
is some of that in politics, there always is.
But just to give you an idea as to the
standard that most of us, as Americans,
have applied and that I have tried to
apply, I recall that when I made the ap-
pointment of Dr. Kissinger as Secretary
of State, much ado was made about it, and
they said, "Well, President Nixon has
appointed the first Jewish Secretary of
State."
And I can say to this audience here,
I appointed him not because he happened
to be of Jewish background, I appointed
him because he was absolutely the best
man for the job, and he has proved to be
the best man for the job.
And when we speak of the programs
for peace to which the United States is
dedicating itself now and to which we
have been dedicated throughout this Ad-
ministration, a great deal of the credit
goes to this man, one who worked long
and hard when he was an Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs
and now who works twice as hard when he
holds that position and the position of
Secretary of State and three times as hard
since he is also now married.
The other point that I thought was ap-
propriate to touch upon in responding to
the toast by the President of Israel was for
me to pay a tribute to those who have
served in the armed forces of this coun-
519
