Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
First, it will not be necessary for us to
have compulsory rationing in the United
States.
Second, effective this Sunday, I have
rescinded the order which closes all serv-
ice stations on Sunday.
Third, Director Simon is increasing
allocations to industry and agriculture so
that they can have the necessary energy
to operate at full capacity.
And fourth, with regard to those gaso-
line lines which have troubled us in sev-
eral places in the country, we will now
be able to allocate additional gasoline
with the purpose of diminishing the lines
and, we hope, eventually eliminating
them.
Now, it is necessary for us to keep this
development, however, in perspective. We
must recognize that as far as price is con-
cerned, the pressure on prices will con-
tinue, because the oil we import from
abroad—from, for example, the Arab
oil-producing countries-costs approxi-
mately twice as much as the oil we pro-
duce in the United States.
Also, with regard to the shortage, it is
not yet over. We still have an anticipated
shortage of perhaps 5 to 8 percent in the
United States. Therefore, it will be nec-
essary to continue our voluntary program
of carpooling and also of slower driving.
Third, with regard to the energy short-
age generally, I should point to the ne-
cessity for action in one area. When we
speak of an energy shortage, the greatest
shortage of energy is the lack of energy
on the part of the Congress of the United
States in getting to work and passing the
legislation that will produce more energy
in the United States of America.
Now, as all you ladies and gentlemen
of the press know and, I am sure, in this
audience know, there are now 17 bills be-
fore the Congress which have not been
acted upon which would deal with the
problem of increasing the supply of
energy.
Among those that come to mind that
would have an immediate effect if they
were enacted would be, first, the deregu-
lation of natural gas, so that we can have
additional supplies of natural gas, which
we have in great abundance and which is
the cleanest fuel that we could possibly
have.
Second, it is necessary to develop not
only in terms of production but also ex-
ploration, the sources of energy that the
Federal Government has in various instal-
lations across the country, particularly in
Elk Hills.
And third, it is essential in terms of
energy that the Congress act on the legis-
lation that I have requested which would
relax environmental restrictions which at
the present time do not allow the mining
of coal and the use of coal, and coal is, of
course, as you know, our major source of
energy. We have 63 percent of all the coal
in the free world, and it should be used
at this time when we do have an energy
shortage.
So much for the short-term activities.
In addition to that, the Congress has be-
fore it a number of bills which would
affect the long-term problem, for example,
authority to build deepwater ports, for ex-
ample, authorities that would speed up
the construction of nuclear plants, which
in the long term is going to be one of the
major sources of energy in the United
States.
As I have said, and as you have heard
me say on many occasions, the purpose of
the United States is to develop our energy
resources which we have in abundance
so that by the year 1980 the United States
283
