Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 25 [61]
QUESTIONS
IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATION
[2.] Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas,
United Press International], I think you
are number one tonight.
Q. Mr. President, to heal the divisions
in this country, would you be willing to
waive executive privilege to give the Judi-
ciary Committee what it says it needs to
end any question of your involvement in
Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Thomas, as you
know, the matter of the Judiciary Com-
mittee's investigation is now being dis-
cussed by White House Counsel, Mr.
[James D.] St. Clair, and Mr. Doar.ยน And
as I indicated in my State of the Union
Address, I am prepared to cooperate with
the committee in any way consistent with
my constitutional responsibility to defend
the Office of the Presidency against any
action which would weaken that office
and the ability of future Presidents to
carry out the great responsibilities that
any President will have.
Mr. Doar is conducting those negotia-
tions with Mr. St. Clair, and whatever is
eventually arranged, which will bring a
prompt resolution of this matter, I will
cooperate in.
INFLATION
[3] Q. Mr. President, John Dunlop,
the price controller, has said, "I don't
think we know how to restrain inflation."
How confident are you that in the latter
half of the year we can restrain inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier [Frank
Cormier, Associated Press], the problem
ยน John M. Doar was special counsel to the
House Judiciary Committee.
of inflation is still a very nagging one. The
last figures, as you know, the one percent
increase in one month of the consumer
price index, was a very troublesome one.
Looking to the future, we are keenly
aware of this problem, and we are pre-
paring to deal with it.
First, we believe that it is vitally impor-
tant to get at the source of the problem.
One is in the field of energy. The way to
get at the source of the problem in the
field of energy is to increase supplies. I
have already directed my comments to
that point.
The other is in the field of food, and in
the field of food we have the same objec-
tive to increase supplies. And Secretary
Butz indicates to me and to other mem-
bers of the Cabinet and the Cost of Living
Council that he expects that our supplies,
through the balance of this year, of food
will go up and that that will have a
restraining influence as far as food costs
are concerned.
With regard to inflation, I should point
out, too, that almost two-thirds of the
price increase, the increase in prices last
year, which was at a very high rate, was
due to energy and also to the problem of
food.
By getting at these two problems and by
continuing our Cost of Living Council
activities in the areas that Secretary Shultz
has testified to, I believe that we will bring
inflation under control as the year goes on.
But I would not underestimate the
problem.
We are going to continue to fight it. It
is going to have to take responsibility on
the part of the Congress to keep the budget
within the limits that we have laid out.
It is also going to take an effort on the
part of our farmers, an effort on the part
of the Administration in the field of
201
