[131] May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
sent to the Congress in April of 1973. This
act would replace the current, outmoded
system of Federal price regulation with
the competitive pricing of new natural gas.
The existing system encourages inefficient
use and waste of natural gas and destroys
the incentive for the exploration and de-
velopment which would make new natural
gas supplies available.
I have also proposed legislation, the
Mined Area Protection Act, which would
allow mining of coal and other minerals
to proceed with reasonable environmental
protection and reclamation requirements.
This legislation has been awaiting action
since 1971. Legislation is needed which
does not restrict coal production in un-
necessary and arbitrary ways, but instead
permits development in a manner which
balances environmental considerations
with our energy requirements. The legisla-
tion presently active in Congress in this
area does not meet these needs.
This Administration has also made im-
portant proposals regarding the construc-
tion of deepwater ports, labeling of ap-
pliances and automobiles for energy
efficiency, the revision of nuclear power-
plant licensing procedures, and other ac-
tions which would relieve our Nation's
energy problems in the years ahead.
We have also proposed a series of
changes in the tax laws which would re-
capture the windfall profits that are pos-
sible in a period of energy shortage and
would give incentives to search for new
energy sources at home rather than
abroad.
All of these measures are important.
The American people this winter showed
that they had the spirit to face the energy
challenge. Now it is up to the Government
to show that it can provide leadership in
the same spirit. I welcome the Federal
Energy Administration Act as a major
step
in the right direction.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on provisions of the act and
the transcript of a news briefing on topics relat-
ing to the energy situation by John C. Sawhill,
Administrator of the Federal Energy Office.
132 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Salary
Increases in the Executive Schedule. May 7, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The recent rejection by the Congress of
higher salaries for the Executive, Legisla-
tive and Judicial branches has created a
problem within the Government that
needs to be quickly remedied.
Under the law, career officials in the
General Schedule "GS employees" as
they are called-cannot be paid a higher
salary than anyone on the lowest rung,
Level V, of the Executive Schedule.
For the past five years, the salaries of
those in the Executive Schedule have been
frozen, and with the recent action by the
Congress, will continue to be frozen until
1977.
During the same period, in actions ap-
proved by the Congress, the salaries of
those in the General Schedule have been
gradually increasing.
The result now is that GS employees in
the top three levels of the General Sched-
ule GS 16s, 175, and 18s-are almost
all paid the same salary, $36,000, which is
the same salary as a Level V employee on
the Executive Schedule.
418
