[76] Mar. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
And so, I therefore am proud to be
here as your guest, but also proud to be
here to join you in honoring them. Since
you have remarked about the progress
that has been made toward peace, I would
like to say just a word-without imping-
ing upon Congressman Mahon's time, be-
cause we will want to hear, of course, from
him primarily about where we stand
and what we have to do if we are going
to achieve our goal of a generation of
peace and, we would trust, much longer
than a generation of peace.
We have ended America's longest and
most difficult war, as you have pointed
out. We have assisted in bringing about a
time of peace in the Mideast with the pos-
sibility of building a more permanent
peace in that troubled area of the world
where, incidentally, the hatreds go back
more than 50 years, they go back 1,000
years.
We also have begun a new relationship
with those who lead one-fourth of all the
people who live on the face of this Earth.
We have also begun a different relation-
ship with those who lead the Soviet
Union, who have been in constant con-
frontation with the United States since
the end of World War II.
And when we think of these things,
sometimes it is very tempting to say the
United States has carried such great bur-
dens in World War I, World War II, then
Korea almost by ourselves, in Vietnam by
ourselves, and in all of these four wars
fought in this century, we fought them,
we lost our young men, we paid out great
sums of money, we received nothing in
return insofar as territory or conquest was
concerned.
We helped rebuild not only the lands of
our allies but those of our enemies, until
now, they are competitors in the free
world. All this we did, and there are those
who would suggest, now that we have
peace in Vietnam, a new relationship
with the Soviet Union and a new rela-
tionship with the PRC and the begin-
ning of, possibly, peace in the Mideast,
why can't the United States turn only to
its problems at home-or primarily to
them and away from these great world
responsibilities that we have carried.
It is very tempting to suggest that be-
cause there are so many things we would
like to use, money that we could cut from
our defense budget, here at home-but
let me talk very directly to that point, to
an audience that I know needs no per-
suasion on it but it needs-all of us need
to be reminded of why.
We need to be reminded of what peace
is in today's world. Sometimes we con-
clude that once you get peace, that is it,
and then we just relax. But in the kind of
a world in which we live, with great,
powerful nations with totally different
systems of governments and different in-
terests, peace is never something that is
achieved once and for all and then can be
taken for granted. Peace is a continuing
process, and the key to whether that proc-
ess will work is in the hands of the United
States of America.
I want to say to you, my friends of the
VFW and all others listening, that the
cause of peace is in good hands, good
hands because, while we are the most
powerful and the richest country in the
world, we have no designs on any other
country, no other country fears that we
are going to use our power to take away
their freedom. They know that we will
only use it to help them defend freedom.
No other country fears that we will break
258
