[106] Apr. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
not only the big guys who, of course, we
want to provide for, because they provide
all of those jobs, but for the hundreds of
small businesses in this area.
This is a town that has a lot of small
businesses. I realize that a lot of people
that live here it is a suburban town-
you go in to work at NCR [National Cash
Register] or one of the other companies
in Dayton or Wright-Pat, but I like to see
a town like this, 25-30,000, with a lot of
small businesses moving up.
The other area I should mention is agri-
culture. I noticed that the farms have suf-
fered a lot, but we are really expert on
that because in Camille that was primarily
a farming disaster down there in that
Mississippi Delta area.
So we are in a good position. We have
Government programs set up to help the
farmers get what they need to get in
production again for the spring crops.
Q. Mr. President, are you satisfied, at
this point, what has been done up to this
time?
THE PRESIDENT. No one is satisfied un-
til everybody is housed and schools are
rebuilt and food is provided.
I am satisfied that we have never had a
better effort-more coordinated under the
leadership of our Secretary of HUD, Mr.
Lynn, and Mr. Tom Dunne, who is also
working on it from the White House, we
have never had a better effort.
And incidentally, we have had total
support from the Congressmen. We are
working in close coordination with the
State government, with Governor Gilli-
gan, and you have the total backing of the
White House on it.
I think that considering the fact that
this disaster struck so many areas that we
are doing a very good job, but there will
be, I can assure you, there will be a lot
of instances where people will say, "Well,
why isn't my school built tomorrow, why
don't I get a house right away, or a mobile
house."
Let me say we are going to try to break
those bottlenecks as fast as we possibly
can and get the help in, and I will issue
some orders when I leave today that will,
I think, cut through a little more of the
redtape.
Q. Mr. President, how do you find the
morale of the people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the most en-
couraging thing about coming to an area
like this is, some lady said to me, “You
know, you have really done a lot for my
morale coming out here." And I said to
her, "You have done a lot for our morale,"
because when we come and see people who
have lost their homes or their jobs or their
schools, and when we see these people and
then see them smiling and saying, "We are
going to stick it out," you realize that that
kind of spirit is the spirit that built this
country and that is the kind of spirit that is
going to rebuild this town. And I would
predict—and I won't say how long,
within a matter of 2 or 3 years—you are
going to find Xenia back on its feet, better
than ever.
Some of the older buildings, it is too
bad, I notice that one marvelous old
building that Bud³ was telling me was
built 100 years ago that was knocked out.
Well, that is sad, but on the other hand,
there will be a new hotel there, it will be
better, and so it will be with the schools
and everything else.
I think you are going to have newer
and better schools and housing and also
good jobs. And that will happen mainly
because of the thing you have mentioned,
* Representative Clarence J. Brown.
344
