Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
Along with trade and monetary prob-
lems, new international agreements on
investment policies and new mechanisms
for dispute settlement are high on our
negotiating agenda for the coming year.
We must continue to work for economic
arrangements which permit the beneficial
flow of international investment so that
all may derive the maximum benefit from
their own resources. To that end, I am
glad to be able to note that this week the
United States completed the phaseout of
controls on flows of capital from this
country.
The recent oil embargo and especially
arbitrary increases in the price of oil have
created major economic problems for
many countries, including the United
States. If continued, these policies would
require enormous transfers of goods and
assets from oil importing nations, trans-
fers which would represent a serious bur-
den for even the wealthiest countries and
which would be virtually unbearable for
the less developed countries.
Our objectives are clear-we must get
world oil prices down from levels that are
arbitrary and exploitative. We must also
cooperate to ensure that the international
and domestic economic policies of the
advanced countries do not compound the
economic disturbances created by the cur-
rent emergency but rather that we do all
that can be done to contain and limit those
disturbances.
THE DOMESTIC ECONOMY
Despite our general prosperity, inflation
remains a most serious economic prob-
lem, not only in the United States but also
for the rest of the world. We see clear evi-
dence of this problem at every hand.
World oil prices have gone up recently at
dramatic rates. World food, metals and
other commodities prices are also up
sharply. Because domestic prices cannot
be isolated from international prices,
worldwide inflationary pressures have
helped to drive up prices here at home.
Inflation has been a continuous prob-
lem for nearly a decade, and it got worse
in 1973. The result has been that people
have come to expect continuing price in-
creases and to behave accordingly in
their own economic life. Their behavior,
in turn, adds further to inflationary pres-
sures, contributing to a vicious inflation-
ary spiral which is difficult to break.
Some people have said that the best
way to wring these inflationary expecta-
tions out of our economy is by taking the
economy into a recession. I disagree. It is
true that a lower level of economic activ-
ity would reduce demand and thus lower
the pressure for higher prices. However,
the cost of such a policy in terms of in-
creased unemployment would simply be
unacceptable.
By the same token, I also reject the no-
tion that we should totally ignore inflation
and concentrate solely on stimulating
higher levels of employment. This policy
would also involve too high a cost since
it would unleash a further acceleration of
the inflation rate.
In developing my economic policy for
1974, I have chosen what I believe is a
sound middle road: to cushion the eco-
nomic slowdown we expect during 1974
without providing additional stimulus for
inflation. We expect this policy to reduce
the rate of inflation by the end of the
year. Should there appear to be a serious
threat of a severe slowdown, then we will
act promptly and vigorously to support
the economy.
As we cope with the challenge of in-
61
