Richard Nixon, 1974
June 5 [165]
policy of trying to solve everyone's prob-
lems all over the world was no longer
realistic, nor was it necessary.
America was no longer a giant towering
over the rest of the world with seemingly
inexhaustible resources and a nuclear
monopoly.
As our overwhelming superiority in
power receded, there was a growing threat
that we might turn inward, that we might
retreat into isolation from our world re-
sponsibilities, ignoring the fact that we
were, and are still, the greatest force for
peace anywhere in the world today.
This threat of a new wave of isolation-
ism, blind to both the lessons of the past
and the perils of the future, was and re-
mains today one of the greatest potential
dangers facing our country.
Because in our era, American isolation
could easily lead to global desolation.
Whether we like it or not, the alternative
to détente is a runaway nuclear arms race,
a return to constant confrontation, and a
shattering setback to our hopes for build-
ing a new structure of peace in the world.
When we came into office in 1969, this
Administration faced a more complex, a
more challenging, and yet, in some ways,
a more promising world situation than
that which existed in the post-World
War II era.
While we could not and will not abdi-
cate our responsibilities as the most power-
ful nation in the free world, it was appar-
ent that the time had come to reassess
those responsibilities. This was the guid-
ing purpose of the Nixon Doctrine, a
doctrine which says that those we help to
enjoy the benefits of freedom should bear
a fair share of the burden of its defense as
well.
It was also clear that both pragmatism
and moral force had to be the double
prongs of any American foreign policy in
the new era. A sense of moral purpose is
part of our heritage, and it is part of the
tradition of our foreign policy. Pragma-
tism, realism, and technical efficiency must
not be the sole touchstone of our foreign
policy. Such a policy would have no roots
or inspiration and could not long elicit
positive support from the American peo-
ple and the Congress, and more im-
portant, it would not deserve the respect
of the world.
We had to remember, however, that
unrealistic idealism could be impractical
and potentially dangerous. It could tempt
us to forgo results that were good because
we insisted upon results that were per-
fect.
A blend of the ideal and the pragmatic
in our foreign policy has been especially
critical in our approach to the Soviet
Union. The differences between our two
systems of life and government are sharp
and fundamental. But even as we op-
pose totalitarianism, we must also keep
sight of the hard, cold facts of life in the
nuclear age. Ever since the Soviet Union
achieved equality in strategic weapons
systems, each confrontation has meant a
brush with potential nuclear devastation
to all civilized nations. Reduction of ten-
sions, therefore, between us has become
the foremost requirement of American
foreign policy.
The United States will not retreat from
its principles. The leaders of the Soviet
Union will not sacrifice theirs. But as we
have the valor to defend those principles
which divide us as nations, we must have
the vision to seek out those things which
unite us as human beings.
Together, we share the capacity to
destroy forever our common heritage of
4,000 years of civilization. Together, we
469
