Richard Nixon, 1974
June 12 [174]
ready-made solutions for these complex
problems, some of which go back over
many years, some of which are going to
require a great deal of dedicated diplo-
macy on the part of all parties concerned
in order to find a just and equitable
solution.
But I do say to you, Mr. President, and
I do say to this company, I say to every
nation represented here, because every
nation in the world has a stake in the peace
in the Mideast for the reasons that I men-
tioned this morning, I say the United
States will play a positive role. We have
no designs on any nation in this area. We
have no desires to dominate any part of
this area. Our only interest is, first, peace
in the area and, second, the right of every
nation and every people to achieve its
own goals in its own ways by its own
choosing, free of outside domination or
outside interference.
To accomplish this goal will take not
simply the diplomacy, brilliant though it
was, that has brought us as far as we have
come, the first two great steps toward
reaching a permanent and just peace.
We have started down a long road, but
the road stretches on and we have a long
way to go. And I can only say that we in
the United States, our Government, will
dedicate its best efforts to going down
that road to achieve the goals of the peo-
ples of this area, the nations of this area,
goals of peace and progress and prosperity,
we would trust, in the end for all con-
cerned.
On such an evening as this, standing
in such a place as this, one cannot help
but feel the sense that centuries of civili-
zation look down upon us, and as we feel
that sense of history in this place which
has perhaps as much or more history
behind it than any in the world, we feel
the obligation that we have, each one of
us here, to future generations.
This has been called, this area, the
cradle of civilization, and now we have
the challenge, the opportunity, the privi-
lege of seeing that the civilization which
we have inherited from the great giants of
the past survives and not only survives
but is passed on to future generations,
stronger, more effective, certainly, we
would trust, more helpful to all of the
people who live in this part of the world.
I can only say that I am sure I speak
for all those here, who are the guests of
the President and Mrs. Sadat, that we are
privileged to be here on such a memorable
day. We trust that this is a day truly of
a new beginning for all the nations in this
area, a new and a good beginning, and
one that will benefit thereby all the na-
tions of the world. And I am sure that
all of you would want to join me in the
toast that I will propose, not only to the
new Egyptian-American relationship, a
relationship of friendship that should
never have been broken in the past—and
we dedicate ourselves to seeing that it
will never be broken in the future-and
second, to a man who has demonstrated
that he is not only a great leader of his
own country but that he is one of those
rare leaders who also has the vision and
wisdom to contribute to peace for all peo-
ple in all countries as well.
And in proposing a toast to him, I
would not forget Mrs. Sadat. She, like
my wife, stands by her husband's side, and
she is known throughout her country for
her dedication to him and for her service
to her country, whether it is in war or in
peace.
So, ladies and gentlemen, if you would
rise and raise your glasses to the President
and Mrs. Sadat.
489
