[156] May 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
ance of sun, water, soil, and care to grow
to its full potential, so, too, does a lasting
peace.
The minute that peace is taken for
granted and we have seen this happen
again and again in the course of modern
and ancient history-its survival is in
jeopardy. Lasting peace can be achieved
only through lasting awareness, lasting
preparedness, and lasting strength, both
physical and moral. As America and other
nations have learned only too well through
experience, weakness invites aggression
and aggression triggers war.
On this Memorial Day, then, let us bear
in mind what Winston Churchill once
called the "sinews of peace"-the ways
and means through which we can keep
America a credible and strong force for
peace and order in the world. There are
some people here in America who would
like to turn inward and turn away from
the world's problems. We have enough
problems of our own, they say, without
getting involved in anyone else's.
And up to a point, they are right. We
are, and must continue to be, a nation
dedicated to building the best possible life
for our people, to overcoming injustice, to
expanding opportunity to embrace every
American, regardless of race or creed. But
like it or not, we are also a part of a larger
world. We may seek to ignore the world,
but the world will not ignore us. And in
a day when atomic weapons are spread-
ing, when famine stalks large parts of the
Earth, and when the tinder that could ig-
nite another massive conflagration exists
in many parts of the world, to turn our
backs on our responsibilities for world
leadership would, in the long run, be dis-
astrous not only for us in America but also
for all people in the world who seek peace.
There was a time when we could look
across the oceans, protected by time and
distance, and let other peoples, such as the
British and the French, carry the burden
of free world security. They had the power
and the will to do it, and America could
afford in those long-gone days to live in
what used to be called "splendid isola-
tion." But those days are no more. Today,
America's isolation can lead only to the
world's destruction.
It is for this reason that the Atlantic
Alliance is today the cornerstone of this
Nation's foreign policy. Together with
our NATO allies we are united in the
common effort of defense and in the com-
mon quest for a more peaceful, more
stable world. We can and we have, under
the Nixon Doctrine, placed wise limits on
future commitments of American man-
power, not only in Asia but in other parts
of the world as well. At the same time,
we have recognized our broad responsibil-
ities of U.S. leadership, the leadership
required, for example, to help keep the
peace where it exists and to act as peace-
maker in explosive areas like the Mideast.
Diplomatically, we fulfill this role by
using the best possible men and ideas in
our dealings with other nations. And the
records show that we have been successful
in doing this in the past 5 years. But no
matter how talented our diplomats are,
the policies they pursue must be backed
up by credible strength-the "sinews of
peace." And in the final analysis, this
means military strength.
As long as the peace of the world de-
pends on it—and it does—America must
never become the second strongest nation
in the world. If successful negotiations
for weapons limitation and reductions are
to continue, America must remain strong.
Only a strong America, in concert with
its allies, can be a strong force for peace.
458
