[134] May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
sibility and control at the local level, a
goal for the Nation that this Administra-
tion has consistently sought.
As the District embarks on its new
course, the Federal Government will take
every appropriate action to insure that
the transition to the new form of govern-
ment is a smooth one. The transfer on
July 1, 1974, of certain quasi-Federal
agencies to the District will enhance the
city's ability to deal with problems in
planning, housing, community develop-
ment, and manpower programs. We will
also work closely with the city government
in whatever way is needed to insure that
this memorable step toward self-govern-
ment is a success in the District of
Columbia.
135 Statement About Plans and Pending Legislation
To Revitalize the Housing Market. May 10, 1974
THE MAIN thrust of the economic poli-
cies of this Administration is the fight
against inflation, but in carrying it for-
ward, we are also seeking to minimize
problems on other fronts.
One such problem which has arisen has
been a weakening of the housing market.
As a means of controlling inflation, the
Federal Reserve Board is carefully—and
appropriately-limiting the growth in the
supply of money so that general demand
will be dampened and inflation can be re-
duced. An inevitable consequence of lim-
iting the supply of money is that interest
rates have risen and the amount of money
available for loans of all kinds has become
harder to obtain.
The higher cost of money affects all sec-
tors of the economy, but none more di-
rectly than the housing market. The Na-
tion's housing industry, which had been
producing homes at record high rates in
1971, 1972, and 1973, is now operating
far below its potential. Savings institu-
tions find they have less money available
to lend, as depositors and potential de-
positors seek higher rates of interest on
market instruments. With this shrinkage
of available housing funds, home buyers
are either unable to find mortgage money,
or the mortgages that are available are of-
fered on terms which fewer families can
meet. The homebuilder finds it increas-
ingly difficult to sell the homes he has al-
ready built, and with the uncertainties of
the availability of such mortgage funds, he
is understandably reluctant to produce
more housing. As builders curtail opera-
tions, workers in the construction trades
face the prospect of increased unemploy-
ment.
I pledged 2 weeks ago that the Federal
Government would take action to alle-
viate these conditions, and today I am an-
nouncing a four-point plan to do just that.
These actions will assure the availability
of more than $10 billion of mortgage
money for the housing market during
1974 beyond the funding already pro-
vided through prior actions.
I. IMMEDIATE ACTIONS
1. INCREASING AUTHORIZATION FOR
TANDEM PLAN
The Tandem Plan is a very useful in-
strument for supporting the housing mar-
422
