[108] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Jim Sparling, who worked in the White
House last summer, that we are sending
Director Simon, of the Energy Office,
here. He will be here in the next couple of
days in this district.
We are going to do everything we can
to increase the supply of fertilizer in this
area so that the farmers can sell more of
those beans-what is it, $48? Well, that
is not bad.
And now, if I could just say a word
to you about the choice that you will make
in this election and what it means to you
as individuals, not to you as partisans,
either Democrat or Republican, but you
who are American citizens selecting the
one that will represent you in Washington.
First, I know the man who will be leav-
ing this office, has left it, and the man
who will be replacing Jim Harvey. For 13
years, he served in the House of Repre-
sentatives. I can tell you the things that
distinguished him. He was one of the hard-
est working men. He knew his district. He
also was one who was a full-time
Congressman.
It is going to take a big man to fill his
shoes. And the man that can fill his shoes
is Jim Sparling, who for 13 years worked
with him in the Congress of the United
States.
Now, the thing that you want to know,
however, is why you need a man in the
Congress of the United States that will
represent you, every individual—the
farmer, the worker, the small business-
man-and will not take his orders from
anybody else, whether it is big labor, big
business, or what have you. This is that
kind of a man. I will tell you what we
need.
First, as you all know, one of the prob-
lems that has confronted our economy-
we saw down in Saginaw and Bay City; it
has affected you to an extent is the short-
age of energy. We have moved on that in
the international front, but the bottleneck
is in the Congress of the United States
where there are 17 pieces of legislation,
including the deregulation of natural gas;
auto emission standards, relaxing them so
that we can produce more cars at lower
prices; and the production of coal. I could
mention a lot of these technical items, but
what does it have to do with you, the
people here in Huron County?
Well, it has this to do with you. Only as
we get the supply of energy up, can we
get the prices of energy down, and it is
only through Congressional support of 17
measures that have been there in the Con-
gress without action that we can get that
supply up. And Jim Harvey is one who
supported those proposals, and Jim Sparl-
ing is one who can do it in the future.
So, I say in this area, if you are inter-
ested in that, if you want more jobs, if you
want more for your farms, I can only say
the way to do it is to get a man in Congress
who will not be a bottleneck, who will not
be a "no" man, who will not be a rubber
stamp for anybody, but who will represent
you, each and every one of you. This is
that kind of a man.
So it is with the other areas, whether it
is a health program that provides health
insurance for everybody with no increase
in taxes but still retains that fundamental
principle that a doctor should work for his
patient and not for the Federal Govern-
ment, or whether it is an education pro-
gram that provides aid to education but
provides that the decisions with regard to
schools should be made by local school dis-
tricts and not by bureaucrats in Wash-
ington, D.C., or whether it is a welfare
program that is one that will make it not
possible for an individual to say it is more
350
