Richard Nixon, 1974
May 31 [162]
work with the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to come up with
sound, workable solutions to the problem.
Today I am happy to announce an im-
portant result of this mandate for action:
the establishment of a VA Man-on-the-
Campus program. In cooperation with
colleges and universities, the Veterans
Administration this fall will place full-
time representatives on those campuses
where more than 500 Vietnam-era vet-
erans are enrolled. In addition, the VA
will employ other representatives to visit
those campuses where less than 500 such
veterans are enrolled. Altogether, we ex-
pect to have more than 1,300 representa-
tives of the Veterans Administration par-
ticipating in this new program.
Considerable progress has already been
made in expediting the delivery of bene-
fit checks. Now, with the inauguration of
the Man-on-the-Campus program, the
veteran student population will have the
services of a network of concerned, knowl-
edgeable aides, fellow veterans, and con-
temporaries, to help iron out problems
and correct clerical errors or oversights
right on the campus. The VA representa-
tives will work closely with campus offi-
cials and organizations already involved in
helping veterans. In effect, this new pro-
gram provides veterans utilizing the edu-
cational benefits of the GI bill with an
accessible, concerned individual available
to help when problems or complications
arise.
This welcome addition to existing Vet-
erans Administration educational services
should prove invaluable to the nearly 1
million veterans currently in college un-
der the GI bill, and to those other eligible
veterans who will take advantage of the
GI bill education benefits in the years
ahead.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the program.
162 Statement on Signing Two Bills Providing for
Improvement of Veterans Benefits. May 31, 1974
I AM signing into law S. 3072, the Vet-
erans Disability Compensation and Sur-
vivor Benefits Act of 1974, and S. 3398,
providing a temporary extension of the
GI bill eligibility period.
The compensation bill illustrates what
can be done in behalf of our Nation's vet-
erans when the Congress and the executive
branch work together. Less than 3 months
ago, I invited the Veterans' Affairs Com-
mittees of the Congress to collaborate
upon needed improvements in the vet-
erans and survivors compensation pro-
grams. I am gratified that within this
period the Congress has responded to my
proposals to lift basic benefits by an
amount which recognizes increases in the
cost of living. While this bill does not in-
clude my proposal to provide for future
increases in the cost of living through an
automatic adjustment in benefits, I hope
that the Congress may yet confer this
further benefit upon disabled veterans and
their families.
I am pleased that S. 3072 brings com-
pensation benefits fully abreast of in-
creases in living costs. It increases dis-
ability compensation rates by a range of
15 percent to 18 percent. Furthermore,
it increases the rates of dependency and
465
