Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 27 [90]
those brave men. It has been only a year
since they returned, but Col. Robinson
Risner, who was there for 7 years, was in
to see me just yesterday. And as he left
the office, standing there tall and proud
wearing his uniform, going back to duty,
I thought how all of us could be proud
that we stood the course, that we didn't
bug out, and that we made it possible for
those men, who suffered so much and who
were so brave, to come home as he did, on
his feet and not on his knees.
And then in the field of domestic policy,
without going into many of the details
that could be covered in another speech,
I can only say that an historic change has
taken place. After 40 years of power mov-
ing from the people in the States and be-
ing centralized in Washington, D.C., we
have turned it around.
We have made a beginning, and we are
going to do more. But it is time that the
power belongs to the people of this coun-
try, and we have done that in these last 5
years through our programs of revenue
sharing and others with which you are
familiar.
We have launched a winning war
against one of those great plagues that
sweeps nations at times, the plagues of
dangerous drugs. It isn't won yet, and
there is more to be done, but we have
begun.
And there are many other areas that I
could cover in this field, but most im-
portant, as we look at the whole picture,
we find that not only did we end a war-
3 On March 26, 1974, Col. Robinson Risner,
USAF, accompanied by Senator and Mrs.
Henry L. Bellmon of Oklahoma, met with the
President in the Oval Office at the White
House to present him with a copy of a book he
had written, recounting his experiences as a
prisoner of war in North Vietnam.
that has happened before-but that we
have begun the process of building not
just a peace that is simply an interlude
between wars but a peace that will last so
that the new generation will be the first
generation in this century to grow up in a
world of peace.
Oh, we can't guarantee it, but look
what has happened: the opening to
China, the negotiations with the Soviet
Union, our negotiations also with our
allies, the development of policies toward
Africa, Asia, Latin America, all over the
world, the programs that we are presently
working on in the Mideast to bring to
that troubled area of the world what it
has not known for a generation—and as a
matter of fact, for hundreds of years—real
and permanent peace. All of this has hap-
pened. And I think I can safely say that
more progress has been made in the last
5 years toward building a permanent
peace in the world than any nation has
made in the history of this world in those
5-year periods.
But our candidates will not just have
to talk to the past, they can talk about
the future. And they can talk about why
they are needed in Washington at this
time, why their votes are needed for a
great program, a great program that has
come not just from the President of the
United States but from our leaders in the
Congress, from the members of the Cabi-
net, and from others who have served in
such a distinguished way in our Admin-
istration at this time.
Let me outline it for you briefly. In the
field of health, a program that will pro-
vide health insurance for all of the Amer-
ican people who need it, that will provide
health insurance for catastrophic illnesses,
which is a weakness in most of the present
programs and one which at the same time
43-437 - 75-23
319
