Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
sibility to defend the Office of the Presi-
dency to get that prompt and just con-
clusion.
Now, under these circumstances, be-
cause the impression has been created, as
you have very well indicated, doubts, mis-
trust of the President-I recognize that—
why doesn't the President resign? Because
if the President resigned when he was not
guilty of charges, then every President in
the future could be forced out of office by
simply leveling some charges and getting
the media to carry them and getting a few
Congressmen and Senators who were on
the other side to exploit them.
Why doesn't the President resign be-
cause his popularity is low? I already have
referred to that question. Because if the
time comes in this country when a Presi-
dent makes decisions based on where he
stands in the polls rather than what is
right or wrong, we will have a very weak
President.
The Nation and the world need a strong
President. Now, personally, I will say
finally, from a personal standpoint, resig-
nation is an easy copout. Resignation, of
course, might satisfy some of my good
friendly partisans who would rather not
have the problem of Watergate bothering
them. But on the other hand, apart from
the personal standpoint, resignation of
this President on charges of which he is
not guilty, resignation simply because he
happened to be low in the polls, would for-
ever change our form of government. It
will lead to weak and unstable Presiden-
cies in the future, and I will not be a party
to the destruction of the Presidency of the
United States.
[9.] Yes, sir.
DÉTENTE
Q. Mr. President, you have often stated,
and you have so this afternoon, that one of
the objectives of your Administration is
to achieve world peace through pursuance
of a policy of détente.
Some of us are concerned that in our
pursuit of détente, America's domestic
and foreign positions are being eroded. It
seems apparent to some of us that our defi-
nition of that term and the definition of
the term as given by the Russians seems
to diverge, particularly when we seem to
be making all the compromises and they
seem to be participating in a policy of
arousing animosity and inciting nations.
Could you comment on this?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
policy of détente, let us first understand
that whether it is with the Soviet Union
or the People's Republic of China, neither
side and I have met the top leaders of
both has any illusions about our vast
differences as far as philosophy is con-
cerned.
Second, the fact that we have negotia-
tion rather than confrontation does not
in any way imply that we approve of their
internal policies or for that matter that
they approve of ours.
Third, when we say that the policy of
détente has been two for them, in effect,
and one for us-I think that is short-
handing what you said, but I think prop-
erly so I think that what we must under-
stand, first, is what the policy of détente
has accomplished.
The war in Vietnam has been brought
to a conclusion. It was not easy for the
Soviet Union and other powers concerned
not to move in there in order to avoid that
war being brought to a conclusion, which
was honorable for our side, not only hon-
orable but which kept for the people of
South Vietnam, 17 million, kept them
from having a Communist government
43-437 O 75 - 20
271
