Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 26 [87]
I found, for example, that the figures
were rather startling and very depressing
insofar as anybody who was speaking to
a group of people representing the farmers
of America. Farm income was at $14 bil-
lion. It sounds like a lot of money in one
sense, but when we consider its relation-
ship to the balance of the national income,
it is very low, because at that time, farmer
income was only 73 percent of what non-
farm income was.
I think, projecting that in more simple
terms, the per capita income for an in-
dividual in agriculture was only 73 per-
cent of what the national per capita
income was. That meant that the farmer
was not getting his fair share of America's
production or of its prosperity, whichever
way you want to call it.
Now, I would not like to suggest that
everything that has happened since then
in terms of changing that ratio is due to
the policies of this Administration. How-
ever, what we have done has had some
effect, and beneficial effect, because one
of the goals we set at the outset was to
see that agriculture got a bigger share,
a more fair share, of the total income of
this Nation's prosperity.
You know the numbers better than I
do. That $14 billion figure has now gone
to $26 billion. Even taking out inflation,
it is a very substantial increase in net
income for our Nation's farmers. I think
the important number, however, is that
the per capita income for an individual
who is in agriculture, his share has risen
from 73 percent to 93 percent.
That still isn't equal to what an indi-
vidual who happens to go into some voca-
tion other than agriculture, but it is a lot
better than it was, and it is the way, of
course, it should be because of the great
contribution that agriculture and the Na-
tion's farmers do make to the welfare of
all of the people of this country.
Another area that we have seen a rather
drastic improvement in is in the field, as
you know, of our exports. In the year
1968, and 1969, as far as our foreign
markets were concerned, leaving out what
production was exported for purposes of
war, we found that those markets were not
nearly as high as they ought to be, and
comparatively speaking, what we have
seen, of course, is an opening up of mar-
kets abroad that we never had before.
Here is where we have a situation where
our foreign policy has a direct effect on
our agricultural policy and on the welfare
of our Nation's farmers. The opening to
China, the new relationship with the So-
viet Union, some hard bargaining on the
part of our negotiators with regard to
trade has resulted in the fact that farm
exports now, exports particularly in the
area of feed grains, have reached a very,
very high level.
And they will continue to be high, in-
cidentally, a point that I will elaborate
on toward the conclusion of my remarks.
So much for the overview, looking at
what it was 5 years ago and what it is
today. There are some weak spots, weak
spots that you gentlemen are perhaps far
more familiar with than I am, but there
are weak spots that we have been working
on. Many of them, incidentally, I would
have to say were energy-related.
First, for example, we hear of the prob-
lem of fertilizer, and as you know, we have
taken some action to deal with that prob-
lem. We have asked the Nation's railroads
to provide more cars for the purpose of
transporting phosphate, for example,
from Florida so that we can get more
fertilizer.
We have asked those who produce fer-
307
