[185] June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
try. I had an opportunity, as I pointed out
when I arrived at the airport, to see some
of them at the conclusion of the war in
1967. Some of them had been wounded
and some of them, of course, most of
them, were well, all of them were enor-
mously impressive.
I saw an honor guard today, and I can
see, as I look here at the present chief of
staff, that the quality of the Israeli Armed
Forces is as high now as it was then.
Throughout the world, Israeli soldiers,
airmen, sailors have earned respect for
their courage, for their discipline, and of
course, for their enormous effectiveness in
the battles that they have had to fight.
And one of the reasons that Israel has sur-
vived is that in addition to having the
arms which they have had, that they have
had the personnel, the skilled personnel,
the dedicated personnel, the patriotic per-
sonnel that could use those arms effectively
in defense of their country.
And as I think of those armed forces
and what they have done, I would like to
reiterate what has been American policy
not only in this Administration-it was in
the previous ones and ever since Israel
became a modern state, and it will be, I
think, in the next Administration, what-
ever the outcome of the next election may
be to reiterate the fact that the United
States and Israel are friends, that the
United States has responded when Israel
has had problems involving its defense.
We have tried to respond as generously
and effectively as we can.
We have known that when we have
responded, that whatever help we have
been able to give will be used well. And
that is a tribute to the men and the women
who serve in the armed forces, the men
and women who led them, and certainly
in this respect, Israel can be proud of those
in uniform who have had to go to war too
often, but necessarily, in order to see that
this state survived.
Now, I suppose many of you wonder
what a tribute to the Armed Forces of
Israel has to do about talking concerning
the Secretary of State who has worked
for peace and of responding to a toast by
the President of Israel which is concerned
about peace.
Very simply, I would like to tell you
how I felt as I drove through the streets
of this city today. I saw many people, and
of course, as an American I was proud to
see so many with the American flags and
the Israeli flags, their friendly welcome.
But as is often the case as I travel
through cities with my wife and we see
people along the sides of the street, know-
ing always that they are there not to wel-
come us personally so much as to perhaps
to pay their respect to the great nation
that we are proud to represent, what im-
presses me the most always are the chil-
dren. They are so young, they are so full
of hope, they are so full of life, and they
deserve, I think, a better chance than we
had, not that we have any complaints.
All of us who live in these times should
recognize that whatever our hardships are,
these are great times, great times because
they are times in which we are changing
the world, and we are changing it, we
trust, for the better.
But what we are all trying to do in our
governments, be they large or small, what
we are all trying to do in serving our coun-
tries, whether proudly wearing the uni-
form or in the Foreign Service, as the
case might be, or as a member of the Par-
liament, we are trying to create a better
nation and a better world for those thou-
sands of children we saw on the streets
here, yes, and the thousands of children
520
