[153] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
and
Congress enacted the agricultural act
which this Administration proposed to
restructure the outmoded relationship be-
tween the Federal Government
America's farmers. We have substantially
expanded the land in use by our farmers,
and we have every reason to expect excel-
lent crops this year. All this will help to
hold down food prices.
Our policy of developing domestic
sources of energy will serve as a deterrent
to further price increases by oil exporting
countries and will serve as a hedge against
any further oil boycott. It should also
permit the Federal Government to with-
draw from the business of allocating
petroleum products. And I have directed
the Administrator of the Federal Energy
Administration to provide me with a plan
to do just that.
As you know, we have proposed Project
Independence-a $10 billion program-
for achieving energy self-sufficiency in
America by 1980. In addition, there are
16 important energy proposals before the
Congress, including a windfall profits tax
on excess oil company profits. I urge the
Congress to act on these proposals and to
act quickly.
The combination of rising food prices
and rising oil prices accounted for some
60 percent of the price increases of 1973
and early 1974. Our action in these areas
alone should have a significant effect on
the rate of inflation.
While we must avoid pumping up the
economy into a new inflationary boom,
we must also be concerned with those
who are unemployed during this period of
economic slowdown. In April 1973, over a
year ago, I proposed a job security assist-
ance act to raise levels of compensation for
unemployment and to extend compensa-
tion to farmworkers except on the small-
est farms. This year, because of the rise in
unemployment connected with the energy
crisis, I proposed two additional improve-
ments in the system. One would have
given a 13-week extension of benefits,
federally financed, in labor market areas
of high unemployment. The second would
have allocated Federal funds for benefits
to the unemployed living in those areas
who were not a part of the unemploy-
ment insurance system. Congress has not
yet acted on either my 1973 or my 1974
proposals for job assistance. I urge the
Congress to act on these measures which
are so important to those who may be
unemployed.
An additional consideration in control-
ling inflation-in fact, the key to con-
trolling inflation-is the way we manage
the Federal budget. Nothing is so certain
to cause inflation as runaway fiscal policy.
That is why I have placed so much em-
phasis on holding down Government
spending. It may, to some, seem cruel or
indifferent to object to enlarged spend-
ing programs, for the President to veto
bills which would have the effect of n.as-
sively increasing Federal spending, be-
cause almost all of these programs
appear to have very desirable purposes.
But the fact is that higher spending by
the Government, however desirable the
immediate goal may seem to be, has a
most undesirable impact in the form of
higher prices. Such spending on the part
of the Government may help some of the
people, but in the end, it will hurt all of
the people by raising prices for the family
budget. It is therefore not an act of gener-
osity on the part of the Government to
increase spending. We now have a budget
of $305 billion for the fiscal year that
will begin on July 1. I believe this is a
prudent budget, sufficient to cover the
454
