[112] Apr. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mr. Barnes, who speaks English better
than he speaks Spanish and Spanish better
than he speaks English, translate for me.
I will simply open this comment with
regard to our relations with one of the few
Spanish phrases I think I know reasonably
well. Mrs. Nixon and I say, estan ustedes
en su casa [you are in your home].
As
you went through the receiving line
tonight, my wife and I shared many mem-
ories with you. It was 34 years ago that
we had our wedding trip in Mexico. Ob-
viously, she was much younger than I
was at that time. And our distinguished
Secretary of State followed our example,
because he just had his honeymoon in
Mexico, too, and we welcome Mrs. Nancy
Kissinger on her first visit as the wife of
the Secretary of State tonight. She is a
little liberal, but otherwise, she is all right.
Don't interpret the word "liberal" liter-
ally, please.
After that first trip 34 years ago, we re-
turned again to the Caribbean and to
Central America for a trip which took us
to eight countries in that area in 1941.
The other events come tumbling over:
the attendance at the inauguration of
Ruiz Cortines in Mexico in 1953 [1952],
a trip to Mexico and all the Central Amer-
ican countries in 1955, and then a trip
through all the South American countries
in 1958, and then as private citizens re-
turning to Mexico on our 25th wedding
anniversary in 1965, and in 1967, a tour
which took me to virtually all the coun-
tries of South America.
Now, my only regret is that in this
travelog that I have just gone over, I have
not had the opportunity-except for Mex-
ico, our great friends and neighbors to the
south to visit the countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean. But I believe
I have sent our best ambassador there in
my stead.
Mrs. Nixon's visit to Peru at the time
of the earthquake and then her recent visit
to Caracas and to Brasilia for the inaugu-
rations, I think, indicated that the one who
was closest to my heart could win the
hearts of the people of Latin America.
As you can tell, I probably, as a result
of this, am the first President of the United
States ever to have visited all the nations
of Latin America before entering this
office. And while traveling alone is not sig-
nificant, these travels do indicate, it seems
to me, the measure of the affection and
esteem which not only my wife and I but
all Americans continue to have for our
neighbors in the Americas.
Let me speak very frankly about the
relations between the United States and
our friends to the south. During these past
30 years, we have heard an enormous
amount of rhetoric about the relationships
between our countries. There have been
almost as many slogans as conferences, and
too often, both have been quickly filed
away and forgotten.
Now, in the past 6 months, the United
States has proposed a new approach, what
we call "a new dialog." It was discussed
in New York, again in Bogotá, then in
Mexico City, now in Washington.
Now, after so many trial runs, we think
this one is here to stay.
But, you could very well ask, why will
our "new dialog" be any better than the
old ones? Why will the future be any dif-
ferent from the past, when the United
States so often seemed to ignore its friends
to the south?
Let me answer that very directly. Over
the past 5 years, I have seen that the winds
of change are blowing strongly across the
358
