Richard Nixon, 1974
July 19 [224]
to read to you our resolution in recognition
of your staff. May I, Mr. President?
Without the slightest apology to those
who have already preempted the phrase
and distorted it, we honor all the Presi-
dent's men, especially those who, for per-
forming their duty with loyalty and cour-
age, have provoked the wrath of all his
enemies. These men, and the women,
too as I look at Anne Armstrong-it
should be noted, have defended not only
their chief but also the prerogatives and
independence of his office.
In so doing, they have aided both Mr.
Nixon and his successors to the Presi-
dency, whoever they may be. As the future
generation recalls with horror this year's
assault upon our constitutional heritage,
it will remember, too, that the President
was not alone in his ordeal, but was well
and faithfully served by the young and
not so young, in civilian and military dress,
with accent Southern or Yankee or even
more exotic.
As the President's bold determination
strikes our admiration, so their steadfast
sense of purpose must provoke our emula-
tion.
Mr. President, may we take leave of you
now?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, and our very best
to everybody who is there again, and we
will be hoping to see you all personally.
RABBI KORFF. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:31 p.m. by
telephone from San Clemente, Calif., to the
committee's meeting at the Shoreham Ameri-
cana Hotel in Washington, D.C.
On July 16, 1974, Rabbi Korff called on the
President at the Western White House to pre-
sent him with a copy of a book he had writ-
ten. On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Rabbi
Korff on his visit.
224 Statement on Signing the United States-Spanish Joint
Declaration of Principles.
I AM very pleased to sign today this im-
portant document which highlights the
close relations which the United States
and Spain have had for over 20 years.
This declaration articulates the funda-
mental principles which govern the co-
operation between our two countries in
many fields and proclaims our intention to
continue this cooperation in the future.
It also recognizes that the other nations
of the North Atlantic area have benefited
from our cooperation, especially in the
field of security where our mutual endeav-
ors have strengthened the cause of peace.
This declaration not only outlines our
July 19, 1974
successful efforts in the past to work
together for the security of both countries,
but it addresses also the challenges of the
future. In this regard our two countries
are determined to expand our cooperation
across broad ranging areas of mutual in-
terest—such as the fields of scientific, eco-
nomic, technical, and cultural coopera-
tion-as well as in the collective defense
effort.
I feel that the signing of this declara-
tion, which was initialed last week in
Madrid by Foreign Minister Cortina and
Secretary Kissinger, marks an important
milestone in the cordial relations between
597
