[70] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
agree to meet with the chairman, the
ranking member, as designated by the
committee, to answer any other questions
they may have. I believe that that will
serve the purpose.
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSES
[10.] Q. Mr. President, your attorneys
have taken what is seen as the narrow view
on impeachment, saying that impeach-
ment should be limited to very serious
crimes committed in one's official capacity.
My question is, would you consider the
crimes returned in the indictments last
week-those of perjury, obstruction of
justice, and conspiracy-to be impeach-
able crimes if they did apply to you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have also quit
beating my wife. [Laughter]
Of course, the crime of perjury is a
serious crime, and of course, the crime of
obstruction of justice is a serious crime and
would be an impeachable offense, and I do
not expect that the House committee will
find that the President is guilty of any of
these crimes to which you have referred.
When you refer to a narrow view of
what is an impeachable crime, I would say
that might leave in the minds of some of
our viewers and listeners a connotation
which would be inaccurate. It is the con-
stitutional view. The Constitution is very
precise. Even Senator Ervin agrees that
that view is the right one, and if Senator
Ervin agrees, it must be the right one.
LEGAL EXPENSES
[11] Q. Mr. President, Attorney Gen-
eral Saxbe has expressed the opinion that
at some point in the impeachment proce-
dure
you might have to start paying for
your own legal defense. Sir, do you have
any plans to hire your own lawyers at your
own, rather than public, expense?
THE PRESIDENT. If the Attorney Gen-
eral should rule that I should pay for
own defense, I shall, of course, do so.
my
I should point out, however, that I am
not a defendant until the House passes a
bill of impeachment. I would then be a de-
fendant, and if the Attorney General of
the United States should rule that the
President should pay for his defense, I will
find somebody to loan me the money.
[Laughter]
GRANTS OF IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
follow up on a comment that you made
just a minute ago, where, taking back to
March, you said that you had ruled out
immunity from prosecution for all of your
aides, and in the same answer, you said
you wanted full disclosure of all of the
facts about Watergate. One of the pur-
poses of granting immunity from prosecu-
tion is to get disclosure from a person who
knows what is going on to crack the case.
And some people have suggested that the
order against immunity from prosecution
was aimed at deterring John Dean from
testifying and disclosing the facts.
Now, how would you answer that
thesis?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, on the con-
trary, I think that the use of immunity
for any major White House employee
would be highly improper. After all, some-
one who has the position of Counsel to the
President should come forward and testify
as to everything that he knows, and he
236
