Richard Nixon, 1974
May 8 [133]
1
For the 10,000 careerists in the top lev-
els of the General Schedule, this salary
bunching or "pay compression" denies
them fair increases in compensation, robs
them of the incentive to seek promotions,
and adversely affects their future annui-
ties. Already it is creating greater difficul-
ties in recruiting and retaining top-flight
career personnel, and it could lead to a
serious decline in the quality of the man-
agerial work force.
To correct this problem, I am trans-
mitting to the Congress today legislation
which would raise the salaries of those in
the lowest three levels of the Executive
Schedule and thereby permit a significant
increase in the salaries of those in the
highest grades of the General Schedule.
This proposal would raise the salaries
of Level V, IV and III employees to $41,-
000, $41,500 and $42,000 respectively. No
increase would be provided for any Fed-
eral official now making more than
$42,000.
By virtue of this reform, there would
be a significant reduction in the salary
compression for top-level GS employees
whose salaries could continue to increase
in a way that they deserve.
For the sake of the career employees
within the Government and the quality
of management which we need within the
Executive Branch, I urge the Congress to
give this proposal its swift approval.
The White House,
May 7, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
133 Remarks at the Swearing In of William E. Simon as
Secretary of the Treasury.
AS YOU know, we are gathered here to-
day for the purpose of swearing in the new
Secretary of the Treasury. And here for
that occasion is Mr. Justice Potter Stew-
art, who will administer the oath of office,
and Mrs. Simon will hold the Bible.
The oath of office will now be adminis-
tered, and after that, I will deliver some
remarks with regard to the man who is
succeeding to this very important post,
and Mr. Simon will respond.
[At this point, Associate Justice Potter Stewart
of the Supreme Court administered the oath of
office. The President then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware
of the enormous importance of the posi-
tion of Secretary of the Treasury. I am
sure that all of you who have studied the
history of our country know of the very
May 8, 1974
distinguished men who have served in this
post through our history.
There has probably never been a time,
however, when the Secretary of the Treas-
ury had greater responsibilities, not only
in America but worldwide, than he has at
the present time.
And as we have a new Secretary of the
Treasury, I would like to say a word about
the one who is leaving this post, but who
fortunately will be advising the President,
he has told me, whenever his advice is
needed and will be undertaking some re-
sponsibilities, particularly in the field of
international economic affairs, on what we
call an ad hoc basis.
First, as I look back over the career of
George Shultz, I remember that I met
him when I was Vice President and he
419
