[63] Feb. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
sibility in the Civil Service Commission,
which has the responsibility under the
other laws.
The high rate of unemployment among
youth and the related difficulty of too few
work and training opportunities remain
difficult problems. They will be aggra-
vated by the temporary increase in unem-
ployment resulting from the energy
shortage. Within the Administration we
are considering a range of proposals
within the broad authorities existing in
several agencies to enhance both training
and work opportunities for youth. Never-
theless, I believe the most important
means for preservation and expansion of
work and training opportunities for young
people would be the special youth differ-
ential in the minimum wage which we
first proposed in May of 1971.
With a view toward additional ways to
aid youth, I note that the House has
shown its concern by changing the tests
for special minimum wage certificates for
part-time work by full-time students. This,
however, does nothing for the young per-
son no longer going to school who perhaps
needs even greater help toward meaning-
ful participation in the work force.
64
While I am prepared to accept a mini-
mum wage bill that contains responsible
provisions for the adult population, I be-
lieve it should be clear that such a bill,
without any youth differential provision,
is a vote for higher youth unemployment.
Therefore I shall continue to urge the
enactment of a meaningful youth differ-
ential provision in legislative action this
year.
With every good wish,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Harrison A. Wil-
liams, Jr., and Jacob K. Javits, chairman and
ranking Republican member, respectively, of
the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Com-
mittee; and to the Honorable Carl D. Perkins
and Albert H. Quie, chairman and ranking
Republican member, respectively, of the House
Education and Labor Committee.
On February 27, 1974, the President met
with Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan and
Under Secretary of Labor Richard F. Schubert
to discuss minimum wage and unemployment
compensation legislation pending before the
Congress. On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on the
meeting by Secretary Brennan and Under Sec-
retary Schubert.
Memorandum Urging Support of the Red Cross.
February 27, 1974
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
Red Cross Month is a time for every
American to reflect upon the vital role
the Red Cross and its volunteers play to
alleviate suffering and to meet a vast
spectrum of human needs in our society.
Through the Red Cross, we donate blood
to help cure the ill and injured, we arm
ourselves with the knowledge and skills
to save lives by learning first aid, water
safety and the handling of small craft,
we assist members of our Armed Forces
the world over and veterans and their
families, and we give a helping hand to
those left destitute by disasters.
In proclaiming March as Red Cross
Month, I ask that the Federal Govern-
ment and its employees, including mem-
bers of the Armed Forces, give their fullest
214
