Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 12 [44]
birthday is why, why is Lincoln, of all the
American Presidents, more revered, not
only in America but in the world?
There are several reasons that come to
mind. He freed the slaves. He saved the
Union. He died of an assassin's bullet
just at the height of his career, at the
end of the War Between the States.
And then there are other factors which
come to mind: the Lincoln character
which has been described in so many,
many hundreds of books-much better
than I can describe it in a few words-
the humility, the humor, the feeling and
kindness for people, but perhaps more
than anything else the strength, the poise
under pressure.
When we examine the American Pres-
idents, it is quite clear that no President
in history has been more vilified or was
more vilified during the time he was
President than Lincoln.
Those who knew him, his secretaries,
have written that he was very deeply hurt
by what was said about him and drawn
about him. But on the other hand, Lin-
coln had that great strength of character
never to display it, always to stand tall
and strong and firm no matter how harsh
or unfair the criticism might be.
These elements of greatness, of course,
inspire us all today. The particular factor
that I would like to address, however, is
one that Mr. Whitaker has alluded to in
his gracious introduction. It has to do with
Lincoln's vision about America's role in
the world.
What we sometimes forget is that
Abraham Lincoln was a world statesman
at the time that America was not a world
power. Here on these walls are inscribed
many of his very famous sayings. One
from the second Inaugural comes to mind
when Lincoln said: to do all that we
may to achieve and to cherish a just and
lasting peace among ourselves and be-
tween all nations.
This is Lincoln 110 years ago when
America, torn by civil strife, and when
America, even after it was united, with
both North and South working together
to build a greater country, could not and
would not even play a great role in the
world for years and years to come. And
yet Lincoln, with that mystical sense of
destiny and vision, saw it all ahead when
he said, “Ours is earth's last, best hope."
And now we come to today, 110 years
later. Even Lincoln would have marveled
if he were living today. This Nation now,
the strongest nation in the world, the
richest nation by far in the world, and a
nation greatly respected all over the
world—and the question he would have
asked, as we must ask ourselves, is, how
will history look back on our time? What
did we do with our strength? What did
we do with our wealth? Did we use it
only for ourselves, or did we recognize,
as Lincoln recognized, that we had a
destiny far beyond this great Nation, look-
ing out over the whole wide world?
These thoughts come to mind that
Lincoln might well have advised us: one,
that in this period of time that America
was never petulant simply because we
do not get our way in the world councils
every time, that America did not bully
weaker nations simply because we were
stronger, that America always used its
strength certainly in this century at
least-used its strength to defend free-
dom and never to destroy it, to keep the
peace and to defend the peace and never
to break it.
I think Lincoln also would have had
157
