Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 19 [51]
I am, therefore, sending to Congress
today my proposal for an Economic Ad-
justment Act. This measure is designed to
help States and communities provide
smoother and more orderly adjustment to
economic changes and limit the number
of new distressed areas. It will also permit
more effective long-range areas to over-
come the problems of areas now suffering
from economic distress.
By granting State and local officials
greater flexibility in the way they spend
Federal funds within distressed areas, it is
our hope that they will have greater suc-
cess in reducing unemployment and rais-
ing general income levels in those areas.
Although this act is not intended as an
emergency measure just to deal with dis-
locations caused by the energy crisis, it
could serve as an extremely important tool
for States and communities in responding
to energy problems. This proposal, along
with my recent proposal for extending un-
employment insurance benefits for indi-
viduals in areas heavily impacted by
energy problems would help reduce hard-
ships while adjustment efforts are pursued.
RETURNING DECISION MAKING TO THE
STATES AND COMMUNITIES
A primary goal of the proposed act is
to return to States and communities the
principal responsibility for deciding how
to use the proposed Federal assistance to
achieve program objectives. If this assist-
ance is to be used to maximum advan-
tage, the decisions must rest with State
and local officials who are in the best
position to understand their needs.
In order to return this responsibility
to the States and communities, a mini-
mum of 80 percent of the funds available
under the act would be automatically
allocated to States on the basis of a
formula that would recognize the needs
of the States and communities for assist-
ance. The formula would take into ac-
count unemployment levels, population
dispersal, income levels, and other fac-
tors. The remaining funds would be
allocated to States on a discretionary basis
to meet special needs arising from State,
regional or local problems, or from Fed-
eral actions such as closing of large Fed-
eral installations. The funds allocated to
a State would automatically be made
available to the State upon preparation
and approval of a general State plan
which specifies the target areas selected
for economic adjustment and the general
objectives planned for each area.
Because the money would be given to
the States as a block grant, the States
could apply it to only one or a few prob-
lem areas, with each project getting
enough money to make a difference. By
contrast, much of the EDA funding has
been dispersed in smaller amounts for
many different projects, thereby making
it difficult to develop a comprehensive
effort to overcome the problems of any
area. Furthermore, under the new pro-
gram, States should be able to apply funds
to areas before economic distress becomes
acute.
This approach would also maximize
State and local responsibility for plan-
ning and carrying out economic adjust-
ment efforts, while providing assurance
that the funds are being used to pursue
national objectives. It would permit
States, and adjustment areas within
States, to develop and put into effect their
economic adjustment plans in conjunc-
tion with related programs such as those
under the recently enacted Comprehen-
sive Employment and Training Act, the
177
