[48] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
also saw that in terms of the American
political scene we had an interesting point
to make.
It was 22 years ago that Senator Spark-
man and I were opponents for the Office
of Vice President of the United States, and
in 1968, Governor Wallace and I were op-
ponents in seeking the Office of President
of the United States. And now here today
we are joined together and we meet to-
gether not as northerners and southerners
or easterners and westerners, not as
Democrats or Republicans, but we meet
today as Americans first, honoring Amer-
ica, which surmounts all other differences
we may have.
And I would like to say that in terms
of the Senators and Congressmen who are
here, as Governor Wallace has already
implied, that when the great issue before
the Congress does involve the defense of
America, when it involves the honor of
America, I find that those lines between
the parties certainly begin to be erased
And these men, particularly, have
been ones who have stood up for Ameri-
ca whenever there has been a test and
have not allowed partisanship to inter-
fere.
away.
You can be very proud of the repre-
sentation you have in the Senate and also
the House of Representatives.
The president of the Sertoma Club
has already eloquently indicated the pur-
pose of this celebration, and there is per-
haps not too much that I can add in that
respect.
But what I would like to emphasize
today is a point that he alluded to, and
that is that we live in one of those periods
in American history when there is a tend-
ency for there to be a great deal of hand-
wringing and pessimism about the future
of America.
It is not unusual and it often occurs
after the end of a war, but the point that
I wish to make is that it is very well on an
occasion like this when we honor America
that after hearing so much about what is
wrong with America, we hear a little bit
about what is right about the United
States of America.
Those in this audience are well aware
of how fortunate we are to live in America.
I look at all of the young people here, the
young football players who will be in the
Sugar Bowl someday, I suppose. I think,
too, of their future, and as I see these
young people, I think of all the nations of
the world, and I want to say one thing
to the young people today. You will read
sometimes about mistakes our country has
made in the past and in the present. You
will read sometimes about things that are
wrong about America, and you should find
out what is wrong so you can correct them.
But let me tell you this: If you had to
pick a country into which to be born, a
country where you had the greatest free-
dom and the greatest opportunity to go as
high as your talents will take you—and
I have seen most of the countries in the
world—believe me, you would all pick
the United States of America. You should
be thankful every day that you live here.
We have a lot to be thankful today as
Americans, thankful, for example, for the
fact for the first time in 12 years, America
is at peace with every nation of the world
and all of our prisoners of war are home
where they belong.
We also have much to be thankful for
in terms of the fact that we enjoy the
highest standard of living, which we all
know, that more Americans have better
jobs and higher wages than any country
in the world, that there is more freedom,
more opportunity in America than any
170
