Richard Nixon, 1974
June 5 [165]
bution to peace is nowhere better demon-
strated than in the Middle East. The
hate and distrust that has for so long
poisoned the relationship between Arabs
and Israelis has led to war four times in
the last 40 years, and the toll of death and
human suffering was immense, while the
tension made the Middle East a world
tinderbox that could easily draw the
United States and the Soviet Union into
military confrontation. The need for a
stable solution among the regional parties
as well as between the great powers was
overwhelmingly urgent.
The October war of last year, while
tragic, also presented a unique opportu-
nity, because for the first time, it was clear
to us and clear to the moderate leaders
of the Arab world that a positive Ameri-
can role was indispensable to achieving a
permanent settlement in the Middle East.
And it was for this reason that I sent
Secretary of State Kissinger to the Middle
East to offer our good offices in the process
of negotiation.
The results, which reflect more than
anything else the vision and statesman-
ship of the leaders of both sides, have been
encouraging. An agreement to separate
military forces has been implemented on
the Egyptian-Israeli front, and now a sim-
ilar accord has been negotiated between
Israel and Syria. For the first time in a
generation, we are witnessing the begin-
ning of a dialog between the Arab States
and Israel.
Now, the road to a just and lasting and
permanent peace in the Mideast is still
long and difficult and lies before us. But
what seemed to be an insurmountable
roadblock on that road has now been
removed, and we are determined to stay
on course until we have reached our goal
of a permanent peace in that area. The
role of Secretary Kissinger in this process
has presented a testament to both his re-
markable diplomatic capabilities and to
the soundness and integrity of our belief
that a lasting structure of peace can—and
must be created.
In surveying the results of our foreign
policy, it is ironic to observe that its
achievements now threaten to make us
victims of our success. In particular, a
dangerous misunderstanding has arisen as
to just what détente is and what it is not.
Until very recently, the pursuit of dé-
tente was not a problem for us in America.
We were so engaged in trying to shift in-
ternational tides away from confronta-
tion toward negotiation that people were
generally agreed that the overriding con-
sideration was the establishment of a
pattern of peaceful international conduct.
But now that so much progress has been
made, some take it for granted.
Eloquent appeals are now being made
for the United States, through its foreign
policy, to transform the internal as well
as the international behavior of other
countries, and especially that of the Soviet
Union. This issue sharply poses the dilem-
ma I outlined at the outset. It affects not
only our relation with the Soviet Union
but also our posture toward many na-
tions whose internal systems we totally
disagree with, as they do with ours.
Our foreign policy, therefore, must re-
flect our ideals, and it must reflect our
purposes. We can never, as Americans,
acquiesce in the suppression of human
liberties. We must do all that we reason-
ably can to promote justice, and for this
reason, we continue to adhere firmly to
certain humane principles, not only in ap-
propriate international forums but also
in our private exchanges with other gov-
ernments-where this can be effective.
471
