[224] July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the United States and Spain. As friendly
partners, we believe that our close asso-
ciation will benefit the peoples of both
our countries and that our common effort
will be of benefit to all who desire peace
and progress in the world.
NOTE: The President signed the joint declara-
tion in a ceremony at the Western White
House, San Clemente, Calif.
Prince Juan Carlos, interim Chief of State in
Spain, signed the joint declaration at a cere-
mony in Madrid, Spain, on the same day.
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
225 Exchange of Remarks With Former Astronaut
Neil A. Armstrong About United States Space Week.
July 19, 1974
MR. ARMSTRONG. Mr. President, you
have proclaimed this week to be United
States Space Week in conjunction with the
fifth anniversary of our first successful
landing on the Moon. It is my privilege
to represent my colleagues, the crewmen
of Projects Mercury, Gemini, Apollo, and
Skylab, and the men and women of NASA
and the hundreds of thousands of Ameri-
cans from across the land who contributed
so mightily to the success of our efforts in
space in presenting this plaque which
bears the names of each individual who
has had the privilege of representing this
country in a flight above the surface of the
Earth.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, thank you very
much, Neil.
It is hard to realize that 5 years ago we
had the dinner in Los Angeles honoring
the crew of which you were the captain,
but in that period of time, there have been
so many more who have gone to the
Moon and who are now participating, of
course, in the new projects which will cul-
minate in the joint Soviet-American enter-
prise in 1975.
Five years ago, I don't think we would
have anticipated that would happen, al-
though I know you expressed at that time,
you and your colleagues, the hope that
what we were doing in space would be
shared with other people throughout the
world. And that is exactly what we are
doing.
you,
I think it is also very generous of
but very appropriate to point out that
there are the names of a very few, very
courageous and able and intelligent peo-
ple, including, of course, yourself, on this
plaque. They could not have done what
they did without the backing of some 400,-
000 people who have, at one time or an-
other, been engaged in the space program.
And so, this plaque will represent the
efforts of all of those who have made our
program possible, that have made the
United States first in the exploration of
space.
We will put it in an appropriate place
in the White House so that the thousands
of visitors who come through there will
be able to be reminded, particularly in this
next week or 2 weeks, of what we have
done in the field of space.
And finally, I would say this: that there
are those who might wonder, was it worth
it? We are now finding that in terms of
even practical application, apart from ex-
ploration, that it was worth it.
598
