[153] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
153 Radio Address About the Nation's Economy.
May 25, 1974
Good afternoon:
No aspect of our public life has a
greater impact upon the way each of us
lives than our national economy. Next
week, I plan to send a special report to
the Congress on the state of our economy.
Today, I want to talk with you directly
about the economic problems we have
been experiencing in recent months and
the directions we plan to take in the fu-
ture-new directions which will strength-
en our economy and which will benefit
all the American people.
During the past 2 years, the economies
of both the United States and the rest of
the world have been through severe
storms. There has been a sharp drop in
world food production. There has been a
boycott on oil shipments to the United
States and other countries by major ex-
porting nations. And there has been a
steep rise in world prices, fueled in part
by the oil boycott and in part by the eco-
nomic boom in the industrial areas of the
world.
As a result of these developments, the
United States and the world are experi-
encing the highest rate of inflation in 20
years. We have seen a slowdown in pro-
duction and employment. We have had
the most radical change in international
economic relations in peacetime that any-
one can remember.
For some people, these changes have
meant a severe strain on the family
budget, shorter working hours, and even
the loss of a job. But the majority of
Americans have come through this period
well. Look at some of these facts:
Despite a dip in the first 3 months of
this year, resulting primarily from the en-
ergy crisis, personal incomes today-after
inflation and after taxes-are still 14 per-
cent higher than they were 5 years ago.
The number of Americans working to-
day is at a record level, while the rate of
those unemployed has risen only slightly.
And the quality of life in America-the
ability to feed, clothe, and house our peo-
ple-has continued at a level which ex-
ceeds that of any nation in the world
today for that matter, of any nation in
world history.
In view of the international stresses on
our economy and the gloomy predictions
that were widespread at the beginning of
the year, this has been a good perform-
ance. More importantly, there are also
encouraging signs today that the worst is
behind us. The storms are abating. As
the effects of the recent oil shortage have
passed, the production level of auto-
mobiles has begun to rise again, and in-
dustrial production overall is showing an
increase for the first time in almost half a
year.
Our efforts to dampen inflation are
also beginning to pay off. The chief causes
of inflation last year and in the first few
months of this year were the increases in
food and energy prices. As the shortages
of food have eased in the past several
months, the wholesale costs of basic food
items have declined sharply. Prices of
wheat, corn, soybeans, beef, hogs, and
chickens are all down.
There have been similar improvements
in the energy picture. As the oil shortages
have eased, the prices of gasoline and
other oil products rose much less in April
452
