Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
other purchases. There have been occa-
sions recently when this financial system
has not worked as well as it should occa-
sions, for example, when mortgage lend-
ing has been very difficult to obtain. In
large part these problems have been the
result of legislation, regulations and in-
stitutional arrangements which were
suited to an earlier time but which are
now obsolete.
To remedy this problem I submitted
draft legislation last year which reflected
the results of careful study by a Presi-
dential commission and Government ex-
perts. I again urge the Congress to act
promptly on this matter so that American
families, businessmen, and local govern-
ments can be served by a financial sys-
tem suited to the economic conditions of
the 1970s.
The Administration is also studying the
competitive position of foreign banks
within this country and of American banks
abroad to make sure that discriminatory
regulations do not prevent American
banks and other financial institutions from
doing business they are entitled to do. I
will be following the results of this study
with considerable interest and will submit
to the Congress any proposals resulting
from the study which seem desirable.
A HEALTHY AGRICULTURAL ECONOMY
Abundance is the primary goal of our
farm policy-abundance that can guar-
antee lower food prices for every Ameri-
can and higher incomes for all American
farmers.
Five years ago, agriculture was a trou-
bled industry:
-Government controls were reducing
incentives for production and costing the
taxpayers over $3 billion a year in farm
subsidies designed to hold down produc-
tion.
-Farm income was low ($14.7 billion)
and the long hours worked by farmers
earned them an average income that was
26 percent below the nonfarm average.
Farm families had been leaving the farm
at an average rate of over 100,000 a year.
Today, that picture has been dramat-
ically altered:
-Farm markets have expanded dra-
matically. Farm exports have set new
records in each of the last four years,
becoming the largest single factor in the
Nation's balance of payments and
strengthening the dollar in international
money markets.
-Farm production has reached new
record levels in each of the last three years,
and a new record harvest should be forth-
coming in 1974.
-The billions of tax dollars which used
to go for farm price support payments for
basic commodities every year will be re-
duced to nearly zero.
-Farm income has reached record
levels. By 1973, the gap between farm in-
come and nonfarm income had closed
from 26 to 7 percent. Net farm income
was up from $14.7 billion to $26.1 billion.
We are making this progress not
through more Government regulation but
less. One of the proudest achievements of
this Administration was the enactment of
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection
Act of 1973, which places production deci-
sions where they belong-with farmers,
not with the Government.
A primary challenge for Federal agri-
cultural policies now is to encourage
greater production of agricultural goods—
which will mean more income for the
farmer, greater international trading
benefits for the Nation, and reasonable
65
