[29] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion speeded up sharply. During the year,
consumer prices increased by almost 9 per-
cent.
Of course, the progress on the first two
objectives was connected with the dis-
appointment on the third. The rapid rise
toward full employment, the expansion of
our net exports, and the reduction in the
value of the dollar to make the United
States more competitive, all contributed
to the resurgence of inflation. But there
were other factors at work, less directly
under our control. Food production
lagged in major producing countries, in-
cluding the United States. An extraordi-
nary combination of booms in other coun-
tries boosted prices of industrial materials.
Countries jointly controlling a large part
of the world's exportable oil supplies de-
cided to raise their prices substantially.
During 1973 food prices accounted for
51 percent of the total rise of consumer
prices, and energy prices accounted for
another II percent.
The American people generally pros-
pered despite the inflation in 1973. Their
incomes, on the average, rose more than
prices. But there were many families for
which that was not true. We cannot ac-
cept continuation of the inflation rate of
1973, and still less can we risk its acceler-
ation. We must dedicate ourselves to
carrying on the fight against inflation in
1974 and thereafter.
There are at least four lessons we can
learn from our past experience in com-
bating inflation:
1. The importance of patience. To cor-
rect a powerful trend of the economy
which has been going on for some time re-
quires time. Sharply squeezing down the
economy in an effort to halt inflation
would produce a severe drop in employ-
ment and economic activity and create
demands for a major reversal of policy.
Pumping up the economy to get quickly
to full employment would risk setting off
even swifter inflation. We need a greater
steadiness of policy.
2. The importance of the rest of the
world. The events of 1973 brought our
external economic relations sharply to our
attention. Most simply put, it will be ex-
ceedingly hard for us to have a stable
economy in an unstable world. We must
contribute a stabilizing influence to the
world economy of which we are a large
part. We must promote concerted efforts
to maintain the health of the world
economy.
3. The importance of production.
Despite other vicissitudes, what deter-
mines the economic well-being of the
American people more than anything else
is the rate of production. The rapid in-
crease of production has provided the ris-
ing real incomes of the American people.
More specifically, increasing food produc-
tion is the best way to deal with the food
price problem, and increasing our energy
supplies is the best way to deal with the
energy shortage. We think of ourselves
as a Nation with high and strongly rising
output. We are. But we can do better and
it is important that we do better.
4. The importance of free markets. In
the past several years, under the pressure
of emergency conditions, we have made
great, but temporary, departures from
reliance on free prices and free markets.
In special circumstances and for short
periods these departures have been help-
ful. But taken together, these experiences
have confirmed the view that the free
market is, in general, our most efficient
system of economic organization, and that
sustained and comprehensive suppression
of it will not solve the inflation problem.
106
