[29] Feb. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
ating a downward spiral of recession. The
higher prices will cause dislocations and
impose burdens on all consuming coun-
tries; they do not have to cause a spread-
ing recession if we manage our affairs
cooperatively and wisely.
7. We will continue our policy of max-
imum agricultural production to help
hold down food prices.
8. We will continue our policy of
progressive removal of price and wage
controls in order to restore the flexibility
needed for efficiency and expansion in a
time of economic strain.
The effort to maintain the stability of
our economy in the face of the present
unusual conditions will absorb a great deal
of attention this year. But we must not
neglect the fundamental factors which de-
termine the prosperity of the American
people in the longer run. One of these
has come to general public attention with
a rush the need for adequate supplies
of energy at reasonable cost. We are see-
ing the possible consequences of being de-
prived of these, and we must not allow it.
The energy problem has had two main
parts for some time:
First, with rapidly rising world demand
for energy, most of which comes from
depletable resources, we could run into
sharply increasing costs of energy unless
vast investments are made in research, de-
velopment, experimentation, and produc-
tion.
Second, we are exposed to the danger
of being thrown back upon inadequate or
very expensive sources of energy earlier
than necessary by joint action of a few
countries that control a large part of the
existing low-cost reserves of oil.
To deal with this problem I began pro-
posing, almost 3 years ago, a number of
governmental measures to permit or assist
development of energy within the control
of the United States. In 1973 the second
part of the problem, which had formerly
been a threat, became a reality at least
temporarily, and this has demonstrated
unmistakably the urgency of the steps I
have recommended.
I propose that the United States should
commit itself to "Project Independence"
to develop the capacity for self-sufficiency
in energy supplies at reasonable cost. One
key element of Project Independence is a
5-year, $10 billion program of federally
financed research and development in the
field of energy. My budget for fiscal year
1975 will include almost $2 billion for this
purpose. By far the largest part of the re-
search, development, and production re-
quired by Project Independence will be
private, and steps to stimulate the private
contribution are essential. Among the nu-
merous measures to this end which I called
attention to in my latest energy message on
January 23, were several tax proposals.
Last April I proposed that the investment
credit be extended to cover exploratory
drilling for new oil and gas fields, while the
tax shelters for wealthy taxpayers asso-
ciated with such drilling would be elimi-
nated. In my recent message I asked Con-
gress to eliminate the depletion allowance
given to U.S. companies for foreign oil
production but to retain it for domestic
production, in order to shift the incentive
to exploration and production at home.
I have also asked the Treasury Depart-
ment to prepare proposals for revising the
treatment of taxes paid by oil companies
to foreign governments, both to improve
tax equity and to increase the incentive
for domestic production.
Energy is only the most dramatic ex-
ample of the need for policies to promote
a rising American standard of living by
108
