Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 19 [52]
and hardship. By helping to raise employ-
ment and income levels for some Ameri-
cans, it can improve the quality of life for
all Americans.
The White House,
February 19, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on provisions of the proposed
legislation by Frederick B. Dent, Secretary,
and William W. Blunt, Jr., Assistant Secretary
for Economic Development, Department of
Commerce.
52 Remarks Following a Meeting With Arab Foreign
Ministers To Discuss Prospects for Peace in the
Middle East. February 19, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
Foreign Minister Saqqaf of Saudi Ara-
bia and Foreign Minister Fahmy of Egypt,
Dr. Kissinger, and I have just had an ex-
tended and very constructive discussion
with regard to our achieving the goal of a
permanent peace in the Mideastern area.
With regard to the various steps that
have been taken the first of which, of
course, was the disengagement on the
Egyptian front-the immediate problem
that concerns us all is to obtain disen-
gagement on the Syrian front.
The two Foreign Ministers are here rep-
resenting not only their own governments
but also four heads of state, as they will
indicate, and at the request of the for-
eign ministers conveying the requests of
the heads of government, we believe that
steps should now be taken to get the talks
begun between the Syrians and the Is-
raelis with regard to disengagement.
Consequently, at their request, I have
asked Dr. Kissinger, when he completes
his trip to Mexico City, to go to the Mid-
east again where he will meet with the
Syrians and with the Israelis, with the ob-
jective of getting talks started with regard
to the problem of disengagement on the
Syrian front.
In addition to that, we discussed other
matters of mutual concern having to do
particularly with the need to have a per-
manent settlement in the Mideast. And
I would say and I would allow, of
course, each of them, or would ask each
of them to comment as they see fit with
regard to the point I will be making
now that the goal of all governments,
these two governments with which we
have had very friendly relations in recent
times and some over a longer time, the
goal of our governments is to have not
simply a temporary settlement but a per-
manent settlement, with normal relations,
economically, diplomatically, and in other
ways in that area of the world and with
all of the countries of that area of the
world.
And as our senior guest, we will call
on the Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia
to say anything he would like.
Mr. Saqqaf.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:42 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Minister of State 'Umar al-Saqqaf of Saudi
179
