[209] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
deal with both quantitative and quali-
tative limitations. They agreed that such
an agreement should be completed at the
earliest possible date, before the expira-
tion of the Interim Agreement.
They hold the common view that such
a new agreement would serve not only the
interests of the Soviet Union and the
United States but also those of a further
relaxation of international tensions and of
world peace.
Their delegations will reconvene in
Geneva in the immediate future on the
basis of instructions growing out of the
summit.
Taking into consideration the inter-
relationship between the development of
offensive and defensive types of strategic
arms and noting the successful implemen-
tation of the Treaty on the Limitation of
Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems concluded
between them in May 1972, both Sides
considered it desirable to adopt addi-
tional limitations on the deployment of
such systems. To that end they concluded
a Protocol providing for the limitation of
each Side to a single deployment area for
ABM systems instead of two such areas
as permitted to each Side by the Treaty.ยน
At the same time, two protocols were
signed entitled "Procedures Governing
Replacement, Dismantling or Destruc-
tion and Notification Thereof, for Strate-
gic Offensive Arms" and "Procedures
Governing Replacement, Dismantling or
Destruction, and Notification Thereof for
ABM Systems and Their Components."
These protocols were worked out by the
Standing Consultative Commission which
1 The text of the protocol is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 10, p. 750). On July 3, 1974, the
White House released a fact sheet on the
protocol.
was established to promote the objectives
and implementation of the provisions of
the Treaty and the Interim Agreement
signed on May 26, 1972.
The two Sides emphasized the serious
importance which the US and USSR also
attach to the realization of other possible
measures both on a bilateral and on a
multilateral basis-in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament.
Having noted the historic significance
of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon
Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space
and Under Water, concluded in Moscow
in 1963, to which the United States and
the Soviet Union are parties, both Sides
expressed themselves in favor of making
the cessation of nuclear weapon tests
comprehensive. Desiring to contribute
to the achievement of this goal the USA
and the USSR concluded, as an impor-
tant step in this direction, the Treaty on
the Limitation of Underground Nuclear
Weapon Tests providing for the complete
cessation, starting from March 31, 1976,
of the tests of such weapons above an ap-
propriate yield threshold, and for con-
fining other underground tests to a mini-
mum.2
The Parties emphasized the funda-
mental importance of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Having reaffirmed their mutual intention
to observe the obligation assumed by them
under that Treaty, including Article VI
thereof, they expressed themselves in
favor of increasing its effectiveness.
A joint statement was also signed in
which the US and USSR advocate the
most effective measures possible to over-
2 The texts of the treaty and protocol are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 10, p. 751).
570
