[185] June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
one, and each one, of course, is terribly
costly to the nations involved and par-
ticularly to this nation, of course, since
you feel it, since you are here, and also
potentially very dangerous to the peace
of the world.
What is the U.S. role? Let me state it
very simply: Under no circumstances does
the fact that the United States is seeking
better relations with some of Israel's
neighbors mean that the friendship of the
United States and the support for Israel
is any less. What it simply means is this:
We feel that if by creating a different.
relationship, by bringing a new element
into the discussions that may take place
in this area, by bringing perhaps some new
ideas to the attention of those other na-
tions in the area who have been involved
in war over these past years, that there is
a chance that the process that has begun,
the two disengagements with which you
are familiar can be and will be continued,
and that eventually we can achieve the
goal of a just and enduring peace for this
area.
And that brings me, finally, to the lead-
ers in this room-and they are leaders of
very great quality. And if those in the
diplomatic corps and those in the Ameri-
can community who are guests will for-
give me for a moment, let me address
these remarks only to those who are here
from our host, from Israel. There is a new
Prime Minister and a new government.
I know the new Prime Minister well. He
is, as we know, one of Israel's and one of
the world's most famed military men. He
was a man of great courage, great dis-
cipline, and unusual ability, a leader in
war.
And then he demonstrated that he could
be a diplomat when he came to Washing-
ton, and after having met him first briefly
in 1967, I learned to know him very well
when he was there serving in Washington.
And now he succeeds Golda Meir as head
of government of this nation. And as I
think of him, I think of the members of
Parliament, I think of the members of his
government, there are two courses that
are open to them. The one is an easy one,
an easy one particularly politically, I sup-
pose, and that is the status quo. Don't
move, because any movement has risks
in it, and therefore, resist those initiatives
that may be undertaken, that might lead
to a negotiation which would perhaps
contribute to a permanent, just, and dur-
able peace.
But there is another way. The other, I
believe, is the right way. It is the way of
statesmanship, not the way of the politi-
cian alone. It is a way that does not risk
your country's security. That must never
be done. But it is a way that recognizes
that continuous war in this area is not a
solution for Israel's survival and, above
all, it is not right that every possible ave-
nue be explored to avoid it in the interest
of the future of those children we saw by
the hundreds and thousands on the streets
of Jerusalem today.
And so, for that reason, let me say that
we have been honored and proud to work
with Israel and to support Israel in times
when Israel found it necessary to go to
war.
And now, we hope and trust that this
great creative ability, which is here in
such great abundance in this room and in
this nation, will be used to the works of
peace in the same dedication as has been
shown whenever war was concerned. Be-
cause with that kind of intelligence, that
kind of dedication, I am confident that
together we can find a way in this very
difficult area of the world, where the
522
