[119] Apr. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
-They must provide the investments
needed to create productive jobs for the
several hundred thousand who have lost
jobs with the withdrawal of U.S. forces.
-They must meet the much higher
costs of such essential imports as fertilizer
and other critical resources caused by
worldwide inflation.
-They must provide for the orphans,
the disabled, and for widows who can
never recover their wartime losses.
-They must continue to support the
military forces needed to preserve move-
ment toward peace so long as hostile
forces continue to be deployed within
South Vietnam and supported from
outside.
The South Vietnamese have made
laudable efforts to solve their own prob-
lems. They have increased their taxes-a
40 percent increase in real terms in 1973.
They have expanded their exports, which
were virtually eliminated by the war-
doubling exports in 1972 and again in
1973. They have sharply reduced the con-
sumption of imported goods, including a
notable reduction in petroleum. But after
more than a decade of war, they cannot
reconstruct their economy and their so-
ciety alone. Increased U.S. assistance is
needed now to support the increasing
efforts of the Vietnamese to achieve peace
and self-sufficiency as soon as possible.
In Laos, a peaceful political solution
to the conflict is in motion and the people
there can finally look forward to a secure
and stable environment. The problems
of resettling refugees and establishing a
viable economy, however, will provide a
major test of the Laotian government's
ability to work in the interests of all. Our
continued assistance is essential to per-
mit this underdeveloped, land-locked
country to reconstruct its economy after
so many years of war.
Continued U.S. assistance is also essen-
tial to alleviate the hardships facing the
Cambodian people, many of them refu-
gees with little opportunity to support
themselves until hostilities subside.
The investment I am now seeking—an
investment to sustain the peace, to over-
come the human suffering resulting from
the war, and to give the people of Indo-
china a chance to stand on their own
feet—is small in comparison with what
we have committed over the years in
Indochina. But the potential return on
this investment is large in enhancing the
prospect of peace both in Indochina and
around the world.
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
U.S. assistance programs-both bilat-
eral and multilateral-have made a very
substantial contribution to the economic
growth of the developing nations over
the past decade.
In spite of encouraging progress, it is es-
timated that 40 percent of the total popu-
lation in all the developing countries still
remain trapped in conditions of poverty
beyond the reach of the market economy.
These people continue to exist below mini-
mal levels of nutrition, literacy, and
health.
It is clear that in the modern world,
peace and poverty cannot easily endure
side by side. In the long term, we must
have peace without privation, or we may
not have a durable peace at all. All that
we have worked, and fought, and sacri-
ficed to achieve will be in jeopardy as
long as hunger, illiteracy, disease, and pov-
erty are the permanent condition of 40
376
