Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
in energy, however, we want to encourage
greater development of U.S. energy re-
sources rather than foreign resources. I
am therefore asking the Congress to
eliminate these foreign depletion allow-
ances, while retaining the depletion al-
lowance for domestic oil production.
Taxes paid to foreign governments by
U.S. oil companies drilling abroad have
increased dramatically. There is growing
concern about the degree to which such
increases should be allowed as credits
against U.S. tax on other income. Under
these circumstances, it is no longer realis-
tic to treat these payments to foreign gov-
ernments entirely as income taxes credita-
ble against the U.S. tax. Obviously,
however, the oil producing countries, like
any other country, have the right to im-
pose taxes and some reasonable portion of
those taxes should be creditable. I have
asked the Treasury Department to prepare
proposals which would cause part of these
amounts to be designated as a creditable
tax and the balance to be allowed solely
as a deduction.
Accelerating the Licensing and Construc-
tion of Nuclear Facilities
Nuclear power, which lessens our de-
pendence on foreign fuel, is an essential
part of our program of achieving energy
self-sufficiency. At present, however, it
takes 9-10 years to complete the planning,
licensing, and construction of nuclear
power plants. In order to get vitally
needed nuclear power on-line more
rapidly, I have directed that steps be
taken to reduce the licensing and con-
struction cycle to 5-6 years, without com-
promising safety and environmental
standards.
I will soon transmit a legislative pro-
posal to expedite the completion of
nuclear power plants by separating the
approval process for plant sites from the
reactor licensing process and by encour-
aging the use of standardized plant de-
signs. These designs, once approved,
would reduce the required licensing re-
view time and would enhance safety. This
legislation would also permit the estab-
lishment of an inventory of approved sites
for nuclear plants.
Efficiency Labels
Energy conservation must play a major
role in achieving self-sufficiency, but few
of the products we now purchase clearly
indicate how much energy they require
to operate. To assure that such informa-
tion is available, I will shortly submit to
the Congress legislation requiring that all
major appliances and automobiles pro-
duced or imported into the United States
be clearly labeled to indicate their energy
use and energy efficiency.
Energy Facilities Siting
The present multitude of Federal,
State, and local approvals required for
the construction of energy facilities has
caused serious delays in their availability.
There is also no provision for advanced
approval of sites which will be needed
in the future. In addition, the public
has often been frustrated because public
participation in the site approval process
seldom occurs early enough to affect the
basic siting decision.
In 1971 I requested legislation to over-
come these problems for electrical power
plants and transmission lines. I resub-
mitted similar legislation in February
1973, but the Congress has not acted
on my proposal. I have now directed that
new legislation be prepared, building
upon my earlier proposals but covering
27
