[146] May 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
cal care available to all of our citizens,
young and old, rich and poor.
The comprehensive health insurance
plan which I have proposed can accom-
plish this. I hope that the Congress will
continue to move promptly on this
pro-
gram, so that in the future, we will be
able to look back on 1974 as the year
in
which America, long the wealthiest na-
147
tion in the world, acted decisively to be-
come the healthiest nation as well.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
Key Biscayne, Fla. His address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
Annual Message to the Congress on the District of
Columbia Budget. May 21, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to the Congress the
budget of the District of Columbia for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1974.
The budget proposals herein have been
prepared by the Mayor-Commissioner
and the City Council in accordance with
their responsibilities under Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 3 of 1967, and they also
reflect the comments of the citizens of the
District during City Council budget hear-
ings. Further review of these proposals has
been made by the Office of Management
and Budget as specified in the District of
Columbia Revenue Act of 1970.
The fiscal year 1975 budget represents
the assumption of new responsibilities by
the District of Columbia as it moves
toward more self-government. The great
progress made in recent years by the Dis-
trict Government in program and fiscal
management attest to its ability to move
effectively along the path charted by the
District of Columbia Self-government and
Governmental Reorganization Act of
1973. This budget indicates that the city
welcomes these additional responsibilities
and that it is prepared to work with the
Congress on behalf of all residents of the
District of Columbia to improve local
government and the quality of city life.
I urge the Congress to act upon these
proposals in the same spirit.
The White House,
May 21, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
148 Remarks on Signing the Disaster Relief Act of 1974.
May 22, 1974
I GUESS you had good bipartisan sup-
port for this legislation. It is a very good
piece of legislation. We appreciate the
fact that you treated it in a bipartisan
way and got it down here in a hurry.
There is one part of this whole problem
that is not covered in this legislation, and
of course, it couldn't be. As I went to the
disaster areas, not only here but in others
on previous occasions, the immediate
problems are those that deal with the
problem of housing, the problem of
schools, the problem of food on an emer-
gency basis, and we provide the money
446
