[238] Aug. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
238 Statement on Signing the Department of Defense
Appropriation Authorization Act, 1975. August 5, 1974
I AM TODAY signing H.R. 14592, the
Department of Defense procurement au-
thorization bill for fiscal year 1975.
As I have pointed out on several occa-
sions, a strong America is essential to
maintaining world peace. Our military
forces deter potential aggressors and,
together with those of our allies, serve to
assure the continued security of the free
world. Without that strength, our adver-
saries would have no incentive to nego-
tiate the mutual reduction of arms
through which it may be possible to limit
the rate of growth of military expendi-
tures in the years ahead.
I am pleased that in this bill the Con-
gress has expressed support for our ob-
jectives by authorizing $22.2 billion for
military procurement purposes during fis-
cal year 1975. Funds for research and de-
velopment and the acquisition of major
new weapons systems will help us to
maintain our strong military posture, and
a military end strength of 2,149,000 will
contribute positively to continued force
readiness.
There are, however, several unfor-
tunate features in this bill. A number of
provisions authorize spending for un-
needed equipment and could thus inflate
defense spending unnecessarily at a time
when we all should recognize the need to
avoid waste. I shall monitor this spending
closely, and in particular, I intend to re-
view the provision that any newly con-
structed major combatant ship be equip-
ped with nuclear power unless the Presi-
dent advises otherwise. I shall recommend
nuclear propulsion for ships only when the
added cost of such propulsion is fully jus-
tified in the national interests.
Section 709 of this measure authorizes
the Congress by concurrent resolution to
disapprove a Presidential decision per-
mitting the export of certain goods and
technology to specific countries. In my
view, this feature provides for an uncon-
stitutional exercise of legislative power. It
is regrettable that the Congress has seen
fit to add to a bill of such importance to
our national security a rider adversely af-
fecting the constitutional separation of
powers. However, the compelling subject
matter of this bill gives me no practical
choice but to sign it, notwithstanding my
serious reservations.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14592 is Public Law
93-365 (88 Stat. 399).
239 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Telegraph
and Telephone Regulations and a Final Protocol
to the Regulations. August 5, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Telegraph Regula-
tions and the Telephone Regulations
along with the appendices thereto and a
Final Protocol to those Regulations, done
at Geneva, April 11, 1973. Also trans-
620
