[245] Aug. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
reading, my last night in the White House,
and this quote is about a young man. He
was a young lawyer in New York. He had
married a beautiful girl, and they had a
lovely daughter, and then suddenly she
died, and this is what he wrote. This was
in his diary.
He said, "She was beautiful in face and
form and lovelier still in spirit. As a flower
she grew and as a fair young flower she
died. Her life had been always in the sun-
shine. There had never come to her a
single great sorrow. None ever knew her
who did not love and revere her for her
bright and sunny temper and her saintly
unselfishness. Fair, pure and joyous as a
maiden, loving, tender and happy as a
young wife. When she had just become a
mother, when her life seemed to be just
begun and when the years seemed so
bright before her, then by a strange and
terrible fate death came to her. And when
my heart's dearest died, the light went
from my life forever.”
That was T.R. in his twenties. He
thought the light had gone from his life
forever but he went on. And he not only
became President but, as an ex-President,
he served his country, always in the arena,
tempestuous, strong, sometimes wrong,
sometimes right, but he was a man.
And as I leave, let me say, that is an
example I think all of us should remem-
ber. We think sometimes when things
happen that don't go the right way; we
think that when you don't pass the bar
exam the first time-I happened to, but
I was just lucky; I mean, my writing was
so poor the bar examiner said, "We have
just got to let the guy through." We think
that when someone dear to us dies, we
think that when we lose an election, we
think that when we suffer a defeat that
all is ended. We think, as T.R. said, that
the light had left his life forever.
Not true. It is only a beginning, always.
The young must know it; the old must
know it. It must always sustain us, be-
cause the greatness comes not when things
go always good for you, but the greatness
comes and you are really tested, when
you take some knocks, some disappoint-
ments, when sadness comes, because only
if you have been in the deepest valley can
you ever know how magnificent it is to
be on the highest mountain.
And so I say to you on this occasion, as
we leave, we leave proud of the people
who have stood by us and worked for us
and served this country.
We want you to be proud of what you
have done. We want you to continue to
serve in government, if that is your wish.
Always give your best, never get dis-
couraged, never be petty; always remem-
ber, others may hate you, but those who
hate you
don't win unless hate them,
you
and then you destroy yourself.
And so, we leave with high hopes, in
good spirit, and with deep humility, and
with very much gratefulness in our hearts.
I can only say to each and every one of
you, we come from many faiths, we pray
perhaps to different gods-but really the
same God in a sense-but I want to say
for each and every one of you, not only
will we always remember you, not only
will we always be grateful to you but
always you will be in our hearts and you
will be in our prayers.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:36 a.m. in the
East Room at the White House. His remarks
were broadcast live on nationwide radio and
television.
Following his remarks, the President and
632
