[108] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bay City High School. If I left any out, I
will remember them next time.
I do know, too, that as Senator Griffin
reminded me, that this is the fourth time,
actually, that I have been here in the
Tri-City area. I was here in 1960, but
more recently in 1968, and then in 1972,
and now finally in 1974. And as I see so
many young people here, the thought that
crosses my mind with regard to this visit
is this: I think that we can all be very
thankful today that for the first time in
12 years, America is at peace with all
nations in the world.
I think we can be very thankful for the
fact that for the first time in 25 years,
not one young American is being drafted
for the armed services of the United
States. And we can be thankful for the
fact that all of our very courageous prison-
ers of war who have been there, some as
long as 8 years, are home where they be-
long. This we can be thankful for today
on this occasion.
I know, too, that as we come into this
area, that today it is very fortunate that
we can think not of the problems of war,
subjects which I had to address in 1968
and 1972, but that the problems we do
have are the problems of peace. And I
would like to speak briefly to those prob-
lems, ones that affect that affect your
jobs, that affect your cost of living, and
that affect your peace and its future for
your children and your grandchildren.
you,
And the first point that I want to make
is this: I know this area very well; I know
how Saginaw and Bay City depend so
much, for example, on what happens to
the automobile industry across this coun-
try. I realize that as automobile sales go
down for whatever reason, that that means
jobs go down here and in this whole area,
as well as in the State of Michigan.
And I have in this respect some good
news for you, but also I have a request
to make of you in terms of what we need
in order to get automobile sales up, auto-
mobile production up, and employment
up in the Saginaw-Bay City area. That is
our goal.
As all of you know, what has caused
the problem with regard to automobile
sales has been the energy shortage. And
because of that energy shortage, the sale
of cars, particularly some of the larger
cars, has gone down. That has now been
reversed to an extent. However, we need
to do more, but there is a bottleneck. The
bottleneck is in the Congress of the United
States. The bottleneck is the fact that bills
that we have presented to the Congress,
bills that are supported by Senator Griffin,
bills that are supported by Al Cederberg
and others from your delegation here in
Michigan, 17 of them are there in the
Congress and haven't been acted upon.
Now, let me tell you what these bills,
which may sound very technical, have to
do with your jobs and with your future
here in this area that depends so much on
the health of the automobile industry.
The first one is this: It is absolutely
essential that we, for example, deregulate
natural gas. Now, why will that help? Be-
cause, as we bring more natural gas in
the production all over this country, it
means that gasoline then is made available
which is not available at the
present time
in the quantities that we want. That legis-
lation should be passed, and it can be
passed if we get the votes in the Congress
for it.
The second is with regard to auto emis-
sion standards. Now, I know that all of us,
particularly those who think of the future
of our country, we want our air to be
clean, we want our water to be pure, we
346
