Richard Nixon, 1974
May 11 [137]
137
Remarks at Commencement Exercises at Oklahoma
State University, Stillwater, Oklahoma. May 11, 1974
Dr. Kamm, all of the distinguished guests
on the platform, all of the distinguished
members of the faculty, and particularly,
of course, the most distinguished people
here of all, those who are to receive
degrees, both graduate and undergrad-
uate, and your friends and those who
have made it possible for you to be here
today:
Let me say, Dr. Kamm, that I am most
grateful for the invitation that was ex-
tended to me to come to this university.
My good friend Senator Henry Bellmon
said that this school had had once a tradi-
tion of noncontroversial speakers. Well,
now you have changed it tonight.
And in the great tradition of an edu-
cational institution, I am very happy that
there are some here who obviously dis-
approve of the speaker and there are
others who approve of the speaker.
And all of you, of course, are welcome,
and my remarks will be directed to all of
you in the sense that I know you will re-
ceive them, of what this day means to
those who are receiving their degrees from
one of America's greatest educational
institutions.
I would like to say first, however, before
getting into the more serious parts of my
remarks, that I am very happy to be
standing here at this particular spot. As
some of you probably have heard, I am
somewhat of a sports fan, and as some of
you probably know, the university that is
best known from Oklahoma in football is
not the Cowboys, but the Sooners.
On the other hand, I am aware of the
whole realm of sports, and I am aware
of the fact that, except for my wife's alma
mater, the University of Southern Cali-
fornia, the university in all the United
States that has won more national cham-
pionships across the board is OSU. So,
congratulations. I know you are very good
at wrestling. I could learn a little from you
at that, too.
Let me say, too, that when I spoke of
the fact that I was somewhat of a sports
fan, I was one of those who spent virtually
all of my time on the bench, and to be in
the middle of the field is really an un-
usual experience, and I thank you for that,
too.
On this particular day, I also want to
pay tribute not only to the graduates to
whom my remarks will be addressed pri-
marily but-as already has been done so
eloquently in the invocation, and also by
Dr. Kamm-to those who taught them
and to their parents and others who have
made it possible to get their education.
And I can say to you who are graduating
today, as the years go by, each year you
will appreciate more the sacrifices of your
parents who made it possible for you to
get an education that they may not have
received. I have always felt that way. And
as the years go by, you will appreciate
more the dedication of those who taught
you, and as a matter of fact, strangely
enough, you will probably appreciate the
most those who graded you the hardest,
because they were the ones who made
you toe the line.
And so, to the faculty and to the parents
and all those who made it possible for this
great day of achievement, the congratula-
tions not only of this great audience here
go but of the whole Nation, for produc-
427
