Richard Nixon, 1974
June 19 [193]
continuing efforts to reduce tensions
around the world and to solve problems
through negotiation, not confrontation.
To President Spínola and to the people
of Portugal, we extend our grateful thanks
for our present and fruitful visit to the
Azores, and we pledge our continuing
friendship in the future.
NOTE: The statement was released at Lajes
Field, the Azores.
193 Remarks on Returning From the Middle East.
June 19, 1974
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabi-
net, and all of you who have been so very
kind to come out and welcome us back
after our trip to the Mideast:
It is hard to realize that over the past
9 days that we have had the opportunity
to meet with the leaders of five countries
of the Mideast, as well as the President
of Portugal and the Prime Minister of
Austria.
As I have said, this trip now comes to
an end, but it is only the beginning of a
much longer journey, a journey that will
be difficult, a journey that has many pit-
falls potentially in it, but one that is worth
taking, a journey on which we are em-
barked and on which we will continue, a
journey toward a lasting peace, not only
in the Mideast but all over the world.
Let me say, too, that with regard to
the trip itself, at this point in our relations
with the nations in that area, some ob-
servations, I think, can be made.
I have, over the past 21 years, visited
that area on several occasions, and I would
say that a profound and, I believe, lasting
change has taken place in these respects:
First, where there was no hope for
peace, there is now hope.
Second, where there was hostility for
America in many parts of that part of the
world, there is now friendship.
Third, while we did have the opportu-
nity to meet new friends in Egypt and in
Syria, we were able to reassure old friends
in Israel and in Saudi Arabia and in
Jordan.
What this all adds up to, of course, is
not that we have instant peace as a result
of one series of negotiations or just one
very long trip, but what it does mean is
that we are on the way. And it does mean,
too, that we must dedicate ourselves to stay
the course, as the Vice President has indi-
cated, to stand tall until we reach our
goal.
Also, I would like to say a word with
regard to those television clips I am sure
many of
you saw, of literally millions of
people in Cairo and Alexandria and
Damascus, and in Jidda, in Jerusalem,
and in Amman—millions of people wel-
coming the President of the United States
and his wife.
What did this mean? What it really
meant was not a welcome in a personal
sense, but it meant something far more
significant. It meant very simply that mil-
lions of people in that part of the world
who have known nothing but poverty and
war for the last 30 years desperately want
peace and they want progress. They be-
lieve that America wants peace and prog-
ress, not only for ourselves but for them,
too. They believe that we will help in
achieving peace and progress without ex-
acting the price of domination over them.
In other words, what those people were
539
