[108] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
going to be voting for. You are going to
be voting for a full-time, hard-working
Congressman. You are going to be voting,
second, for a Congressman who is repre-
senting you, just you, every individual,
and no one power group. You are going
to be voting for a Congressman who is
not just against, but who is for better
health and better education, for solving
the problems of energy, for better income
for our farmers and our businessmen and
the rest. And you are going to be voting
for a Congressman who, above everything
else, is for the kind of policies that ended
one war for America and will avoid other
wars for America.
Now, that is a cause worth working for
and voting for.
Thank you.
[3] CASS CITY (1:27 p.m.)
Well, I have appreciated, too, the op-
portunity to travel through this area, and
I want to welcome all the people, I under-
stand, who have come over from Caro,
the county seat, as well as others in the
Cass City area, and to tell you, as I men-
tioned in our earlier stop here, that when
I see the census figures on these towns, I
can't believe them because there are at
least twice as many people-I think you
will agree, Jim, there are 2,500 here. And
we know you have driven many miles, you
have stood a long time, and we are very
grateful.
I just have a word to say about the man
who stands by my side here. I know him
well because he worked in our Congres-
sional relations work at the White House
during the summer of last year. I know
him well, too, because for 13 years he
served one of the finest Congressmen that
we have ever had in Washington, a man
who won a great reputation because he
was always on the job.
He represented the people of his dis-
trict. He was not a rubber stamp for any-
body else. He was simply one who spoke
for you-Jim Harvey. And I think that is
the kind of folks you are up here. You
are independent-minded. You are not
going to have anybody else tell you how
to vote. What you want to do is look at
the man. You want to realize that he
recognizes your interests and he is going
to support them, and I believe that while
it takes a big man to step into Jim
Harvey's shoes, you have that kind of man
in Jim Sparling, because he knows Wash-
ington, he has the experience, he has the
independence, he believes in you, and
you can believe in him.
May I also tell you, since there are so
many here who are in agriculture, how
very much you mean to America. I know
your concerns, of course, are what is going
to be the price of beans or milk or what
have you, and what are we going to do
about the problems of fertilizer, of course,
which is in shorter supply due to the
energy crisis. But I think, from a positive
standpoint, that you can be very proud
that when we look at America's strength
in the world, American agriculture is one
of the great instruments for peace in the
world. The fact that we can produce in
this country enough to be the best fed,
best clothed people in the world, the fact
that we can do that so that the amount
that comes out of a family budget for
food is less in the United States than in
any family budget in the world and, yet,
have billions of dollars that we can export,
that means that agriculture is a great
power for peace in the world.
And that brings me to another point
352
