Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 25 [121]
With our assistance, other nations have
reached a point where they can share
this burden. But we have not yet reached
the point where we can safely lay it down.
The amounts I am requesting for fiscal
year 1975 are the minimum essential to
support the responsible and constructive
American role of international leadership
and cooperation, a role which it is in our
I 20
national interest
strengthen.
to continue
and
The White House,
April 24, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the bipartisan Con-
gressional leadership met with the President at
the White House to discuss proposals contained
in the foreign assistance message.
Statement on the Death of President Franz Jonas of
Austria. April 24, 1974
WITH the death of President Franz
Jonas, Austria has lost one of her great
postwar leaders, Europe has lost one of
her foremost statesmen, and the cause of
world peace has lost a courageous
defender.
The people of the United States join
me in extending our deepest sympathy to
the people of Austria.
NOTE: President Jonas, 74, was President of
Austria from 1965 until his death in Vienna,
Austria.
James Roosevelt served as Personal Repre-
sentative of the President and head of the
U.S. delegation at funeral services in Vienna
on April 29, 1974. Members of the delegation
also included Representative Guy A. Vander
Jagt of Michigan; John P. Humes, United
States Ambassador to Austria; Hobart D. Lewis,
executive director and president of Reader's
Digest; and John Safer of Washington, D.C.
121 Remarks at the Annual Convention of the Mississippi
Economic Council, Jackson, Mississippi. April 25, 1974
Governor Waller, all the distinguished
guests on the platform, all of the distin-
guished guests in this audience, and all
of those who, I understand, are outside
and are able, not to be here, but can hear
on the loudspeakers:
In answer to that very generous intro-
duction by the Governor of this State, I
can only say that I am proud to be the
first President in history to address the
Mississippi Economic Council, and after
this kind of a reception, I am sure I won't
be the last one to do it.
As a matter of fact, as I looked at this
huge auditorium, I thought I had never
spoken in a place where I had so many
people behind me.
And I want to pay tribute, incidentally,
to not only the members of the council
who are going to have lunch, I under-
stand, if I don't speak too long, but also
to your many guests, I understand, from
the high schools, the colleges, the other
fine institutions. Particularly, I thank the
Mississippi State University band for
playing "Hail to the Chief."
Just so I don't get in any trouble with
some of the other colleges and univer-
379
