[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
them. I am pleased that during the last
session of the Congress, the executive
branch and the appropriate authorizing
committees began to deal more seriously
with an improved program structure, and
I am persuaded that with hard work and
careful thought, a bill acceptable to both
branches can result.
The appropriate committees of both
Houses have written steps to simplify
existing programs for innovation and sup-
port services into the measures they are
now considering. The Senate Subcom-
mittee on Education has initiated a fur-
ther consolidation of various discretionary
and categorical programs into a special
projects authority, with provisions for
gifted and talented children. But further
consolidation is still needed. I am there-
fore proposing consolidation of present
programs of vocational education and
a merger of existing authorities in adult
education.
AIDING HANDICAPPED CHILDREN
There is growing awareness in the Na-
tion of the special educational needs of
handicapped children. In 90 demonstra-
tion projects we are seeking to learn how
to identify handicapped children earlier
and give them the help they need to enter
regular school when other children do.
I am now proposing that eight discre-
tionary authorities be consolidated into
four broad programs for the education of
the handicapped. One of these new pro-
grams, Resource Implementation, would
help teachers identify learning problems;
the Professional Development program
would provide teachers with special skills
to overcome barriers to learning; Inno-
vation and Development would provide
new methods and materials for teaching;
and Special Centers and Services would
accelerate progress in aiding severely han-
dicapped children.
FAIRER DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS FOR
THE DISADVANTAGED
Another issue of continuing concern is
the development of a better way to dis-
tribute Federal funds for disadvantaged
children. The current system of reim-
bursement often results in school districts
being paid for children who are no longer
there.
A new formula for distribution of these
vital funds must be adopted, targeting the
available money on the greatest concen-
trations of disadvantaged children and on
the development of basic skills. That for-
mula should also take into account the
differing costs for education in different
locales. We must also adopt a definition
of poverty which more accurately reflects
today's conditions.
PHASING OUT IMPACT AID
Another program affecting many school
districts throughout the Nation is School
Assistance in Federally Affected Areas—
aid to districts where Federal installations
bring significant enrollment increases. I
am proposing 100 percent Federal fund-
ing of the program for school districts
where enrollment consists of 25 percent
or more of children whose parents both
live and work on Federal property, and
90 percent funding for school districts
where these children comprise less than
25 percent.
In the past we have also funded pro-
grams for children whose parents work on
Federal property but do not live on Fed-
eral installations. Since parents of such
children already contribute substantially
36
