[121] Apr. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Strength in the hands of America is a
good thing for those who love peace in
the world, and let's keep America strong.
And I would strongly urge, never send
an American President to the conference
table with any other leader of the world
as the head of the second strongest nation
in the world. Let that be a goal for Amer-
icans to remember, too.
It requires also, if we are to exert this
kind of leadership that will build a gen-
eration of peace, economic strength. I
have referred to that already. And that
economic strength is going to come. It
is going to come from depending not
on government enterprise-government
plays a role-but on private enterprise.
That is why, for example-if I may use
just one example in a field not completely
related to your businesses-as far as medi-
cal care is concerned, we need a new pro-
gram, one in which everyone in this
country who needs it will have health
insurance, but in which no one is forced
to have it if he doesn't want it.
But also, let's have a program that does
not raise taxes. Let's have a program that
is not run by the Federal Government,
because when I have a doctor, I want that
doctor working for me and not for the
Federal Government.
Putting it in a larger perspective, let's
look at energy. You have heard about our
Government energy program. It will cost
$15 billion. We are going to put at least
that much in it over the next 3 to 5 years,
and that sounds like a very big program.
That is bigger, we can say, than the
Manhattan Project. It is as big as the
space project. But that isn't really the
whole of it. It is only the tip of the iceberg.
Because, while the Government will be
spending $15 billion, did you know that
over the next 10 years, private enterprise,
to achieve our goal of becoming inde-
pendent as far as energy is concerned,
private enterprise will be spending $500
billion. That is many times bigger than
the Manhattan Project and the space
project put together. It will give an
enormous boost to the American economy.
So, the prospects for the future, as I
say, for those who are young and look
ahead for jobs, for more opportunity, they
are good. They are good because this Na-
tion has the right kind of an economic
system. Let's never forget that, and let's
never displace it. They are good because
this Nation is strong in terms of its vision,
and I believe this is true about the future.
And that brings me to the third element
of strength that is so important.
As you look over the pages of history
and see what has happened to the great
civilizations of the past, an ironic fact
stands out and is repeated over and over
again: The great civilizations of the past,
and you have seen, many of you, the ruins
in Athens, you have walked, as I have,
at night in the Forum at Rome, and you
wonder, why did it happen? And whether
it was Rome or Greece or some of the
other great civilizations, the ironic thing
is that they decayed and they fell not
when they were poor, but when they were
rich; not when they were supposed to be
weak materially, but it was at a time when
they were strong. In other words, the time
of greatest danger for a great country and
society is when it is very wealthy, as we
are, when it is very strong, as we are, be-
cause the tendency then is for a country
to become soft, to become complacent,
to turn inward from the thrust toward
greatness that brought them where they
were.
We must not let this happen to Amer-
ica. And I will tell you why it cannot and
386
