Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 29 [122]
coverup" at the time of our first meeting
on September 15, 1972. These transcripts
show clearly that I first learned of it when
Mr. Dean himself told me about it in this
office on March 21-some 6 months later.
Incidentally, these transcripts-cover-
ing hours upon hours of conversations—
should place in somewhat better perspec-
tive the controversy over the 182 minute
gap in the tape of a conversation I had
with Mr. Haldeman back in June of 1972.
Now, how it was caused is still a mys-
tery to me and, I think, to many of the
experts as well. But I am absolutely cer-
tain, however, of one thing: that it was
not caused intentionally by my secretary,
Rose Mary Woods, or any of my White
House assistants. And certainly, if the the-
ory were true that during those 18½ min-
utes, Mr. Haldeman and I cooked up some
sort of a Watergate coverup scheme, as so
many have been quick to surmise, it hardly
seems likely that in all of our subsequent
conversations—many of them are here—
which neither of us ever expected would
see the light of day, there is nothing re-
motely indicating such a scheme; indeed,
quite the contrary.
From the beginning, I have said that in
many places on the tapes there were am-
biguities—a statement and comments that
different people with different perspec-
tives might interpret in drastically differ-
ent ways—but although the words may be
ambiguous, though the discussions may
have explored many alternatives, the rec-
ord of my actions is totally clear now, and
I still believe it was totally correct then.
A prime example is one of the most con-
troversial discussions, that with Mr. Dean
on March 21-the one in which he first
told me of the coverup, with Mr. Halde-
man joining us midway through the con-
versation.
His revelations to me on March 21 were
a sharp surprise, even though the report
he gave to me was far from complete, es-
pecially since he did not reveal at that
time the extent of his own criminal
involvement.
I was particularly concerned by his re-
port that one of the Watergate defendants,
Howard Hunt, was threatening blackmail
unless he and his lawyer were immediately
given $120,000 for legal fees and family
support, and that he was attempting to
blackmail the White House, not by threat-
ening exposure on the Watergate matter,
but by threatening to reveal activities that
would expose extremely sensitive, highly
secret national security matters that he
had worked on before Watergate.
I probed, questioned, tried to learn all
Mr. Dean knew about who was involved,
what was involved. I asked more than 150
questions of Mr. Dean in the course of
that conversation.
He said to me, and I quote from the
transcripts directly: "I can just tell from
our conversation that these are things that
you have no knowledge of."
It was only considerably later that I
learned how much there was that he did
not tell me then-for example, that he
himself had authorized promises of
clemency, that he had personally han-
dled money for the Watergate defendants,
and that he had suborned perjury of a
witness.
I knew that I needed more facts. I
knew that I needed the judgments of more
people. I knew the facts about the Water-
gate coverup would have to be made pub-
lic, but I had to find out more about what
they were before I could decide how they
could best be made public.
I returned several times to the immedi-
ate problem posed by Mr. Hunt's black-
393
