[59] Feb. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
with a charge account, a service or per-
sonnel record, a credit card, a social se-
curity number, a mortgage, or an appli-
ance or automobile bought on time. In
short, data banks affect nearly every man,
woman, and child in the United States
today.
To meet a challenge of these dimen-
sions, we need more than just another in-
vestigation and just another series of re-
ports. We need action. That is why I am
today establishing in the White House a
top priority Domestic Council Commit-
tee on the Right of Privacy. This will not
just be another research group. It will be
a panel of some of the most able men and
women in the Government, and it will be
primed for high-level action.
It will be chaired by Vice President
Ford. It will include the Attorney General
and five other Cabinet members-the Sec-
retaries of the Treasury, Defense, Com-
merce, Labor, and Health, Education, and
Welfare-along with the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission, the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget,
the Director of the Office of Consumer
Affairs, and the Director of the Office
of Telecommunications Policy.
This is no ordinary group, and the task
I have set for it is no ordinary task.
This Privacy Committee will build on
the fine work that other groups have al-
ready carried out, and I will see to it that
it is supported by the best talent available
in determining the views of representa-
tives from the legislative branch, the judi-
cial branch, and the private sector, includ-
ing our colleges and universities.
I am asking the members to examine
three key areas of concern: collection,
storage, and use of personal data. Speci-
fically, the committee will examine:
How the Federal Government col-
lects information on people and how
that information is protected;
-Procedures which would permit
citizens to inspect and correct in-
formation held by public or private
organizations;
-Regulations of the use and dissemina-
tion of mailing lists;
-And most importantly, ways that we
can safeguard personal information
against improper alteration or dis-
closure.
All of this will require extensive work
by the Committee, but it is only the first
half of the job.
Once the information and views of all
parties concerned have been thoroughly
aired, the Committee will be responsible
for developing a comprehensive series of
specific recommendations for action. I
want that action to provide a personal
shield for every American, which he can
use to protect his right to privacy.
I am directing this blue-ribbon panel,
within 4 months, to begin providing a
series of direct, enforceable measures-
including regulations, executive actions,
policy changes, legislation where neces-
sary, and voluntary restraints-all of
which we can immediately begin to put
into effect.
Advanced technology has created new
opportunities for America as a nation, but
it has also created the possibility for new
abuses of the individual American citizen.
Adequate safeguards must always stand
watch so that man remains the master-
and never becomes the victim-of the
computer.
In the first half of this century, Mr.
Justice Brandeis called privacy the "right
most valued by civilized men." In the
198
