Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 4 [32]
1974, replacing the various State public
assistance programs for the aged, the
blind, and the disabled with a more uni-
form and equitable national system. This
broad reform provides higher benefits for
these disadvantaged groups. In addition,
Federal assumption of responsibility for
these programs will provide substantial
fiscal relief to State and local govern-
ments.
Also during the past month, food stamp
benefits have been increased by over 20%,
and the program has been extended to
those parts of the country where it was
not available before. Outlays for food
stamps will be $3.9 billion in 1975, 78%
higher than the 1973 level.
I propose further measures to improve
the income security of Americans,
including:
-reform of pensions for veterans and
their dependents, with provisions for
automatic cost-of-living adjustments
in benefits, and better matching of
pensions to family need;
-an increase in education benefits for
veterans to help meet cost increases
since these benefits were last raised;
-automatic cost-of-living increases for
the aged, blind, and disabled benefi-
ciaries of the Supplemental Security
Income program;
-transfer of food stamps and related
nutrition programs to the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, to improve coordination of
income maintenance programs; and
-continued priority efforts to develop
a practical program of direct cash
assistance for housing.
One of the major unfinished pieces of
business of my Administration is the re-
placement of the current welfare system
with a new system that works. Figures
collected over the past year are grim testi-
mony to the fact that our current wel-
fare system is a mess; these figures show
that fully 40% of the payments made are
incorrect. I intend to make new proposals
to solve this continuing problem.
As we begin this effort, I hope that the
debate can focus on the substance of the
issues, not on superficial labels. I believe
that the majority of the American people
agree on the principles that should guide
Federal income assistance:
-the system should provide strong
work incentives for those able to help
themselves;
-income assistance should be pro-
vided in cash, rather than in kind,
so that families can make their own
spending decisions;
-the system should be as simple as pos-
sible, replacing the chaotic rules and
overlapping programs that we have
now;
—the levels of support provided should
reflect the compassionate spirit of the
American people toward those who
cannot provide for themselves; and
-Federal aid should be provided on
an equitable basis nationwide.
I believe that the Administration and the
Congress, working together, can and must
find a solution that accords with these
principles.
IMPROVING MANAGEMENT IN THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
The recommendations contained in
this budget are part of a broad effort by
my Administration, working with the
Congress and with State and local offi-
cials, to improve public services at all lev-
123
