[211] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
loud and very clear: The people of the
nations that we visited-and we saw them,
as I have indicated, not only by the thou-
sands but by the millions-want to be
friends of the American people, and we
reciprocate. We want to be their friends,
too.
In the early years of our Nation's his-
tory, after America had won its inde-
pendence, Thomas Jefferson said we act
not just for ourselves alone but for the
whole human race.
As we prepare tomorrow to celebrate
the anniversary of that independence, the
198th anniversary, we as Americans can
be proud that we have been true to Jef-
ferson's vision and that, as a result of
America's initiative, that universal goal
of peace is now closer, closer not only for
ourselves but for all mankind.
Thank you very much and good eve-
ning.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
7:45 p.m. at Loring Air Force Base, Maine.
His remarks were broadcast live on nationwide
radio and television.
Vice President Gerald R. Ford had welcomed
the President as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
It is a very high honor and a very great
privilege for me to welcome you home again
and to say what better way could the Ameri-
can people celebrate our 198th Fourth of July
than with the assurance that you bring our
world a little safer and a little saner tonight
than it was when you left.
You know, Mr. President, that it was my
lifelong goal to be Speaker of the House of
Representatives until you upset it last October.
The great State of Maine has given us two very
distinguished Republican Speakers during the
19th century, and I would like to recall some-
thing Speaker Tom Reed said almost prophet-
ically here in 1885, and I quote: "The reason
why the race of man moves so slowly," Speaker
Reed said, "is because it must move all
together." 1
From your first mission to Moscow, Mr. Presi-
dent, in the days that you had the job that
I now have, you have seen the global dimension
of peace and pursued it with patience, prepara-
tion, and performance.
As our President, you have not only demon-
strated the truth of Speaker Reed's observa-
tion but you have permitted us to see much of
mankind moving slowly, but perceptibly, all
together in the direction of peace.
Your strategy for peace, Mr. President, has
been bold but never rash, courageous but never
foolhardy, tough but never rude, gentle but
never soft. One by one, from China through
Southeast Asia, through the Middle East,
through the Soviet Union, through the NATO
alliance, you have emplaced the building
blocks of a solid foundation for a better under-
standing of international relations than we
have had in our lifetime and perhaps in the
history of our country.
Permit me to say, Mr. President, and say par-
ticularly to Mrs. Nixon, who has been your
faithful partner throughout literally millions
and millions of miles of air travel, and some-
times on her own, that she has charmed and
captivated both the officials and the citizens of
every country she has visited and surely is en-
titled to be saluted in her own right again as
First Lady of the World.
Mr. President, I wished you Godspeed last
week and urged all of our countrymen to pray
for you, for your safety and success on this
historic mission. My prayers, and those of our
fellow countrymen, have been answered many-
fold. I cannot escape the conclusion that the
Biblical injunction, "Blessed are the peacemak-
ers," has again been confirmed.
Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the
United States.
1 Thomas B. Reed was Speaker of the House
of Representatives from 1889 to 1891 and from
1895 to 1899. James G. Blaine was Speaker of
the House of Representatives from 1869 to
1875.
582
