[62] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
way
that we can pay the debt that we owe
those who served, those who died, those
who were wounded, those who have been
prisoners, and those who served and came
back with very little in terms of praise or
applause, the best way we can repay that
debt is to have a strong America mili-
tarily, but an America that is respected
throughout the world, an America that
will not back away from its great and
destined role to be the peacemaker of the
world, whether it is in the Mideast, in
Europe, in Asia, or in any other area of
the world.
That is our goal, and as we designate
this as being Vietnam Veterans Day, let
us set as our goal that we in the United
States will be able to avoid not only more
Vietnams, but build a structure of peace
in which all people in the world will be
able to avoid a future war, large or small.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. The
ceremony was attended by Members of Con-
gress, Administrator of Veterans Affairs Donald
E. Johnson, and representatives of veterans
organizations.
The text of Proclamation 4270 follows:
VIETNAM VETERANS DAY
By the President of the United States of Amer-
ica a Proclamation
As America enters its second year of peace
after a decade of conflict, it is highly appro-
priate for us to acknowledge the debt we owe
to those veterans who served in the Armed
Forces during the conflict in Southeast Asia.
The untiring devotion that characterized our
Armed Forces during this trying conflict is a
tribute to the national character.
There are over six and one-half million Viet-
nam-era veterans, of whom more than two
and one-half million served in Vietnam. Despite
significant disruptions in their lives and other
personal sacrifices, they answered the call of
their country and served with great distinction.
As a Nation, we have acknowledged our deep
respect and admiration by setting aside
March 29, 1974, as Vietnam Veterans Day to
remember that the honorable peace America
achieved came through great sacrifice. Those
who served, those who gave their lives, those
who were disabled, and those who are still miss-
ing in Southeast Asia-and whose full account-
ing we shall continue to seek deserve the
profound gratitude of their countrymen. For
this purpose, the Congress has authorized and
requested me to issue a proclamation designat-
ing March 29, 1974, as Vietnam Veterans Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, RICHARD NIXON, Presi-
dent of the United States of America, urge the
people of this Nation to join in commemorating
Friday, March 29, 1974, as Vietnam Veterans
Day with suitable observances.
I direct the appropriate officials of the Gov-
ernment to arrange for the display of the flag
of the United States on all public buildings on
that day; and I request officials of Federal,
State, and local Governments, and civic and
patriotic organizations, to give their enthusias-
tic support to appropriate ceremonies and ob-
servances throughout the Nation.
I urge all citizens of every age to participate
in the events of this day as one means of hon-
oring those men and women who served their
country faithfully and courageously during the
Vietnam conflict.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto
set my hand this twenty-sixth day of February,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-four, and of the Independence of the
United States of America the one hundred
ninety-eighth.
RICHARD NIXON
212
