[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
from foreign accounts and foreign citizens
be prohibited.
These proposals, when added to the
present disclosure law that took effect in
1972, should assure American voters of
the information they need to decide for
themselves whether or not a candidate is
financing his or her campaign honestly
and in an acceptable manner.
The proposals I have offered advance
the common goal of restraining campaign
expenditures, but they do so without im-
posing arbitrary limits. It is important to
note, as well, that existing law already
limits the amount which candidates for
Federal office may spend for campaign
advertising in the communications media,
the most costly part of modern cam-
paigning.
Additional spending limits, desirable as
they are at first thought, raise significant
constitutional questions. Moreover, they
would be unworkable because many citi-
zens furnish direct support to a multitude
of groups which in turn support candi-
dates only because of selective positions
on narrow issues. They can also be unfair
because expenditure limitations can be
set too low to provide a challenger with
any hope of contrasting his views with
those of the better known, federally sub-
sidized incumbent. Finally, a limit appro-
priate to a geographically small, congested
Congressional district could be utterly in-
adequate for a large one. There are many
other district-by-district variations that
rigid nationwide spending limits could
not fairly accommodate.
I conclude that full disclosure of cam-
paign contributions and expenditures,
subject to existing limitations, is the best
and fairest approach, one that lets the
voters decide for themselves whether or
not too much money is being collected and
spent. There should not be a limit on the
widest possible dissemination of ideas and
positions on issues, but I fear that would
be precisely the effect of additional
spending limitations however carefully
designed.
Much of the debate over campaign re-
form has centered around the issue of
drawing down on the public treasury to
pay for all or part of political campaigns.
I strongly oppose direct Federal cam-
paign financing, and I doubt very much
that most citizens would favor diverting
hundreds of millions of tax dollars away
from pressing national needs in order to
underwrite politicians' campaigns.
Neither is it right to make millions of
Americans pay the cost of the political
activities of individuals and parties with
which they might totally disagree. This
even goes beyond taxation without rep-
resentation. Thomas Jefferson in the
Statute of Religious Freedom said that
"To compel a man to furnish contribu-
tions of money for the propagation of
opinions which he disbelieves and abhors,
is sinful and tyrannical."
Moreover, if we outlaw private con-
tributions, we will close the only avenue
to active participation in politics for many
citizens who may be unable to participate
in any other way. Such legislation would
diminish, not increase, citizen participa-
tion and would sap the vitality of both
national parties by placing them on the
Federal dole.
In addition, almost any "public financ-
ing" measure would give incumbents an
unfair advantage. Frequently, a chal-
lenger must spend more than the incum-
bent in order to make his qualifications
known and to counterbalance the incum-
bent's in-office financial advantages. But
if the taxpayers are to put up the money,
248
