[70] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of the points that we have ruled
out-and incidentally, I am not touching
on some unfair campaign practices and
other items that are very interesting in the
proposal, because I want you to be able
to write something Friday as well as today
on this matter-but I would say that
among the other matters that I think are
of particular interest to all of the mem-
bers of the press is the fact that we believe
that candidates should have a right to de-
fend themselves against false charges that
are made during a campaign, whether by
their opponents or by the press.
Now, that is a very, shall we say, diffi-
cult ground in terms of the first amend-
ment, and we will try to be very consistent
with whatever the constitutional require-
ments are, but that is a proposal that we
have considered.
One thing that we do not do, however,
is to endorse public financing. I know
there is a great deal of support for public
financing in the Congress, and it may be
that eventually, if a bill does reach my
desk, it will be in it.
I oppose it for this reason: The public
financing proposals before the Congress,
for the most part, are ones that would have
the campaigns financed out of the general
treasury. Now, what this would mean
very simply would be that a taxpayer
would be taxed to support a candidate or
a party to whom he was opposed. That is
not right. I think that that would, in
effect, be taxation without representation.
And so, therefore, for that and other
reasons, I oppose public financing.
One of the other reasons, incidentally,
is that I believe it is a healthy thing for
people to contribute to campaigns and
particularly in the smaller contributions
areas.
I looked up the figures: I found that
700,000 people contributed $100 or less
to Senator McGovern's campaign; over
900,000 people contributed $100 or less
to the Presidential campaign of our side.
I think that kind of participation by
people who in that way participate in
politics should not be discouraged. It
should be encouraged. In other words, I
think campaigns should be financed by
the candidates and not by the taxpayers.
CLEMENCY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, to follow up
an earlier answer-as I understand it, you
said that you are not ruling out the pos-
sibility that you might grant clemency to
a former aide. Is that correct, you are
really not ruling that out, and if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Schram
[Martin J. Schram, Newsday], I am sim-
ply saying that I am not ruling out grant-
ing clemency to any individual depending
upon a personal tragedy or something of
that sort.
What I am saying, that I am not going
to grant clemency because they happen
to be involved in Watergate-that, I am
ruling out.
WATERGATE AND THE 1974 ELECTIONS
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. You had one last week,
Clark [Clark R. Mollenhoff, Des Moines
Register and Tribune], now.
[8.] Mr. Healy [Paul F. Healy, New
York Daily News].
In fact, you had two.
Q. Mr. President, many people are say-
ing that Watergate played a prominent
role in the election of a Democrat in the
234
