[88] Mar. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
88
Remarks on Presenting the Presidential Medal of Freedom
to Melvin R. Laird.
March 26, 1974
IF THE honoree will please step forward,
we will baptize him. [Laughter]
I suppose, incidentally, that the mid-
shipmen here, this is the first time you
have seen the Medal of Freedom awarded.
It is not an award that is given lightly; it
is one that is given to distinguished for-
mer members of the Cabinet, to leaders of
the Nation in many fields. It is the highest
civilian award that this Government can
provide.
[At this point, the President read the following
citation:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AWARDS THIS
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM
ΤΟ
MELVIN R. LAIRD
Few men have served America better than
Melvin R. Laird. As a promising young State
Senator, as an outstanding member of the
United States Congress for sixteen years, as
Secretary of Defense and as Presidential Coun-
sellor for Domestic Affairs, he has superbly
demonstrated a love of country, a strong ca-
pability for leadership and a brilliant under-
standing of people and ideas. Lawmaker,
administrator, theorist and master of the Amer-
ican political process, Melvin Laird has helped
to preserve a strong, free United States and
has left an indelible mark on the history of
our times.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. Prior to
the President's remarks, members of the United
States Naval Academy Glee Club had enter-
tained guests at a dinner honoring Mr. Laird.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the Presidential Medal of
Freedom.
Mr. Laird responded to the President's re-
marks as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Vice President
Ford, Mrs. Ford, friends:
I am very proud, Mr. President, of this
presentation which you have made to me
tonight, but I would like to make several
acknowledgments.
First, I would like to acknowledge the strong
support and help that you gave to me as Sec-
retary of Defense for those 4 years. No Presi-
dent or Commander in Chief of our military
forces could have given stronger, more under-
standing support than I received as Secretary
of Defense.
Secondly, I would like to acknowledge the
support and help of the Congress of the United
States. For those 4 years, as we went to the
House and to the Senate, on not a single occa-
sion did the House and the Senate vote against
us on a request, and we had many roll calls in
the House and in the Senate. Several were
close, but we always had a majority vote, and
this majority was made up of Republicans and
Democrats alike that understood what we were
doing in the Administration and in the Depart-
ment of Defense in our efforts to restore peace
and to be able to maintain peace in the future.
And third, I would like to acknowledge the
civilian-military team that made up the Depart-
ment of Defense. In December of 1968, Dave
Packard and I went down to the Carlton Hotel,
and we locked ourselves up for almost 2 weeks
to look at the problems not only that confronted
our Department but the men and women that
made up that Department, to go over the per-
sonnel and to try to put together a program
and a team that would be able to carry forward
on the pledges that the President of the United
States made in the 1968 campaign to the people
of America.
Dave and I spent a great deal of time inter-
viewing people and going over the various pro-
grams that we would be presenting to the
Congress for the new Administration.
We like to think we had a Nixon-Laird-
Packard team that understood what participa-
tory management was all about between civil-
314
