[208] July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
gin, and to all of our Soviet guests, I do so
in the spirit of friendship that has devel-
oped over these past 2 years.
We raise our glasses to you because of
your official capacities, but more impor-
tant, we raise our glasses to you because
we are friends and because we know that
that friendship and that personal relation-
ship that we have at all levels will con-
tribute toward the lasting peace that the
peoples of both of our countries want so
much.
And so, to the health of the General
Secretary Brezhnev and all of our other
distinguished Soviet guests, to friendship
between the Soviet people and the Ameri-
can people, and to peace for all peoples
which that friendship can help create, I
ask all of you to rise and raise your glasses.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:24 p.m. at
Spaso House, the residence of the United States
Ambassador to the Soviet Union.
General Secretary Brezhnev responded to the
President's toast in Russian. His remarks were
translated by an interpreter as follows:
Esteemed Mr. President, esteemed Mrs. Nixon,
ladies and gentlemen, comrades:
First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr.
President, for your friendly words and wishes.
addressed to our country and its people. The
Soviet people, on their part, entertain feelings
of respect and friendship for the American
people. We are sure that these mutual good
feelings will grow and strengthen as the rela-
tions between our countries develop further
along the road of peace and cooperation.
Your visit, Mr. President, as well as our
talks, are drawing to a close. You and we al-
ready have every reason to say that the results
of this meeting, like the outcome of the two
previous ones, can be described as constructive
and weighty. I am referring first of all to the
new steps in a field which may rightfully be
called central in Soviet-American relations,
the field of lessening the risk of war and re-
straining the arms race.
The signing of several important agreements
and of the joint communique on the talks be-
tween the leaders of the U.S.S.R. and the
U.S.A. is still to come. Without anticipating the
concrete content of those documents, I should
just like to stress that agreement on such mat-
ters as a new considerable limitation of the
antiballistic missile systems of the two coun-
tries, the agreed limitation of underground nu-
clear tests, new efforts aimed at the further
limitation of strategic offensive arms, and sev-
eral other measures all mean a substantial
advance along the jointly charted path of con-
solidating peace and mutual confidence.
This complex could perhaps have been still
broader, but what has been agreed upon this
time tangibly strengthens and deepens the re-
laxation of international tension and serves the
cause of peace throughout the world.
A further progressive development of Soviet-
American relations is also betokened by the
agreements on expanding commercial and eco-
nomic and scientific and technological coopera-
tion between the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A.
signed during our meeting.
Ahead lie new horizons and new spheres of
cooperation to the benefit of both our great
peoples and of peace-loving people in the entire
world. In large scale economic projects and in
the development of new sources of energy, on
transportation lines, in scientists' laboratories,
and in architects' designing rooms, everywhere
new shoots of a fruitful, mutually beneficial
cooperation between our countries will spring
forth in the name of peace and a better life for
man.
I trust you will agree with me, Mr. President,
that these days have once more convincingly
proved the significance that meetings at the
highest level have for the development of So-
viet-American relations in a good constructive
direction. They facilitate the possibility of ap-
proaching on a broader basis, and with due
account of the historical perspective and the
lasting interests of the peoples, the solution of
many problems, including the most difficult
and complicated ones, and they give an im-
petus to all the links of state machinery and to
the representatives of both sides at different
levels.
In this connection, I feel we should express
our gratitude to all the officials of our diplo-
matic, foreign trade, and other departments,
agencies, and organizations who, on the instruc-
tions of their superiors, took part in the great
566
