[206] July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
mankind's control over the forces of his
own destruction.
We have many difficulties yet to be
overcome in achieving full control over
strategic nuclear arms. But each step car-
ries us closer and builds confidence in the
process of negotiation itself.
Our progress in the limitation of arms
has been vitally important. But it has not
been the only product of our work at the
summit. We have also been steadily build-
ing a new relationship that, over time, will
reduce the causes of conflict.
In the basic principles for our mutual
relations, agreed to in Moscow in 1972,
and in the agreement on prevention of nu-
clear war, signed last year in Washing-
ton, we have established standards to
guide our actions toward each other in
international affairs generally so that the
danger of war will be reduced and the
possibility of dangerous confrontations
will be lessened.
What is particularly significant is that
our negotiations have been far wider than
the reduction of arms and the prevention
of wars and crises. The pattern of agree-
ments reached between us has opened new
avenues of cooperation across the whole
range of peaceful relations.
For example, we are working together
in programs which will bring better
health, better housing, a better environ-
ment, as well as in many other fields.
Trade between our two countries totaled
a record $1.4 billion in 1973. That is more
than twice the level of the previous year.
This means more goods and a greater
choice available for the people of both of
our countries.
It was exactly 15 years ago next month
when I was here in Moscow as Vice Presi-
dent that I first spoke to the people of the
Soviet Union on radio and television. In
that speech I said, "Let our aim be not
victory over other peoples, but the victory
of all mankind over hunger, want, misery
and disease, wherever it exists in the
world."
The agreements we have reached at
these summit meetings on health, for
example, including this year's agreement
on artificial heart research-will help us
toward that great victory. At the same
time, they will give the people of both of
our countries a positive stake in peace.
This is crucially important.
Traditionally, when peace has been
maintained, it has been maintained pri-
marily because of the fear of war. Nego-
tiators have been spurred in their efforts,
either by the desire to end a war or by the
fear that their failure would begin a war.
The peace we seek now to build is a
permanent peace. And nothing perma-
nent can be built on fear alone. By giving
both of our nations a positive stake in
peace by giving both of our peoples
hope, something to look forward to as the
results of peace-we create a more solid
framework on which a lasting structure of
peace can be built and on which it then
can stand strong through the years.
The peace we seek to build is one that
is far more than simply the absence of war.
We seek a peace in which each man,
woman, and child can look forward to a
richer and a fuller life. This is what the
people of the Soviet Union want. This is
what the people of America want. And
this is what the people of all nations want.
Our two nations are great nations. They
are strong nations, the two strongest na-
tions in the world.
Too often in the past, the greatness of
a nation has been measured primarily in
terms of its success in war. The time has
come to set a new standard for the meas-
560
