[133] May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
was, I understood, an economist from
Chicago. At that time, I thought an
economist was an economist, but he
quickly explained an economist from Chi-
cago was very different. And since that
time, he has indicated his strong philo-
sophical beliefs with very great eloquence
in all the positions that he has held.
The second thing I should mention is
that during this Administration he has
held positions of enormous importance:
Secretary of Labor, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, and
of course, Secretary of the Treasury. And
in each of these positions he has brought,
first, a dedication which simply couldn't
be exceeded.
Of all the people in this Government,
I don't know of any man who has worked
longer and harder with greater dedication
than George Shultz. He has also brought,
as we all know, high intelligence and great
wisdom in the advice that he has given to
his colleagues and in the advice that he
has given to the President in both the
international and the domestic areas.
George Shultz is a fine man; he is a
good man. He, I am happy to say, is
my
friend, and he is a man whose shoes are
hard to fill.
And so, as we looked for a man to suc-
ceed him, our search was very broad.
There were a number of splendid individ-
uals who could perhaps, we thought, fill
that position. But the man that we
thought, by what he had done both
in the private sector and in Govern-
ment, had demonstrated that he had the
capacity to step into the shoes, big shoes
that George Shultz had filled so well-Bill
Simon's record in business is well known.
He was successful. Like so many who came
to Washington, he came here at great per-
sonal financial sacrifice.
And then, when he came to the Gov-
ernment, he demonstrated his capacity as
an administrator as the Deputy Secretary
of the Treasury. He had good training, on-
the-job training under a very great Sec-
retary of the Treasury. And then, when
we had the energy crisis, we had to turn
to an individual within the Government
who understood that problem. And here
he demonstrated not only to his colleagues
within the Government but to the whole
Nation that he was a man who could not
only inform the Nation in a very effective
way of what the problem was about and
gain the cooperation of the people as well
as Government officials in a program to
deal with that problem, but he also de-
veloped those programs with the assist-
ance of others, those programs that have
moved us through that crisis.
It is not yet something that we can say
is not a problem-it is and will continue to
be—but we are on the way to solving it.
And the fact that we have moved through
what could have been a desperate crisis
and what is a desperate crisis for many
countries abroad, that we have moved
through it so successfully is due, in great
part, to the leadership of Bill Simon.
I was trying to think of how to describe
his philosophy. He does not claim to be
an economist. I don't believe he went to
the University of Chicago. But he did
graduate someplace. [Laughter]
Most important is that Bill Simon, in
the field of energy, Bill Simon, in the field
of economics here in the United States,
has one fundamental belief that is the cor-
nerstone of our economic philosophy:
And that is that the answer to whatever
problem we have, to more jobs and more
growth for our economy, the answer to
the problem of inflation, particularly
when it is a demand-pull inflation, is not
420
