Appendix B
May
9 A group of representatives of the Nation's
veterans organizations, including a number
of Vietnam veterans, met with the President
at the White House.
9 The President greeted David McCormick
and Bill Moran, of Monroe, La., who repre-
sented a group which had gathered 16,000
signatures of support for the President and
his policies. They were accompanied by
Representative Otto E. Passman.
10 The President met with Vice President Ford
in the President's office in the Old Executive
Office Building.
14 Gen. George S. Brown, Chief of Staff of
the Air Force and nominated to be Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen.
David C. Jones, nominated to be Chief
of Staff of the Air Force, met with the
President at the White House. Also attend-
ing the meeting were Secretary of Defense
James R. Schlesinger and Secretary of the
Air Force John L. McLucas.
14 The President greeted retired Maj. Gen.
Julius Klein, a member of the board of
directors of the National Citizens' Com-
mittee for Fairness to the Presidency.
14 Nine Congressmen were the President's
guests for dinner on board the Presidential
yacht Sequoia.
15 Charles M. Boteler, Jr., of Rockville, Md.,
president of the National Association of
Mutual Insurance Agents, called on the
President at the White House.
15 The President greeted Mrs. Oliver Rowe
and Andy Untener, of Charlotte, N.C.,
who obtained 7,000 signatures on petitions
in support of the President. They were
accompanied by Representative James G.
Martin.
May
15 John F. Thomas, Director of the Inter-
governmental Committee for European
Migration, met with the President at the
White House to report on the work of the
Committee. The Committee is an independ-
ent international organization whose pur-
pose is to relocate refugees from various
parts of the world.
15 The President and Mrs. Nixon stopped in
briefly at a party at the F Street Club in
Washington for Leonard K. Firestone, the
new United States Ambassador to Belgium.
16 The President met at the White House with
Counsellors Anne L. Armstrong and Dean
Burch and Republican National Chairman
George H. Bush for a general discussion of
political matters.
16 Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss economic
matters and the budget.
21 Foreign Minister Masayoshi Ohira of Japan
met with the President at the White House.
21 NATO Secretary General Joseph Luns met
with the President at the White House.
22 The President greeted Douglas Gaudion,
the new chairman of the board of the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers, and
E. Douglas Kenna, president of the NAM.
22 The President met with foreign ministers
of the Central Treaty Organization who
were in Washington for the annual meet-
ing of CENTO's Council of Ministers.
Participating in the meeting were: James
Callaghan of the United Kingdom, Abbas
Ali Khalatbari of Iran, Melih Esenbel of
Turkey, Aziz Ahmed of Pakistan, Nassir
Assar, Secretary General of CENTO, and
Kenneth Rush, Acting Secretary of State.
661
