[191] June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
express on behalf of all the American
party our deep appreciation of the warm
hospitality that you and others from your
government have extended to us as we
have stopped here after a very long and
arduous trip to the Mideast.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
I p.m. at the Portuguese Officers Club, Lajes
Field, in response to the remarks of President
Spínola.
President Spínola spoke in Portuguese. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
I can state that the working session that has
just been completed between the Presidents of
the United States and Portugal took place in
an atmosphere of the greatest cordiality, in
which the positions of the two countries regard-
ing the present situation were very clearly
stated.
A very important factor underlying the suc-
cess of these talks was a total identity in the
thinking regarding a staunch defense of peace,
the respect for the democratic principles and the
hallowed principles that underlie the right to
self-determination of peoples, which is ex-
pressed in the free will of those peoples re-
garding the choice of their destiny.
There was also an exchange of views regard-
ing the needs of Portugal in the areas of co-
operation as well as technical, economic, and
financial support which would enable Portugal
to be economically on a par with the other
countries in Europe.
192 Statement on Departure From the Azores.
June 19, 1974
I AM DELIGHTED that our trip to the
Middle East has given us the unexpected
but very welcomed opportunity to begin
a new friendship with President Spínola
and to renew an old friendship with the
nation he represents.
Although our talks this morning were
brief, President Spínola and I were able
to review all of the major issues affecting
relations between the United States and
Portugal and to touch upon many larger
issues as well. A major topic of our discus-
sion was the importance that the United
States attaches to Portugal's contribution
to NATO and to Western security. In
addition, I was pleased that in our meet-
ing, President Spínola told us in the most
convincing terms of the desires of Portu-
gal for even stronger and closer ties with
the United States. We welcome her friend-
ship, just as we welcome the friendship of
all other nations.
This meeting has also served as a valu-
able reminder that the challenges of peace
are not isolated to any single area of the
world. A truly effective structure of peace
must embrace every area of the world,
convincing every nation that its dreams.
can only be realized in peace and not in
war.
For the last 6 days, we have been pre-
occupied with the problems of the Middle
East. I outlined to President Spínola the
results of the trip we are now concluding
and emphasized our irreversible commit-
ment to continuing an active, constructive
role there.
But now, as we return to the United
States, we will refocus our attention on
two other crucial areas of the world:
Europe and the Soviet Union. Next week
I will travel to Brussels for meetings with
heads of state from the NATO alliance.
I will then go on to Moscow for our third
summit meeting with Soviet leaders. Both
of these visits are an essential part of our
538
