[226] July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
your sound counsel and experienced
leadership on economic matters will be
greatly missed.
As you assume your new position at the
University of Virginia, I welcome this
opportunity to express not only my appre-
ciation for your outstanding contribu-
tions to the well-being of our Nation, but
also
my thanks for the loyalty and dedica-
tion you have given me personally. This
has meant a great deal. You may be cer-
tain we will take advantage of your
proximity to call upon your talents in the
future. In the meantime, Pat joins me in
extending to Mildred and you our heart-
felt good wishes for every success and
happiness in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Mr. Stein's letter of resignation, released
with the President's letter at San Clemente,
Calif., read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
My departure having been delayed three
times, the day is approaching when I must
leave the Chairmanship of your Council of
Economic Advisers to take up my professorship
at the University of Virginia at the beginning
of September. I want on this occasion to thank
you for the consideration you have shown me
and the confidence you have placed in me. No
CEA Chairman could want a more supportive
and understanding President than you have
been.
You have been responsible for conducting
U.S. economic policy during a turbulent pe-
riod, when the whole world was swept by.
storms of inflation. Your policy has been firm
and decisive. The results have surely not been
all we would have liked, but there has been no
serious recession, inflation is less violent than
in most other developed countries, and the
U.S. has a good prospect for reducing its in-
flation rate. The real incomes of the American
people are higher now than they have ever been
except briefly in 1973, and will undoubtedly
move on to new heights. You have taken steps
toward reforms of many aspects of policy,
domestic and international, that will strengthen
the American economy and the world economy
in the future. If there is support for persisting on
your present anti-inflationary path the record
of your terms will stand high in objective his-
tories of the American economy. You will be
recognized as a world leader in the fight against
the economic disease of democracies-infla-
tion, just as you are a world leader in the fight
against the political disease of nations-wars.
To serve you has been a pleasure and a privi-
lege. It is with deep regret that I shall leave
the stimulating life in the Executive Office and
the group of dedicated men and women in the
Administration who are assembled to serve the
Nation under your guidance.
Please be assured of my continued best wishes
and support.
Sincerely yours,
HERBERT STEIN
227
Remarks at a Dinner in Bel Air, California, Honoring
the President. July 21, 1974
Roy, Mrs. Ash, and all of our very dis-
tinguished friends:
I am very grateful, certainly, for those
words that the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget has just spoken.
And I speak not only for myself but for
Pat and for Tricia and Ed, for his remem-
bering them as well.
And I am particularly grateful that he
gave us the opportunity on this trip to
California to meet a number of people
who we have known for a great many
years. In fact, most of you are about as
old as I am. And when I think of the
campaigns going back 27 years and see
some who were even here then, I realize
600
