[72] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Of all of these, campaign financing is
the central concern with which we must
deal as we move to improve our electoral
process. It provides the best example of
our need to deal with the causes of cam-
paign abuses rather than simply with the
symptoms of those abuses.
Each year elections become more expen-
sive. In 9 months of 1972 alone, it has
been estimated that the Presidential cam-
paign cost $100 million, spent by the two
candidates and their committees.
Many millions more were spent on Con-
gressional races. Many of these costs can-
not be avoided, because Americans put a
premium on knowing what their candi-
dates stand for, seeing them in their home-
towns, meeting them face to face.
The answer to this is not artificial limits
on campaign expenditures by candidates.
These limits would not only raise consti-
tutional questions, they would also be un-
realistic and, in many situations, unfair.
In a free society we should never put a
ceiling on the open and vigorous com-
munication of ideas, specifically when that
communication helps to inform the voter's
choice. Instead, we should deal with the
growing influx of money into politics by
establishing broad and rigorously enforced
financial disclosure requirements.
With expanded disclosure, our voters
would then have the necessary informa-
tion to assess the philosophy, the per-
sonal associations, the political and eco-
nomic allegiances of the candidates.
To this end, I have proposed that each
candidate have only one political commit-
tee as his or her authorized campaign or-
ganization, and that committee would
have to designate one depository for all
campaign funds.
Now, this measure would insure full ac-
countability for campaign finance and
eliminate the unhealthy proliferation of
political committees which are used to
conceal campaign donations.
I have also proposed that each individ-
ual donor be specifically tied to his cam-
paign contribution. By linking donations
to the original donor, the influence of spe-
cial interest groups in election campaigns
would be sharply reduced.
Beyond requiring greater public dis-
closure of campaign contributions, I also
ask for limits on the size of donations to
Federal election campaigns. No contribu-
tion above $3,000 could be made by an
individual donor to a House or Senate
election campaign. For Presidential elec-
tions, a ceiling limit of $15,000 would ap-
ply, and the need for small contributions
would rise accordingly. We would also
put an end to contributions from organi-
zations which are hidden in the form of
services, such as the donated use of private
aircraft, the loan of campaign workers
whose salaries are paid by third parties,
and other types of nonmonetary contribu-
tions.
We should stop the large flow of cash in
campaigns by requiring that all donations
over $50 be made by check or other nego-
tiable instrument. We should ban all polit-
ical loans in order to end the practice of
disguising donations as loans. And finally,
I have proposed that all campaign contri-
butions from foreign accounts and foreign
citizens be flatly prohibited.
Along with full disclosure, these require-
ments would breathe fresh air into polit-
ical campaigns. Unlike arbitrary limita-
tions on campaign expenditures, they
would fulfill the right of the American
citizen to learn about all candidates and
the views which they seek to communi-
cate.
I am also taking this opportunity today
242
