[229] July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
And so, let me tell you first what we are
not going to do.
We are not going to resort to the dis-
credited patent medicine of wage and
price controls. To return to controls now
for temporary relief would only create
new distortions and, thus, intensify our
long-term difficulties, and lead in the end
to even more inflation when the controls
came off.
We are not going to respond to the
short-term slack in the economy by prim-
ing the pumps of inflation with new defi-
cit spending or with a new easing of credit
or with tax cuts that would only make in-
flation worse. These actions would be like
pouring gasoline on a raging fire.
And neither will we administer the
shock treatment of a sudden drastic
"wringing out" of inflation, the cost of
which in terms of increased unemploy-
ment for millions of Americans would be
unacceptable.
Now let me tell you what we are going
to do.
Our aim is to control inflation while
continuing to produce more, so that peo-
ple can live better. The key to this lies in
keeping our eye squarely on the long
term-and keeping it there even as we ac-
tively manage our short-term difficulties.
It lies in choosing a sensible, realistic
course and sticking to it, whatever the
pressures. And that is exactly what we
shall do.
We will continue to monitor every sec-
tor of this economy. And I can assure you
that we will take what actions are neces-
sary to prevent undue hardship in any
sector of the economy. But we will not
react either to general or to specific needs
with gimmicks or emotionalism, and we
will continue steadily on our basic anti-
inflationary course.
A policy to check inflation is funda-
mentally a policy to curb the growth of
demand relative to the growth of supply.
In the short run, attention must focus on
holding down the increase in demand,
because with few exceptions, increasing
supply takes a considerable amount of
time.
There are exceptions, however, where
changes in Government policy can result
in rapid expansions of supply. Examples
on which we have already acted include
the turning back into production of tens of
millions of acres of farmland which had
previously been kept idle and the sale of
excess Government stockpiles of certain
raw materials.
In the longer run, we can focus more on
increasing the growth of output-on pro-
ducing more rather than on demanding
less. So our strategy must have two ele-
ments mainly restraining demand in the
short run and expanding supply in the
long run.
Let's turn now to the Federal Govern-
ment. The most obvious thing the Federal
Government can do to restrain demand
is to hold down its own spending. For the
current fiscal year, expenditures under
the budget I submitted in February would
be $305 billion. A variety of forces, the
most important being pending Congres-
sional legislation in excess of the budget,
threaten to raise this to $312 billion—over
$7 billion over the budget I submitted in
January. Undoubtedly, more spending
proposals will be pressed in Congress in
the months ahead.
I will not accept this inflation of the
Federal budget. On the contrary, I am
determined to cut below the $305 billion
I submitted in January toward a goal of
$300 billion. I intend to veto Congres-
sional actions that would raise that spend-
608
