[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
providing benefits to more than 5 million
of the low-income aged, blind, and dis-
abled, on a uniform, nationwide basis in
a way that respects their dignity.
But our income security programs need
more than improved benefits.
Over the past thirty-five years, a multi-
tude of federally funded programs has
grown up whose primary purpose is in-
come security for those in need. Each of
these efforts reflects a humane attempt to
respond to a worthy goal. However, as
cash, in-kind and service programs have
rapidly expanded in the past few years,
two things have become painfully clear:
-First, the result is an extremely costly
set of generally unrelated, uncoordinated
programs with many unintended and un-
desirable consequences; and
-Second, these efforts neither effi-
ciently nor equitably accomplish the over-
all objective of assisting lower income
families and individuals to achieve greater
economic independence.
The fact that a third of the new Fed-
eral budget-$100 billion-will be spent
on income security programs in fiscal year
1975, compared to the $38 billion, or one-
fifth of the budget, which they received
just five years ago, highlights the need to
rationalize and integrate our income as-
sistance programs.
As long ago as 1969, I called for a com-
plete overhaul of our discredited welfare
programs. I said then that "whether
measured by the anguish of the poor
themselves, or by the drastically mount-
ing burden on the taxpayer, the present
welfare system has to be judged a colos-
sal failure."
At that time, I proposed the Family
Assistance Plan. Neither the Congress nor
the country accepted that proposal. I do
not intend to resubmit a new version of
the Family Assistance Plan.
Since then, we have made a concerted
effort to improve the administration of
the existing programs. In 1973, for the
first time in recent years, because of vigor-
ous new Federal and State initiatives to
enforce the rules more strictly, growth in
the Aid to Families With Dependent Chil-
dren case load was halted. But, in their
overall impact, the welfare programs re-
main a failure and an outrage. As an
example of the failure, recent studies have
shown that fully 40 percent of the AFDC
benefits being paid are either going to
ineligible persons or are incorrect in
amount. This performance is not just the
result of fraud, although there is some
of that. It is primarily and overwhelm-
ingly the result of a system which is so
complex and so riddled with obscure,
obsolete and incomprehensible regu-
lations that it defies fair and efficient
administration.
I plan to make a major new effort to
replace the current maze of welfare pro-
grams with a system that works. This task
will be difficult, but we have no other
alternative, save further waste-both of
lives and dollars. I welcome the evidence
that thoughtful Members of the Congress,
after careful study, have reached the same
conclusion.
While this effort goes forward, I will
make every possible effort to improve
the operation of the existing programs
through administrative reforms, recogniz-
ing that a replacement system cannot be
developed, enacted, and put into opera-
tion overnight. But, unless we move ur-
gently to the development of a new sys-
tem, efforts to improve the administration
of the present programs will eventually
68
