[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
services for the aged, for the disabled,
and for low income persons have been
greatly expanded. Since 1969, Medicare
and Medicaid coverage has been extended
to an additional 21 million aged, disabled,
and low-income Americans. The range of
services covered under Medicare and
Medicaid has also increased.
Consumer safety programs to assure
safe foods, drugs, cosmetics, and other
consumer products-have received almost
a fourfold increase in Federal funding
since 1969.
Despite all these advances, however, too
many Americans still fail to receive
needed health care because of its costs.
And too often the costs of health care
threaten our citizens with bankruptcy
while the services that can prevent or cure
disease are not fully utilized.
As one of my major new initiatives for
1974, I shall soon submit to the Congress
a comprehensive health insurance pro-
posal which would:
-Make available health insurance
pro-
tection to millions of Americans who cur-
rently cannot obtain or afford the private
health insurance coverage they need.
-Provide all Americans with vastly im-
proved protection against catastrophic
illness.
-Place a new emphasis on preventive
health care.
-Provide State and Federal subsidies
for low-income families, and for those
whose special health risks would other-
wise make them uninsurable or insurable
only at exorbitant expense.
My comprehensive health insurance
proposal will build upon the strengths of
the existing health system, rather than
destroying it. It will maintain the high
quality of medical care without requiring
higher taxes. It will be based on partner-
ship, not on paternalism. And most im-
portantly, it will require doctors to work
for their patients, not for the Federal
Government.
This plan would require that employ-
ers offer a comprehensive health insur-
ance plan to all their full-time employees,
with the employer paying a share of its
costs. The role of private health insur-
ance in financing health care would be
expanded and the consumer's opportunity
to choose between competing health
insurance plans would be enhanced.
In addition to this plan, there are a
number of other health-related measures
that I urge the Congress to enact this
year. These include:
-A Health Resources Planning Act, to
help States and localities improve their
planning and use of health resources;
-New and expanded national health
service scholarship legislation, to increase
the number of Federal scholarships avail-
able to students in health professions, and
also to help ensure that the Federal Gov-
ernment can meet its needs for physicians;
and,
-A general expansion of the guaran-
teed student loan program, to provide
adequate financial assistance to all pro-
fessional and graduate students, including
health professionals.
IMPROVING EDUCATION
The Federal Government should pro-
vide strong leadership in assuring equal
access to a high quality education for all
Americans and in bringing about renewal
and reform of all of our education pro-
grams.
Since 1969, we have raised Federal
70
