Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
legislation to create a District of Colum-
bia Development Bank, which would do
much to broaden the economic base of
the District.
THE BICENTENNIAL
As we near the celebration of America's
Bicentennial, which officially begins in
March of 1975, the tempo of preparations
has picked up. A sound organizational
framework has now been established, with
the approval by the Congress last year
of a new American Revolution Bicenten-
nial Administration. Each of the 50
States, the District of Columbia and the
four territories has also established its
own Bicentennial Commission to plan
and coordinate local Bicentennial proj-
ects. Some 370 counties, cities, towns, vil-
lages and tribal units have been recog-
nized as Bicentennial Communities, and
some 600 applications for this designa-
tion are currently being reviewed.
On the Federal level, I have created
the Domestic Council Committee on the
Bicentennial. This Cabinet-level Commit-
tee has approved the goals for Federal
participation in the Bicentennial, estab-
lished an Interagency Bicentennial Task
Force, and approved over 200 Bicenten-
nial projects of the Departments and
agencies.
The Department of the Interior will
complete the development of historically
significant National Park sites; the Na-
tional Foundation on the Arts and the
Humanities will support cultural activities
relating to the Bicentennial; and many of
our other national institutions, such as
the Smithsonian Institution, will present
special exhibitions across the Nation.
Other nations are actively responding
to the "Invitation to the World" that I
issued on July 4, 1972 to participate with
us in this celebration which is not ours
alone, but one which draws on the heri-
tage of every nation from which people
have come to our shores.
In celebrating America's Bicenten-
nial, we shall, of course, commemorate
our national achievements. We shall
honor our celebrated leaders even as we
remember those whose contributions were
less well known. We shall take stock of
our shortcomings and resolve to overcome
them.
What we will celebrate most of all in
1976 will be the vitality of the American
people. We have tried to ensure that
Federal Bicentennial activities reflect the
diversity which is ours alone, and which
is appearing in community Bicentennial
planning across the country.
CULTURE AND COMMUNICATIONS
When I took office in 1969, I was deter-
mined to give support to the goal of sub-
stantially strengthening the arts and
humanities in the United States. The re-
sult has been the rapid growth of the
National Endowment for the Arts and the
National Endowment for the Human-
ities-which had existed before but at a
very low level of activity.
In the current year, the National En-
dowment for the Arts will spend $60.8 mil-
lion on a large scale of programs intended
to enrich America's cultural present and
future. A broad range of individuals as
well as institutions, both public and pri-
vate, are being assisted. And special sup-
port is being given to projects which will
add to the celebration of our Bicentennial.
The Congress has in the past given
strong bipartisan support to the Arts En-
dowment. That same support will be
89
