[137] May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
that in 25 years, plus one, they are going
to be celebrating a new year. Most of us
will not be around, but you will. It comes
once in 1,000 years. And on that new
year, you will look back to this day, and
then you will judge your generation.
Let me tell you what I think you will
be able to say. Yours was the generation
that was there, that had the strength and
the stamina to see that America played
a responsible role so that we did have
peace in the world for a generation. Yours
was the generation that helped America
become self-sufficient in energy, that
helped America to develop the food re-
sources for ourselves and other nations
so that the level, as far as people's abilities
for nutrition is concerned, was raised not
only for ourselves but for all people. Yours
was the generation during which great
strides were made forward in terms of
fighting the scourges of disease wherever
they existed throughout the world, and
most of all, that yours was the generation,
a generation that asked questions, a gen-
eration not afraid of controversy, but a
generation that, when the chips were
down, was strong in the right, believed
in what we were doing.
I say to you, when the year 2000 comes,
I am confident that the members of the
class of 1974 of Oklahoma State Univer-
sity will look back and say: Yes, we met
the test. Ours was the great American
generation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:58 p.m. at
Lewis Field.
Robert B. Kamm was president of Oklahoma
State University.
138 Message to the Senate Transmitting Protocols for the
Extension of the Wheat Trade Convention and
the Food Aid Convention.
To the Senate of the United States:
For the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate to ratification, I transmit herewith the
Protocols for the Extension of the Wheat
Trade Convention and the Food Aid
Convention constituting the International
Wheat Agreement, 1971, open for signa-
ture in Washington from April 2 through
April 22, 1974. The Protocols were formu-
lated by a Conference of Governments
which met in London on February 22,
1974.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Protocols.
The Protocol for the Extension of the
Wheat Trade Convention, 1971, extends
the Convention until June 30, 1975, and
May 14, 1974
maintains the framework for international
cooperation in wheat trade matters. It
also continues the existence of the Inter-
national Wheat Council.
The Protocol for the Extension of the
Food Aid Convention, 1971, also extends
until June 30, 1975, commitments of
parties to provide certain minimum an-
nual quantities of food aid to developing
countries. The United States intends not
to deposit ratification of this Protocol un-
less the European Economic Community
remains a party. This intention was for-
mally recorded by the United States in a
written declaration made at the time the
Protocols were signed.
Both Protocols provide that instruments
of ratification shall be deposited no later
434
