Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 10 [108]
profitable to go on welfare than to go to
work.
In all of these areas in which we need
action in the Congress, it is in these areas
that your vote is going to count when you
vote for your next Congressman. Now, you
will have noted that every area that I
have mentioned does not involve partisan-
ship. It involves your jobs, it involves your
cost of living, and referring to that latter
point, let me say one of the most effective
ways to keep down the cost of living is to
keep down the cost of Government in
Washington, D.C.
And so, in this particular area, if you are
interested in that kind of representation,
you can do something about it, do some-
thing about it by your votes on election
day.
Now, one final point I would like to
make, and I make it particularly because
there are so many young people here. I
see the Boy Scouts and the Girl Scouts,
I see the high school boys and girls, and I
think that all of us on such an occasion
think primarily of them and their future.
I have been informed by your mayor
that this is the first time in history that a
President of the United States has ever
been here. Let me say, the President of the
United States, whoever he is, must always
and will always think of all of the people
in this country, in the little towns as well
as the big ones, but particularly, he thinks
not just of the next election but he thinks
of that next generation.
And I think all of us can be thankful
today that for the first time in 12 years, on
the first visit of a President of the United
States to this county, a President can say
the United States is at peace with all na-
tions in the world, and we brought that
peace, and we are proud of it.
And also, let me tell-as I went down
the line here, I met some, a father and
a mother, and I imagine that they have
teenage children, maybe a boy, and for
the first time in 25 years, no one is being
drafted for the armed services, and that
is something we are proud of.
But you see, what we want is not just
to have a war over with, which cost us so
much in the lives of our young men and
in our dollars and so forth, but what we
want is to build a permanent peace
that
will last. That is why I went to Europe
last week, that is why we are working for
peace in the Mideast, that is why I will be
going to the Soviet Union to talk to our
adversaries to reduce the burden of arms
that rests on the shoulders of the men and
women who work wherever they are
throughout the world and also reduce the
danger of war.
I can tell you right now the chance that
this new, splendid generation can grow up
and be the first generation in this century
not to know a war in America is better
than it has ever been in the history of our
country.
We can do it, but in order to do it, we
have got to keep America strong, and Jim
Sparling stands for a strong America. In
order to do it, we have to have an America
that sees its problems in the world, not in
terms simply of helping everybody else
when they will not help themselves, but in
terms of seeing that America gets a fair
shake in its trading with other nations,
but in terms, also, of seeing to it that
America, in whose hands the peace of
the world lies today, meets that respon-
sibility of world leadership so that our
children and our grandchildren can grow
up in a world of peace.
And I will simply conclude with this:
What is our goal, what are you for as
you vote? I will tell you what you are
43-437 - 75 - 25
351
