[32] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
affect the overall tax burden on the econ-
omy; they would simply distribute it more
equitably.
Our ability to carry out sound fiscal
policy and to provide the resources needed
to meet emerging problems is limited by
decisions made in the past. The portion
of the budget subject to discretionary con-
trol has shrunk in recent years primarily
because of the relative decline in control-
lable defense spending, the growth in
mandatory grants to State and local gov-
ernments, and the growth in human re-
source programs (which largely take the
form of benefit payments, set by law, to
individuals and families). In 1975, over
$223 billion in outlays, or nearly three-
quarters of the budget, will be virtually
uncontrollable in the short run due to
existing law and prior-year commitments.
This represents a substantial decline in
the controllability of the budget since
1967, when only 59% of outlays were
uncontrollable.
Just as each budget is heavily influ-
enced by commitments embodied in those
that have preceded it, so each, in turn,
strongly influences those that follow.
Therefore, the future impact of current
decisions must be taken into account by
projecting future available resources and
the known claims against these resources.
This is why the 1975 budget presents de-
tailed projections of its 1976 spending im-
plications; this is also the reason that all
five budgets submitted by my Adminis-
tration have contained 5-year projections
of full employment outlays and receipts.
The costs of existing programs and of
the new programs I have proposed will
rise over time in response to growth in the
number of eligible beneficiaries for pro-
grams such as social security and other
entitlement programs, and in response to
price increases. The rise in outlays for ex-
isting and currently proposed programs,
however, will be less rapid than the rise
in tax receipts. Thus, by 1979, receipts are
projected to reach about $428 billion on
a full-employment basis, while outlays for
existing and proposed programs will be
$391 billion. This leaves a budget mar-
gin-a margin which can be used for tax
reduction, new initiatives, or retirement of
public debt of about $37 billion for
1979. This compares with a margin of
$10 billion projected for 1976. The 1979
margin is a relatively small one-less than
9% of the projected 1979 receipts-to
cover the exigencies of the next 5 years.
But it is indicative of longer-term fiscal
health if proper fiscal discipline is
exercised.
TOWARD A LASTING WORLD PEACE
The overriding goal of American for-
eign policy is to build a lasting world
peace, a peace resting on the solid founda-
tion of mutual respect among all nations.
We have made great progress toward
this objective during the past few years.
During this Administration we have:
-ended American combat involve-
ment in the war in Vietnam;
-ended the draft;
-established more cooperative rela-
tions with the Soviet Union;
-developed promising new relation-
ships with the People's Republic of
China;
-concluded an initial strategic arms
limitation treaty with the Soviet
Union; and
-provided diplomatic leadership to-
ward a Middle East peace settlement.
Building sound foundations for a dur-
able peace requires patient and skillful
116
