Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 25 [121]
that is why it is essential for the Congress
to deregulate natural gas so that we can
have more gas all over this country and
reduce the price of energy for all
Americans.
That is why we have also called upon
the Congress to change the environmental
restrictions, temporarily at least, but long
enough so that the investment will be
worthwhile, so that we can extract and
use the resource which we have two-
thirds of the free world's, and that is our
coal resources, which are in the ground.
They are there, they should be mined,
they should be used, and that will help on
the energy problem. That is why we
should move forward, not only in these
two obvious areas but in also developing
our own oil and gas reserves, wherever
they may be, on Federal property or
otherwise.
And that is why, looking down the
road, we should develop our great sources
of nuclear power which, in the years to
come, will replace some of these other
elements of power. We, the Nation that
found the secret to the breaking of the
atom, are far behind in this area. It is
time for us to go forward on it, because
the generation of the future will bless us
for having done so.
That is why we must go forward with
legislation that will allow the develop-
ment of deepwater ports so that when
we import, we can import adequately, at
adequate prices and reasonable prices, the
fuel that we need.
Now, I do not say this to lecture my
friends in the Congress who are behind
me, because I believe all of them support
these proposals that I have made. I do not
say this in order to lecture the Congress,
but I only say this: We have a great goal
in mind. And that is this: Let America
never go through again what it did in
October or November last year when
some other nation was able to cut off
our energy. Let us be independent of any
other nation where that is concerned.
That does not mean that we won't be
glad to purchase their energy at proper
prices in the years ahead, and we shall.
But it does mean that a nation that has
the resources in the ground, that has the
resources also in its technology-I am
referring to nuclear power, for example-
that when we have the resources to be
independent of any other nation, let's
say that we shall be independent in 1980,
and we will do it. That is a great goal
for America and one we can achieve.
Now an economic prognosis for the bal-
ance of the year: First quarter showed a
dip, primarily energy-related. Second
quarter predictions are we will level off.
Third quarter, fourth quarter, the econ-
omy will begin to move forward again.
What is this based on? It is based on the
fact that except for two very major items,
automobiles and housing, this economy is
enormously strong. It is strong, for ex-
ample, in the agriculture area. It is strong
in many other consuming and producing
areas. But in automobiles and housing, we
have had the downturns to which I have
referred and which are a primary cause
of the problem we presently have.
But what are we finding now? Auto-
mobile production is beginning to go up,
not fast, but the predictions toward the
end of the year are for a good automobile
year-not the best, but a good one. Hous-
ing starts are beginning to go up, not as
much as we would like, but I will an-
nounce within 2 weeks programs of Fed-
eral activity in this area which I think
43-437 75-27
-
383
