Richard Nixon, 1974
II
Feb. 11 [43]
|
each nation should seek to make a bi-
lateral agreement with the oil-producing
nations, even though that bilateral agree-
ment might not be one which would be
in the interests of all of the nations-and
85 percent of all of the oil consumed is
represented here in this room, the oil con-
sumed in the free world.
This point of view which, of course, I
would describe as isolation in the energy
field is one that perhaps has some cur-
rency in some of your countries; it also
has some in ours.
I note that some have interpreted this
Administration's initiative for Project In-
dependence-in which we have set the
year 1980 as the year in which we, be-
cause we are blessed by great natural
resources, can and will become totally
independent, we believe, of any outside
source for energy-that that in itself is
an indication that the United States in
the energy field will
field will go into business for
itself, that we will reject the idea of being
not only dependent on any foreign sources
but of working with other governments,
including the governments in this room
and, for that matter, of working with
those nations which presently furnish oil
exports to us and to other nations in the
years ahead.
The purpose of our Project Independ-
ence, let me emphasize, is not isolation.
The purpose is for this Nation, the United
States, to do what any one of you would
do if
you were in our position, to develop
your own resources so that you can be
self-sufficient.
But our purpose, beyond that, is not
then to turn away from a position of trad-
ing with other nations, of not engaging
with other nations in the development
of their resources and trading our re-
sources when it serves our interest. What
we desire is a world in which there will be
trade between nations and among them,
a world in which there will be enough
energy for all the people of the world.
The United States can play a significant
role in that respect.
And what we learn and what we de-
velop in our efforts toward Project Inde-
pendence, I can assure you, will be not
only for our own benefit but, we would
hope, for the benefit of all peoples in the
world who wish to share in whatever
those particular enterprises may produce.
I would say, too, in this whole area,
that in a group like this, it is well to gloss
over all the differences, but we recognize
that each of us has a responsibility—and
I recognize this particularly—to look after
the interests of his own country.
We respect you for it, we understand
it, but I would respectfully submit that
in the present world situation when we
look at energy that these conclusions could
well be drawn.
I go back to security. We can have no
real security in the world unless we are
all secure and unless we all cooperate. In
the field of trade we cannot have a new
trading system in which we will all benefit,
where each tries to gain at the expense
of others. Each, of course, must bargain
hard. But the world is only going to be
one in which we have a trading pattern
which will be for the benefit of all if we
have mutual benefit on both sides.
The same is true of what negotiations
we may engage in, in terms of monetary
affairs and, I would suggest to you also, in
the field of energy.
Short-term, the parochial politician
might say, “Make the best deal you can,'
and there are those who suggest that for
153
