Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
ously considered by the Congress which
would require unnecessary Federal
standards on operating treatment plants,
generate a domineering Federal enforce-
ment role, and create several new cate-
gorical subsidy programs.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Although American communities share
many of the challenges of our age, the
relative intensity and the particular nature
of these challenges vary sharply from one
community to another.
The current way of providing most Fed-
eral aid to our communities-with each
dollar tied to a string pulled and manip-
ulated by a Federal planner-is wrong.
Much of the money that pays the Federal
planners could better be spent in the local
community; the decisions made by the
planners could better be made by the
ple who live on the scene.
peo-
In these past few years, we have
sought to change the old system. We have
recognized that the Federal policy that
will work best is one that helps the people
of a particular community define their
own needs and meet those needs in the
way which they consider best. While in
this Administration we have tried to be
generous, we have also tried to grant
communities greater freedom to set their
own priorities. Since 1969, we have:
-Spent twice as much money on com-
munity development programs as the
Federal Government had spent for this
purpose in the entire previous history of
the Nation.
-Reduced the red tape and arbitrary
restrictions on local action that were so
much a part of these programs in the past.
-Moved authority for administering
community development programs from
Washington to the field, where adminis-
trators are more accessible to local officials,
and where they can become more famil-
iar with local problems.
-Stepped up Federal support for State
and local planning and management,
again spending more for this purpose than
had been spent in all previous years com-
bined.
As a result, not only have cities received
more Federal dollars, but they have been
able to accomplish more with each doilar
than before.
Despite this progress, we need a much
more sweeping reform than has been pos-
sible under existing laws. Therefore, I
once again urge passage of The Better
Communities Act, a $2.3 billion bill which
would give local officials new flexibility
and provide greater effectiveness in the
expenditure of Federal community de-
velopment funds. This legislation would
consolidate seven categorical grant pro-
grams into a single program. Funds would
be distributed on the basis of need, and
then local communities could decide for
themselves what projects should come
first. Thus we could eliminate a moun-
tainous volume of red tape and allow
local government to play a larger role in
determining their own destinies.
Two Congresses have now addressed
community development legislation. Both
of them have agreed, for the most part,
with the basic principles and approaches
that the Better Communities Act repre-
sents. But we have still had no action.
Cities and towns that have counted on
having this legislation in effect in the
next fiscal year now face an uncertain
future. I urge the Congress to move ahead
as quickly as possible with the Better Com-
munities Act and I pledge every effort
to work out our remaining differences so
83
