Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [25]
that maintains the high standards of qual-
ity in America's health care. And it will
not require additional taxes.
Now, I recognize that other plans have
been put forward that would cost $80
billion or even $100 billion and that would
put our whole health care system under
the heavy hand of the Federal Govern-
ment. This is the wrong approach. This
has been tried abroad, and it has failed.
It is not the way we do things here in
America. This kind of plan would
threaten the quality of care provided by
our whole health care system. The right
way is one that builds on the strengths of
the present system and one that does not
destroy those strengths, one based on
partnership, not paternalism. Most im-
portant of all, let us keep this as the guid-
ing principle of our health programs.
Government has a great role to play, but
we must always make sure that our doc-
tors will be working for their patients
and not for the Federal Government.
Many of you will recall that in my State
of the Union Address 3 years ago, I com-
mented that "Most Americans today are
simply fed up with government at all
levels," and I recommended a sweeping
set of proposals to revitalize State and
local governments, to make them more
responsive to the people they serve. I can
report to you today that as a result of reve-
nue sharing passed by the Congress, and
other measures, we have made progress
toward that goal. After 40 years of moving
power from the States and the commu-
nities to Washington, D.C., we have begun
moving power back from Washington to
the States and communities and, most
important, to the people of America.
In this session of the Congress, I be-
lieve we are near the breakthrough point
on efforts which I have suggested, pro-
posals to let people themselves make their
own decisions for their own communities
and, in particular, on those to provide
broad new flexibility in Federal aid for
community development, for economic
development, for education. And I look
forward to working with the Congress,
with members of both parties in resolving
whatever remaining differences we have
in this legislation so that we can make
available nearly $52 billion to our States
and localities to use not for what a Fed-
eral bureaucrat may want, but for what
their own people in those communities
want. The decision should be theirs.
I think all of us recognize that the
energy crisis has given new urgency to the
need to improve public transportation,
not only in our cities but in rural areas as
well. The program I have proposed this
year will give communities not only more
money but also more freedom to balance
their own transportation needs. It will
mark the strongest Federal commitment
ever to the improvement of mass transit
as an essential element of the improve-
ment of life in our towns and cities.
One goal on which all Americans agree
is that our children should have the very
best education this great Nation can
provide.
In a special message last week, I recom-
mended a number of important new meas-
ures that can make 1974 a year of truly
significant advances for our schools and
for the children they serve. If the Con-
gress will act on these proposals, more
flexible funding will enable each Federal
dollar to meet better the particular need
of each particular school district. Ad-
vance funding will give school authorities
a chance to make each year's plans, know-
ing ahead of time what Federal funds they
are going to receive. Special targeting will
51
