[95] Mar. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
the program for Aid to Families with De-
pendent Children (AFDC), but that was
a net reduction of 255,000 people below
the rolls at the end of 1972. As Secretary
Weinberger reported to me at last Thurs-
day's Cabinet meeting, we are starting at
last to turn back the ever-increasing wel-
fare rolls which had become a tragic way
of life for far too many Americans.
A very significant factor in the reduc-
tion in the welfare rolls was the improve-
ment in the management of the AFDC
program.
My last two budgets have contained
plans and proposals for management im-
provements. Among the actions we have
taken are the establishment of quality
control programs as part of a cooperative
Federal-State effort. This effort soon re-
vealed that the problem was larger than
originally thought; errors in eligibility and
payment levels were found in 41 percent
of the cases. This discovery of the magni-
tude of error helped to spur administrative
improvements by Federal, State, and local
officials alike.
In my last two budget requests, we
anticipated some savings from improved
management. The further reductions of
some $800 million I am proposing today
are in addition to those we had previ-
ously anticipated.
While encouraging, this improvement
in the welfare picture in no way eliminates
the great necessity for a replacement of the
Nation's welfare programs with a more
equitable and efficient system. Secretary
Weinberger is now in the midst of his
study of possible legislative proposals, and
I expect to receive his recommendations
later this year. Soon thereafter, I will sub-
mit a legislative proposal to the Congress.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
96 Radio Address About Veterans Affairs.
March 31, 1974
Good afternoon:
This past Friday marked an important
anniversary for the United States. On
that day one year ago March 29, 1973-
the last American combat soldier left
Vietnam, and a long and painful chapter
in our history was brought to an honorable
conclusion.
On Friday, we again gave thanks for
that peace and paid homage to those
whose sacrifices had helped to win it by
celebrating Vietnam Veterans Day.
But ceremony and public praise, stand-
ing alone, are not enough. Nearly 7 mil-
lion men and women served America
during that war-22 million of them in
Vietnam itself. We owe to them an op-
portunity to enjoy not only our public
blessings but also the real benefits of
peace the education, the jobs, the hous-
ing, the medical care, the many other
advantages that make America a great
nation.
We owe it to them all the inore, be-
cause giving so much, they ask so little in
return. The greatest gift our country gives
to all of us is freedom. But freedom to be
fully enjoyed must be accompanied by
opportunity, the chance to play a full role
in the life of our Nation.
The veterans of the late 1960's and the
early 1970's too often found that the bar-
riers to a full life were higher when they
came home than when they left. The lens
328
