[32] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
selves, in their separate and individual
capacities. In all that the people can in-
dividually do as well for themselves, gov-
ernment ought not to interfere."
I share this belief. This philosophy under-
lies the efforts of my Administration to
strengthen the role of the individual in
American society. It is a cornerstone of
the New Federalism.
I believe that government policy should
seek to maintain an economic environ-
ment in which all who are able to work
can find employment and adequate earn-
ings. For those unable to support them-
selves, government should help to provide
the means necessary to meet personal and
family needs, while preserving individual
dignity and self-respect.
My Administration has consistently en-
deavored to strengthen the role of the
individual in American society and to
ensure that all Americans enjoy equality
of opportunity in education, in employ-
ment, in business, and in housing. We
have consistently worked to improve as-
sistance for the retired, the disabled, and
the unemployed.
Reflecting these concerns, Federal hu-
man resource programs have grown
dramatically. Between 1969 and 1975,
outlays for these programs will have in-
creased by 139%, while outlays for all
other programs will have risen only 26%.
The national health insurance plan I
am proposing represents another major
step toward improving the lives of in-
dividual Americans. My proposal calls for
basic reform in the financing of medical
care. It would bring comprehensive insur-
ance protection against medical expenses
within reach of all Americans, including
millions of people who cannot now obtain
adequate insurance coverage. Costs of
coverage for low-income families would
be federally supported, with payments
scaled according to family income.
It will take several years for this reform
to become fully operational. In the in-
terim, the 1975 budget provides $26.3
billion for existing health programs. Un-
der this budget, the momentum of can-
cer, heart, and other research initiatives
would be sustained, and total funding for
biomedical research would exceed $2 bil-
lion in 1975, almost double the 1969 level.
To support continued reform of our medi-
cal care system, the budget proposes a
total of $125 million in 1974 and 1975
to demonstrate health maintenance orga-
nization concepts throughout the Nation.
I am also proposing a Health Resources
Planning Act to enhance State and re-
gional capabilities and responsibilities for
planning and regulating health services.
The rapid growth of human resource
programs in recent years has brought
about many improvements in the well-
being of the American people. Higher
social security benefits and extension of
the Medicare program, for example, have
increased the economic security of the
elderly and the disabled. Cash benefits un-
der social security programs will rise from
$26.2 billion in 1969 to $62.9 billion in
1975. They now reach 29 million bene-
ficiaries. Five social security benefit in-
creases have been enacted since 1969.
Taken together, these increases total
nearly 70%, far exceeding the increases
in the cost of living, and in average
wages, over this period. I continue
to urge enactment of
enactment of legislation to
reform private pension plans, legislation
which would further strengthen the eco-
nomic security of millions of Americans
in their retirement years.
The Supplemental Security Income
program began operation on January 1,
122
