[175] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
PRESIDENT SADAT. We have discussed
in our meeting, and we have agreed upon
this form.
Q. Who should those bilateral discus-
sions be between?
PRESIDENT SADAT. Between President
Nixon and me and then between our two
Foreign Ministers.
Q. But you are not suggesting bilateral
discussions with other countries?
PRESIDENT SADAT. We shall be doing
this. We shall be doing this with our Arab
colleagues, also bilateral, we shall be do-
ing it with the Soviet Union, also bilateral,
and when the time comes, we are propos-
ing a small Arab summit for discussing the
next step.
Q. This would be before Geneva, sir?
PRESIDENT SADAT. I hope this would be
before Geneva.
Q. You are not suggesting bilateral dis-
cussions with Israel?
yet.
PRESIDENT SADAT. No, not at all. Not
REPORTER. Thank you, gentlemen.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks took place
shortly before the train's arrival in Alexandria
at 2:30 p.m.
176 Message to the Congress Proposing Establishment of
New National Wilderness Areas. June 13, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
There is no greater challenge facing
America today than the discovery and
development of new energy resources.
As we move toward national self-suffi-
ciency in energy, however, we must be
diligent in protecting and preserving our
natural heritage of unspoiled wilderness
areas and the ecosystems which they
support.
With this goal in mind, and pursuant
to the Wilderness Act of 1964, I am today
proposing 15 new additions to our Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System.
These additions comprise more than 6
million acres and would nearly double
existing wilderness acreage.
I would also like to take this opportu-
nity to urge once again that Congress
enact the eastern wilderness legislation I
recently submitted, now embodied in
legislation labeled S. 2487 and H.R.
10469. On May 31, the Senate passed a
bill which would designate certain wilder-
ness areas in the Eastern United States.
The Senate bill, I believe, is inadequate.
I urge the House to give early and favor-
able consideration to wilderness legisla-
tion incorporating the Administration
proposal, and I urge the Congress to adopt
it as the most balanced approach to study-
ing and designating wilderness areas in
the Eastern United States.
Briefly described, the additions I am
proposing today are:
(1) Crater Lake National Park, Ore-
gon-122,400 acres. Crater Lake is the
deepest lake in the country and, in its
ancient caldera setting, one of the most
beautiful. The lake is surrounded by
rugged and varied terrain, most of
which is recommended for wilderness
designation.
(2) Havasu National Wildlife Refuge,
California-2,500 acres of Sonoran desert
land. Located in one of the hottest and
driest areas of the country-rainfall aver-
ages only 4.73 inches per year-this refuge
494
