Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 6 [34]
cent thereafter. Employees would pay the
balance of the premiums. Temporary Fed-
eral subsidies would be used to ease the
initial burden on employers who face
significant cost increases.
Individuals covered by the plan would
pay the first $150 in annual medical ex-
penses. A separate $50 deductible provi-
sion would apply for out-patient drugs.
There would be a maximum of three
medical deductibles per family.
After satisfying this deductible limit, an
enrollee would then pay for 25 percent of
additional bills. However, $1,500 per year
would be the absolute dollar limit on any
family's medical expenses for covered
services in any one year.
As an interim measure, the Medicaid
program would be continued to meet cer-
tain needs, primarily long-term institu-
tional care. I do not consider our current
approach to long-term care desirable be-
cause it can lead to overemphasis on in-
stitutional as opposed to home care. The
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare has undertaken a thorough study of
the appropriate institutional services
which should be included in health insur-
ance and other programs and will report
his findings to me.
IMPROVING MEDICARE
The Medicare program now provides
medical protection for over 23 million
older Americans. Medicare, however,
does not cover outpatient drugs, nor does
it limit total out-of-pocket costs. It is still
possible for an elderly person to be finan-
cially devastated by a lengthy illness even
with Medicare coverage.
I therefore propose that Medicare's
benefits be improved so that Medicare
would provide the same benefits offered
to other Americans under Employee
Health Insurance and Assisted Health
Insurance.
Any person 65 or over, eligible to re-
ceive Medicare payments, would ordi-
narily, under my modified Medicare plan,
pay the first $100 for care received dur-
ing a year, and the first $50 toward out-
patient drugs. He or she would also pay
20 percent of any bills above the deduct-
ible limit. But in no case would any Med-
icare beneficiary have to pay more than
$750 in out-of-pocket costs. The premi-
ums and cost sharing for those with low
incomes would be reduced, with public
funds making up the difference.
The current program of Medicare for
the disabled would be replaced. Those
now in the Medicare for the disabled plan
would be eligible for Assisted Health In-
surance, which would provide better cov-
erage for those with high medical costs
and low incomes.
Premiums for most people under the
new Medicare program would be roughly
equal to that which is now payable under
Part B of Medicare-the Supplementary
Medical Insurance program.
HOW ASSISTED HEALTH INSURANCE
WOULD WORK
The program of Assisted Health Insur-
ance is designed to cover everyone not
offered coverage under Employee Health
Insurance or Medicare, including the
unemployed, the disabled, the self-em-.
ployed, and those with low incomes. In
addition, persons with higher incomes
could also obtain Assisted Health Insur-
135
