Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 17 [112]
proud members of the American family.
So, it is in that spirit that I propose the
toast. La familia Americana.
And now to our very special guests, if
you will be seated again, it was very diffi-
cult to select the individual from this
distinguished group who would respond
to the toast. We did not flip coins, so we
went to seniority. That does not mean that
seniority means senility, but one thing I
learned and Mrs. Nixon learned in our
travels through the countries to the south
is that while there are very many, and
most speak the same language, each has
it own character, each is quite different,
and each is very proud of its own back-
ground, and that diversity must never
change.
And so, we call upon not the largest
country here, we call upon one that is one
of the smaller countries, but it is a country
we remember well, not that it is not and
should not be known for other things. I
refer to that nation where the lovely ladies
do the bottle dance.
Our distinguished guest, the Foreign
Minister of Paraguay.
[At this point, Foreign Minister Raúl Sapena
Pastor responded to the President's remarks.
The President then resumed speaking.]
To all of our distinguished guests, we
realize that you have come a long way,
most of you, and that tomorrow you will
be going to Atlanta, and I would simply
like to bring this historic occasion-his-
toric at least for us who are honored to
be your host-to a conclusion with these
words:
This house is not an old house when
you compare it with the great houses of
Europe, of Asia, of the Mideast, even of
Latin America. It was planned by George
Washington, and every President since
Washington has lived here.
And I think it is fair to say that every
President of the United States has had a
dream about his own country and about
the world. Some have been more success-
ful in interpreting that dream than others.
But all have tried, because they know that
that dream represents what the American
people, the people of this country, of the
United States, feel in their hearts.
It was summarized perhaps best by
Thomas Jefferson when, at the time of the
signing of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, he said, we act not just for our-
selves, but for the whole human race.
Now, to some contemporary observers
at that time and some at this time, that
would seem in retrospect to have been
a very arrogant statement. But speaking
for all of the people of the United States
of America, let me say to you that I know
our people, I know how they feel.
We are strong now, whereas compared
with at the beginning, we were very weak.
We are rich now, when compared with
at the very beginning, we were very poor.
But it is our great desire to share whatever
we have in terms of development with all
the peoples of the world and, particularly,
with our closest friends and neighbors,
and to use whatever our strength is and
whatever our wealth is, not only to build
a world of peace, peace in the sense of
absence of war, but peace in terms of
progress and development for all people
wherever they may be.
That was the dream of those who
founded this country. That was the dream
of those who founded your countries. We
are all part-as old as we are we are
all part of a new world, and together we
can build a new world for all people who
live on this Earth.
And in this room that has seen the
great leaders of the world pass through
361
