[5] Jan. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
which would have increased social secur-
ity benefits almost 6 percent by next July
to meet the rising cost of living. The bill I
sign today will replace that increase in
order to reflect more closely the rise in
the cost of living since the last social se-
curity increase took effect in September
of 1972.
The 11 percent increase provided by
the new law will be accomplished in two
steps. The first increase of 7 percent will
begin in April of 1974, and a second in-
crease of 4 percent will begin this coming
July.
With these increases, social security ben-
efits will have risen by 68.5 percent since
this Administration took office nearly 5
years ago.
Protection against inflation for the
aged, blind, and disabled is another very
major consequence of this new law. These
especially deserving people were trans-
ferred from the previous Federal-State
public assistance program to the new Fed-
eral supplemental security income pro-
gram on January 1. The bill I sign today
will move up the benefit increase already
scheduled to take effect for these recip-
ients from July to January of 1974.
I am greatly pleased that many mil-
lions of Americans will enjoy an improved
financial situation because of this legis-
lation. To be sure, such gains cannot be
made without a price, and in this instance,
the increases must be financed largely by
an increase in the wage base on which
social security payroll taxes are levied.
One provision included in this bill is
most unfortunate. It would delay until
December 31, 1974, the effective date of
the social service regulations recently is-
sued by the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. We in this Administra-
tion have worked hard to see that services
are concentrated on those who are truly
needy, rather than permitting funds to be
spent with little regard for genuine need.
We have made considerable progress to-
ward this goal, and the new regulations
were an important step in this progress.
The postponement included in the new
law will significantly impede this impor-
tant thrust and could actually reduce the
amount of day care, child care, and other
services which can be provided for our
poorest citizens.
In considering whether to sign this bill,
I have weighed this reservation very care-
fully, even as I have considered carefully
the impact of H.R. 11333 on payroll taxes
for the average wage earner. In the end,
however, I have been most deeply im-
pressed by what this legislation can do to
enhance the financial security of millions
of Americans—especially our older citi-
zens. Because I believe this advantage out-
weighs the disadvantages I have men-
tioned, I have signed H.R. 11333 into
law.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11333, approved De-
cember 31, 1973, is Public Law 93-233 (87
Stat. 947).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
4
