Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 17 [112]
greatest journalists and one of her finest
sons.
NOTE: Mr. Krock, 86, died in Washington,
D.C., on April 11, 1974. He was with the New
III
York Times from 1927 until his retirement in
1966.
The statement was issued at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
Memorandum About the Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth. April 16, 1974
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
Many of our young people in America
look forward to summer with both the
hope and need for summer jobs. We in
Government have an opportunity to assist
them in their efforts to find that
employment.
I am again requesting Federal man-
agers to give their full support to the Fed-
eral Summer Employment Program for
Youth. Our experience over the years
demonstrates that this kind of investment
in our young people pays handsome
dividends.
In addition to the values gained by
young people through their involvement
in a wide range of activities, Federal de-
partments and agencies benefit. Young
employees can come as replacements for
regular employees who are on vacation.
They help do the work generated by in-
creased workloads which some agencies
experience during the summer months.
They provide Government agencies with
a chance to expand relationships with
II2
educational institutions, and they fre-
quently gain fresh insights from contact
with these young workers.
Apart from your selection of young peo-
ple from the Summer Employment Ex-
amination, agency merit staffing plans,
and the Federal Summer Intern Program,
we must continue to see that needy youths
have opportunities for Federal employ-
ment experiences. For the latter purpose,
I am again setting a general goal of one
needy youth for every 40 regular em-
ployees.
The Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission will continue to provide lead-
ership and guidance on all aspects of the
Federal Summer Employment Program
and will report to me on accomplishments.
The support of your organization for this
program has contributed greatly to its suc-
cess in past years. I am confident that you
will give this year's program your con-
tinued personal support.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased at Key Biscayne, Fla.
Toasts at a Dinner Honoring Latin American and
Caribbean Foreign Ministers. April 17, 1974
Your Excellencies, the Foreign Ministers
and the Ambassadors from the Latin
American countries and the Caribbean
countries:
I wish I could address you in the lan-
guage which most of you understand and
speak so well, but I would not presume
to do so. Consequently, tonight I will have
357
