[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
of my Administration. This legislation
would reaffirm that the basic responsibil-
ity for land use decisions rests with States
and localities and would provide funds
to encourage them to meet their respon-
sibility. I am pleased that the Senate has
passed legislation incorporating some of
the policies that I proposed. I urge the
Congress to pass legislation which would
assist States and localities, but which does
not inject the Federal Government into
their specific land use decisions.
-Coastal Wetlands: These environ-
mentally vital wetlands are increasingly
threatened by development. My pro-
posed Environmental Protection Tax
Act would amend Federal tax laws to dis-
courage the unwise use of these areas, and
to enhance our opportunities for sound
land use planning within the coastal
zone.
-Wilderness: Traditionally, we have
looked westward for our wilderness areas.
Last year, however, I proposed that 16
Eastern areas be designated as "wilder-
ness" and that 37 others be studied for pos-
sible wilderness designation.
-Historic Preservation: Because we
have an irreplaceable historic and archi-
tectural heritage, I have proposed an
Environmental Protection Tax Act to
discourage the demolition of historic
structures and to encourage their
rehabilitation.
-Big Thicket National Biological Re-
serve: The Big Thicket area of east
Texas is a biological crossroads unique
in the United States. I am gratified that
the House has acted and I urge the Sen-
ate promptly to consider my proposal to
preserve key segments of the Thicket in a
Big Thicket National Biological Reserve.
-Big Cypress National Fresh Water
Reserve: Protection of the Big Cypress
Swamp in Florida is essential to the pres-
ervation of the water supply in the
Everglades National Park. I have recom-
mended legislation which would author-
ize the acquisition of over 500,000 acres,
enabling us to protect this vital water
supply.
-Public Land Management: The
Secretary of the Interior needs additional
authority to protect the environmental
values of our public domain lands. I again
urge that he be given that authority.
-Controlling Pollution: Three of my
legislative proposals aimed at controlling
pollution have not yet received final
Congressional action:
-Toxic Substances: New chemicals
with unknown environmental effects
come into use each year. Authority to
test these substances and to restrict their
use in the event of danger, while still per-
mitting the orderly marketing of needed
chemicals in a timely fashion, is highly
desirable.
Hazardous Wastes: Disposal of
wastes on land is increasing due to ad-
vances in industry and technology and
because of our stringent controls on air
and water pollution. These wastes can be
hazardous to human health and other
forms of life. My proposal provides for
national standards for treatment and dis-
posal of hazardous waste with primary
regulatory responsibility resting with
State governments.
-Safe Drinking Water: The water we
use in our homes should not endanger
our health. Under my proposal on safe
drinking water, Federal standards would
provide health protection by requiring
strict limitation of any contaminants in
drinking water, but primary enforcement
responsibilities would be left to the States.
Alternative legislation is now being seri-
82
