Appendix B
June
1 Kurt Waldheim, Secretary General of the
United Nations, met at the White House
with the President, Secretary of State Henry
A. Kissinger, and John A. Scali, United
States Ambassador to the United Nations.
They discussed the results of Secretary Kis-
singer's recent trip to the Middle East and
the Syrian-Israeli disengagement, prior to
the Secretary General's trip to the Middle
East.
3 Lowell Thomas met with the President at
the White House to discuss Mr. Thomas'
impressions of America's position in the
world and world energy resources.
5 The following Ambassadors presented their
credentials to the President in ceremonies
at the White House: Bawoyeu Alingue of
Chad, Habib Bah of Guinea, Count Wil-
helm Wachtmeister of Sweden, Lubomir
Dimitrov Popov of Bulgaria, Michel Mes-
sanvi Kekeh of Togo, and Siteke Gibson
Mwale of Zambia.
5 Senator Mike Mansfield met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss the Sen-
ator's recent trip to France and his meeting
with French President Valéry Giscard
d'Estaing.
6 Secretary of Defense James R. Schlesinger
met with the President at the White House
prior to the Secretary's departure for a se-
ries of NATO meetings in Europe.
6 Senators Carl T. Curtis and Bob Dole met
with the President at the White House to
discuss problems facing the cattle-producing
areas of the Nation.
20 The President held separate meetings at the
White House with members of the biparti-
san Congressional leadership and members
of the Cabinet following his return from
the Middle East.
20 The President met at the White House with
the National Security Council.
June
21 The President approved a National Media-
tion Board request to extend the reporting
deadline from June 20 to July 2, 1974, for
the Emergency Board created to investigate
the dispute between the National Railway
Labor Conference and certain of its em-
ployees. The Emergency Board was created
by Executive Order 11783 of May 21, 1974.
July
7 The President went by helicopter to Palm
Beach, Fla., to visit the Mar-A-Lago estate
which was bequeathed to the Federal Gov-
ernment upon the death of Marjorie Merri-
weather Post as a temporary residence for
visiting foreign dignitaries and heads of
state. He then returned to Key Biscayne.
8 Vice President Ford met with the President
in the Oval Office at the White House to
review the President's trip to Belgium and
the Soviet Union and to discuss domestic
legislation.
8 On behalf of the President, Special Counsel
James D. St. Clair presented oral argu-
ment in the Supreme Court of the United
States in the case of United States v. Rich-
ard M. Nixon, President of the United
States, et al., and Richard M. Nixon, Presi-
dent of the United States v. United States.
8 The President met with Counsellors Anne
L. Armstrong, Dean Burch, and Kenneth
Rush.
9 Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon
met with the President at the White House
to discuss the Secretary's upcoming trip to
the Middle East and Europe.
9 The President met with a group of eco-
nomic advisers. Participating in the meet-
ing were: Counsellor to the President Ken-
neth Rush, Secretary of the Treasury Wil-
liam E. Simon, Director Roy L. Ash of the
Office of Management and Budget, Chair-
man Arthur F. Burns of the Federal Reserve
Board, and Chairman Herbert Stein of the
Council of Economic Advisers.
663
