[104] Apr. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
next month, with a further increase to
$2.30 by January 1, 1976-a total increase
of more than 40 percent. It would also
extend the protection of Federal mini-
mum wage and overtime requirements to
7.4 million additional workers.
Over the past several years, I have
consistently supported responsible in-
creases in minimum wage rates, to be
phased in so that the very people such
increases are intended to help do not find
themselves suddenly priced out of the job
market. I am pleased that the Congress
has moved in this direction in S. 2747-
Following the first increase next month,
future increases will be spread out over
a period of time and will therefore have
less of an adverse effect on the job market
for unskilled labor. They will also pose
less of an inflationary threat to all Ameri-
cans.
S. 2747 also extends coverage to in-
clude Federal, State, and local govern-
ment employees, domestic workers, and
others previously excluded from coverage.
The Congress has reduced some of the
economic and social disruptions this ex-
tension could cause by recognizing the
unique requirements of police, fire, and
correctional services. Similarly, within the
Administration, we will do our utmost
to administer the overlapping rules which
will now apply to Federal overtime.
As I have stated before, acceptable
minimum wage legislation should also
contain a special youth differential to
protect our young people, who continue
to suffer a high rate of unemployment and
face more limited work and training op-
portunities than adults. Although S. 2747
does change the tests for special minimum
wage certificates for part-time work by
full-time students and permits pilot pro-
grams in selected areas for out-of-school
youth, I regret that the Congress did not
go as far as I wished in protecting both
training and work opportunities for youth.
In addition, the extension of coverage
creates some unemployment risks, es-
pecially for domestic workers, but these
risks must be accepted in view of the other
achievements of this bill.
On the whole then, S. 2747 contains
more good than bad, and I have con-
cluded that the best interests of the Ameri-
can people will be served by signing it
into law.
The signing of this measure is also an
appropriate occasion to commend Secre-
tary Brennan for his efforts in working
with Congress to ensure the enactment of
legislation benefiting the working men
and women of our Nation. This measure
is the second major bill in recent months
in which the Department of Labor has
played an important role in the process
of enactment and for which it assumes
administrative responsibility. The first bill,
the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act of 1973, is now being put
into effect by the Department of Labor;
I urge that the Congress move speedily in
appropriating the necessary funds so that
the worthy purposes of this act can be
achieved promptly.
It is also my hope that the Congress
will respond favorably to the Administra-
tion's proposals for improving the pension
system and the unemployment insurance
system of our Nation. Our proposals in
both of these areas are important features
of our labor market and economic policy.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2747 is Public Law 93-
259 (88 Stat. 55).
338
