[159] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
ahead before a permanent settlement is
reached. However, what was a major
roadblock to any permanent settlement
has now been removed and, I think, the
most difficult roadblock, the roadblock
being the differences that had long ex-
isted between Israel and Syria.
As far as the United States is con-
cerned, we shall continue with our diplo-
matic initiatives, working with all govern-
ments in the area toward working toward
achieving the goal of a permanent settle-
160
ment, a permanent peace. And I can only
say that, based on the success in reaching
this agreement in which the differences
were so great, that the prospects for reach-
ing agreement on a permanent basis, I
think, now are better than they have been
at any time over the past 25 years.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:02 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House. His re-
marks were broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television.
Statement Announcing a Trade Agreement Between
the European Economic Community and the
United States. May 31,
I AM pleased to announce this morning
that trade negotiators from the United
States and the European Community,
meeting in Brussels, have agreed on a
formula for reducing Community import
duties on a significant number and vol-
ume of American exports. These reduc-
tions are in compensation for changes
which occurred when the European Com-
munity was enlarged to include Great
Britain, Ireland, and Denmark.
The resolution of this important issue,
following long and arduous negotiations
over a period of several months, represents
a major step toward improved Atlantic
1974
relationships. It also helps to clear the way
for prompt Senate action on the Trade
Reform Act.
For their efforts in negotiating this
agreement, Sir Christopher Soames, Vice
President of the European Communities
Commission, and Ambassador William D.
Eberle, the U.S. Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations, both deserve the
thanks of the entire Atlantic Community.
It is the hope of the United States that
the spirit which prevailed during these ne-
gotiations will continue in the months and
years ahead as we seek to resolve other im-
portant and sensitive issues.
161 Statement Announcing Establishment of a Veterans
Administration Man-on-the-Campus Program.
May 31, 1974
IN TRYING to solve the problems faced
by veterans of the Vietnam era, one of the
first goals of the Administration has been
to ensure that all beneficiaries of the GI
bill receive prompt and efficient service.
In a radio address to the Nation on
March 31, I stated that "Veterans need
to know if we can find a better way of
delivering checks on time." I also directed
the Administrator of Veterans Affairs to
464
