Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 25 [61]
last half of this century, we must also
make it the right that is most protected.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:07 p.m. from
a room adjoining the Oval Office at the White
House. The address was broadcast live on
nationwide radio.
An advance text of the address and a fact
sheet on Government initiatives and proposals
on the subject of privacy were released on the
same day.
60 Statement About the Death of Former Senator
William F. Knowland. February 25, 1974
IT WAS with a deep sense of personal loss
that I learned of the tragic death of for-
mer Senator William F. Knowland.
Bill Knowland was a man of boundless
energy and integrity, and I consider it an
honor to have served with him in the
United States Senate. As Republican lead-
er in the Senate, and as a distinguished
California newspaperman and community
leader, Bill Knowland always put patriot-
ism and principle first.
His loss will be particularly felt by all
those who had the privilege of knowing
and working with him. Mrs. Nixon and I
extend our deepest sympathy to his fam-
ily in their bereavement.
NOTE: Mr. Knowland, 65, died in Monte Rio,
Calif., on February 23, 1974.
He was publisher and editor of the Oakland
Tribune and served in the United States Senate
from 1945 to 1958.
61 The President's News Conference of
February 25, 1974
THE ENERGY SITUATION
gen-
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and
tlemen, before going to your questions,
I have a brief report on the energy situa-
tion, the progress we have made to date,
and also the problems that we have in the
future.
You will recall that last October when
we saw the energy crisis developing as a
result of the embargo and other matters,
that there were dire predictions that we
would have problems with home heating
oil and, even, fuel to run our factories.
As a result of the cooperation of the
American people—and they deserve most
of the credit-and also the management
on the part of Mr. Simon and his organi-
zation, we have now passed through that
crisis. The home fuel oil, as far as it is
concerned, as we know, has been fur-
nished; no one has suffered as a result.
And as far as our plants are concerned,
all have had the fuel that is required to
keep the plants going.
The major problem that remains is one
that was brought home to me when I
talked to one of the soundmen before
coming in. I asked him if he was having
any trouble getting gas. He said, "Yes,
when I went to the service station this
morning, they wouldn't give me any be-
cause my gage was wrong. They thought
that I had more than half a tank. Actu-
ally, I had zero in the tank."
I have seen this problem as I have
driven around in the Miami area and
also in the Washington area—the gas
199
