Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 20 [84]
which they passed, but in any event and
not now speaking facetiously, let me say
that shows how far we have come and
also what great vistas remain for the
future.
Also, could I pay my respects not only
to these three men, to their families, but
to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to the
thousands working in the space program.
I asked Dr. Fletcher, "How many peo-
ple are working?" He said, "Well, there
are about 3,000."
"No, no,” I said, "not only here, but
everywhere across the country, in private
industry, subcontracts, et cetera, et
cetera."
He said about 120,000 people are work-
ing on the Skylab program and on the
Soyuz program-120,000 people. Most of
them aren't going to get medals. Most of
them aren't going to be recognized as
these three are being recognized, but
every astronaut I have ever talked to says
it is because of those men and women on
the ground that we were able to do what
we did in the air, and I applaud those on
the ground, all of you. We thank
you for
your service to make what they did
possible.
I would like to now add a word with
regard to the joint expedition that will
take place, I understand, in July of 1975
with the Soviet cosmonauts, and just to
indicate that I know a little Russian-
I understand that they are here--I will
say, "ochen' priyatno poznako-mit'sya,"
which means, "Very happy to meet all of
you."
But referring to the cosmonauts and the
Americans allows me to say something
in the whole area of foreign policy which
I think we in America need to under-
stand, and that is why these joint projects
with the Soviet Union are so important
to America, to the Soviet Union, and to
the whole cause of peace and progress in
the world.
Our systems of government are very
different. Mr. Brezhnev and I have had
some very interesting debates about the
value of their system and the values of
ours.
But as far as our great objections are
concerned in many areas, they are the
same. The Russian people want peace,
and we want peace. The Russian people
want progress, and we want progress. The
Russian people want to cooperate with
the United States, and we want to cooper-
ate with the Russian people and with all
people on the Earth in anything that will
advance the cause of science, the cause of
health, the cause of a better life for all
of our children, as well, of course, as the
cause of peace.
I do not mean that simply because we
are going to have this joint project with
the Soviet Union in the field of space that
the differences between our two systems
will change or that the differences that
we have in various parts of the world
where our interests will evaporate. Mr.
Brezhnev as a realist knows that, and I
as a realist know that as well.
But I do know that the Russian people
are a great people, the American people
are a great people, and we can be so much
together, and when we can work to-
gether, let's work together. That is what
this program is about.
I remember when this whole space pro-
gram began. You remember Sputnik and
when some in the administration—at that
particular time it happened to be an ad-
ministration of which I was a part—called
it outer space basketball, and there was a
299
