[156] May 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress to build it in the months and
years ahead.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:07 a.m. from
Key Biscayne, Fla. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio.
An advance text of his address was released
on the same day.
157 Message to the Congress Transmitting Report of the
Council of Economic Advisers. May 28, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I submit herewith a report from the
Council of Economic Advisers on the con-
dition of the American economy and on
policies for dealing with some of its prob-
lems. I believe that this report will help
the Congress and the country to put in
better perspective the flood of economic
events and news that engulfs and confuses
us.
In my message on the State of the
Union, on January 30, 1974, after refer-
ring to the economic consequences of the
energy shortage, I said:
"We expect, therefore, that during the
early part of this year output will rise
little if at all, unemployment will rise
somewhat and inflation will be high. Our
objective, however, is to turn this situa-
tion around so that later in the year out-
put will be rising more rapidly, while un-
employment will stop rising and will then
decline, and the rate of inflation will
slow."
As events turned out, total production
declined about 12 percent in the first
quarter of the year because the gasoline
shortage hurt automobile sales and pro-
duction more than expected. Unemploy-
ment rose a little from its low of last Octo-
ber before the oil embargo began. The
inflation rate was indeed high.
But by now we can see signs of the im-
provements that policy has been aiming
to achieve. Industrial production in-
creased in April for the first time in five
months. The rise in the cost of living in
April was only about half as large as in the
previous three months, and retail food
prices declined. The unemployment rate
has not risen since January but declined
a little in March and April.
Although the recent events are not con-
clusive they tend to strengthen the expec-
tation that in the remainder of this year
output will be rising more rapidly, prices
will be rising much less rapidly and the
unemployment rate, while it will probably
rise further, will not reach a very high
point before it recedes.
These results which we all want will
not, however, be achieved without strong
and responsible policy actions. There is
special danger that the decline of the in-
flation rate will be small and soon reversed
if we do not firmly resist temptations to
new inflationary policy.
I would like to acknowledge the recent
cooperation of the Congressional leader-
ship in one important area of economic
policy. As a result of an exchange of let-
ters between me and the Majority and
Minority Leaders of the Senate, economic
officials of the Administration have been
meeting with the bipartisan leadership of
both Houses to consider the problem of
shortages. The outcome of these discus-
sions has been agreement on the establish-
ment of a temporary commission repre-
senting the Executive Branch, the Legis-
460
