[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
ards of the Administration's proposed
Mined Area Protection Act.
Organizing the Federal Energy Effort
If the Federal Government is to achieve
prompt and productive results in the
energy field, its many energy programs and
resources must be organized in the best
possible manner. Toward this end, I have
submitted several organizational proposals
to the Congress and urged their prompt
adoption. One calls for establishment of
the Federal Energy Administration as dis-
cussed above. The others call for statutory
establishment of the following:
(1) Energy Research and Development
Administration:
This new organization would provide
unified leadership and direction for energy
technology programs at the Federal level.
ERDA would include the research and
development as well as the production
functions of the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, along with selected energy research
and development functions of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, the National Science
Foundation, and the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. Under this proposal, the
five-member Atomic Energy Commission
would be renamed the Nuclear Energy
Commission and would carry out the vital
task of licensing and regulating the rapidly
growing use of nuclear power.
(2) Department of Energy and Natural
Resources:
As the longer-run solution to the many
interrelated problems in the energy and
natural resources area, I have proposed
the establishment of this new depart-
ment. DENR would incorporate most of
the responsibilities of the Department of
the Interior; the activities of the Forest
Service and certain water resource func-
tions of the Department of Agriculture;
the activities of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration of the De-
partment of Commerce; the water re-
source planning functions of the Corps of
Engineers; the gas pipeline safety func-
tions of the Department of Transporta-
tion, and the Water Resources Council.
Drawn together, these responsibilities
would form the basis of a modern depart-
ment truly capable of providing a much
needed balance between the wise utiliza-
tion and careful conservation of our Na-
tion's precious natural resources.
Because of the energy crisis, I urge that
the Congress give priority attention to the
creation of FEA and ERDA. Because of
its comprehensive scope, DENR may re-
quire additional examination by the Con-
gress, but I reaffirm the need for this
modern Cabinet department. Once
DENR is established, it should incorporate
the functions of ERDA and FEA.
B. NEW LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES
In addition to the legislation now pend-
ing before the Congress still further steps
must be taken if we are to progress at a
proper pace toward self-sufficiency. With-
in the next several weeks, I will be sending
to the Congress a number of legislative
proposals to help us take those steps,
including:
Changes in Foreign Tax Treatment
U.S. companies that produce oil over-
seas have been granted the same 22 per-
cent depletion allowance abroad that is
granted to U.S. companies producing oil
in the United States. Both allowances pro-
vide an incentive for oil production.
As we move toward U.S. self-sufficiency
26
