[61] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
What advice could you give Republican
candidates this year to counter that
argument?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I want Repub-
lican candidates to win where they are
deserving candidates. And second, I re-
call the year 1948 when we confidently
expected to gain in the House and when
Mr. Fulbright, as you may recall, called
for President Truman's resignation in the
spring because the economy was in a
slump and President Truman had other
problems, and we proceeded to campaign
against Mr. Truman. He was the issue.
And we took a bad licking in the Congress
in 1948.
What my advice to the candidates very
simply would be is this: It is that 9 months
before an election, no one can predict
what can happen in this country. What
will affect the election in this year 1974
is what always affects elections-peace
and prosperity.
On the peace front, we are doing well,
and I think we will continue to do well.
With regard to the prosperity issue, the
bread and butter issue, as I have already
indicated, I think that this economy is
going to be moving up.
I think, therefore, it will be a good year
for those candidates who stand for the
Administration.
THE PRESIDENT'S INCOME TAXES
[14.] Q. Mr. President, as you prepare
to sign your income tax returns for this
year, do you intend to pay State or local
income taxes, and have you had
any sec-
ond thoughts about your claimed deduc-
tion for the gift of the Vice Presidential
papers?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to any
State taxes or concern, I will pay any
that the law requires. As I understand, in
California a ruling has been made, appar-
ently, that even though I have a residence
in California that there is not a require-
ment that I pay California taxes.
I would be glad to pay those taxes and,
of course, deduct that from my Federal
income tax liability as others can do if
they desire to do so.
With regard to the gift of papers that I
made to the Government, there is no ques-
tion about my intent. All of my Vice Presi-
dential papers were delivered to the Ar-
chives in March, 4 months before the
deadline. The paperwork on it appar-
ently was not concluded until after that
time.
This raises a legal question as to
whether or not the deduction, therefore,
is proper. That is why I voluntarily asked
the Senate control committee of the
House and Senate to look into the mat-
ter and to advise me as to whether or not
the deduction was a proper one. If it was
not a proper one, I, of course, will be
glad to pay the tax.
ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN AND DÉTENTE
[15] Mr. Healy [Paul F. Healy, New
York Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, what is your personal
reaction to the expulsion by the Soviet
Union of Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and will
it any way affect our policy of détente?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my personal re-
action is that I am, of course, an admirer
of a man who has won a Nobel Prize for
literature and one who has also shown,
as he has shown, such great courage.
Second, as far as our relations with the
Soviets are concerned, if I thought that
206
