[119] Apr. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
to turn inward, abandoning our aid pro-
grams and the critical needs facing many
of our friends in the process.
We must not succumb to that tempta-
tion. If we lay down the burden now, we
will foreclose the peaceful development of
many of the nations of the world and leave
them at the mercy of powerful forces, both
economic and political. Moreover, we will
deny ourselves one of the most useful tools
we have for helping to shape peaceful
relationships in the most turbulent areas
of the world.
Many of the nations which were once
dependent upon our direct assistance for
their survival are now managing their
own economic and defense needs without
our aid. Those nations which still need
our aid will not need it indefinitely. We
expect those nations we help to help
themselves. We have made it clear that
we do not intend to be the world's police-
man, that our aid is not a substitute for
their self-reliance, and that we do not
intend to do for others what they should
be expected to do for themselves.
But as long as there are governments
which seek to change the frontiers and
institutions of other nations by force, the
possibility of international conflict will
continue to exist. And as long as millions
of people lack food, housing, and jobs;
starvation, social unrest and economic
turmoil will threaten our common future.
Our long-range goal is to create an
international environment in which toler-
ance and negotiation can replace aggres-
sion and subversion as preferred methods
of settling international disputes. While
this goal is not as distant as it once was,
present circumstances do not now permit
reduction in foreign assistance. We must
not only maintain our efforts, but also
make special efforts in two critical areas
of the world-the Middle East and Indo-
china.
In the Middle East, we have an oppor-
tunity to achieve a significant break-
through for world peace. Increased
foreign aid will be a vital complement
to our diplomacy in maintaining the
momentum toward a negotiated settle-
ment which will serve the interests of both
Israel and the Arab nations.
In Indochina our assistance is no less
critical. South Vietnam, Cambodia, and
Laos are trying to make the difficult
transition from war to peace. Their abil-
ity to meet their defense needs while lay-
ing the foundations for self-sustaining
social and economic progress requires
continued and substantial amounts of
American aid.
To meet these continuing and special
needs, I am proposing to the Congress a
total foreign aid budget of $5.18 billion
for fiscal year 1975. In my judgment,
these amounts represent the minimum
which the United States can prudently
afford to invest if we are to maintain the
present degree of international equilib-
rium and advance our efforts to construct
a durable peace with prosperity.
TOWARD PEACE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
The hope for a lasting solution to the
Arab-Israeli dispute is stronger today than
at any time in the previous quarter cen-
tury. American diplomatic initiatives have
helped create the conditions necessary for
an end to conflict and violence. While our
diplomatic efforts must and will continue,
there is already much that can be done
374
