[144] May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
144 Armed Forces Day Message.
May 18, 1974
ON THIS Armed Forces Day over 2 mil-
lion American servicemen and women
stand ready, as always, to defend our
freedom. This day provides an occasion
for Americans everywhere to pay tribute
to them.
As we begin what promises to be an era
of reduced world tensions, we must not
forget the contribution which our soldiers,
sailors, airmen, marines and coast guards-
men make to the strength and security of
the free world. We must never lose sight
of the fact that our continued military
strength is the cornerstone of future
peace.
Once again, as in the days of George
Washington, our Armed Forces are being
manned by volunteers. In restoring that
honorable tradition we must demonstrate
our continuing support for the members
of our Armed Forces. The guardians of
America's liberties deserve the admira-
tion and respect of those they defend.
Armed Forces Day 1974 provides each
of us with a specific opportunity to ex-
press our appreciation to America's men
and women in uniform, and to their fami-
lies. In demonstrating our support for
them we can help ensure that our Armed
Forces of tomorrow will continue to be
composed of dedicated, professional, and
courageous young citizens-the finest our
society has to offer.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released
at Key Biscayne, Fla.
145 Message Congratulating President-Elect Valéry Giscard
d'Estaing of France on His Election. May 19, 1974
PLEASE accept my warmest congratula-
tions as well as those of the American peo-
ple on your election as President of the
Republic of France. I look forward to
working with you in our common interest
of strengthening the bonds of friend-
ship and cooperation between our two
countries.
RICHARD NIXON
Sincerely,
NOTE: On the same day, the President tele-
phoned President-elect Giscard d'Estaing to ex-
press personally his congratulations.
The text of the message was issued at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
146 Radio Address About a Proposed Comprehensive
Health Insurance Plan.
Good afternoon:
This week, the Senate Finance Com-
mittee will begin hearings on health insur-
ance legislation that could usher in a his-
toric reform of the American health care
May 20, 1974
system. I am gratified to see that serious
action on this most vital matter is going
forward on both sides of the Capitol, and
I am confident that the executive and
legislative branches of the Government, in
442
