[229] July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is often said that we have worldwide
inflation because people demand more.
That is just a half-truth. We have world-
wide inflation because people's demand
for more is not matched by a willingness
and ability on their part to produce more.
The demand too often is translated into a
supply of votes, not a supply of work,
saving, initiative, and innovation.
In America and may it always be this
way the power of government is the
power of the people. And therefore, the
most important responsibility of each
American in fighting inflation is your re-
sponsibility-those of you in this room and
the millions listening on television and
radio. I can assure you that your Govern-
ment will take firm measures, measures
that will be unpopular with many special
interest groups. The voice of the people in
support of sound anti-inflation policies
needs to be heard in Washington above
the voices of the special interests.
In fact, we need in this country the one
lobby we don't have an anti-inflation
lobby. This should not be a lobby with
plush Washington offices and high paid
officers and I am not reflecting on any
of the people who may be lobbyists here.
This lobby should have an office in every
home in America, and every citizen should
be an officer in it. When every Govern-
ment official-whether in the executive
branch, in the Congress, or in State and
local governments-knows that this anti-
inflation lobby will reward anti-inflation-
ary action and punish inflationary action,
the fight against inflation will be won.
We have looked, as we should, at many
of the troubles in the American economy
today, but we must also recognize that
despite its troubles, the American economy
today is the envy of the rest of the world.
One needs only to travel, as I have in
recent months and over the years, to other
nations, particularly industrial nations, to
realize the truth of that statement.
Painful as our own inflation is, it is less
than that of France, of Italy, of Great
Britain, of Japan, and less than that of
most of the industrial nations of the world.
In fact, time and again I have found in
recent months the leaders of other coun-
tries marveling at the great economic
strength of America and wishing that they
could exchange their economic difficulties
for ours.
And consequently, as we look at the
troubles in our economy today, we must
not overlook its strengths. We have the
strongest economy in the world by far,
and we can win any economic battle that
we determine to win. We are out to win
the battle against inflation, and with our
strong economy, we have the resources
to do it.
As we look at the strengths of that
economy, we have more jobs in America
today than ever before, and those jobs pay
higher wages, real wages, than in any
other country in the world, even in the
area of food costs, which we all know is
one that really strikes home to whoever
keeps that family budget. A smaller per-
centage of the wage earner's income goes
to food in the United States than in any
country in the world.
Young Americans today are finding
work, rather than facing the draft, and we
can be thankful for that. And if our un-
employment, which is holding lower than
we had earlier predicted, if it is higher
than we want and it is-let us be thank-
ful that those who may be unemployed
are not facing the draft and not serving in
any war overseas.
612
