Richard Nixon, 1974
June 14 [179]
of electric power to support its rapidly
growing development needs. Pending con-
clusion of this Agreement, the United
States Atomic Energy Commission and
the Egyptian Ministry of Electricity will
this month conclude a provisional agree-
ment for the sale of nuclear fuel to Egypt.
IV. WORKING GROUPS
The two governments have agreed to
set up Joint Working Groups to meet in
the near future to prepare concrete proj-
ects and proposals for review by the Joint
Commission at a meeting to be held later
this year in Washington, D.C. These Joint
Working Groups will be composed of gov-
ernmental representatives from each coun-
try and will include the following:
(1) A Joint Working Group on Suez
Canal Reconstruction and Development
to consider and review plans for reopen-
ing the Suez Canal and reconstruction of
the cities along the Canal, and the United
States role in this endeavor.
(2) A Joint Working Group to investi-
gate and recommend measures designed to
open the way for United States private in-
vestment in joint ventures in Egypt and
to promote trade between the two coun-
tries. Investment opportunities would be
guided by Egypt's needs for financial,
technical, and material support to in-
crease Egypt's economic growth. The
United States regards with favor and sup-
ports the ventures of American enter-
prises in Egypt. It is noted that such ven-
tures, currently being negotiated, are in
the field of petrochemicals, transportation,
food and agricultural machinery, land de-
velopment, power, tourism, banking, and
a host of other economic sectors. The esti-
mated value of projects under serious con-
sideration exceeds two billion dollars.
American technology and capital com-
bined with Egypt's absorptive capacity,
skilled manpower and productive invest-
ment opportunities can contribute effec-
tively to the strengthening and develop-
ment of the Egyptian economy. The
United States and Egypt will therefore
negotiate immediately a new Investment
Guarantee Agreement between them.
(3) A Joint Working Group on Agri-
culture to study and recommend actions
designed to increase Egypt's agricultural
production through the use of the latest
agricultural technology.
(4) A Joint Working Group on Tech-
nology, Research and Development in
scientific fields, including space, with spe-
cial emphasis on exchanges of scientists.
(5) A Joint Working Group on Medi-
cal Cooperation to assist the Government
of Egypt to develop and strengthen its
medical research, treatment and training
facilities. These efforts will supplement
cooperation in certain forms of medical
research already conducted through the
Naval Medical Research Unit
(NAMRU), whose mutually beneficial
work will continue.
(6) A Joint Working Group on Cul-
tural Exchanges to encourage and
facilitate exhibitions, visits, and other
cultural endeavors to encourage a better
understanding of both cultures on the
part of the peoples of the United States
and Egypt.
The two governments have agreed to
encourage the formation of a Joint Eco-
nomic Council to include representatives
from the private economic sector of both
countries to coordinate and promote mu-
tually beneficial cooperative economic
arrangements.
In support of their economic coopera-
tion, the United States will make the
505
