Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 6 [34]
not the Federal Government. By con-
trast, some of the national health plans
that have been proposed in the Congress
would place the entire health system un-
der the heavy hand of the Federal Gov-
ernment, would add considerably to our
tax burdens, and would threaten to de-
stroy the entire system of medical care
that has been so carefully built in
America.
I firmly believe we should capitalize on
the skills and facilities already in place,
not replace them and start from scratch
with a huge Federal bureaucracy to add
to the ones we already have.
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH INSURANCE
PLAN-A PARTNERSHIP EFFORT
No program will work unless people
want it to work. Everyone must have a
stake in the process.
This Comprehensive Health Insurance
Plan has been designed so that everyone
involved would have both a stake in mak-
ing it work and a role to play in the
process-consumer, provider, health in-
surance carrier, the States and the Federal
Government. It is a partnership program
in every sense.
By sharing costs, consumers would have
a direct economic stake in choosing and
using their community's health resources
wisely and prudently. They would be as-
sisted by requirements that physicians and
other providers of care make available to
patients full information on fees, hours of
operation and other matters affecting the
qualifications of providers. But they
would not have to go it alone either: doc-
tors, hospitals and other providers of care
would also have a direct stake in making
the Comprehensive Health Insurance
Plan work. This program has been de-
signed to relieve them of much of the red
tape, confusion and delays in reimburse-
ment that plague them under the bewil-
dering assortment of public and private
financing systems that now exist. Health-
cards would relieve them of troublesome
bookkeeping. Hospitals could be hospitals,
not bill collecting agencies.
CONCLUSION
Comprehensive health insurance is an
idea whose time has come in America.
There has long been a need to assure
every American financial access to high
quality health care. As medical costs go
up, that need
grows more pressing.
Now, for the first time, we have not just
the need but the will to get this job done.
There is widespread support in the Con-
gress and in the Nation for some form of
comprehensive health insurance.
Surely if we have the will, 1974 should
also be the year that we find the way.
The plan that I am proposing today is,
I believe, the very best way. Improve-
ments can be made in it, of course, and
the Administration stands ready to work
with the Congress, the medical profession,
and others in making those changes.
But let us not be led to an extreme pro-
gram that would place the entire health
care system under the dominion of social
planners in Washington.
Let us continue to have doctors who
work for their patients, not for the Federal
Government. Let us build upon the
strengths of the medical system we have
now, not destroy it.
Indeed, let us act sensibly. And let us
139
