[122] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Speaking to John Dean, I said: "Tell
the truth. That is the thing I have told
everybody around here."
And then speaking to Haldeman: “And
you tell Magruder, 'now Jeb, this evidence
is coming in, you ought to go to the grand
jury. Purge yourself if you're perjured
and tell this whole story.'
I am confident that the American peo-
ple will see these transcripts for what they
are, fragmentary records from a time
more than a year ago that now seems very
distant, the records of a President and of
a man suddenly being confronted and
having to cope with information which, if
true, would have the most far-reaching
consequences, not only for his personal
reputation but, more important, for his
hopes, his plans, his goals for the people
who had elected him as their leader.
If read with an open and a fair mind
and read together with the record of the
actions I took, these transcripts will show
that what I have stated from the begin-
ning to be the truth has been the truth:
that I personally had no knowledge of the
break-in before it occurred, that I had no
knowledge of the coverup until I was in-
formed of it by John Dean on March 21,
that I never offered clemency for the de-
fendants, and that after March 21, my
actions were directed toward finding the
facts and seeing that justice was done,
fairly and according to the law.
The facts are there. The conversations
are there. The record of actions is there.
To anyone who reads his way through
this mass of materials I have provided,
it will be totally, abundantly clear that as
far as the President's role with regard to
Watergate is concerned, the entire story
is there.
As you will see, now that you also
will have this mass of evidence I have
provided, I have tried to cooperate with
the House Judiciary Committee. And I
repeat tonight the offer that I have made
previously: to answer written interroga-
tories under oath and, if there are then
issues still unresolved, to meet personally
with the chairman of the committee and
with Congressman Hutchinson to answer
their questions under oath.
As the committee conducts its inquiry,
I also consider it only essential and fair
that my counsel, Mr. St. Clair, should
be present to cross-examine witnesses and
introduce evidence in an effort to estab-
lish the truth.
I am confident that for the overwhelm-
ing majority of those who study the evi-
dence that I shall release tomorrow-
those who are willing to look at it fully,
fairly, and objectively-the evidence will
be persuasive and, I hope, conclusive.
We live in a time of very great chal-
lenge and great opportunity for America.
We live at a time when peace may be-
come possible in the Middle East for the
first time in a generation.
We are at last in the process of ful-
filling the hope of mankind for a limita-
tion on nuclear arms-a process that will
continue when I meet with the Soviet
leaders in Moscow in a few weeks.
We are well on the way toward build-
ing a peace that can last, not just for this
but for other generations as well.
to
And here at home, there is vital work
to be done in moving to control inflation,
to develop our energy resources,
strengthen our economy so that Ameri-
cans can enjoy what they have not had
since 1956: full prosperity without war
and without inflation.
Every day absorbed by Watergate is a
day lost from the work that must be
done by your President and by your Con-
396
