[181] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be, we will enhance the prospects for
peace
and stability throughout the Middle
East and, in turn, throughout the world.
As we conclude these talks after having
met on several occasions before, I would
say that today American ties with Saudi
Arabia have never been stronger and have
never more solidly been based than they
are now. We have long been good friends,
and our friendship which now develops
into an active partnership will be further
strengthened through active cooperation
between us in the areas that I have
described.
And, Your Majesty, on behalf of all of
the Americans traveling with me, I would
like to express our grateful appreciation to
you for the very generous hospitality you
have extended to us and also to express
appreciation to you for the gestures of
hospitality and the counsel you have pro-
vided for Secretary Kissinger during his
visits to your nation.
And personally, I look forward to meet-
ing you again when you next can plan a
trip to the United States. I can assure you
of a warm and friendly reception.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. in
the King's Office at the Al-Ri'assa Palace in
Jidda.
King Faisal responded to the President's re-
marks in Arabic. His remarks were translated
by an interpreter as follows:
Mr.
guests:
President, Excellencies, distinguished
It is a source of great appreciation to meet
with you again, Mr. President, only this time
in our country, and to receive you so warmly
as you may have seen, so genuinely, on the part
of the people and the Government of Saudi
Arabia.
We greatly appreciate, Mr. President, your
genuine expressions of friendship and solidarity
and cooperation between our two countries. We
have no doubt whatsoever that everybody who
is genuine and who knows us well, both sides
of us, is absolutely assured of our agreeing with
you fully about the strengthening and deepen-
ing of our relations.
And as I have mentioned to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, I have the conviction that all our Arab
brethren are desirous of and are seriously look-
ing forward to improve the relations that bind
them to the United States of America in ties of
friendship and respect.
It is our sincere hope that all the problems
and the blemishes that seem to mar the rela-
tionship between the United States of America
and some Arab countries will be removed so
that the clear waters will go back to their
natural course.
We are fully confident in the efficacy of Your
Excellency's endeavors to remove all these
problems and blemishes so that we can once
again, the Arab world and the United States of
America, be very close and deep friends.
But what is very important is that our friends
in the United States of America be themselves
wise enough to stand behind you, to rally
around you, Mr. President, in your noble ef-
forts, almost unprecedented in the history of
mankind, the efforts aiming at securing peace
and justice in the world.
It goes without saying that in addition to our
professions-genuine professions of friendship
between us and our desires to strengthen the
ties, there is no doubt that our ultimate objec-
tives, both you and us, are in the same direction,
namely, aiming at securing peace, justice, sta-
bility, and prosperity to the whole world.
And anybody who stands against you, Mr.
President, in the United States of America or
outside the United States of America, or stands
against us, your friends in this part of the
world, obviously has one aim in mind, namely,
that of causing the splintering of the world,
the wrong polarization of the world, the bring-
ing about of mischief, which would not be con-
ducive to tranquillity and peace in the world.
Therefore, we beseech Almighty God to lend
His help to us and to you so that we both can go
hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder in pursu-
ance of the noble aims that we both share,
namely, those of peace, justice, and prosperity
in the world.
And we sincerely hope that God will grant
us success to our joint efforts in reaching those
noble aims for all peoples of the world.
510
