Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
as long as I am in this office, I am going to
do everything that I can that they are all
accounted for, because I know the pain
and suffering that those wives and mothers
and fathers go through. I have met them
often in the White House. My heart goes
out to them, as I know the hearts of all
Americans do, and you can be sure that
your Administration and your President
is going to do everything he can to see that
we get an accounting.
TELEVISION REPORTING
Ralph
Renick,
[15] Q.
Station
WTVJ in Miami, Florida. Mr. President,
at your news conference last October 26,
you were particularly critical of broadcast
reporting. You mentioned the network
TV reporting, calling it vicious, distorted,
outrageous. The National News Council
subsequently tried to obtain from the
White House specifics on those charges,
but those were not provided. Do you still
feel tonight that you are being victimized
by television reporting, network report-
ing, and could you be more specific?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as far as net-
work reporting and television reporting is
concerned, I realize that bad news is news,
and good news is not news. I realize, too,
that people don't win Pulitzer Prizes by
being for; they usually win them by being
against. I don't mean to say that in
criticism of those who award the prizes,
because that is part of the job of a good
investigative reporter.
But I don't think that-speaking to my
long-time friend from Miami-I don't
think any useful purpose would be served
by me in talking to many of the Wash-
ington press, the regional press, and our
friends from the NAB to discuss the Presi-
dent's problems with the press.
Let me just say this: I am not obsessed
by how the press reports me. I am going
to do my job, and I am not going to be
diverted by any criticism from the press,
fair or unfair, from doing what I think I
was elected to do, and that is to bring
peace abroad and, I trust, prosperity with-
out war and without inflation at home.
RELATIONS WITH EUROPEAN ALLIES
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Norman
Wagy, Storer Broadcasting in Washing-
ton. Since your rather forceful comments
last Friday about our relations with our
European allies, both the French Foreign
Minister and the French Ambassador to
the United States have responded ap-
parently in a friendly manner. What is
your reaction to their response and have
you had reaction from any other Euro-
pean nations?
THE PRESIDENT. I was, of course,
happy to see the response, very, I thought,
proper response on the part of our
French friends. As you know, when I
came into office our relations with France
were very poor. I met with General
de Gaulle on two occasions, and I have
since met with President Pompidou on
two occasions. In addition to that, we have
developed a much better relationship with
the French than we had in the sixties, and
I won't go into why that happened, but I
think that much of the fault was ours
rather than theirs at that time, although
both must bear some of the blame.
But coming to the heart of your ques-
tion, which is with regard to the whole
reaction of Europe, let me restate the
policy of the United States with regard to
Europe.
This Administration is well-known for
having started negotiations with those that
293
