[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing on the energy crisis as it was-it has
now, I think, been reduced to a prob-
lem-and we are also trying to move in the
food area. And the way to move is to see to
it that we increase production.
Let me also suggest that I know many
wonder, why not just control the prices?
Well, the way to get prices down is not to
control prices at a level where the farmer
quits producing and the producer of
energy will not sell. The way to get prices
down is to produce more. That is why
I am against controls in these areas. We
must produce more, and we will get the
prices down, and I think we shall.
U.S. POLICY IN THE MIDEAST
[4] Q. Mr. President, Jay Solomon,
WCOL News, Columbus, Ohio. Our
Middle East policy has seemed to point
three ways: support for Israel, keeping
access to Arab oil, and containing the
Soviet influence. It seems to be touchy
at best. But now with the Arab oil em-
bargo lifted and with Egypt seeming to
lead the way in that regard, what does
that do to U.S.-Middle East policy, es-
pecially should push come to shove as
regarding Israel?
The President. I realize that many of
those who support Israel and its inde-
pendence, as I have since that state came
into existence, wonder about the policy of
the United States, which is now one de-
signed not only to be a friend of Israel
but to be a friend of Israel's neighbors.
And I would only suggest that in terms
of the future of Israel, it is much better to
have the United States a friend of Israel's
neighbors and thereby able to influence
and perhaps restrain their policies rather
than an enemy or with no communica-
tion.
And so, therefore, our policy is designed
to accomplish these things:
One, we will continue to support the
independence and the integrity of the
State of Israel.
Two, we will continue to try to seek
not only renewed relations with Egypt but
with other countries with which those re-
lations have been broken, as you know,
in the past, growing out of the June 1967
war.
But let me make one thing very clear:
Being a friend of one of Israel's neighbors
does not make us an enemy of Israel. In
the long-term interests of Israel and in the
long-term interests of all of the countries
in the Mideast, it is vital that the United
States play a constructive and positive
role.
For example, the progress on the Syrian
disengagement, which will be even more
difficult than the disengagement on the
Israeli-Egyptian front, is a news item
which I think came over the ticker just
a few moments ago. This is a positive
move.
We have a long way to go. But in the
long term, we have to realize that a U.S.
role in the Mideast must be one that works
with all the countries in the area that
are willing to work with us.
The other point that I should make
that I know perhaps is not included in
your question, but is implicit in many
questions that are asked in this field: Why
is it that we follow this attitude in the
Mideast and at a time when the Soviet
Union seems to be following, some claim
or allege, an obstructionist attitude in the
Mideast?
Let me say, there cannot be permanent
peace in the Mideast unless the United
States is for it and plays a role to get it.
But also, there cannot be permanent peace
286
