[189] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
we conclude this journey, I can say that
while the problems ahead are still enor-
mously difficult, while the steps that we
have taken, though important and very
difficult because they were the first steps,
nevertheless are only the beginning of a
much longer journey.
This is the last stop on a very long trip,
but it is only the beginning of a much
longer journey, a journey which, we trust,
in the end will bring us to the goal of a
just and lasting peace in this part of the
world, because that peace will serve not
just your country, Your Majesty, not just
the other nations who are your neighbors,
but it will serve all nations in the world,
and that is what we all desire.
And finally, may I say that we, speak-
ing in behalf of all your American guests,
we express appreciation for the welcome
you have given us, and we look forward
to the time when we can return, return to
visit with you again. And we trust that
when we do return, the goal that both
you and I have talked about for so many
years that we have known each other, the
goal of a just and lasting peace, will have
been achieved.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:10 p.m. at
Amman Airport.
King Hussein responded as follows:
Mr. President:
It is a very high honor indeed for me to
speak on behalf of all the people of Jordan in
these moments to thank you, sir, for visiting
with us, to salute anew one of the greatest men
of our time, not only in terms of your courage
and wisdom but particularly in terms of your
dedication to the cause of peace, not only in
this part of the world but in the world as a
whole, and the betterment of mankind.
It is an honor for me to have had the op-
portunity to welcome you to Jordan, on behalf
of the people of Jordan, as the great President
of the United States of America.
Our pride has been enormous over the years
in the very close relations of friendship and
cooperation that have existed between us. It
has indeed been a "Journey for Peace," and
may we wish you, sir, from our hearts, every
success in your future endeavors along the path
of peace.
May I assure you that we will ever be proud
to cooperate most closely with you, sir, and
with your government, for the eventual estab-
lishment of a just, honorable, and durable peace
in this part of the world that could be our
present for a better life and a better future for
the generations that will follow us.
On behalf of the Queen and for myself and
on behalf, in particular, of every member of
our Jordanian family, we wish you continued
success, sir, in your great mission in leading the
great people of the United States, and we look
forward to a time when we might meet again
in Jordan.
We hope we will be more fortunate in terms
of a longer period of time. So many of my
countrymen throughout my country wish to
show you our accomplishments and have the
opportunity to show their feelings towards you.
Let's hope that in the future we will have
another chance. It has been an honor to wel-
come you, sir, and Mrs. Nixon. We wish you a
safe journey home and every continued success,
and God bless you.
Earlier in the day, the President and Mrs.
Nixon called on members of the Royal family
and Prime Minister and Mrs. Zayd al-Rifai at
Zahran Palace in Amman. They then attended
a "Beating of the Retreat" at 4th Division
Headquarters.
536
