[89] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal Campaign Reform Act of 1974
which I am proposing offers the best hope
for change that works.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The letters were addressed to the Hon-
orable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and the Honorable Gerald R.
Ford, President of the Senate.
The text of the draft legislation was released
with the letter.
90 Remarks at the Annual Republican Fundraising Dinner.
March 27, 1974
Mr. Vice President and all of our distin-
guished guests:
I am not quite prepared to speak be-
cause I understood the Vice President was
going to talk for 10 minutes. He must
have remembered that he was once a
Member of the House of Representatives,
where they have a one-minute rule.
In any event, too, I am sorry that I
didn't get here in time for the music. I
understand it was country-western. I guess
that is why you are not in black tie tonight,
Senator.ยน
As a matter of fact, I was rather look-
ing forward to getting here just before
they went off, and my wife reminded me I
left my Yo-Yo in Nashville. They tell me
Chairman Bush had the piano removed
from the stage just in case I might be
tempted.
So, consequently, I will take the time
that has been allotted to me to speak to
you about our party, about our candi-
dates, and about the upcoming campaign.
Now, I realize that this is a very dis-
tinguished audience and also one that
paid a great deal of money for a rather
mediocre meal. I don't know that it was
that mediocre, but mediocre considering
even the present prices-what you paid
per seat is a great deal.
ยน The President was referring to Senator Bill
Brock of Tennessee, who was master of cere-
monies for the dinner.
When I think of that kind of contribu-
tion, I can remember the times when hav-
ing $10-a-plate dinners or $50 was con-
sidered quite large, and I know how much
each of you has contributed who have
purchased tickets for this dinner. And
what I would like to do is to tell you
whether or not you made a good bet.
And I would like to put it, if I can,
perhaps in terms of horseracing. There is
really quite a relationship, in a sense, be-
tween betting on horses and betting on
candidates.
Anybody who makes a sizable contribu-
tion to a campaign, just as anybody who
makes a sizable bet on a horse, asks him-
self three questions: One, is it a good
horse; second, does it have a chance to
win; and third, is it worth it? Is it really
worth it putting that money out?
Now, in the past few days I have had
an opportunity to talk to our chairman,
Chairman Bush, and to Senator Brock
and Bob Michel,2 and we have gone over
most of the Senate races and many of the
House races, and based on their report to
me, I can tell you, you are betting on
good horses this year.
George H. Bush was chairman of the Re-
publican National Committee, Senator Brock
was chairman of the Republican Senatorial
Campaign Committee, and Representative
Robert H. Michel was chairman of the National
Republican Congressional Committee.
316
