[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
new ways of helping children learn to
read.
-We have substantially increased sup-
port to colleges serving minorities and
students from economically disadvantaged
backgrounds.
In taking these and other steps over
the past five years, we have increased Fed-
eral spending for education from $5.1 bil-
lion in fiscal year 1970 to an estimated
$7.6 billion in the budget I will propose
next month for fiscal year 1975.
This support has helped enrich the
diverse educational system and has con-
tributed greatly to our national strength
and vitality.
II. PRINCIPLES FOR THE FUTURE
While real progress has been made,
there are additional problems which must
be addressed if we are to make the promise
of a quality education a reality for all
Americans. Americans have never been
complacent about their educational sys-
tem, but today they are increasingly con-
cerned
and with reason.
-Parents of children who are not
learning to read know it is becoming more
difficult to lead a satisfying and produc-
tive life without this basic skill.
-Parents often see their children mov-
ing through elementary and high school
without acquiring an understanding of
what careers are open to them and what
skills will enable them to obtain a reward-
ing job.
-Many families do not see how they
will be able to meet the rising costs of
their children's college education.
-Teachers who want to try something
new or make old methods work better too
often have no place to turn for reliable
information about what works and why.
-Local school administrators must
plan their budgets without knowing, until
the last moment, what Federal aid will be
available.
We all want to commit our energies to
solving these problems and to making our
schools better. We must now find ways to
focus these energies.
To do so, I believe, we should adhere
to five basic principles of constructive
action:
-First, the Federal Government should
continue to support national priorities in
education without seeking to control and
direct State and local responses to those
priorities. Schools which must respond to
detailed and elaborate Federal red tape
will be hindered in responding to the de-
mands of students, teachers and parents.
A concrete application of this principle is
the consolidated education grants legisla-
tion which the Congress is now consider-
ing. I again urge that this legislation be
framed to achieve the maximum possible
consolidation of funding authorities, so
that State and local agencies can use
Federal funds to meet national priorities
in their own ways.
-Second, the Federal Government
must make it possible for citizens, students,
parents and administrators to plan ahead.
The request I will be making in my budget
for advanced funding of the consolidated
education grants reflects this principle.
-Third, to the maximum extent pos-
sible we should put the important choices
in the hands of students and parents them-
selves. A concrete example of this principle
is the Basic Opportunity grant program
which permits students to apply funds
toward an education at the school of
their choice.
-Fourth, the Federal Government
must play a more responsive role in fund-
34
