[162] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
indemnity compensation for widows and
children by about 17 percent. These rate
increases approximate the rise in the Con-
sumer Price Index since these benefits
were last increased.
This is the fourth opportunity I have
had during my Administration to sign into
law increases in disability compensation
or indemnity compensation. These bene-
fit increases will soon be helping approxi-
mately 22 million of our most deserving
men and women veterans disabled in the
service of our country and the survivors
of men and women who died of service-
connected causes.
Beyond the increases authorized by S.
3072, I am pleased to announce that in
fulfillment of my pledge to the Congress
last March, the Veterans Administration
is developing proposals which will raise
compensation benefits for veterans who
have been shown to be undercompen-
sated. These proposals will be based on an
in-depth survey of the earnings impair-
ment of service-disabled veterans. We
will shortly be sending these proposals to
the Congress for appropriate review.
In my radio address of March 31, I
called attention to the need to intensify
the Nation's efforts to assist Vietnam vet-
erans in finding their rightful place in the
civilian economy. An increase in educa-
tional benefits under the GI bill should be
adopted now, consistent with the cost of
living rise since the last change. This will
enable us to provide veterans the kind of
financial support they need to enter and
stay in training.
To finance these bills and the pledged
improvements in veterans services, I will
shortly submit to the Congress supple-
mental appropriation requests. I urge the
Congress to take speedy action on these
requests so that our veterans and their
families can quickly receive the higher
benefits and improved services authorized
by this legislation.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3072 is Public Law 93-
295 (88 Stat. 180), and S. 3398 is Public Law
93-293 (88 Stat. 176).
163 Statement About the Death of Edward K. Gaylord.
June 1, 1974
E. K. GAYLORD was a rugged, enduring
pioneer whose memory will live in the
annals of American journalism. His news
career began in 1901 and ended only with
his death, at the age of 101. Typically, he
was active and working to the end.
Over the years, as editor and publisher,
Mr. Gaylord built the Daily Oklahoman
into one of the leading newspapers of the
American Southwest. His clear, forth-
right, and reasoned editorials reflected not
only his keen judgment of men and events
but his deep love of country.
Mrs. Nixon and I extend our sympathy
to Mr. Gaylord's family and friends on
the sad occasion of his passing.
NOTE: Mr. Gaylord died in Oklahoma City,
Okla., on May 30, 1974.
466
