[187] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
the United States from many of its tradi-
tional friends in what is called the Arab
world.
And so, while I cannot tonight, and
will not be able tomorrow in the meet-
ings that we will have to discuss these
situations in more detail, offer solutions
at this time, I can tell you that, just as
you said in every conversation that I have
had, the problems that you have raised
have been discussed with me and in great
detail the problems of the Palestinians,
the problem of Jerusalem, the problem of
borders, the problems that we could go
and list, perhaps, at even greater length.
But the fact that all of these problems
do not have solutions at this time is no
cause for despair. What would be cause
for despair would be if the people in these
nations and the leaders of the nations in
this area were to go back to the old ways,
and the old way was to dig in, freeze into
place, and wait for another conflict to
break loose.
There is one thing that the last 25 years
or 30 years have proved, and that is that
another war will not solve the problems to
which you have referred. That has been
tried and it has not succeeded—and I am
not suggesting who tried, where or why or
how the fault might have been, but war is
not a solution and cannot be a solution
to problems as intricate as this, not at this
period in the history of this area.
And that is why we feel on our part,
and I know, Your Majesty, from our dis-
cussions that you share this view, that we
must try another way. We must try the
path of peace.
You have urged this upon me from the
time you first called upon me as Presi-
dent back in 1969. And the United States,
I must say, has not played a decisive and,
in some cases, has not played an effective
role in the Mideast in attempting to move
on the path of solving these problems
through peaceful means.
But the new element that has been add-
ed, the new element that has been sym-
bolized by this journey which you have
referred to, the new element that certainly
was not only symbolized but showed ac-
tual results in addition, in the long nego-
tiations which were undertaken by Secre-
tary Kissinger in the Mideastern area-
one leading to the disengagement on the
Israeli-Egyptian front and another on the
Syrian-Israeli front-the one new element
is that the United States now has made a
decision that we will undertake not to im-
pose a settlement because we are not the
best ones from the outside. No one from
the outside knows what is best as far as a
settlement is concerned. But we will un-
dertake, where the nations in the area-
and this seems to be the case at this time-
where the nations in the area want us to,
we will undertake to use our influence
and use it effectively to bring leaders of
nations who have disagreements on such
critical issues as you have discussed to-
night, bring them together and try to find
fair and just solutions to these problems.
And so tonight, I do not tell you where
this journey will end. I cannot tell you
when it will end. The important thing is
that it has begun.
You said earlier, Your Majesty, that
this was the last stop. Let me tell you, it is
the last stop on this trip, but it is only the
beginning of the journey for peace, be-
cause what we have found is that despite
the important first steps that we have
taken, they are only a beginning. We have
a long way to go, and this trip is simply
another step, a step in which understand-
ing has been created where there was mis-
understanding before, where new rela-
530
