Richard Nixon, 1974
May 11 [136]
This procedure is already allowed by the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board for con-
ventional loans.
I urge swift enactment of all of these
measures as well as the prompt enactment
of the Financial Institutions Act now be-
fore the Congress. The coordinated and
interrelated financial reforms incorpo-
rated in the latter act, such as the mort-
gage interest tax credit, will greatly
strengthen our financial institutions, offer
better financial services and greater re-
wards to savers, and assure a greater and
more stable flow of funds into mortgage
markets without the need for Government
intervention. All of these measures are
important and merit prompt action.
While the initiatives announced today
are aimed at providing increased money in
the mortgage market, I would point out
that in addition to these proposals, I have
already authorized or requested budget
authority from the Congress for 418,000
units of subsidized housing for low-income
families. Some 290,000 of these units are
for new construction, and the remainder
are for leasing of existing housing units.
These are positive steps, but the best
long-range solution to the housing prob-
lem is to conquer the inflation problem.
Inflation picks at the pocketbook for
other items; it leaves less to save for a
downpayment on better housing or for
higher monthly payments for better hous-
ing.
Inflation increases the cost of the hous-
ing itself, as higher prices for money, for
land, for labor, for building materials,
push up the cost of each housing unit.
That is why the most important steps
which we can take to assure a healthy
housing industry and more possibilities for
homeownership are those which tend to
lower the rate of inflation and raise real
income.
NOTE: On May 10, 1974, Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development James T. Lynn met
with the President to discuss Administration
actions to alleviate conditions in the hous-
ing market.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the plans and pending legislation to
deal with the housing market situation. Partic-
ipants in the news briefing were Secretary
Lynn and Assistant Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development for Housing Production
and Mortgage Credit Sheldon B. Lubar.
136 Remarks at Vance Air Force Base, Oklahoma.
May 11, 1974
MRS. NIXON and I want to thank all of
you for giving us this wonderfully warm—
warm in terms of climate and also in
terms of your enthusiasm-Oklahoma
welcome.
As you probably noted, we have some
very distinguished guests with us on the
Spirit of '76. I know you have met them
all before, but I think you ought to see
them all—and first, of course, my wife Pat.
And somewhere in the crowd I saw
some Bellmon Belles, so Henry Bellmon
better get up here. Where is he? Henry
Bellmon. You can stay up here. You rank
high enough. That is right.
And Dewey Bartlett, Governor and
Senator now. It is a great team. Don't
break it up, right?
Now, if these two Senators will step
down, I would like to get a couple of other
important people here. We have two Con-
gressmen here. I will introduce them in
425
