Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
nessing natural energy sources such as the
sun and the heat of the earth. At the same
time, we are asking them to explore new
ways of conserving the
energy that we al-
ready use for everyday conveniences such
as our automobiles.
This Administration recognizes that
the need for progress in every major area
of American life requires technological
input. We are therefore committed to
giving all our major programs a broad
scientific underpinning. The new budget
will call for an increase of over 20 percent
in civilian research and development
expenditures.
In addition to a major increase for
energy, research and development funds
will be spread across a large number of
programs for enhancing the prosperity,
well-being, and health of Americans.
Science will continue to be vital to our
efforts to fight drug abuse, to prevent in-
fant mortality, to combat venereal disease,
and to aid in treating mental illness.
We will call upon the services of our
scientists and engineers to design better
forms of transportation, and to make safer
the transportation we already have. We
will examine ways of making our vast
agricultural establishment yield more food
at lower prices, and try to lessen agricul-
turally-related pollution. We will attempt
to develop methods of mining that will
not only yield greater mineral wealth but
also give the miner greater safety and the
landscape greater protection. We will
study ways to protect our wildlife from
natural and man-made attack, and we
will attempt to learn how to protect our-
selves from the violence of nature in the
form of floods, landslides, earthquakes,
tornadoes, and other natural calamities.
This Administration recognizes the vital
role which the social sciences must play in
America's growth. Money will be made
available for studying the social effects of
various Government income distribution
and redistribution plans, such as social
security, welfare benefits, health insur-
ance, and varied and experimental educa-
tional forms.
In every great area of national en-
deavor, the Administration will see that
adequate funds for making scientific
progress are spent.
That also means we will continue our
important efforts in space. The explora-
tion of space is today making a key con-
tribution to man's understanding of his
universe and to our abilities to manage
our resources on earth wisely. As our
Skylab astronauts have proven, space is
now an acceptable working environment
for man.
While we explore our planetary system,
the stars, and the galaxies, we are also
using space technology to monitor the
earth's environment. The Earth Resources
Technology Satellite is allowing us to
search for scarce resources from high
above the earth. Already, many of our
intercontinental communications are by
satellite. This year new commercial
satellites will also be used for domestic
telephone, telegraph, and television serv-
ices. Satellite weather forecasting is now
commonplace as a result of our space
efforts.
Space exploration in the future should
become more economical as we develop
the Space Shuttle, a reusable vehicle for
space transportation. A cooperative inter-
national aspect of the space program will
come with the European developed Space-
lab as an integral part of the Shuttle pro-
gram. In addition, we are now moving
91
