Richard Nixon, 1974
July 15 [220]
this, of course, is primarily an entertain-
ment group, I can assure you that this
symbolizes the efforts that both of our
governments are making to bring our two
countries closer together and our two peo-
ples closer together.
And I would simply say finally that if
I ever need a bodyguard, I will just take
these three with me [referring to the three
youngest members of the troupe].
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
3 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
In his opening words, the President refer-
red to Huang Chen, Chief of the Liaison Office
of the People's Republic of China, who ac-
companied the Wu Shu Martial Arts and
Acrobatic Troupe to the White House.
I
219 Statement About the Death of General Carl A. Spaatz.
July 15, 1974
AS A pioneer Army aviator, as the leader
of the largest single air command in the
history of military aviation, and as the
first U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff, Gen.
Carl Spaatz served his country with cour-
age, honor, and ability and earned for
himself a place in history.
No individual deserved more credit
than General Spaatz for creating the
proud, independent tradition of the U.S.
Air Force and for building America's
supremacy in the air.
220
Mrs. Nixon and I join with all our fel-
low citizens in extending our sympathy to
his wife and family, and in mourning the
passing of a great patriot and a great mili-
tary leader.
NOTE: General Spaatz, 83, died in Washington,
D.C., on July 14, 1974.
He was Air Force Chief of Staff from 1947
until his retirement in 1948.
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee About National Security Investigations
and Wiretaps. July 15, 1974
YOUR letter of June 25 has been brought
to my attention, and I welcome this oppor-
tunity to affirm my public statement of
May 22, 1973, as quoted in your letter,
and to add the following comments.
You appreciate, I am sure, the crucial
importance of secrecy in negotiations with
foreign countries. Without secret negotia-
tions and essential confidentiality, the
United States could not have secured a
ceasefire in South Vietnam, opened rela-
tions with the People's Republic of China,
or realized progress in our relations on the
SALT negotiations with the Soviet Union.
The circumstances that led to my deci-
sion to direct the initiation of an investi-
gative program in 1969 are described in
detail in the May 22 statement. I ordered
the use of the most effective investigative
procedures possible, including wiretaps,
to deal with certain critically important
national security problems. Where sup-
porting evidence was available, I per-
sonally directed the surveillance, includ-
589
