Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 27 [89]
ians and the military. And we like to think
that we were a Department, 5 million strong,
that was implementing the Nixon Doctrine of
strength, partnership, and a willingness to ne-
gotiate. And we felt that the people of that
Department, working together, understanding
one another, gave the kind of leadership and
the kind of understanding to the problems that
faced us as we tried to Vietnamize a war that
had been Americanized for some 4 years.
We changed policy there, and we carried
out the pledge that was the pledge of the Presi-
dent of the United States to do away with the
draft and move towards volunteerism in the
military service, do away with conscript labor
and start paying the young men and women
who served in our service an adequate wage.
And we were, I believe, successful in instilling
that philosophy of the Nixon Doctrine through-
out that Department.
And so, to these men and women, civilian
and military alike, in all four of the services,
this award means a great deal to all of them.
And the fourth credit is the credit that I
would like to pay to my family: to Barbara; to
John, who cannot be with us tonight, who is
teaching school out in Los Angeles; to my
daughter Alison; to our son David.
Barbara and I have been here in Washington
for a good many years, but we will look back
with a great deal of pleasure and a great deal
of happiness to the years that we have served
the Nixon Administration.
And I believe that in acknowledging the fine
support that I have had from my family, I am
joined by all of us in the Department of Defense
tonight, Mr. President, in thanking you for
recognizing what I think was a Department
effort from 1969 through 1973, in changing
some directions as far as America was con-
cerned, in making it possible for us to look
forward to a period in which the Nixon Doc-
trine will be truly a great reality of the 1970's
and the 1980's.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
89 Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Campaign Reform
Legislation. March 27, 1974
ATTACHED for the consideration of the
House of Representatives (Senate) is the
legislative proposal for Federal election
campaign reform which I outlined in my
message to the Congress on March 8,
1974. This draft legislation covers sev-
eral areas which I believe must be ad-
dressed in any comprehensive election
reform measure.
First, enforcement of reporting require-
ments and restrictions on contributions
would be facilitated by the establishment
of an independent Federal Election Com-
mission and by requiring each candidate
to designate a single campaign committee
and a single depository for funds.
Second, by requiring that all contribu-
tions to political committees from individ-
uals be earmarked, by insuring full dis-
closure by all contributors, and by pro-
hibiting the solicitation of contributions
by intimidation, we would minimize the
undue influence of special interest groups
and strengthen the influence of individual
citizens over the electoral process.
Third, by outlawing deceptive acts
which are calculated to disrupt campaigns
or mislead voters and by making it crimi-
nal to obstruct or impair an election or
registration for an election, the draft bill
would rightfully deter improper campaign
practices.
I realize that the Congress is now con-
sidering a number of other campaign re-
form proposals, including public financ-
ing of Federal elections, but I believe the
315
