[194] June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
David over a year ago when I said that the
time had come for me to return to private life.
You urged me to delay that decision for a few
months. The months having become more than
a year, the reasons for my departure have be-
come more pressing. Therefore, I hereby sub-
mit my resignation as Assistant to the President
and Executive Director of the Council on Inter-
national Economic Policy, to be effective at your
earliest convenience.
Again, Mr. President, let me thank you for
the opportunity of serving you and your Ad-
ministration. I will always consider that, and
your trust in me that it indicates, a high honor.
And I will cherish the knowledge that I have
had a part in the great contributions, both at
home and in foreign affairs, which you have
made for our Country. If at any time in the
future I can, in my private capacity, be of
further service, I would be pleased to do so.
Sincerely yours,
PETER M. FLANIGAN
195
Remarks on Signing the Colorado River Basin Salinity
Control Act. June 24, 1974
IN ADDITION to the Members of the
House and Senate who have been respon-
sible for this legislation, we have the Am-.
bassador from Mexico. The Ambassador
is here because this legislation carries out
a commitment that I made with Presi-
dent Echeverría in 1972¹ with regard to
trying to solve the problem that has been
a very difficult one between the United
States and Mexico, going way back to the
1960's.
Special Ambassador Herbert Brownell
worked on the problem for the United
States, and an agreement was reached.
The agreement required, of course, action
by the Congress, and the Congress has
acted responsibly. And as a result of the
action of the Congress and the coopera-
tion of both of us, the United States and
Mexico have now reached an agreement
which will be implemented on our side to
improve the quality of water that Mexico
receives from the Colorado River and
which will also provide for certain projects
in the United States which will deal with
the necessity for maintaining adequate
water supplies in the Colorado River Basin
1 See 1972 volume, Item 203.
where it does affect the United States of
America.
I want to congratulate the Members of
the House and the Senate who have
worked on this legislation. It was ex-
tremely difficult and has been very con-
troversial. When one goes to Arizona or
Wyoming or Colorado or others affected
by this legislation, I have known over the
years, certainly in the sixties, that I have
heard that there was no answer to it. And
now we have at last found what we be-
lieve is a fair end to it, fair to Mexico
and fair also to those States in the United
States that are affected by it.
So, I shall now sign the legislation with
very great pleasure. This is the way inter-
national relationships should operate.
Where both nations act with good faith,
we can find peaceful solutions to very dif-
ficult problems.
Mr. Ambassador, we usually give the
original pen to a Member of the House or
the Senate upon the signing of the legisla-
tion. But in view of the fact you are here,
I would like to give you this pen, with
which this historic legislation was signed,
for presentation to the President of
Mexico.
542
