Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 23 [59]
58 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the National Endowment for the Humanities.
February 22, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Eighth
Annual Report of the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities for fiscal year
1973. Training in the humanities, history,
literature, and philosophy, among other
disciplines, guided those who shaped the
American nation and its basic documents
two hundred years ago. Now, as at the
beginning of our history, the ongoing en-
richment of the humanities is central to
the solution of those problems which chal-
lenge a nation, young or old-problems
which affect the quest for a life of quality
by all its citizens.
The Federal Government recognized
and affirmed the importance of the hu-
manities nine years ago with the establish-
ment of the National Foundation on the
Arts and the Humanities. It reaffirmed
that importance last year with legislation
extending the Foundation for another
three years.
As the National Endowment for the
Humanities has grown it has increasingly
attracted gifts from individuals, corpora-
tions, and foundations. I am happy to note
that these, for the fourth year in a row,
have more than matched Federal funds
appropriated for that
purpose. Such pub-
lic confidence in the Humanities Endow-
ment and its work more than justifies the
strong support the Endowment has re-
ceived from both the legislative and ex-
ecutive branches and augurs well for the
future development of the humanities in
this country.
The White House,
February 22, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
59 Radio Address About the American Right of Privacy.
February 23, 1974
Good afternoon:
Over the years, historians and philoso-
phers have continually debated about the
roots of American greatness. There are
almost as many theories as there have
been scholars, but a single theme recurs
again and again. It is the theme of indi-
vidual dignity and individual rights—an
ideal that permeates the Constitution's
Bill of Rights and has been a fundamental
part of American life since the founding
of our Nation.
Generation after generation, we find
America's best minds and greatest leaders
emphasizing the need to protect the rights
of the individual. In the Federalist Papers,
James Madison said that the twin duties
of enlightened government were "to
secure the public good" and to secure
"private rights." In our own time, Presi-
dent Eisenhower reaffirmed that ideal. He
said, "The supreme belief of our society is
in the dignity and freedom of the
individual."
In James Madison's day, the American
Revolution was fought to establish a new
195
