[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the Middle East has not yet been totally
effective, allowing us to import more oil
than we first anticipated.
ACTION AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL
The Federal Government clearly has
a major responsibility in helping to over-
come the energy crisis. To fulfill that re-
sponsibility, several steps have been taken
in the last three months:
-A major conservation program has
been established and has cut consump-
tion of energy by Federal agencies by
more than 20 percent below anticipated
demands in the third quarter of 1973.
-A sweeping investigation of fuel
prices charged at gasoline stations and
truck stops has been launched, putting
an end to price gouging wherever it is
found.
-A Federal Energy Office has been
created to serve as a focal point for energy
actions taken by the Government.
-Finally, a fuel allocation program has
been set up to assure that no area of the
Nation is subjected to undue hardships
and to assure that in allocating fuel, the
protection of jobs comes ahead of the
satisfaction of comforts. As part of this
allocation effort, refiners are being en-
couraged to produce less gasoline and
more of the products that are needed in
homes and industry, such as heating oil,
diesel oil, residual fuel oil, and petro-
chemical feed-stocks. The Cost of Living
Council has issued regulations to en-
courage the shift away from gasoline
production. If necessary, additional steps
will be taken to encourage shifts in re-
finery production.
The allocation program now underway
will mean some cutbacks in travel, heat-
ing and other end uses of fuel, while uses
which keep our economy operating at a
high level will be permitted to remain at
or above last year's levels.
Market forces are also at work alloca-
ting fuel. Due primarily to huge increases
in prices for foreign oil, the price of gaso-
line has risen by 12 to 15 cents per gallon
over last year. This obviously discourages
the consumption of gasoline. Heating oil
has also shown a comparable rise with
similar effect.
There is a limit, however, to the amount
of market allocation through higher
prices which we will allow. We will not
have consumers paying a dollar a gallon
for gasoline. We must therefore seek to
maximize the production of domestic oil
at a price lower than the price of foreign
oil. We will also carefully review requests
for energy price increases, to ensure that
they are genuinely needed.
All of the measures of conservation and
allocation have greatly improved the
Nation's chances of avoiding hardships
this winter and gas rationing this
spring. Gas rationing, with its attendant
bureaucracy and cost to the taxpayer,
should be only a last resort. Nevertheless,
we are attempting to be prudent and
therefore have developed a system of cou-
pon rationing. The system is now on the
record for public comment, and will be
ready for use this spring should it prove
necessary.
The system would provide for transfer-
able coupons for all licensed drivers over
18 years old. The coupons, unlike the
World War II coupons, would be freely
transferable. Thus those who can econo-
mize and use less than their allotment
would be given tangible incentive to do
so, while those who seriously need larger
amounts would be able to buy coupons
legally.
20
