Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 10 [108]
America which is strong not only mili-
tarily but also an America in which our
people will recognize that it is our leader-
ship in the world which the world respects.
And let me just say that as I come here
to Michigan, as I talk to this great crowd
of people, as I see those who talk about
America, as I see those who wear the
American flag, all that I can say is that
I know you have faith in your country.
You are going to see that America is
strong, and a strong America is going to
lead the way to a period of peace, not
only for America but for the whole world.
This is a great challenge, and to the
young people of America I can simply
say, you can all help. You can help by hav-
ing, represented in the Congress of the
United States, a man who stands for
strength for America, but a man who also
says that in our dealings with other coun-
tries, let's be sure that American products
get a fair shake, and we stand for that and
very strongly for it.
The other day, just yesterday, I was in
a little town in Ohio-Xenia-and I saw
the devastation where a tornado had just
ripped out whole blocks, and nothing was
left. As I drove along the street, I saw
several places where there was only debris.
But then, there were areas where the in-
dividuals who had lived in those houses
had put in a stake and they had an Amer-
ican flag on it. And I stopped and talked
to some of them.
And I said, "Are you going to move
out?" And they said, "No."
"What are you going to do?" I said.
They said, "We love our town, we love
our country, and we are going to stick it
through.” It is that kind of spirit that
built America.
And let me say, we do have problems,
yes, but thank God, they are problems of
peace and not the problems of war. We
will solve these problems. We will solve
them. The energy problem, which will
mean more jobs for this area and for the
whole country. We will solve the problem
of inflation. And we will build for what
we all want, prosperity, but prosperity
without war and without inflation.
That is the cause we are for, and that is
what your candidate stands for, and I am
proud to be here with him.
Thank you very much.
[2.] BAD AXE (Huron County Court
House, 12:23 p.m.)
Mr. Mayor, Mr. Senator, Mr. Repre-
sentative,¹ and all of the other distin-
gished guests, and all of you who have
been so kind to come out and give us this
very warm welcome on this beautiful day
here in Huron County:
As I saw this crowd coming into town
and as I see you standing before me, I
thought that the first thing that I did
when I should get back to Washington,
should be to get in the fellow that runs
the Bureau of the Census and take a re-
check on this town, because it said on my
chart that there were 2,500 people who
live here, and there have got to be about
twice that many here. We thank you for
coming in such great numbers.
I was glad to note, in talking to some
of the people here, that as far as this
particular area is concerned, that when
it comes to the products that you raise,
the prices are good. You have some prob-
lems with regard to getting the fertilizer
that you may need. I can only say in that
respect that thanks to the fact that that
matter was brought to our attention by
¹ Mayor Edward S. Draves of Bad Axe, State
Senator Alvin DeGrow, and State Represent-
ative Quincy Hoffman.
349
