[45] Feb. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
critical improvements over current
programs:
-It would permit recipients of funds—
State and local communities to deter-
mine their own transportation priorities.
-The recipients could spend the
money not only on capital improvements,
such as new buses, new rail cars, new rapid
transit systems, and non-interstate high-
ways, but also on other transit needs.
Broadening the law in this way would per-
mit local tradeoffs between capital invest-
ments and costs to improve services. I
believe this is the most effective way for
the Federal Government to provide
transit assistance, and I will continue my
strong opposition to any legislation which
establishes a new categorical program
solely for local operating assistance. Such
a program would unnecessarily inject the
Federal Government into decisions which
can be far better made by State and local
governments.
-UTAP also would allocate over two-
thirds of metropolitan funds on a popula-
tion-based formula so that our cities
would receive an assured flow of transpor-
tation assistance. We are aware of the
concerns voiced by some that our pro-
posed formula should be altered to meet
the unique problems of some of our largest
cities. We intend to work closely with the
Congress, elected officials and others, in
examining alternative formulas.
-Finally, UTAP would also provide
additional, more flexible assistance for
public transportation systems in smaller
urban and rural areas. Most of these funds
would probably be used by the localities
for improving the service and safety on
main highways and roads. Funds would
also be available for public transportation
equipment and demonstrations in smaller
urban and rural areas.
Enactment of the Unified Transporta-
tion Assistance Program would augment
my budget for fiscal year 1975, which
already calls for an increase of 50 percent
in spending for transit capital improve-
ments under existing programs.
2. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT ACT
(TIA)
The problem of transporting freight
between our communities is as crucial as
transporting people within them.
Our railroads, once the pride of the
Nation, have been gradually deteriorating.
Frequently, the blame is placed upon poor
management and rigid labor contracts,
but a more fundamental cause lies with
our outmoded complex system of Govern-
ment regulations which govern the rail-
roads. These regulations were drawn up
early in the century to protect the public
from monopolistic practices by the rail-
roads and to protect the companies within
the industry from each other. Over time,
however, industry has increasingly given
up its managerial powers to the Govern-
ment, while the rules applied by the Gov-
ernment have become inflexible and
inefficient.
This inflexibility is most evident in the
rate-making process where it prevents
rail managers from managing their affairs
effectively and competitively. The low
earnings of our railroads are directly
linked to this rate-making inflexibility.
The current system of regulations is also
harmful to the railroads because it pre-
vents them from abandoning lines that
have become unprofitable. In 1971 the
Interstate Commerce Commission re-
quired the railroads to maintain service on
21,000 miles-about 10 percent of the
total of lightly traveled track for which
162
