[7] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
identified only by participants and time
spans measured in months and years. A
second subpoena seeks production of
thirty-seven categories of documents or
materials, one of which is "President
Richard Nixon's Daily Diary' for Janu-
ary 1, 1970, to December 19, 1973," a
period of approximately four years.
As I stated in my letter to you of July 6,
1973, "Formulation of sound public pol-
icy requires that the President and his
per-
sonal staff be able to communicate among
themselves in complete candor, and that
their tentative judgements, their explora-
tion of alternatives, and their frank com-
ments on issues and personalities at home
and abroad remain confidential." I an-
ticipated that even quite limited, se-
lected disclosures of Presidential record-
ings and documents "would inevitably
result in the attrition, and the eventual
destruction, of the indispensable principle
of confidentiality of Presidential papers."
To produce the material you now seek
would unquestionably destroy any vestige
of confidentiality of Presidential commu-
nications, thereby irreparably impairing
the constitutional functions of the Office
of the Presidency. Neither the judiciary
nor the Congress could survive a similar
power asserted by the Executive Branch
to rummage through their files and con-
fidential processes. Under the circum-
stances, I can only view your subpoena as
an overt attempt to intrude into the Exec-
utive to a degree that constitutes an un-
constitutional usurpation of power.
As you are aware, substantial numbers
of materials have been provided to the
Office of the Special Prosecutor for possi-
ble use with grand juries. With respect to
whatever portions of the materials cov-
ered by your subpoena may be relevant to
matters now subject to grand jury investi-
gation, and potentially, criminal trials,
disclosures to you, and through you to the
public, could seriously impair the ability
of the Office of the Special Prosecutor to
complete its investigations and success-
fully prosecute the criminal cases which
may arise from the grand juries.
Incurring these adverse consequences
by complying with your subpoena would,
on the other hand, serve no legislative pur-
pose which I can discern.
I recognize that in the current environ-
ment, there may be some attempt to dis-
tort my position as only an effort to with-
hold information, but I take this position
to protect the Office of the President
against incursion by another Branch,
which I believe, as have my predeces-
sors in office, is of utmost constitutional
importance.
Accordingly, in order to protect the
fundamental structure of our government
of three separate but equal branches, I
must and do respectfully decline to pro-
duce the materials called for in your
subpoenas.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman,
Select Committee on Presidential Campaign
Activities, United States Senate, Washington,
D.C. 20510]
NOTE: The text of the letter was released at
San Clemente, Calif.
6
