[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Now, ladies and gen-
tlemen, that is a perfectly proper ques-
tion, and it has been raised not only by
the gentleman who asked it but by several
respected publications in this area as well
as in other parts of the country, and some
Members of the Congress as well.
Let me respond to it, first, by saying that
of course Watergate has had a disturbing
effect, not only on young people but on
other people. It was a wrong and very
stupid action to begin with. I have said
that; I believe it now.
Second, as far as Watergate is con-
cerned, it has been carried on, it has been,
I believe, overpublicized, and a lot of
charges have been made that frankly
have proved to be false.
I am sure that many people in this
audience have read, at one time or other,
either in your news magazines, possibly in
a newspaper, certainly heard on television
and radio such charges as this: that the
President helped to plan the Watergate
thing before and had knowledge of it; that
the President was informed of the coverup
on September 15 of 1973 [1972]; that the
President was informed that payments
were being made on March 13 and that a
blackmail attempt was being made on the
White House on March 13, rather than on
March 21 when I said was the first time
those matters were brought to my atten-
tion; that the President had authorized
the issuance of clemency or a promise of
clemency to some of the defendants and
that the President had ordered the bur-
glarizing again, a very stupid act apart
from the fact of its being wrong and il-
legal of Dr. Ellsberg's psychiatrist's of-
fice in California.
Now, all of those charges have been
made. Many of the Americans, perhaps a
majority, believe them. They are all
totally false, and the investigations will
prove it, whatever the Congress does. The
tapes, et cetera, when they all come out,
will establish that they are false.
The President learned for the first time
on March 21 of 1973 that a blackmail at-
tempt was being made on the White
House, not on March 13. The President
learned for the first time at that time that
payments had been made to the defend-
ants-and let me point out that payments
had been made but, correcting what may
have been a misapprehension when I
spoke to the press on March 6 in Washing-
ton, it was alleged that the payments that
had been made to defendants were made
for the purpose of keeping them still.
However, Mr. Ehrlichman, Mr. Halde-
man, Mr. Mitchell have all denied that
that was the case, and they certainly
should be allowed the right in court to es-
tablish their innocence or guilt without
our concluding that that was the case.
But be that as it may, Watergate has
hung over the country, and it continues to
hang over the country. It will continue to
as the Judiciary Committee continues its
investigation, not of the voluminous docu-
ments only that we have already presented
to the Special Prosecutor, not only of all
the material they have from the Ervin
committee that has conducted months of
hearings and they have access to that-
but in addition, scores of tapes and thou-
sands of documents more, which would
mean that not just 1 year but 2 years or 3
years, we are going to have this hanging
over the country.
That is why I want a prompt and just
conclusion and will cooperate, as I indi-
cated in answer to the first question, with
the committee, consistent with my respon-
270
