[76] Mar. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
America does have in this burden the op-
portunity to help build what the world has
not had in this century, a generation of
peace for ourselves and for 3 billion peo-
ple, this makes this a great time to be liv-
ing in America, to be young.
Our heritage, the one that we want to
pass on to you, is a generation of peace.
And I can assure each and every one of
you that in the 3 years that I have in this
office remaining, that one goal will be
mine above every one else, and that goal is
to help build a peaceful world, one which
you can inherit and which you then can
build on and pass on to the next genera-
tion. And we can achieve that goal, I can
assure you. We can achieve it with the
support of great patriots like Congressman
George Mahon, Senator John Stennis, and
the others gathered up here. And we can
achieve it with the support of patriotic
organizations like the Veterans of Foreign
Wars.
But above all, we shall achieve it be-
cause the American people, even at a time
that we are almost 200 years old, has still
not forgotten that when we were very
young and very weak and very poor, we
meant something to the rest of the world
that could not be measured in terms of
strength or wealth. America had a mean-
ing far beyond itself, and those who
founded this country knew it.
Today we still have that same meaning.
And at a time that we have become rich
and that we have become strong, let us
be worthy of the spirit of those who
founded this country. If we are worthy
of that spirit, the next 200 years can be
greater than the first 200.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:46 p.m. in
the Sheraton Park Hotel Ballroom.
Ray R. Soden, national commander-in-chief
of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, introduced
the President. His remarks are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 10, p. 314).
77 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
March 13, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Technology in the Nuclear Age has be-
come capable of virtually global devasta-
tion. We are thus called upon as never
before in the history of American diplo-
macy-both by our traditions and by un-
precedented responsibilities-to assume a
role of leadership in seeking international
arms restraints. This is a most important
element of that structure of peace which
is the broader goal of our foreign policy.
The coordinating instrument for this
effort within our Government is the U.S.
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,
now entering its fourteenth year. It has
been the policy of my Administration to
strengthen this Agency and to equip it
for the essential role it must play in pro-
moting our national security.
The year 1973 was a time of sustained
effort and continued progress in arms
control, building upon earlier achieve-
ments and laying the ground for future
agreements which will be of utmost im-
portance for our security and well-being.
It is with deep satisfaction in our con-
tinuing progress that I transmit to the
Congress this thirteenth annual report of
260
