[108] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing to miss scores and scores of votes. He
is going to put you first, and he is going to
be there when it counts. He is not going
to be a rubber stamp for anybody else. He
is going to be your Congressman.
That is the kind of a man, Democrat or
Republican, whatever you are, that I
think the people in this county, the peo-
ple in this State, want in the United States
Congress. I am proud to be here with
with him.
[4.] SANDUSKY (2:50 p.m.)
If I could have your attention for just
a moment, I would like to thank all of
you for this wonderful welcome that you
have given us on the last stop that we are
making in this tour of what is called the
"Thumb" area of Michigan.
When I saw on the schedule the town
of Sandusky, I told one of my advance
men, I said, "Not true, Sandusky is in
Ohio." He said, "Oh, no, there is a San-
dusky in Michigan." Well, I am glad to
have come here. This is a great place to
be.
I want you to know that in our travels
through the "Thumb" area, we have seen
literally tens of thousands of people and
we have seen some of the richest farmland
in America. That farmland makes it pos-
sible for America to play a great role in
the world in terms of building a peaceful
world.
It also makes it possible for us to be
the best fed, best clothed people in the
world in terms of any standard that
want to apply.
you
But the other thing that I noticed about
this part of the country is a very strong
feeling of independence, a feeling that
you are people who want to look at your
candidate who is running for Congress,
both of them, regardless of what his party
may be, and you want somebody that is
going to represent you and not somebody
else in Washington, D.C.
For 13 years you have had Jim Harvey,
a man who has been that kind of a man.
And in Jim Sparling, I can tell you, he is
not a rubber stamp for anybody. He is
only going to work for the people of the
Eighth District of Michigan. He is worth
your confidence, and I am proud to be
here with him.
But what is more important is what he
is going to work for. He is going to work
for a strong America so that we can keep
the peace that we have won.
I have just talked to Captain [Robert]
Abbott here. You probably know him.
He was one of those brave men who was
a prisoner of war in Vietnam. And I can
say, we can thank God today that the
war that I found when I came to Wash-
ington in 1969 as President, we have
ended.
For the first time in 12 years, we have
peace; for the first time in 25 years, not
one young American is being drafted;
and for the first time in 8 years, every
American is home where he belongs and
not in any prison camp in Hanoi or any-
place else, and we can be thankful for
that.
And now we must go forward from
there. We do not want to have his broth-
ers, his sons, the brothers and sons of those
who fought in Vietnam, in another war.
We want to build a permanent peace, and
that means we need a strong America,
and that is where your Congressman
comes in, because he will vote for a strong
America, one that will meet its responsi-
bilities in the world so that we can build
a world of peace.
354
