I
Statement on the Death of Representative
Charles M. Teague of California. January 1, 1974
THE death of Charles Teague represents
a significant loss to the United States Con-
gress, to his home State of California, and
to the Nation he served so long and so
well. He will be remembered most espe-
cially for his interest in American agricul-
ture and for his many years of devoted
service on the House Agriculture Com-
mittee. Mrs. Nixon and I were deeply
2
saddened to hear of his passing, and we
extend our sincere sympathy to his family.
NOTE: Representative Teague, 64, died in Santa
Paula, Calif. He was the senior Republican
member of the House Agriculture Committee.
The President telephoned Representative
Teague's son, Mayor Alan Teague of Santa
Paula, to express his condolences.
The statement was issued at San Clemente,
Calif.
Statement on Signing the Regional Rail Reorganization Act
of 1973. January 2, 1974
AS ONE of my first acts of this new year,
I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 9142,
the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of
1973. I believe this bill can mark an im-
portant turning point in the history of
America's railroad industry.
The purpose of the act is to establish
special procedures for restructuring the
rail system in the Northeast and Midwest
regions. There are today seven large rail-
roads in these regions which are in bank-
ruptcy. Some of those railroads, including
the huge Penn Central, are threatened
with court-ordered liquidation and cessa-
tion of operations. This act was necessary
because existing laws for the reorganiza-
tion of railroads are inadequate to the
enormous task of providing a satisfactory
way to meet these problems.
The rail industry in the Northeast and
Midwest faces unusual difficulties because
it has not been able to adapt its opera-
tional patterns, most of which were laid
out 50 or more years ago, to today's eco-
nomic conditions. This act provides spe-
cial procedures for planning and financ-
ing a consolidated new rail system, for
abandoning totally unnecessary service,
and for providing court review of the im-
pact that the transfer of rail properties
would have on the creditors of the estates
of bankrupt railroads. By combining these
complex steps into a single program, the
act clears the way for dealing with these
problems without upsetting the regional
rail transportation service that is so vital
to the economy of all regions of the
Nation.
In addition to these procedural steps,
the act authorizes the issuance of up to
$1.5 billion in federally guaranteed obli-
gations and authorizes more than $500
million in direct Federal payments that
can be used for interim cash assistance to
the bankrupt railroads, for protection of
displaced rail employees, and for interim
local rail service subsidies to ease the
impact of the restructuring process. While
some of these expenditures are higher
than I believe they should be, I feel that
overall the act strikes a responsible bal-
ance between the burden on the taxpayer
I
