Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 9 [42]
rural transportation and to restore our
national rail system, we must not neglect
those parts of our national transportation
systems that have proved successful.
And chief among these is our highway
system, which is among the very best in
the world.
Today, the Interstate Highway System
stretches from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
By the early 1980's, when completed, this
system will carry over 20 percent of all
highway traffic.
Our programs for highway safety are
continually being improved, and funding
for State and community highway safety
programs will be increased both to en-
courage State enactment of mandatory
seatbelt legislation and to get the drunk
driver off the road.
In air transportation, we have pro-
vided $1.5 billion in Federal assistance to
airports since 1970 to expand and mod-
ernize their service. Our civil aviation
security program has been an unqualified
success, and today the American air trav-
eler can board his plane more secure in
the knowledge that he will reach his des-
tination free from the threat of hijacking.
This program will be continued, and it
will be strengthened.
Meanwhile, the Coast Guard will be
giving increased attention to the safety
and environmental protection of our rivers
and our harbors and seacoasts.
We will also continue our programs to
rejuvenate America's maritime fleet.
The Merchant Marine Act of 1970
marked the most comprehensive change
in our approach to the problems of the
U.S. flag merchant marine in 40 years.
We have challenged our ship construc-
tion industries to rebuild our fleet at rea-
sonable expense and our ship operating
industry to move toward less dependence
on subsidy. At the same time, we will con-
tinue to provide all essential support to
make this transition possible. These efforts
to date have resulted in private orders for
ships reaching a record high of $2.4 bil-
lion, while ship construction subsidy rates
have dropped to their lowest rate in
history.
Today, more than ever, the quality of
American life and the growth of our
economy is dependent upon our ability
to move people and goods rapidly, safely,
comfortably, and efficiently.
The programs that I have outlined for
you this afternoon are designed to ensure
that America's transportation system keeps
pace with our needs.
Finally, this afternoon, let me add just
a few words about the work stoppage by
independent truckers which has attracted
so much attention during the past week.
We should recognize that truckers have
faced special hardships arising from the
energy crisis. Some have been unable to
obtain sufficient fuel supplies to operate
on a continuing basis. And many have
been caught in an economic squeeze
cause of the costs of their fuel, which have
been rising sharply, but the rates which
they could charge to their customers were
frozen.
be-
Your Government has now acted to
provide relief for the truckers, which re-
dress their legitimate concerns. We are
making more diesel fuel available to them,
assuring that we will take every possible
step so that their supplies will be equal to
100 percent of their needs. And with the
help of the Congress, we have also pushed
through a new law which permits the
truckers to recover their increased fuel
costs immediately. [Public Law 93-249,
approved February 8.]
The events of these past few days have
149
