Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
confidence always hanging over the
President.
Now I come to the other point. The rea-
son why I think the Founding Fathers are
right, or were right at that point, is that
if a President is always watching the polls
to see what he should or should not do,
he will be a weak President and not a
strong President.
Some of the best decisions ever made by
Presidents were made when they were not
too popular. And I can only say that as
far as I am concerned, I believe that the
American system is a good one.
In this time, particularly, it is essen-
tial that when our Presidents are elected
by the people, they are in for 4 years. At
the end of 4 years, the people have then
the right to turn them out, and of course,
we always have the safeguard of the
Congress.
The Congress can turn down proposals
that a President may offer that they may
disagree with, but I do not think a vote
of confidence coming up with the people
or the Congress, for that matter, being
able to throw a President out because he
happens to be unpopular, would be in the
national interest, apart from the Presi-
dent's interest.
ENERGY SELF-SUFFICIENCY
[4] Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. This is the first time
a woman has ever asked a question, at
least when I have been to the Executives'
Club.
Q. I am the first lady, so to speak.
Since it is now the objective of the
United States to achieve self-sufficiency in
the field of energy, do you foresee Federal
encroachment into private business, and
secondly, in attaining this goal, how much
Federal money will be put into the econ-
omy annually?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as far as the
Federal role in energy is concerned, I
think that I can say safely that it is mini-
mal insofar as meeting the problem. Now,
when I say minimal, $15 billion over the
next 3 or 4 years, to Bob Mayo or Dave
Kennedy 2 isn't going to sound like mini-
mal, and that is what we plan to spend.
But in the next 5 years, while the Fed-
eral Government will be spending prob-
ably $15 billion in order to help achieve
the goal of self-sufficiency in energy, pri-
vate industry, it is estimated, will spend at
least $200 billion. And over the next 10
years, it is estimated that private industry
will spend at least $500 billion in order for
the United States to become self-sufficient
in energy.
Let me, in a word, point out how im-
portant that is to those who don't think
simply of the short-term difficulties we
have in our economy, but look down the
long road as to the future of America.
That future is good. It is going to be
strong. Many people have often spoken of
how much the Manhattan Project did to
boost the economy of America, and it did
help. Others have spoken of how much
the space program did to boost the econ-
omy of America, and it did help. But they
were both solely Government enterprises.
The way America moves forward is not
so much—as a matter of fact, it is not pri-
marily due and has never been primarily
due to what Government does. The way
to get this country moving is to energize
private industry, and that is why $500 bil-
"Executives' Club members Robert P. Mayo
and David M. Kennedy had served in Presi-
dent Nixon's first Administration as Director of
the Budget (1969-70) and Secretary of the
Treasury (1969-71), respectively.
265
