Richard Nixon, 1974
[90]
Mar. 27
just a repetition of a big Government pro-
gram such as we have had placed before
us by previous administrations?”
The answer is absolutely not, because it
has these features: One, our programs, all
of them, are ones that will not require new
taxes. The tax burden on the American
people is high enough.
Second, it is one that is based not on
making Government bigger, but based on
building, through and by private enter-
prise in the United States, because private
enterprise is the way to develop our
country.
And third, it is one that is based on the
policy that we should move toward not a
controlled economy, but a free economy,
because a free economy is how we got
where we are and the one on which we will
build for the future.
And so in this domestic area, I would
point out to you that our candidates can
say that whether it is in health or educa-
tion or transportation or energy or any of
these areas that you want to mention, they
can be proud to be for something. Yes, it
is worth it; it is worth every penny that
you put up to come to this dinner tonight
and every bit of work that you will do for
our candidates to work for such a pro-
gram, because we need them. We need
them to get the support that we don't have
presently in the Congress for movement on
all of these programs that I have laid out
before you tonight.
And then there is one other area that I
will discuss but briefly. I have touched
upon it already in referring to the past,
and that is in the area of continuing to
build toward our goal of a lasting peace in
the world.
We shall continue our negotiations to
limit nuclear arms with the Soviet Union
and to reduce the burden of armaments
for us, for them, for all nations, but it
must be mutual.
We will continue our negotiations with
the People's Republic of China, because
one-fourth of the world's most able people
live there and because for the United
States not to have communication with
that great center of power would be a
potential disaster for us in the years ahead
when they do become a powerful military
force.
We will continue to strengthen our alli-
ances with our friends in Europe, in Asia,
and in Latin America. We will continue to
build in the Mideast, as I have already
told you, a permanent peace in an area
which has known so little peace and so
much tragedy on both sides over these
past 25 years and even beyond that time.
But in order to continue those great
purposes, it is essential that America be
strong, and I refer to strength in three
areas: First, military strength, not because
we want to sound jingoistic, but because
it has to be recognized that only the
United States of America today in the
free world has the military strength to
keep the peace in the world, because that
is the fact. Let us always be sure that the
United States is never the second strongest
nation in the world. That is why we are
for that kind of strength.
And the second area is economic
strength. We must not sap this economy
with Government controls. We must con-
tinue to move toward a program not
based on scarcity whether in any field,
agriculture or any other, but based on
abundance and production, based on a
belief in private enterprise and encour-
agement of private enterprise, and a
removal wherever possible of those Gov-
321
