[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
year. Several companies have also an-
nounced plans to construct plants for
the production of commercially usable
gas from coal. Nevertheless, a variety of
factors including environmental, eco-
nomic, technical, and regulatory prob-
lems impose constraints on any major in-
crease in the commercial production and
industrial use of synthetic fuels. I have
therefore asked the Administrator of the
Federal Energy Office to head up an inter-
agency evaluation of financial or economic
incentives or regulatory changes that
may be needed to stimulate domestic
production.
EVALUATING ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS
There are now several products on the
market which, if given wider use, might
help us to use energy more efficiently and
could conceivably reduce air pollution.
Among them are chemical catalysts and
additives, attachments for automobile
engines and more efficient heat transfer
devices for industrial and home furnaces.
Previously, these products have not been
commercially profitable because of the low
price of fuel. With an increase in fuel
prices, however, they have become more
attractive. I have therefore directed the
Federal Energy Office to collect informa-
tion on these products and on their energy
efficiency. As results are available, we will
publicize them and, where appropriate,
will purchase the products for use by the
Government.
IMPROVING URBAN TRANSPORTATION
It is widely recognized now that the
development of better mass transit systems
may be one of the key solutions to both
our energy and environmental problems.
My budget for fiscal year 1975, which will
be sent to the Congress in the next two
weeks, gives special priority to the im-
provement of urban transportation, es-
pecially transit bus fleets. In addition, I
will soon propose legislation to increase the
amount and flexibility of Federal trans-
portation aid which is available to local
communities.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Nowhere will the need for the combined
efforts of industry and Government be
greater than in energy research and de-
velopment. If we are to see the successful
culmination of Project Independence, the
Federal Government must work in part-
nership with American industry.
For the last five years, I have provided
for a continual expansion of our efforts
in energy research and development. Fed-
eral funding increased almost 75 percent
from $382 million in fiscal year 1970 to
$672 million in fiscal year 1973 and was
then raised to $1 billion for fiscal year
1974. Last June I announced my commit-
ment to an even more rapid acceleration
of this effort through a $10 billion Federal
program over the next five years, and I
asked the Chairman of the Atomic Energy
Commission to develop recommendations
for the expanded program.
Today I am announcing that in fiscal
year 1975-the first year of my proposed
five year, energy R&D program-total
Federal commitment for direct energy re-
search and development will be increased
to $1.8 billion, almost double the level of
a year ago. In addition, I will be request-
ing an increase of $216 million for essen-
tial supporting programs in basic and
environmental effects research.
Regardless of short-term fluctuations in
30
