Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 16 [81]
81 Remarks at the Grand Ole Opry House, Nashville,
Tennessee. March 16, 1974
ROY ACUFF. I think it would be very ap-
propriate if all of us would sing "Happy
Birthday" to Mrs. Nixon, but I won't be
imposing if, should I ask you, Mr. Presi-
dent, will you please play the piano for us?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in this very pro-
fessional company, I am a little embar-
rassed to try to do that thing there. I
haven't even learned to play this thing. It
is a Yo-Yo.ยน
In the key of G.
[The President played "Happy Birthday" on
the piano.]
Just so that you will know-as you
know, my wife's name is Pat, and her
father was Irish, and he called her "St.
Patrick's babe in the morning," so she
always celebrates her birthday on St. Pat-
rick's Day.
So, I can't play this song at all, but
these fellows know it in the key of G, also.
That is the only key I know, incidentally.
So, if you will join us in this song, I
think you will recognize it when I start
it. Just let me get a chord.
[The President played "My Wild Irish Rose."]
MR. ACUFF. He is a real trouper, as
well as one of our finest Presidents. You
are a great man. We love you.
Along with every dedication there are
certain businesses to tend to, so we are
going to tend to the business right now,
as a country boy would put it. So, I am
going to invite the President and Mrs.
1 At this point, the President took a Yo-Yo
from his pocket and handed it to Mr. Acuff, a
country music entertainer who was known for
doing tricks with a Yo-Yo during his perform-
ances.
Nixon and Mrs. Dorothy Ritter 2 and Mr.
Bill Weaver, who is chairman of the board
of the National Life and Accident Insur-
ance Company, if they will join me over
here at the scroll and let's unveil the scroll.
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon, Dor-
othy, and Mr. Weaver, will you please
join me over at the scroll.
[At this point, a scroll dedicating the new
Grand Ole Opry House was unveiled.]
THE PRESIDENT. It must be time for
the commercial. [Laughter]
MR. ACUFF. Ladies and gentlemen,
about a year ago I was invited to the
White House, along with many others, to
entertain the prisoners of war. And after
I had sung my song, Mr. Bob Hope, who
was the master of ceremonies, asked me
back to the stage, and I remarked that it
was the highlight of my career.
But you know, I never dreamed that a
night like this would ever come to Roy
Acuff.
So, I would like to say to the world that
is listening in, from our new home here in
Opryland USA, ladies and gentlemen, the
President of the United States, Richard
Nixon.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Roy Acuff and to all of our distin-
guished guests, the Governors, the Sena-
tors, the Congressmen-and everybody,
of course, in this audience is distinguished
on this first-nighter for the opening of
the Grand Ole Opry in its new home.
I find it very difficult to find the ade-
quate words to say what this particular
2 Widow of country and western entertainer
Tex Ritter.
279
