[21] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
nam Veterans Day". It is appropriate that
we choose that date-the first anniver-
sary of the return of all of our POWs-
as an occasion to honor all of the veterans
of the Vietnam era.
We will honor those Vietnam veterans
once again later in the year on Veterans
Day itself, an observance which gives us
the opportunity to pay tribute not only to
the seven million who served during the
Vietnam era but also to the 22 million
other men and women who have proudly
worn the American uniform in years
before.
For most Americans, Veterans Day is
traditionally associated with Novem-
ber 11th of each year. That was the day
more than half a century ago when an
historic and dramatic ceasefire was
achieved in the First World War.
Legislation approved in 1968, however,
changed the traditional observance of
Veterans Day from November 11 to the
fourth Monday of each October. That
change, while well intended, has stirred
up considerable confusion and not a small
amount of resentment. In many places-
including the Tomb of the Unknowns in
Arlington National Cemetery-there are
now dual observances of Veterans Day,
while in others, observances are held not
in October but on November 11.
Thirty-one State legislatures have now
enacted resolutions declaring that within
their jurisdictions November 11th will be
officially observed as "Veterans Day". In
addition, all of the major veterans orga-
nizations have indicated their strong sup-
port for returning to the November 11th
observance.
In view of the confusion which has
arisen and in view especially of the posi-
tion taken by the veterans themselves, I
believe it would be wise to repeal the 1968
change in the Veterans Day observance. I
therefore urge the 93rd Congress, as part
of its effort to honor our veterans, to en-
act legislation restoring November 11th
as the official date for the entire Nation
to commemorate Veterans Day.
As we celebrate Veterans Day this year,
let us do so with the hope that the 29
million Americans who have served in
our armed forces represent our last gen-
eration of veterans and the last of Ameri-
ca's wars. May we never forget that we
will only be worthy of the blessings of
peace and freedom they have won for us
for as long as we continue to honor them,
and may we do everything we can to re-
pay our boundless debt to them.
The White House,
January 28, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the message by Administrator of
Veterans Affairs Donald E. Johnson.
22 Letter to the Senate Minority Leader About Pending
Emergency Energy Legislation.
Dear Hugh:
My conversations with you and other
members of the Senate since the beginning
of the Second Session have convinced me
that the people have made their elected
January 29, 1974
representatives very much aware of the
real concern over the energy shortage. It
would be most unfortunate if, through
an understandable but misdirected re-
sponse to this concern, the Senate ap-
44
