Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 30 [123]
great goal that mankind has tried to find
for so many years and has eluded us, this
great goal can be achieved, but it is in
our hands.
Now, so much for the prospect. Let me
tell you what you, as the business leaders
of America, and those you represent can
do to contribute to the success of achiev-
ing that great goal.
We all know that America must main-
tain its military might. We all know that
we must never send an American Presi-
dent to the conference table as the head
of the second strongest country in the
world. We know that, and we must main-
tain that strength.
But just as important as America's mili-
tary strength is America's economic
strength, and the first is not possible with-
out the second. And I can assure you, as
you meet with world leaders, they know
we are militarily strong, but as they look
at this massive productivity that we have
in this country, if they look at what we
have done over 200 years in our history,
America is the economic envy of the
world. We are a strong country econom-
ically.
Now, having said that, I know that
many of you are thinking perhaps of what
has happened in the first quarter and the
latter part of the fourth quarter of 1973
to our economy.
We have been going through a difficult
period, much of it energy-related, much of
it caused also by a worldwide inflation,
but whatever the causes, it has been there.
But while we must not overlook the diffi-
culties through which we are passing and
which we will overcome, we must also
never forget that our economy basically is
strong, and Government policies must do
nothing that weaken the American econ-
omy. They must always do things that
strengthen the American economy.
I consider, for example, the problem of
inflation. And here, as you all know, there
are various theories, but I know this: You
can spend your way into inflation, but you
sure can't spend your way out of inflation.
So, we have got to keep Government
spending at a level that is responsible.
I know, too, there are those who, as they
look at the inflationary spiral, would like
to think that there was an easy answer.
Why doesn't the Government control it
all? If there were such an answer, believe
me, that is what we would do.
But while controls can work for a time,
we have to remember that the experience
in this country, and we have had it in
these past 5 years, indicates that the fu-
ture of the American economy is not
through more controls, but less controls.
I would also suggest that on this day,
when the control authority officially ends,
that a great responsibility is placed on the
business community—the leaders of labor
as well-to be responsible, because if the
fires of inflation continue to burn too
strongly, the demand for controls will
again come up in the country and be re-
flected in the Congress.
That would not be in the best interests
of the country in the long run. And for
that reason I say, let us have faith in our
economy. Let us recognize, however, that
the answer to inflation, the major answer,
is more production, and more production
is going to come through policies that all
of you are familiar with.
And that brings me to the third point
about the strength of this economy. As
far as the future is concerned-and inci-
dentally, predicting the economy, particu-
larly one as big as ours, is even more diffi-
43-437 - 75 - 28
399
