[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
needed in the future. Increased Federal
funds, eliciting greater financial support
from the private sector and State and local
governments, will ensure the flourishing of
American arts in the years ahead.
The National Endowment for the Hu-
manities has likewise made outstanding
contributions to the stimulation of our
intellectual and cultural life. One meas-
ure of the growing importance of its activ-
ities is the fact that the Humanities
Endowment has a program today which is
ten times as large as it was five years ago.
The Humanities Endowment will also
play a major role in promoting the Bicen-
tennial and will emphasize activities which
reach large numbers of people, such as
film and television productions and travel-
ing exhibitions.
In America, television is by far the best
means of communicating with the widest
audience. To assure the American audi-
ence a greater range of television program-
ming of a type not financially feasible for
commercial television, we have dramati-
cally increased our support for public
television in the last five years.
Public Broadcasting matured during
the past year. Both the television and radio
licensees reorganized themselves in a way
which encouraged a more rational rela-
tionship between them and the Corpora-
tion for Public Broadcasting, and in-
creased the ability of each local station to
provide programs uniquely tailored to
their local communities.
Another aspect of electronic media that
has recently become a public policy issue
is cable television, a development that
could lead to a vast expansion of the Na-
tion's communications capabilities. In
June of 1971, I established a Cabinet
Committee to develop proposals for a
comprehensive national policy on cable
communications. I have recently received
and am now reviewing the report which is
the product of that committee. I have also
asked the Director of Telecommunications
Policy to prepare legislation to move to-
ward the adoption and implementation of
a national cable television policy and I
expect to submit such legislation to the
Congress in the near future. I encourage
the Congress to review carefully the issues
presented by cable television and I espe-
cially encourage a widespread national
debate on this subject which could play
such a major role in all of our lives during
the future.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
One of the great strengths of this Na-
tion has been its preeminence in science
and technology. In times of national peril
we have turned to the men and women in
the laboratories in universities, Govern-
ment, and private industry to apply their
knowledge to new challenges.
Once again, in the current energy crisis,
we are calling upon them to respond. I
have outlined, in my recent energy mes-
sage to the Congress, the first step in a
five-year, $10 billion research and de-
velopment effort in energy: $1.8 billion
for direct energy R&D for the coming
fiscal year and an additional $216 mil-
lion for supporting research-a total in-
crease of 80 percent over this year.
A look at the broad scope of this energy
effort tells a great deal about our confi-
dence in the capabilities of the Nation's
scientists and engineers. We are calling on
them to accelerate the development of
nuclear power systems, to determine how
we can use our abundant supplies of coal
in ways that are environmentally accepta-
ble and to improve technology for har-
90
