Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 8 [243]
gress in April of 1973. This legislation,
which passed the House by a margin of
nearly two-to-one last December and is
now pending in the Senate, is still ur-
gently needed.
Time is now of the essence with regard
to the trade bill. Our trading partners
have demonstrated their willingness to use
and improve multilateral channels for
trade negotiation. Just this spring, the Eu-
ropean Community negotiated a fair and
equitable accord compensating us for
tariff changes resulting from the enlarge-
ment of the European Common Market.
Through the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD),
ministers of member countries have joined
with the U.S. in renouncing trade restric-
tive measures as balance-of-payments cor-
rectives, at least until the basic problems
caused by oil price increases can be ad-
dressed through improvements in the
monetary system. Developing countries,
particularly our partners in Latin
America, have indicated their willingness
to work with us toward trade expansion
and reform. As I have noted before, our
new approaches to the socialist countries,
especially to the USSR and the People's
Republic of China, hinge in large measure
upon our ability to open up peaceful ave-
nues of trade with them. Again, I have ex-
pressed my willingness to work with the
Congress to find an acceptable formula-
tion for this authority. In Geneva, the
GATT Trade Negotiations Committee
has announced a program of work for the
fall to further prepare for the actual bar-
gaining.
In short, the rest of the world is wait-
ing for us at the trade negotiating table.
The alternative is an indefinite period in
which nations, including ours, will be
forced to deal with increasingly complex
and interdependent trade problems on an
ad hoc basis. Experience has shown that
this could lead to a proliferation of those
problems and disputes over the best ways
to resolve them. The adverse fallout from
the resulting uncertainties and tempta-
tions of shortsighted unilateral actions
could also seriously jeopardize gains we
have made in the diplomatic and security
fields.
For all these reasons, I take this occa-
sion once again to urge prompt and final
action on the Trade Reform Act. It is es-
sential that we move ahead to revitalize
the global trading system through multi-
lateral negotiations.
The White House,
August 8, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 47-page report is entitled "Eight-
eenth Annual Report of the President of the
United States on the Trade Agreements Pro-
gram-1973.
243 Veto of the Agriculture-Environmental and Consumer
Protection Appropriation Bill. August 8, 1974
To the House of Representatives:
The pressing need to control inflation
compels me today to return to the Con-
gress without my approval H.R. 15472, an
appropriations bill for the Department of
Agriculture, the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency and certain related agencies
and programs.
Two weeks ago, I vowed to the Ameri-
can people that any appropriations bill
625
