[235] Aug. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
-To study the feasibility and the con-
sequences of weather modification;
-To encourage international coopera-
tion in meeting the meteorological needs
of all nations.
The United States will soon begin con-
tinuous viewing of storms over much of
the earth's surface through the use of two
geostationary satellites. These satellites
will also relay information from remote
observing stations, thereby strengthening
our ability to warn of potential natural
disasters.
In cooperation with other nations, we
expect soon to make five such satellites
operational.
Immediate gains in weather predicting
are also being made through increased
computer power. This increased computer
use will also in time produce long-term
gains in both immediate and extended
range prediction of global weather condi-
236 Message to the Congress
Urban Transportation.
To the Congress of the United States:
The promotion of desirable community
development and flexibility in urban
transportation policies are principal goals
of this Administration.
It is clear that in order to promote the
orderly development of urban areas ac-
cording to local priorities, our efforts
should be focused on measures which bet-
ter integrate and coordinate all modes of
transportation in urban areas with other
tions and in the assessment of the impact
of man's activities upon climate and
weather.
During June through September this
year a major international experiment
will be conducted in the tropical Atlantic.
This experiment is expected to provide
new information on the origin of tropical
storms and hurricanes, and the effects of
these storms on global circulation.
In accordance with Senate Concurrent
Resolution 67 of the 90th Congress, I am
pleased to transmit this annual report
describing the current and planned activ-
ities of Federal agencies participating in
the World Weather Program.
The White House,
August 1, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "World Weather
Program, Plan for Fiscal Year 1975" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 57 pp.).
Transmitting Annual Report on
August 1, 1974
physical and social programs. Moreover,
State and local governments should be
given greater participation in major deci-
sions in the use of Federal programs affect-
ing community development.
I am pleased to submit to the Congress
this report which summarizes the many
ways in which the executive branch of the
Federal Government is working to effect
significant improvements toward that
end.
618
