Richard Nixon, 1974
June 26 [201]
States, between the Soviet Union-where
I will be tomorrow-and the United
States, I did not intend to leave with this
distinguished company or any others who
may listen to these words, any illusions.
We live in a world where there are still
deep and basic differences about philos-
ophy. We live in a world, however, where
whatever those differences are, statesmen
must find ways to solve them without re-
sorting to the use of force that could
destroy civilization as we know it.
When we negotiate, for example, with
the Soviet leaders, we can and will nego-
tiate on such matters as arms control, on
troops, on European security, on trade, on
health, on the environment, on energy.
But there is one thing that is not nego-
tiable, and that is the great principles that
are the foundation of the Atlantic commu-
nity, principles of freedom, of justice,
principles which we have inherited in
many instances, and some have acquired,
but principles which we deeply believe in,
must be defended and, we trust, pre-
served for generations to come.
That does not mean to suggest that
those we negotiate with will not have the
same determination to stand by their
philosophies and their principles as we will
by ours.
What it simply does mean is this: that in
the world in which we live with the nu-
clear power that overhangs it, there is
no alternative to peace, there is no alter-
native to negotiation.
And you can be sure that as far as we
are concerned, we not only will consult
with our allies in this great Alliance be-
fore but also afterwards to make sure
that our negotiations serve not only the
cause of peace but also the cause of free-
dom and everything it means to those who
are privileged to be members of this great
Alliance.
Your Majesty, we are grateful for the
hospitality that you have extended to all
of us who are members of this community,
and consequently, it is for me a very great
honor on behalf of all of my colleagues in
the Atlantic community to respond to
your remarks and to propose a toast. But
before doing so, I should like to add one
word about the sometimes unsung heroes
in this whole area of negotiations, com-
muniques, declarations, and the rest.
When history is written many years
from now, it may well be said—it probably
will be said that the leaders of nations
were the architects of peace. That may be
true; it may not be true. But of this I am
sure, and every one of my colleagues in a
position of head of a government, I am
sure, will agree: While the leaders and
the heads of government may be the archi-
tects of peace, the builders of peace are
their ministers, the foreign ministers, and
all of the others around this table who
devote their lives to the art of diplo-
macy, to carrying out whatever programs
or policies will contribute to a goal of
peace for not only our time but for all
times to come.
And so then, on behalf not only of my
colleagues, the architects, but also on be-
half of all those who are here, the build-
ers of this new world which, we trust, will
be a world of peace, I ask you to raise
your glasses to our host, His Majesty, the
King.
To the King.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
2:30 p.m. at the Royal Palace in response to a
toast proposed by King Baudouin.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Secretary
of State Henry A. Kissinger on the President's
impending trip to the Soviet Union.
551
