Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
sion I made in my first term was the very
last, in December of 1972. You recall then
that I found it necessary, because of the
breakdown in negotiations in Paris with
the North Vietnamese, to order the bomb-
ing of military targets in North Vietnam
in the Hanoi and Haiphong region by
B-52's.
The bombing began, we lost planes, and
at that time I can assure you that not only
my friends but many others who had sup-
ported the actions that I had taken to at-
tempt to bring the war in Vietnam to an
honorable conclusion, criticized and criti-
cized very strongly what I had done.
Great newspapers like the Chicago
Tribune, the Washington Star, that had
previously editorially supported me, for
example, were among them, and many
Senators as well as other public figures
spoke out. As a matter of fact, one Senator
said, "The President has taken leave of his
senses." Now, I had no hard feelings about
that. I made him Attorney General.
[Laughter]
The day after Christmas, some of my
closest advisers felt that because a poll that
they had taken privately indicated that I
had dropped 20 points in the polls since
the bombing began, that I should consider
stopping it. I considered their advice. I
did not take it.
I ordered the bombing to continue. I
ordered it, as a matter of fact, to be in-
creased on military targets. Five days
later, the deadlock was broken, and as a
result of that action, an unpopular action
but an action which I felt was right, the
longest war in America's history was
brought to a conclusion, and our prison-
ers of war were brought home, as I have
often said, on their feet rather than on
their knees.
Now, I want future Presidents to be able
to make hard decisions, even though they
think they may be unpopular, even though
they think they may bring them down in
the polls, even though they may think
they may bring upon them criticism from
the Congress which could result in de-
mands that he resign or be impeached.
I want future Presidents to be able to
take the strong, right decisions that he
believes are right. That is what I did then,
and that is what I intend to do in the
future.
I think, after that answer, it is only
right for me to turn to the left.
SHORTAGES AND PRICES
[3] Q. Mr. President, Tony DeHaro,
KRIS-TV, Corpus Christi, Texas. While
the Vietnam war was on, we as a nation
had to supply a military force, a couple of
nations plus our own with food, fuel, and
just basic commodities—well, in short, all
of the things that we now find expensive
and scarce. Why is it with the drain now
over, and even before the oil embargo
began, we, instead of having surpluses,
find ourselves with high-price shortages?
And what can be done to bring things
back a little closer to normal?
THE PRESIDENT. The reason why we
have the shortages, not only in terms of
food, which, of course, as you know, came
before the energy crisis and resulted in an
upsurge in food prices, but also in energy,
is that it is not just a U.S. crisis, but a
world crisis.
In a sense, that is good, because all over
the world people are eating a little better,
people are using more energy, and the
result is that we need to produce more
energy and produce more food in order to
deal with these shortages.
Here in the United States, we are mov-
285
