Richard Nixon, 1974
July 25 [229]
In fact, we can be thankful that our
problems today are the problems of peace,
rather than the problems of war.
We will win the fight against inflation,
but we are going to win it not by a single
set of dramatic actions, but by the cumu-
lative effect of actions that in themselves
are often undramatic, actions that may
not make headlines in the morning news-
papers, but that will be the right actions
to take.
In economic policy, impatience is the
great enemy of sound policy. If you look
at the history of inflation in America, more
than anything else it can be laid at the
doorstep of impatience: impatience to
spend money we have not yet earned or to
spend taxes we have not yet collected;
impatience to satisfy all of our social wants
at once, without regard to the fact that
we cannot afford everything at once; im-
patience with the short-term dislocations
that often are part of long-term adjust-
ments needed to keep the economy grow-
ing in a healthy rather than an unhealthy
way.
The key to fighting inflation, therefore,
is steadiness. The steadiness that accepts
the need for hard decisions, for occasional
unpleasant statistics and even a measure
of sacrifice in the short run in order to
ensure stable growth without inflation for
the long run, the steadiness that stands
fixed against the clamor to take dramatic
action just to create an appearance of ac-
tion, and the kind of steadiness that re-
jects demagogery, that rejects gimmickry,
and that gives the enormous creative
forces of the marketplace in America a
chance to work. That is our strength, the
free marketplace in America, and we must
keep it free.
And so, I say to you that we are on the
right road toward our goal, a goal of full
prosperity without war and without infla-
tion. We are going to stay on that road.
We will be steadfast in holding down
Federal spending, in slowing the growth
of the Federal budget.
We will have moderate but firm re-
straint on the growth of the money supply.
We will work creatively with other na-
tions to deal with inflation in its world-
wide dimensions.
We will take new measures to encourage
productivity, and this is perhaps the most
important long-term objective we can set
for ourselves to encourage productivity
and to increase supplies of scarce re-
sources. And in particular, we are going
to press vigorously forward in increasing
supplies of energy and food-the biggest
components of the recent inflationary
surge.
We shall stand firm against efforts to
turn us aside from the steadiness of course
that is necessary.
We intend to devote the full energies
of the Federal Government to the fight
against inflation. And I ask for your sup-
port, for the full support of the American
people in this great cause.
In 1976, America will celebrate its
200th anniversary as a nation.
Let our goal for that anniversary be an
America at peace with every nation in the
world, a peace that we helped to bring
about. And here at home, let our goal be
an economy of prosperity without war and
without inflation.
That is a great goal. It will require the
united efforts, the dediction of govern-
ment, of business, of labor, and of individ-
ual Americans all over this country.
What you do, each and every one of you,
will matter.
As you play your part in this great
crusade, you can be confident that your
613
