[17] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
research and development program that
will enable us to remain self-sufficient for
years to come.
We cannot accept part of the overall
program and ignore the others. Within
the Federal sector, success will depend
on a wide range of actions by many agen-
cies. As an important part of that effort,
the head of the Federal Energy Office,
William Simon, will mount a major effort
this year to accelerate the development of
new energy supplies for the future.
Our strategy for Project Independence
is reflected in urgent measures now pend-
ing in the Congress as well as many new
legislative proposals and administrative
actions I now plan to take.
A. LEGISLATION STILL AWAITING
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION
Over the past three years, I have sub-
mitted a number of legislative proposals
that are essential to our pursuit of en-
ergy self-sufficiency but are still awaiting
final Congressional action. I ask that the
93rd Congress move ahead with these pro-
posals, and I pledge the cooperation of
this Administration in working out any
differences. These proposals include the
following:
Natural Gas Supply Act
The artificially low prices for natural
gas created by Government regulations
continue to create a double problem: con-
sumers wish to purchase more of this
cheap, clean fuel than is available, while
suppliers have little incentive to develop
it. I again ask the Congress to provide for
competitive pricing of newly developed
gas supplies in order to encourage new
drilling and to direct available gas into
the premium uses.
Although my deregulation proposal
should not cause a significant rise in con-
sumer prices for natural gas for some
years, I recognize that there is a strong
desire to provide added insurance that
unreasonable price increases do not occur.
This insurance can be provided by adding
to the Administration's legislative pro-
posal a provision authorizing the Federal
Power Commission to establish limits on
absolute price increases. We are prepared
to work with the Congress on these
changes.
Naval Petroleum Reserves
The Nation has vast oil and oil shale
reserves which years ago were set aside for
national defense purposes by placing them
under the control of the Secretary of the
Navy. That action was taken at a time
when naval petroleum requirements were
an especially important share of total
national petroleum consumption. Some of
these oil reserves, principally those located
in Wyoming and California, have been
explored and developed to the point
where limited production is possible. The
largest reserve, located in Alaska, has not
been significantly explored or developed
and could not be available for produc-
tion for several years, even in a grave na-
tional emergency. I have proposed legis-
lation that would greatly improve the
availability of the reserves for future
needs and would permit limited produc-
tion from the Elk Hills Reserve in Cali-
fornia to assist in meeting our short-term
energy problems.
In accordance with law, the Secretary
of the Navy has issued and I have ap-
proved a finding that production of oil
from Naval Petroleum Reserve #1 (Elk
Hills) is necessary for national defense
purposes. Approval of the Congress is also
24
