[112] Apr. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
our best wishes for the ever-increasing great-
ness and prosperity of the United States of
America, for the personal good fortune of
yourself and of Mrs. Nixon, and to the fact
that the happiness of all of our peoples be
achieved by means of a global development
which will make possible dignified international
relations based on respect and equality.
To your health, Mr. President.
113 Remarks at the 83d Continental Congress of the
Daughters of the American Revolution. April 18, 1974
Madam President General,ยน all of our dis-
tinguished guests this morning in Consti-
tution Hall:
Mrs. Nixon and I are very grateful for
the very warm welcome you have given
us on this occasion, and I want you to
know that there are several reasons I am
happy that we could be here for this final
General Session of your 83d Congress.
First, because your president general is
our neighbor in California. We are very
proud of Mrs. Spicer. We are glad that
she has served so well. And we would like
to show our gratitude to this organization
in the very, shall we say perhaps, small
way, but one that may be something to all
of you who have such a sense of history.
Mrs. Spicer has told me that your
White House tour is scheduled for tomor-
row afternoon. And Mrs. Nixon is going
to arrange to be away from the family
quarters on that occasion-she will be in
the vicinity, but not in the family quar-
ters and I am going to arrange to do my
office work over in the Executive Office
Building. And so, for this group, when you
come to the White House, we are opening
up not only the public floors, the ground
floor and the first floor, but the whole
second floor where the family lives.
1 Mrs. Donald Spicer was president general
of the National Society of the Daughters of the
American Revolution.
The White House Rose Garden will
be open. It now has tulips in it, inci-
dentally, but you will enjoy seeing that.
But perhaps you will also enjoy going into
the Cabinet Room, which will be open
for your inspection, and also the Presi-
dent's Oval Office. So, that is our offer to
you.
I wish that we could give each of you
a little memento when you come there,
but there are just a few too many, I think,
scheduled for the tour. Just don't take
anything that is nailed down, that is all
we ask.
This 83d Congress is, it seems to me,
a very appropriate occasion on which to
address an event that will occur in just 2
years. I refer, of course, to the 200th an-
niversary of the American Revolution.
That will be a great year, the year 1976,
for America-a great year, particularly,
for those who are interested in its history
and for those also who are interested in its
future. I know that this organization has
been doing a great deal of thinking about
how it could contribute to the success of
that Bicentennial celebration, and I ex-
press the thanks of the Nation for what
you have done for Independence Hall,
your gift to the Nation, the second floor
of that historic building that has been
restored by reason of the contributions
you have made. And also, I express ap-
364
