[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
imposed upon them against their will.
Second, the Mideast. The United
States and the Soviet Union had great
differences in the Mideast. It is far better
that when those differences reached a
climax in October, that I was in direct
communication with Mr. Brezhnev and
that we did not allow those differences to
bring us into what could have been a
military confrontation disastrous for the
whole world.
Third, the limitation of nuclear arms,
we have had SALT I and SALT II, and
we will have SALT III in our meetings
with the Soviet leaders this year. That is
far better than to have a runaway nuclear
arms race. That is in their interest, yes,
but it is certainly in our interest.
And finally, the alternative to détente.
There are those who say because of the
way the Russians treat their minorities,
we should break off our relations with
them, we should not trade with them, we
should deny them credits, and then may-
be they will change. Well, first, they aren't
going to change if we do that. It will have
exactly the opposite effect.
But the second point is, if we go back to
the old policy of confrontation, not nego-
tiating to limit nuclear arms and other
arms possibly in the future, not negotiate
with the hope of resolving differences at
the conference table rather than on the
battlefield, then what you have to do is to
face the necessity for the United States to
enter an arms race, and instead of an $8
billion increase in the arms budget, you
would have $100 billion increase in the
arms budget. And eventually you would
confront what would be a massive crisis
between the Soviet Union and the United
States in the Mideast, in Europe, possibly
even in the Mediterranean, as well as in
the Caribbean area, where our interests
are in conflict.
my
I would simply conclude my answer
with this: Nobody, I know, will question
credentials with regard to the Soviet
system and my disagreements with it. I
would also say, however, that I have
learned that it is much better to have your
voice heard within the Kremlin than out-
side.
One of the problems that has concerned
me, sir, has been the fact that many com-
plaints very properly have been made with
regard to the treatment of minorities in
the Soviet Union and particularly those
of the Jewish faith.
Let me tell you the figures. Before we
started talking to the Soviets in our period
of negotiation, 400 Soviet Jews a year
got out. In the first year of our talks,
17,000 got out. Last year 35,000 got out.
Now, they still aren't doing what we
would do or what we would want them
to do, but it is far better to have the
voice of the President of the United States
heard from within the Kremlin than the
outside, because those walls are mighty
thick, I can tell you.
So, therefore, let us continue to talk to
them, so we won't have to fight them.
DEFINITION OF IMPEACHABLE
OFFENSE
[10.] Q. Mr. President, there is a de-
bate over the definition of an impeach-
able offense. Should this question be
determined by Congress or the judiciary?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is deter-
mined by the Constitution. And I think
the Constitution very clearly, as Mr. St.
Clair, our very able counsel, pointed out
in his brief to the Judiciary Committee,
272
