Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 9 [42]
Act, passed in 1970, has provided signifi-
cant new Federal financial assistance to
our Nation's airports.
We have established a successful pro-
gram aimed at eliminating air piracy.
We have acted to bring about dramatic
reductions in transportation accident and
fatality rates.
We have created Amtrak, a new cor-
poration to improve passenger service on
the Nation's railways, and last year there
was 14 percent increase in rail
passengers.
We have increased Federal aid to urban
public transportation to $1 billion a year—
that is eight times the level of 1968-
through the Urban Mass Transportation
Act.
The Merchant Marine Act of 1970
marked the most comprehensive change in
our approach to the problems of the U.S.
flag merchant marine in almost 35 years.
Through the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1973, we are permitting States and
localities to use a portion of their Federal
highway funds for public transit.
The Regional Rail Reorganization Act
of 1973 will permit a needed restructur-
ing of the bankrupt railroads of the North-
east and Midwest into a streamlined,
privately owned system.
While we have made encouraging prog-
ress, the job is not completed. These are
some of the goals ahead:
We have to find ways to use our enor-
mous transportation systems in a more
flexible manner. In many cases, for ex-
ample, these systems, such as our subways
and our urban highways, are utilized at
maximum capacity for 2 or 3 hours during
the day and scarcely at all the remainder
of the day.
In the last 10 years, we have become
increasingly conscious of the effects of
our transportation systems on our environ-
ment. We must now give equal attention
to the need for energy conservation as we
design and utilize those transportation
systems.
And finally, Federal regulation has
served to restrict the growth of some of
our systems at the expense of others, with
the result that we do not have sufficient
balance in the choice of transportation
available to us.
Our efforts must continue to concen-
trate on achieving the goals of flexibility
in the use of our transportation systems,
economy in the use of our energy resources,
and balance in the availability of diverse
forms of transportation.
To achieve these goals in the areas of
urban and rural public transportation, I
will send to the Congress next week a
unified transportation assistance program.
This program would authorize $16 billion
in Federal assistance for metropolitan and
rural transportation over the next 6 years.
Two-thirds of this amount would be allo-
cated to State and local governments for
application in areas where they believe
this money can be spent most effectively.
Local officials, who understand your
community better than anybody here in
Washington, would determine transpor-
tation priorities, choosing between con-
struction of highways or public transit
systems, or the purchase of buses or rail
cars. This would provide for flexibility be-
tween capital investments and other
expenses.
The unified transportation assistance
program will mark the largest Federal
commitment ever to the improvement
of public transportation in our cities and
towns. Its objective is to provide you with
diverse forms of public transportation
that take into account the need for trans-
147
