[128] May 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
generation and longer of peace, let us see
that not just America but all nations,
whatever their differences in philosophy,
work together to clean up the environ-
ment, work together in the causes of
peace, and in that way, we will make the
progress that we want to make by the
year 2000 which the whole human race
can enjoy.
No national pride should be taken in
the fact that one nation or another finds
the answer to what may cure cancer in its
various aspects, what may deal with some
aspects of heart disease and many of the
others that afflict mankind.
No one nation can take any jingoistic
pride in the fact that one of its scientists
or one of its technicians found an answer
to the problem of a cleaner environment.
What we must do is to recognize that it
is together, working together, thinking
together, that we will find answers that we
would never find if we were not talking
to each other, negotiating with each other.
And that is why I say to you, my friends
gathered here on this magnificent day in
the State of Washington, in the city of
Spokane, you are dedicated to a great goal,
celebrating a new and fresh environment
for tomorrow. What will that tomorrow
be, and for all those who are young and
who will be here to celebrate that new
year 25, 26 years from now?
I will tell you what I think it can be,
and this is a beginning: It can be a time.
when the whole world can look back on
progress in conquering the scourges of dis-
ease that have afflicted all people wher-
ever they may live. We can look back on
a period when the whole world enjoyed
the benefits of what our scientists and en-
gineers were able to find out in terms of
making our air and our water cleaner and
better for everybody.
But most important, let us hope and
let us pray on this day that we can look
back and say that over that 25 years, the
peoples of the world, despite their dif-
ferences in philosophy, lived together in
peace. Let this be a day in which we con-
centrate, and consecrate as well, not only
our efforts in America but also working
with peoples in other nations toward the
goal of a fresh, new environment in terms
of peace for all mankind so that we can
enjoy the magnificent environment that
you see around us here today.
Thank you.
MARVIN MILLER (master of cere-
monies). Ladies and gentlemen, as the
fair officially opens, we invite you to cele-
brate with us "Tomorrow's Fresh, New
Environment."
Mr. President, will you say the magic
words.
THE PRESIDENT. At 12 noon on this
day, acting in my capacity as President of
the United States, it is my high honor and
privilege to declare Expo '74 officially
open to all the citizens of the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:46 a.m. at
the Washington State Pavilion.
In his opening words, the President referred
to the Commissioners General representing
countries having exhibits at the exposition.
Also present on the dais was His Eminence,
Archbishop Iakovos, Archbishop of the Greek
Orthodox Church of North and South America.
Following the opening ceremonies, the
President attended a reception in the art gal-
lery of the Washington State Pavilion.
414
