[123] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
America's challenge in the world, and
what the strength of the American econ-
omy means, not only to us here at home
but what it means to the future of peace
in the world.
Sometimes it is hard for us, any people,
to realize, when we are living in great
times, how great those times are and how
profound the challenges are. We live at
a time, we in America, when there is the
best chance since the end of World War
II, and perhaps even the best chance in
this century, to build a peace that we can
enjoy, but more than that, a peace that 3
billion people in the world who share it
with us can enjoy.
I will not go over what is happening in
the world today. You follow the news. I
get the reports as they come in daily. I
can only say this: We are making progress
in our efforts to bring peace to the Mid-
east an area that has known four wars
in one generation and has not known real
peace for perhaps 1,000 years—and that
will be a great achievement, one which
America can play a great role in helping
to bring about.
The preparations for the meeting with
the Soviet leaders-the third summit-
are going forward on schedule. We will
make progress there in the limitation of
nuclear arms, in cooperation in many
areas where two systems that are totally
opposed to each other insofar as their
philosophy is concerned, recognize that
because of the power they have, they have
a responsibility to work together for peace
in the world.
Our dialog with those who lead one-
fourth of all the people who live on the
globe, in the People's Republic of China,
is going forward. Not that our differences
in philosophy have changed. They have
not. But again, recognizing the pragmatic
fact that those who live there play now
and, in the future, will play an even
greater role in determining whether we
have peace or a period of war and mass
destruction.
And as you know, we are moving for-
ward with a new dialog with our friends
in Latin America. We are moving forward
with a new dialog with our friends in
Western Europe. And all of this put to-
gether means not that peace is here and
we can relax and enjoy it, because peace
is not something that comes and then is
an established fact. It is a process; one
must work at it, day after day, week after
week, month after month, year after year,
or otherwise it escapes, and war again
becomes our lot and, next time, if it should
become our lot, perhaps the lot of most
of the people in the world.
But I can assure you today that, looking
at the world scene, the prospects for build-
ing world peace are good. I can assure
you today, too, of another fact, and this is
something that many Americans perhaps
do not want to recognize as being their
responsibility, because having gone
through World War I and World War II,
and then Korea, and then Vietnam, there
are so many of us that would like to say,
"Why can't someone else take up the
burdens that we have been carrying for
trying to defend freedom and keep peace
in the world?"
But I can assure this audience from all
over America, having just returned 2
weeks ago from meetings with the world
leaders in Paris, that except for the
United States of America, its leadership,
there would be no chance to build a last-
ing peace. We hold the key to peace in our
hands.
And so, an America that is strong, an
America that will lead is essential if this
398
