Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
in the Mideast if the Soviet Union is
against it. As far as the Soviet Union and
the United States are concerned, our in-
terests are not always the same in the
Mideast, but in my meetings with Mr.
Brezhnev 2 years ago, also this year (last
year) and, I trust, also later in the year,
the problem of peace in the Mideast will
be high on the agenda.
We will not always agree. But it is to
the interest not only of the countries in
the Mideast but of the Soviet Union and
the United States, to work out a perma-
nent settlement, because it is one of those
flashpoints in the world far more impor-
tant to the interest of the U.S. and the
Soviet Union than a place like Vietnam.
And we cannot again, if we can avoid it,
run the risk of a confrontation between
the two super powers in that area of the
world.
So, I believe our policy of working
toward permanent peace with Israel, with
her neighbors, and working with the So-
viet Union, where the Soviet Union is
willing to work with us, is in the best in-
terests of everybody concerned.
ports, the embargo is lifted on a condi-
tional basis of a review in June.
Because of this, will you recommend
that Dr. Kissinger break off his efforts in
the negotiations between Syria and Israel
until there is a firm and final lifting of the
embargo?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I will not. And I
will not for this reason: that what the
decision was, as I understand, Mr. Jarriel,
was that the Arab countries would meet
again in June to review the situation. It
was not a decision with a condition.
Now, as far as our policy in the Mid-
east is concerned, we seek a permanent
peace as an end in itself. Whatever hap-
pens to the oil embargo, peace in the Mid-
east would be in our interest and in the
interest of the whole world.
As far as the oil embargo is concerned,
it is in the interest of those countries that
imposed it, as well as the United States,
that it be lifted. The two should go par-
allel. Inevitably, what happens in one area
affects the other. And I am confident that
the progress we are going to continue to
make on the peace front in the Mideast
will be very helpful in seeing to it that
an oil embargo is not reimposed.
OIL EMBARGO
[5.] Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. [Tom] Jarriel of
ABC.
MR. JARRIEL. Thank you. I would like
to follow up that question, Mr. President.
In your Chicago meeting with reporters
on the Middle East, you said that if the
oil embargo lifting had indications that it
might be conditional and they might re-
impose it, the United States would not be
pressured, and any implications of pres-
sure would have a countereffect on the
peace negotiations. My question goes to
the fact that according to the news re-
THE PRESIDENT'S ACCESSIBILITY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am Paul Mc-
Gonigle, from KOY Radio in Phoenix.
You have become so accessible of late, not
only with Washington news conferences
but with appearances such as these, a
group of us were talking a while ago that
it is difficult to think of something new to
ask on a subject that hasn't been beaten
to death, like Watergate, for example,
and [laughter]—
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, ask that, I am
used to it. [Laughter]
43-437 O 75 - 21
-
287
