Richard Nixon, 1974
May 11 [137]
Brazil, in China—and I can tell you that
as you look at the hungry faces, it doesn't
make any difference what the political
philosophy may be of those who rule them.
When you see the hungry children, it
makes no difference about what the
attitudes of their leaders may be. It is a
problem. Your heart goes to them. And
America, to its credit, has always been
very, very generous in providing from our
surplus for their needs.
But now what has happened? The
world is producing a little more. The de-
mands are becoming greater. And as a
result, we find that we face a potential
situation with regard to food shortage, not
only in America but in the world.
I come back to my conversation with
the President of Brazil and what America
can do there and in many other places.
You have heard of the miracle rice and the
miracle wheat, what it has done, for ex-
ample, in Latin America in the one in-
stance, and in the case of rice in Southeast
Asia, in alleviating hunger by increasing
production.
But there is another phase. It is not just
in teaching farmers how to plant but it is
the whole process of not only producing
food but distributing it. And in Brazil, for
example, the President told me that over
one-half of everything grown on the farms
in Brazil spoiled on the way from farm
to market.
That is one country. I could repeat that
for others, for India, certainly for China,
for many others around the world.
What can America do about it? I am
not suggesting that we export our farmers,
but I am suggesting that American know-
how, American technology in this area
is a place where we-we can do something
not only for ourselves but for others as
well.
And that is why the World Food Con-
ference, which we have helped to ini-
tiate this November, is a great enterprise
and one that this young generation, I
trust, those in this field, will follow
through on in the years ahead. Because
even though it may not be very close at
home to you, think of those people, as
my wife and I have seen them, in virtually
every country of the world. When a person
is hungry, when a person is poor, we can-
not have a world that will live in safety if
that situation is not remedied. It can be
remedied, and we can help, and you have
already helped.
The third area that I want to speak
of, where we have a great challenge, is in
the field of health. I understand from Dr.
Kamm you do not have a school of medi-
cine, but you have many who will, of
course, be involved in the various medical
arts in one way or another, and all of you,
of course, will have an interest, I am sure,
in this area.
But here, what we have now before us
is an achievement that Americans have
dreamed about but have never been able
to achieve before, a program in which
every American will have health insur-
ance if he needs it; where every American
will have protection against catastrophic
illness where he needs it or wants it, and
where this can be accomplished without
additional taxes, and most important,
where it is accomplished not by destroying
the existing private medical system which
has given us the best health care in the
world, but by building on it. Because I
say to you, let us remember, when an
individual is sick, I think he prefers to
have a doctor who is working for the
patient rather than for the Federal Gov-
ernment, and that is what this program is
all about.
43-437 O-75-30
431
