[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
his family budget at prices he can afford
to pay.
THE PRESIDENT'S PUBLIC APPEARANCES
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am Al
Voecks, WSM, Nashville, Tennessee. I
would like to follow up the question which
the gentleman from Phoenix, Arizona,
asked, on the accessibility of the Presi-
dency to the people.
You answered affirmatively regarding
news conferences. Last Saturday night,
there was a side of President Nixon re-
vealed to the American public which
hasn't been seen too often in the past few
years. Do you plan to bring this side of
President Nixon out and get to the people
more often?
THE PRESIDENT. I left my Yo-Yo in
Nashville. [Laughter]
WATERGATE
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am Don Owen
from KSLA-TV in Shreveport, Louisi-
ana. You made the statement that to drag
out Watergate is to drag down this coun-
try. Do you feel that this country would be
better off tonight and in the immediate
years ahead if the Watergate break-in had
gone undetected and that the actions of
that group of people had never been re-
ported to the American people?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly not. The ac-
tion was wrong; the action was stupid. It
should never have happened. It should
not have been covered up, and I have
done the very best that I can over the
past year to see that it is uncovered.
I have cooperated completely with not
only the grand jury but also with other
investigative agencies and have waived
executive privilege perhaps further than I
should in terms of the Office of the Presi-
dency in order to cooperate.
When something happens like this, to
say, cover it up, forget it, when it is
wrong, this of course is completely against
our American system of values, and I
would very, very seriously deplore it.
I would also suggest, not by way of
defense, but I was often criticized after
the '60 campaign that I always ran my
own campaigns. In the year 1972, I am
afraid I was too busy-the trip to China,
the decision on May 8 with regard to the
bombing and mining in the Haiphong
area, the trip to the Soviet Union, the
negotiations in Vietnam which brought
that war to a conclusion—that I frankly
paid too little attention to the campaign.
Now, I don't intend to be in another
campaign, needless to say. But I also want
to say that if I had any advice for candi-
dates in the future-run your own cam-
paign, regardless of what the press says.
MIA'S IN SOUTHEAST ASIA
[14] Q. Mr. President, Russ Thorn-
ton, WBAP in Fort Worth. Concerning
those men still listed as missing in action
in Southeast Asia, could you tell us what
is being done to determine their fate, and
do you think a complete accountability is
possible?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, to those who are
listening and there are, perhaps 1,500
is the number, I think, presently MIA's
who have not been accounted for-I can
say that we have been working on this
problem continually since the peace agree-
ment was signed.
We have had some success, but not
enough. We are continuing to discuss it
with the North Vietnamese. I do not want
to hold out false hopes, but I can say that
292
