Appendix B
April
May
25 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for Republican National Com-
mittee members and Republican State
chairmen who were meeting in Washington.
26 The White House announced that a bi-
partisan delegation of State Governors had
been invited by the Chinese People's Insti-
tute of Foreign Affairs to visit the Peo-
ple's Republic of China in mid-May for
10 days. The delegation was headed by Gov.
Daniel J. Evans of Washington and in-
cluded Governors Calvin L. Rampton of
Utah, Arch A. Moore, Jr., of West Vir-
ginia, Robert D. Ray of Iowa, Marvin
Mandel of Maryland, and Philip W. Noel of
Rhode Island.
May
1 A group of individuals called on the Presi-
dent at the White House to present him
with petitions of support. The group in-
cluded: Elizabeth Umstattd, of Villanova,
Pa.; Peggy Sandborn and Ruth Clark, of
Shelby Township, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs.
Woodrow Woody, of Mount Clemens,
Mich.; Leslie Dutton and Frances Finnen,
of Malibu, Calif.; Lillian Vincent, of Pep-
per Pike, Ohio; Joan Aikens, of Phila-
delphia, Pa.; and Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Smith, of Olney, Md.
I The Strawberry Queen of 1974, Candace
Curtis, of New Martinsville, W. Va., called
on the President at the White House. She
was accompanied by Representative Harley
O. Staggers.
2 The White House made available a progress
report to the President on the activities of
the Interagency Classification
Classification Review
Committee.
4 The White House announced that the
President had completed his personal re-
view of the general court-martial case of
United States v. Calley and had decided
that no action on the case by the President
was necessary or appropriate.
6 The President announced the designation
of a delegation to represent him at inaugu-
ral ceremonies for Daniel Oduber Quirof
as President of Costa Rica in San Jose from
May 7 to 10. The members of the delega-
tion, all with the rank of Special Ambas-
sador, were: Senator Lawton Chiles of Flor-
ida and Representative Manuel Lujan, Jr.,
of New Mexico, Personal Representatives
of the President; and Lyle Lane, United
States Chargé d'Affaires in Costa Rica,
Representative of the President.
7 The President met at the White House with
the following economic advisers: Secretary
of the Treasury George P. Shultz, Secretary
of the Treasury-designate William E.
Simon, Director Roy L. Ash of the Office
of Management and Budget, and Chairman
Herbert Stein of the Council of Economic
Advisers. Housing and Urban Development
Secretary James T. Lynn also participated
in the meeting for a discussion of housing
proposals.
7 Special Counsel to the President James D.
St. Clair announced: "I just returned from
Mr. Doar's office, and I advised him that
the President has directed me to inform the
[House Judiciary] Committee through him
that the President respectfully declines to
produce any more Watergate tapes for the
committee's use. And at the direction of
the President, I have also advised Mr.
Jaworski [the Special Prosecutor] that the
President has instructed me to press for-
ward on our motion to quash Mr. Jaworski's
subpoena."
9 David L. Cole, Chairman of the National
Commission for Industrial Peace, met with
the President to present the Commission's
report and recommendations on ways to
improve the collective bargaining process in
the private sector. Former Secretary of the
Treasury George P. Shultz and Director
John T. Dunlop of the Cost of Living Coun-
cil also participated in the meeting.
660
