[114] Apr. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ful consideration as an end-use objective
for the sale of surplus Federal land at fair
market value.
Third, I am directing the Chairman of
the Federal Property Council, upon re-
ceiving from the Administrator of the
Federal Energy Office an assessment of
the supply and demand factors of energy
facilities in both the short and long run,
to initiate a study to determine what other
initiatives the Federal Government might
take to (a) identify potential energy sites
on Federal land, and (b) investigate the
feasibility of using such sites for energy
purposes.
This new initiative will become an in-
tegral part of Project Independence. The
Federal Property Council's leadership has
been outstanding in the Legacy of Parks
program, through which 400 surplus Fed-
eral properties covering 62,000 acres have
been made available for parks and recrea-
tion. I am confident that the Council,
working with the other agencies, can build
on this experience and play an important
role in our national effort to achieve the
capability for energy self-sufficiency.
115 Memorandum About Energy Conservation Policy in
Federal Land Use. April 19, 1974
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
You are hereby directed to consider
the national effort to achieve the capa-
bility for energy self-sufficiency in all de-
cisions affecting real property, including
acquisition, management and disposal; to
the end that energy conservation, and
energy production, and energy transmis-
sion shall be enhanced by environmentally
sound land use decisions. The Adminis-
trator of the General Services Adminis-
tration, in cooperation with the Secretary
of the Interior and the Administrator of
the Federal Energy Office, shall review
all pertinent Federal regulations to ensure
that they are consistent with this policy.
The Administrator of the General Serv-
ices Administration shall submit proposed
amendments to such regulations to the
Federal Property Council within 90 days.
All executive agencies with real property
holdings are directed to cooperate with
the Administrator of the General Services
Administration in making Federal surplus
real property available, to the greatest
extent practicable, for energy facilities.
The Administrator of the General Serv-
ices Administration and the Administra-
tor of the Federal Energy Office shall
make necessary arrangements to ensure
that energy site needs are considered,
along with other competing needs, in the
disposal of surplus real property under ex-
isting laws and regulations. The term
"surplus property" means "surplus prop-
erty" as defined in section 3(g) of the
Federal Property and Administrative
Services Act of 1949 [40 U.S.C. 472(g)].
RICHARD NIXON
370
