Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
Consolidation of existing categorical
grant programs.
-Granting greater decision-making
authority to State and local educational
agencies.
-Greater equity in the distribution of
Federal funds to the States for the
education of disadvantaged children.
-Reform of the impact aid program to
concentrate support in those districts
where the Federal presence has substan-
tially decreased the tax base, rather than
those in which it has increased the tax
base.
Upon enactment of legislative authori-
ties that accomplish these goals for ele-
mentary and secondary education, voca-
tional programs and adult education, I
will propose special supplemental appro-
priations to provide funding for the 1974-
1975 school year. This funding would
place most elementary and secondary edu-
cation grant programs on a "forward
funded" basis, letting State and local
agencies know how much they will receive
while plans for the next school year are
being made. "Forward funding" is an
important concept in the financing of ed-
ucation, and it merits the full support of
the Federal Government.
As I noted in my message sent to the
Congress on education policy last week, I
also recommend additional support for
several other educational programs-
some old and some new. These include:
-An additional increase in aid to black
colleges and other developing institutions
during fiscal year 1975, thus quadrupling
Federal funds for these important educa-
tional institutions since I took office.
-Continuation and extension of the
Head Start program, our single largest
child development program. In 1975,
Head Start will reach 282,000 disadvan-
taged youths year-round, as well as some
78,000 pre-schoolers during the summer-
and it will extend its activities to include
handicapped youth.
-The consolidation of eight separate
authorities for education of the handi-
capped into four broader and more
flexible programs.
NON-PUBLIC SCHOOLS
I remain firmly committed to the prin-
ciple of educational diversity. The con-
tinued health of the Nation's non-public
schools is essential to this concept. Al-
though governmental efforts aimed at
supporting these schools have encountered
difficulty in the courts, I believe we must
continue our efforts to find ways to keep
these schools open.
For that reason, I continue to support
legislation which permits tax credits for
parents who pay to send their children to
non-public schools.
HELPING OUR VETERANS
Twenty-nine million Americans living
today have given military service to their
country. As a group, veterans are among
our most productive citizens. Studies show
that they generally have higher incomes,
more education, and better health than
non-veterans of the same age.
We can be proud of the veterans' con-
tributions, but we must also be concerned
for those veterans and veterans' families
who remain in need.
The assistance provided to veterans and
their families in recent years has been
substantial:
-Total compensation payments for
veterans disabled or killed in military serv-
ice have been increased from $2.7 billion
73
