[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the Mideast-the disengagement on the
Syrian front, the problem with Jerusalem,
and all the others to which we are dedi-
cated in working for a solution and where
we are working for it.
I want one thing very clearly under-
stood, and then I will come to the key
point about your district and its gasoline
shortage. I want it understood that we
want the embargo lifted. I also want it
understood that as far as the United
States is concerned, we want a permanent
peace in the Mideast. We will work to-
ward that end whether the embargo is
lifted or not.
And we have made progress in that
field, and as far as those who, incidentally,
support the State of Israel, as I do, it is in
Israel's interest to have the United States
a friend of Israel's neighbors rather than
an enemy of Israel's neighbors. And for
that reason, we believe that permanent
peace in the Middle East and working
toward the disengagement and resolving
this long crisis is in the interest of world
peace, because it also avoids that flash-
point of world conflict that might come
where the two major powers, the United
States and the Soviet Union, happen to
be involved.
But the United States, as far as the
embargo is concerned, is not going to be
pressured by our friends in the Mideast
or others who might be our opponents to
doing something before we are able to do
it. And I would only suggest that insofar
as any action on the embargo is taken,
that if it has any implications of pres-
sure on the United States it would have a
countereffect on our efforts to go for-
ward on the peace front, the negotiation
front, because it would simply slow down,
in my opinion, our very real and earnest
efforts to get the disengagement on the
Syrian front and also to move toward a
permanent settlement.
Looking toward the future, I would say,
first, we will be getting some more oil from
the Mideast, we will be getting it prob-
ably because some action may be taken on
the embargo. It eventually will come be-
cause it is in their interest to do so. But
further, even if no action is taken or if the
action is conditional, it is our belief that
at this time, having passed through the
winter-and we were blessed by favorable
weather in the winter except for the last
2 or 3 days during the month of March
here in Chicago and other places which
were a little cold-but in any event, hav-
ing passed through this period we believe
that the gasoline lines which have been
very long have now shortened down. We
have been able to make allocations, more
allocations, move them from the distil-
lates which were essential to keep our
economy going so that we would not have
increased unemployment, move those al-
locations to more gasoline.
And as I told Mayor Daley driving in,
in the car, Mr. Simon is watching the
situation in Chicago very closely. In the
Chicago area as well as other areas of the
country, if shortages occur, we believe we
will be able to handle them so that there
will not be an undue problem for your
constituents.
THE 1976 PLATFORM
[7.] And incidentally, let me be sure
that no one misunderstood my remarks
about Senator Percy. He obviously has the
right that anybody has to be a candidate
for the nomination for President of the
United States. He has great ability as I
have often pointed out. I would only sug-
gest that as far as what I can do about it,
268
