Richard Nixon, 1974
June 17 [186]
immediate step, Israel and the United
States will in the current month reach
provisional agreement on the further sale
of nuclear fuel to Israel.
Prime Minister Rabin particularly ex-
pressed the view that the supply of oil and
other essential raw materials to Israel
must be assured on a continuous basis.
President Nixon proposed that United
States and Israeli representatives meet
soon in order to devise ways of meeting
this problem.
The President and the Prime Minister
stressed as an important mutual aim the
further encouragement of the fruitful
links already existing between the two
countries in the scientific and technical
field, including space research. Special
emphasis will be put on exchanges of
scientists and the sponsorship of joint proj-
ects. With this end in view they will ex-
plore means to widen the scope and sub-
stance of existing agreements and activi-
ties including those pertaining to the Bi-
National Science Foundation.
In the area of water desalination the
two countries will expand their joint
projects.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed to develop further the cultural ties
between the two countries through ex-
changes of scholars, students, artists, exhi-
bitions, mutual visits and musical and
other cultural events. In the near future,
Israel will send to the United States an
archeological exhibition depicting the
Land of the Bible. The Israel Philhar-
monic Orchestra will visit the United
States on the occasion of the American
bicentennial celebrations.
The President and the Prime Minister
noted with gratification the large number
of tourists from their respective countries
visiting both the United States and Israel
and affirmed that they would continue
their efforts to foster this movement. To
this end, the two governments will resume
negotiations on an agreement granting
landing rights to the Israel national car-
rier in additional major cities in the con-
tinental United States.
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed the plight of Jewish minorities
in various countries in the spirit of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Prime Minister thanked the Presi-
dent for his efforts in support of the right
of free emigration for all peoples without
harassment, including members of Jew-
ish minorities. The President affirmed
that the United States would continue to
give active support to these principles in
all feasible ways.
The President was particularly pleased
at the opportunity to meet with former
Prime Minister Golda Meir, whose cour-
age, statesmanship, patience and wisdom
he greatly admires. The President ex-
pressed his satisfaction at the construc-
tive cooperation between Israel and the
United States under Prime Minister
Meir's leadership which had led to the
conclusion of the agreements between
Egypt and Israel and between Israel and
Syria respectively on the disengagement
of their military forces.
In departing, President and Mrs. Nixon
expressed their deep appreciation of the
warm reception accorded to them in Israel
and their admiration for the achieve-
ments of the Israeli people. They were
deeply impressed by the manner in which
the overwhelming problems of integrat-
ing many hundreds of thousands of immi-
grants of many various backgrounds and
cultures were being successfully over-
43-437 O 75 - 36
-
527
