Richard Nixon, 1974
July 2 [206]
leagues and the members of our party
have been devoting our full time toward
the great goal to see to it that the two
strongest peoples and the two strongest
nations in the world will not devote their
efforts and waste their young men in war,
but will work together for peace between
themselves and for all people in the world.
And it is very appropriate that in this
city and in this Republic that has known
war for so many centuries, that today we
speak in terms of peace and friendship for
all people.
May Minsk in the future not be remem-
bered simply where virtually every genera-
tion a battle is fought, but as a great city
which contributed to prosperity and peace
for all the people in this Republic.
So, therefore, I will propose that we
raise our glasses to our hosts, the Presi-
dent, the Chairman of the Council of
Ministers, the Secretary of the Party, to
the Hero City of Minsk, to all of those
brave men and women who died and suf-
fered during World War II, and to the
new generation which will grow up in
peace because of what we are able to do.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
2:30 p.m. at the Government Guest House in
response to a toast proposed by Fedor Anisi-
movich Surganov, Chairman of the Presidium
of the Supreme Soviet of the Byelorussian So-
viet Socialist Republic.
A translation of Chairman Surganov's re-
marks at the luncheon is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
10, p. 742).
Later the same day, the President partici-
pated in wreath-laying ceremonies at the Vic-
tory Monument in Minsk and at the Khatyn
Memorial near the city.
On June 29-30, 1974, the President and
General Secretary Brezhnev had conducted a
series of meetings in Oreanda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic. Following their visit to
Minsk, the official party returned to Moscow.
206 Radio and Television Address to the People of the
July 2, 1974
Soviet Union.
Dobryy vecher [Good evening]:
Two years ago at the first of these sum-
mit meetings, your Government gave me
the opportunity to speak directly with you,
the people of the Soviet Union. Last year,
at our second meeting, General Secretary
Brezhnev spoke on radio and television to
the people of the United States. And now,
tonight, I appreciate this opportunity to
continue what has become a tradition, a
part of our annual meetings.
In these past 2 years, there has been a
dramatic change in the nature of the
relationship between our two countries.
After a long period of confrontation, we
moved to an era of negotiation, and now
we are learning cooperation. We are
learning to cooperate, not only in lessen-
ing the danger of war but in advancing
the work of peace.
We are thereby helping to create not
only a safer but also a better life for the
people of both of our countries. By reflect-
ing on how far we have advanced, we can
better appreciate how strong a foundation
we have laid for even greater progress in
the future.
At our first summit meeting 2 years ago,
we signed the first agreement ever nego-
tiated for the limitation of strategic nu-
clear arms. This was an historic milestone
on the road to a lasting peace and to
43-437 O 75 - 38
-
559
