[113] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
lieved, that America came into the world
not just for ourselves but for the contribu-
tion that we as Americans could make to
all of mankind, not in terms of what we
could give to them materially, but more
important, in terms of the leadership we
could provide to those forces in the world
which are essential if we are to have and
to enjoy a world of peace, true peace,
peace meaning more than absence of war.
Now of course, I know there are those
who would suggest, why us? Haven't we
done enough? We had World War I, and
then the sons of those who fought in World
War I fought in World War II. And after
we had the United Nations in San Fran-
cisco, we thought, that is the end of it
all. And then within a few years, the
brothers of those, the younger ones who
had fought in World War II, were fighting
in Korea. And then, after that was ended
in 1953, their younger brothers and their
sons were fighting in Vietnam.
We have been in this century and seen
four wars, and we have never had a gen-
eration without a war. And so now the
great test is, can America, as we approach
our 200th anniversary, can we meet the
challenge that is ours of trying to provide
the leadership so that the next generation
can be the first generation in a century
to be one that will not have war.
Well, I firmly believe that is the case.
I know that it is not easy. I know from
having dealt with and met the leaders of
the world, those who have ideologies com-
pletely different from ours and antagonis-
tic to ours as well as those who are friendly
to ours, I know that the seeds of conflict
and confrontation are always there, ready
to grow again, unless there is in the world
a great nation ready to assume the re-
sponsibility to be sure that we can avoid
confrontations and bring about that con-
sultation which can lead to a peaceful
settlement of differences.
And so, it comes down then to this: On
this 200th anniversary, let us dedicate our-
selves to a strong America militarily, let
us dedicate ourselves to a prosperous
America with opportunity and freedom
such as even we have not enjoyed. But
above all, let us dedicate ourselves to a
renewal of America's sense of mission,
America's sense of patriotism, America's
sense of destiny, because it is only with
that that we will be able to provide that
leadership which can only come from
here; because as you look around the
world today, there is no other nation in the
free world among the great industrial
powers that can assume that leadership.
And so, I say to you in conclusion of
this great conference, the peace of the
world is in our hands. We do not say that
in an arrogant sense. We do not say that
because we wanted it there. We say that
because it is a fact of history. It is there.
And what we do or fail to do will deter-
mine the fate of 210 million Americans,
but also of 3 billion people on this Earth,
for not only a generation but perhaps for
generations and even centuries to come.
That is what the facts are. That is the
challenge.
And so, on this 200th anniversary, let
us look back and be proud. Let us look at
where we are and be thankful, but let us
look to the future and say, America was
great in the beginning because we realized
then that we meant something bigger
than ourselves. We were willing to sacri-
fice for a cause which went beyond our-
selves. And America today will meet the
challenge of world leadership, and we
will leave a legacy, a legacy that Jef-
368
