Richard Nixon, 1974
June 13 [175]
admitted the inherent danger in letting the
state of "no war, no peace" prevail, Israel con-
tinued for one reason or another to refuse to
listen to the voice of reason and logic. It,
rather, tried to shield itself behind the illusion
and fallacy of its supremacy, failing to realize
that occupation by force would sooner or later
be repulsed, that this area, like any other area
of the world, should be subject to the rule of
law and that its people should live in peace
under the accepted norms of the family of
nations.
While history is full of lessons that occupa-
tion by force will never hold and is always
doomed, the Israeli leaders failed to grasp that
vital and simple lesson.
Then came the 6th of October with the
Arab armies and people ready to exercise their
sacred right and duty to liberate their land.
The course of events of that period both during
and after the military operations should be the
proper signal for all of us to work together to
achieve a just and honorable peace.
One of the major changes resulting from the
6th of October has been the change that oc-
curred in the American attitude, together with
the various steps taken since that historical day.
The American involvement in a positive way is
a clearcut political achievement of the 6th of
October. The new chapter which we are open-
ing with your country, Mr. President, is the
living testimony of the fact that it is in the
vital interest of the United States to have good
175
relations with all the countries of this sensitive
and strategic area.
For our part, let me say that I am satisfied
with the rapid development in our relations,
and I hope that it will be bolstered in the future
for the sake of peace and tranquillity. Let us
work to promote friendship between our two
peoples, to agree on the essentials of a perma-
nent peace which could provide for everybody
the right to live in a dignified, human, and
proud way.
We in Egypt are dedicated, together with
our Arab brothers, to work for peace and to
mobilize our efforts and potentialities for con-
struction rather than destruction, for advance-
ment rather than regression, for progress rather
than stagnation.
Let us work, Mr. President, for an era where
we can go into history as people with creativity
and imagination, and let us suppress together
the forces of evil.
With this I propose that we drink a toast
in honor of President Nixon and Mrs. Nixon,
their health and prosperity, and for the friendly
American people, their well-being.
Earlier in the evening, President Sadat had
presented Egyptian decorations to President
and Mrs. Nixon and Secretary of State Henry A.
Kissinger at Qubba Palace. A fact sheet on the
awards was released by the White House in
Cairo on the same day.
Exchange With Reporters During a Train Trip From
Cairo to Alexandria. June 13, 1974
REPORTER. How do you feel the tour
has gone, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. President Sadat and
I have been really overwhelmed by not
only the size of the crowd but, even more
important, their enthusiasm. I, on the one
hand, have been impressed by the enor-
mous personal respect and trust that Presi-
dent Sadat has among his own people,
because they are not here just to see me,
they are here also to pay their respects
to him.
And the other thing that, of course, is
impressive is the fact that these crowds
show a very deep feeling of affection and
friendship for America. The fact that this
could exist despite almost 25 years of mis-
understanding, and off-and-on relation-
ship, in the last 7 years very bitter mis-
understanding, the fact that this gracious
relationship still exists here in Egypt shows
that Egyptian-American friendship is a
natural reaction among Egyptians, and I
am sure it is among Americans, and there-
491
