[209] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
useful exchange of views on major aspects
of relations between the USA and USSR
and on the present international situa-
tion.
On the Soviet side the talks were con-
ducted by L. I. Brezhnev, General Secre-
tary of the Central Committee of the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet Union; N. V.
Podgorny, Chairman of the Presidium of
the USSR Supreme Soviet; A. N. Kosy-
gin, Chairman of the USSR Council of
Ministers; and A. A. Gromyko, Minister
of Foreign Affairs of the USSR.
Accompanying the President of the
USA and participating in the talks was
Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, US Secretary of
State and Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs.
Also taking part in the talks were:
On the American Side: Walter J. Stoes-
sel, Jr., American Ambassador to the
USSR; General Alexander M. Haig, Jr.,
Assistant to the President; Mr. Ronald L.
Ziegler, Assistant to the President and
Press Secretary; Major General Brent
Scowcroft, Deputy Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs; Mr.
Helmut Sonnenfeldt, Counselor of the
Department of State; and Mr. Arthur A.
Hartman, Assistant Secretary of State for
European Affairs.
On the Soviet Side: A. F. Dobrynin,
Soviet Ambassador to the USA; A. M.
Aleksandrov, Assistant to the General Sec-
retary of the Central Committee, CPSU;
L. M. Zamyatin, Director General of
TASS; and G. M. Korniyenko, Member
of the Collegium of the Ministry of For-
eign Affairs of the USSR.
The talks were held in a most business-
like and constructive atmosphere and were
marked by a mutual desire of both Sides
to continue to strengthen understanding,
confidence and peaceful cooperation be-
tween them and to contribute to the
strengthening of international security
and world peace.
I. PROGRESS IN IMPROVING US-SOVIET
RELATIONS
Having considered in detail the devel-
opment of relations between the USA and
the USSR since the US-Soviet summit
meeting in May 1972, both Sides noted
with satisfaction that through their vig-
orous joint efforts they have brought about
over this short period a fundamental turn
toward peaceful relations and broad, mu-
tually beneficial cooperation in the inter-
ests of the peoples of both countries and
of all mankind.
They emphasized the special impor-
tance for the favorable development of
relations between the USA and the USSR
of meetings of their leaders at the highest
level, which are becoming established
practice. These meetings provide oppor-
tunities for effective and responsible dis-
cussion, for the solution of fundamental
and important bilateral questions, and for
mutual contributions to the settlement of
international problems affecting the inter-
ests of both countries.
Both Sides welcome the establishment
of official contacts between the Congress
of the US and the Supreme Soviet of the
USSR. They will encourage a further de-
velopment of such contacts, believing that
they can play an important role.
Both Sides confirmed their mutual
determination to continue actively to re-
shape US-Soviet relations on the basis of
peaceful coexistence and equal security,
in strict conformity with the spirit and
the letter of the agreements achieved be-
tween the two countries and their obliga-
tions under those agreements. In this con-
568
