Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 24 [19]
tion objectives I set forth in my 1972
message. The institute is developing new
ways to introduce young people to various
career opportunities and is experimenting
with new methods of preparing them to
get and keep jobs that pay well and offer
opportunities for advancement.
Education research is not a luxury but
a necessity if Americans are to get the
education they want for their children at
a sensible cost. Accordingly, I would like
to emphasize most strongly the need for
adequate funding of the institute.
FUND FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF
POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION
The Fund for the Improvement of Post-
secondary Education constitutes another
important new Federal initiative to
achieve needed innovation and reform.
The fund was created to support exem-
plary activities and new directions which
promise to increase the quality, effective-
ness, and diversity of postsecondary edu-
cational opportunities. The fund is now
providing support for the development
and demonstration of more effective
approaches to college education.
RIGHT TO READ
The Right to Read effort is well on its
way to becoming a prime example of the
way that a Federal, State and local part-
nership can achieve positive results. Un-
der this program, we are now on the way
toward achieving a 1980 goal of eliminat-
ing functional illiteracy among 90 percent
of those 16 years and older and 99 per-
cent of the youth of America. I ask the
Congress to continue giving this program
its full support.
LIBRARY PARTNERSHIP ACT
While I continue to believe that State
and local authorities bear the primary
responsibility for the maintenance of pub-
lic libraries, I also believe that the Fed-
eral Government has a responsible role
to play. One of my new initiatives for 1975
is the Library Partnership Act. This leg-
islation would encourage the establish-
ment of reference and information services
on a demonstration basis and could lead
to significant improvements in public li-
brary services across the United States.
HEAD START
During 1975, the Head Start program
will reach 282,000 children on a year-
round basis and some 78,000 pre-schoolers
in the summer. It will also extend its ac-
tivities to include handicapped students.
My 1975 budget will increase operating
funds for this program and will provide
funds to ensure that all children partici-
pating in Head Start can obtain a nourish-
ing breakfast and lunch.
VI. THE NEED FOR COMMITMENT
The proposals I have outlined above are
designed to address the educational chal-
lenges of tomorrow. They are designed to
enhance the effectiveness of the Federal
dollar. They are designed to facilitate the
operations of our State and local school
systems.
For the necessary reforms and rejuve-
nation of our schools to occur, however,
it will take more than Federal programs
and more than Federal money. It will re-
quire that each of us commit ourselves,
with money, time and attention, to that
39
