[174] June 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
11:15 p.m. in the gardens of the Qubba Palace,
in response to a toast proposed by President
Sadat.
President Sadat spoke in Arabic. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
President Nixon, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
guests:
It is a pleasure indeed to welcome you in our
midst as the first American President to pay
an official visit to Egypt. Your visit marks the
opening of a new phase which will go down in
history as one of your major achievements.
Your choice to visit Egypt on your tour has
a manifold political significance. While it in-
dicates your eagerness to turn a new page in
the American-Egyptian relations, it, at the same
time, manifests the change of emphasis in yours
and in the American strategy.
For my part, and on behalf of the Egyptian
people, I would like to reciprocate and assure
you and the American people that we welcome
this change with all its political and psycho-
logical significance.
I hope you agree with me, Mr. President,
that the Middle East, for the first time in recent
history, is facing a turning point, a turning
point in the sense that the political climate in
our region has never been more opportune
and paved for bringing about a durable peace.
This, however, could not be achieved unless
all our efforts are exerted and mobilized to-
wards this end.
This area was, and still is, of major strategic
importance and, as such, should have been
and should be an area where stability and
normalcy prevail. The political and strategic
sensitivity of this region is of such a nature
that it could at any time be the spark for a
global conflict. But in spite of all this, for one
reason or another, wars continued and tension
prevailed in this region for more than 25 years.
It is not for me to recapitulate on this oc-
casion the history of this area and the causes
of its troubles. Suffice it to mention that the
real cause was the aggression committed
against a whole nation, the Palestinian nation.
Since then, this nation has been deprived, by
force of arms, of its homeland, its property,
and all the prerequisites of life. This nation is
now either living in tents or expelled and living
in the diaspora. The appalling conditions under
which a whole new generation of Palestinians
were born and brought up do not attest to
anything but the failure of our modern civiliza-
tion with its ingenious means of advancement
and its established rules of law to tackle the
roots of this problem in a manner acceptable
to the parties concerned.
Mr. President, let me be candid with you
lest in the future there would be a misunder-
standing or false reading of the turn of events
in our region. The political solution and
the respect of the national aspirations of the
Palestinians are the crux of the whole problem.
It is an oversimplification, indeed, to profess
that it is not a complex problem. However,
there is no other solution and no other road
for a durable peace without a political solu-
tion to the Palestinian problem. This does not
mean, as the Israelis claim in order to justify
their expansionist designs, that this would lead
to the liquidation of Israel. History attests to
the fact that Jews have lived under one roof
with the Palestinian Christians and Moslems
alike. Moreover, history shows beyond doubt
that Jews lived for centuries without any dis-
crimination whatsoever under the Arab rule, be
that in the Middle East, Africa, or Europe.
I have purposely started with the Palestinian
problem because its solution is indispensable
for the attainment of a just and durable peace.
The other outstanding problems are not of
that magnitude. Egypt has been a sovereign
state within its present international bound-
aries since time immemorial. The Egyptian
people have always repulsed all invaders. All
kinds of aggressions and attempts to conquer
Egyptian territory by force were completely
foiled. They were always met by the deter-
mination of the Egyptian people to defend the
sanctity of their territory. Thus, it is inevitable
for a country like Egypt, with a people of such
potentialities and capabilities, to regain its
territory either by peaceful means or through
might.
You may recall, Mr. President, that we have
deployed all our efforts within and outside the
United Nations since the war of June '67 for
achieving a peaceful solution, but to no avail.
Although world public opinion was aware of
the facts and statesmen from time to time
490
