Richard Nixon, 1974
June 25 [198]
efforts to conduct an anti-inflationary fis-
cal policy by holding down expenditures
could be quickly frustrated by irrespon-
sibly cutting taxes.
One of the continuing concerns of both
the executive and legislative branches
must be the rapid growth of "uncon-
trollable" items in the budget. I am ad-
vised that approximately 75 percent of
the total outlays for fiscal year 1975 are
relatively uncontrollable under existing
legislation and that some 90 percent of
the increases in spending between the 1974
and 1975 budgets are of this same nature.
Although well-intentioned, these items
build rigidities into the budget system that
make it much more difficult to hold the
line on spending.
My recent trip to the Middle East con-
firmed that the nemesis of inflation is not
only widespread in its impact but is also
foremost among the concerns of the
world's leaders. Growth in economic out-
put is simply not keeping up with the
rapid growth in world demands. As part
of our effort to increase supplies, at my
direction Counsellor Rush and the Chair-
man of the Council of Economic Advisers
have set up a high-level group to evaluate
present shortages.
But just as the problems of peace do
not lend themselves to instant solutions,
the problems of the world economy will
also be difficult to overcome. We do not
foresee a quick end to inflation. The most
recent figures on consumer prices indicate
that there are still many risks ahead and
that even the lower inflation rate we
anticipate by the end of the calendar year
will be higher than we would like.
It is clear, nonetheless, that the present
policy of fiscal and monetary restraint is
the surest means of coping with inflation.
It will take time, but it will work if we
have the patience and discipline to make
it work.
NOTE: The statement was released following
the President's meeting with his economic ad-
visers in the Oval Office at the White House.
Attending the meeting were Kenneth Rush,
Counsellor to the President for Economic Pol-
icy; Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Assistant to the
President; William E. Simon, Secretary of the
Treasury; Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office
of Management and Budget; Herbert Stein,
Chairman of the Council of Economic Ad-
visers; and Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the Presi-
dent's statement by Mr. Rush.
198 Remarks on Departure for Belgium and the Soviet Union.
June 25, 1974
THE WHITE HOUSE
As you probably know, the official
sendoff will be at Andrews this morning.
But I am delighted to see all the members
of the White House Staff up bright and
early working. And I do want to wish you
the very best over the Fourth of July. I
hope it is very good weather wherever you
are, whether here working or whether
some other place where you may go for a
vacation. In any event, we know that we
go on these trips and wish all of you could
go along. But you are with us in spirit, and
that helps a great deal.
545
