Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 6 [34]
|
I
When Medicare and Medicaid went
into effect, medical prices jumped almost
twice as fast as living costs in general in
the next five years. These programs in-
creased demand without increasing sup-
ply proportionately and higher costs
resulted.
This escalation of medical prices must
not recur when the Comprehensive
Health Insurance Plan goes into effect.
One way to prevent an escalation is to in-
crease the supply of physicians, which is
now taking place at a rapid rate. Since
1965, the number of first-year enrollments
in medical schools has increased 55 per-
cent. By 1980, the Nation should have
over 440,000 physicians, or roughly one-
third more than today. We are also tak-
ing steps to train persons in allied health
occupations, who can extend the services
of the physician.
With these and other efforts already
underway, the Nation's health manpower
supply will be able to meet the additional
demands that will be placed on it.
Other measures have also been taken
to contain medical prices. Under the New
Economic Policy, hospital cost increases
have been cut almost in half from their
post-Medicare highs, and the rate of in-
crease in physician fees has slowed sub-
stantially. It is extremely important that
these successes be continued as we move
toward our goal of comprehensive health
insurance protection for all Americans. I
will, therefore, recommend to the Con-
gress that the Cost of Living Council's
authority to control medical care costs be
extended.
To contain medical costs effectively over
the long-haul, however, basic reforms in
the financing and delivery of care are also
needed. We need a system with built-in
incentives that operates more efficiently
and reduces the losses from waste and
duplication of effort. Everyone pays for
this inefficiency through their health
premiums and medical bills.
The measure I am recommending to-
day therefore contains a number of pro-
posals designed to contain costs, improve
the efficiency of the system and assure
quality health care. These proposals
include:
1. HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS
(HMO'S)
On December 29, 1973, I signed into
law legislation designed to stimulate,
through Federal aid, the establishment of
prepaid comprehensive care organiza-
tions. HMO's have proved an effective
means for delivering health care and the
CHIP plan requires that they be offered
as an option for the individual and the
family as soon as they become available.
This would encourage more freedom of
choice for both patients and providers,
while fostering diversity in our medical
care delivery system.
2. PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS REVIEW
ORGANIZATIONS (PSRO'S)
I also contemplate in my proposal a
provision that would place health services
provided under CHIP under the review
of Professional Standards Review Orga-
nizations. These PSRO's would be
charged with maintaining high standards
of care and reducing needless hospitaliza-
tion. Operated by groups of private phy-
sicians, professional review organizations
137
