Richard Nixon, 1974
May 3 [125]
The point of greatest danger for any
nation is that when it becomes so rich,
it becomes soft in its character. Let this
not happen to America.
Sometimes, when we are in Washington,
exposed only to what we read and hear
there, we get an impression that maybe
America is not up to this great task, that
maybe Americans have lost their drive,
their sense of destiny, that maybe at this
time of our wealth and our power, Amer-
ica will not meet the challenge.
And then you leave Washington, and
you see a different America. You see it
here in Arizona. I saw it last week in Mis-
sissippi. I saw it perhaps most eloquently
in a little town in Ohio-Xenia, Ohio.
I went there because there had been a
tornado.
It is a proud little city of 25,000. A
tornado had swept through the residential
areas. It left destruction such as I have
never seen equaled except in an earth-
quake in Anchorage, Alaska.
I drove through those areas, and as I
looked at what once were houses and saw
the rubble there, it was a shocking thing to
see. But then, as I went along, in lot after
lot, somebody, the owner, had put up an
American flag.
Now, people who can be that way when
things are tough, you can be sure America
has the strength, the guts to do what is
necessary to lead in this critical period.
I have often quoted President de
Gaulle, what he said to me when I saw
him in 1963, and he said France is never
her true self unless she is engaged in a
great enterprise.
That, of course, was a very profound
statement, not only about France but
about all people. An individual can be
only as great as an enterprise in which he
is engaged is great. And all of us, whatever
our jobs, must play a part. And a nation
like America cannot and will not continue
to be a great nation unless we are engaged
in a great enterprise.
What is it? Bringing prosperity to
America is a great enterprise. Bringing
progress to America is a great enterprise.
Bringing more opportunity for all Ameri-
cans, whatever their background, is a
great enterprise. But all of that is not
enough. We have an even greater one, one
that has never been given to a great peo-
ple before, because there has never been
a moment in history like this before, when
the hopes of the whole human race de-
pend upon what one nation does-the
people of the United States.
My friends here in Arizona, I tell you
we live at a great time in history—not a
bad time. We live at a time when we have
a chance not only to bring prosperity here
and all these things that I have talked
about but in which we have a chance to
build a world of peace that the whole
world can enjoy. And people, billions that
we will never know or never see, can look
to America and say they are thankful for
what we have done.
That is our challenge, and my friends,
I want to say to you, that is a great enter-
prise. And I can assure you tonight that
I intend to stay on this job, and with your
help, we shall meet that task.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:39 p.m. at the
Arizona Coliseum and Exposition Center.
Following his remarks at the rally, the Presi-
dent attended a reception at the home of Sen-
ator Barry Goldwater.
409
