[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
26 Annual Message to the Congress on the State of the Union.
January 30, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
We enter 1974 not at the beginning of
an historical cycle, but in the middle of
one. Beginnings have been made in many
vital areas, beginnings which we now must
build upon. New needs have arisen which
we are in the process of addressing. Op-
portunities are coalescing which give us a
chance to make historic progress toward a
stable peace and expanding prosperity.
In looking at the agenda for 1974, we
cannot consider the work of this or of any
one year in isolation. What we select as
our tasks in 1974 must build on the work
of the years before, and anticipate needs
of those ahead. Indeed, one of the con-
tinuing challenges facing us in the legis-
lative process is that of the timing and
pacing of our initiatives.
It would be as false to pretend that we
could do or afford to do everything at
once, as it would be to maintain that we
can do nothing. Therefore, we must strive
to maintain steady progress, selecting each
year among many worthy projects those
that are ripe for action at that time, and
that can be accommodated within the
constraints of our budget-but pressing
to ensure that the most that can be done
is done.
In discussing my legislative recommen-
dations for this Congressional session,
therefore, I shall do so in the context of
the advances that have already been
made, the problems that remain, and the
special opportunities we have in 1974 to
make further progress.
I have started with certain basic
premises:
The basic tax burden on the Ameri-
can taxpayer should not be increased.
-Our new initiatives, therefore, should
be scaled to what can prudently be spent
given the level of revenues that would be
generated by the existing tax structure at
full utilization of our resources.
-Increases in Federal spending should
be kept to a minimum, but the budget
should be flexible enough to be used, if
necessary, to maintain jobs and prosperity.
-It is essential that we break the old
habit of regarding any Federal program,
once established, as permanent; we must
learn to scrap old programs that are no
longer effective or needed in favor of new
ones that are. This is the only way we can
afford to do what must be done.
Within these guidelines, there are a
number of major new initiatives which are
ripe for action in 1974-several of which
can be milestones on our march to a life
of greater freedom, greater opportunity
and greater prosperity for all.
In particular, 1974 can be the year in
which:
-First, we not only break the back of
the energy crisis, but also, through Proj-
ect Independence, lay the foundation for
our future capacity to meet America's
energy needs from America's own re-
sources at reasonable prices and with
adequate environmental protection.
-Second, we take another giant stride
toward lasting peace in the world—not
only by continuing our policy of negotia-
tion rather than confrontation where the
great powers are concerned, but also by
helping toward the achievement of a just
and lasting settlement in the Middle East.
-Third, we will check the rise in prices,
without administering the harsh medicine
of recession, and move the economy into
56
