[205] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
205 Toast at a Luncheon in Minsk Honoring the President.
July 1, 1974
Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Chair-
man of the Council of Ministers, and Mr.
Secretary of the Party:
And for those Americans who are here,
that translated in terms of Byelorussian
means Mr. Podgorny, Mr. Brezhnev, and
Mr. Kosygin.
On behalf of all our American guests,
I wish to express our appreciation for this
beautiful luncheon. And I want all of you
to know that when the General Secretary,
Mr. Brezhnev, picked the city and the Re-
public in which we would come, I now
know why he picked Minsk.
I thought first it might be because
Minsk and Byelorussia is famous the world
over for a tiny girl, a pert girl, Olga Kor-
but.¹ But I have found in my conversa-
tions with my friends from the right and
the left seated here that not only are the
women of Byelorussia beautiful but they
are strong and courageous.
It is difficult to know the meaning of
war until one has an opportunity to come
in contact with it on an individual basis.
And I find that both the Secretary on my
right and the President on my left have
come into contact with war as fighters in
the war, but also who know war because
they have close relatives and, in their
case, their own mothers who were killed in
the war.
And the question is, why has this city
been designated a hero city for the Soviet
Union? First, because it suffered so much,
along with the whole Republic of Byelo-
russia. Second, because not only the men
1 Olga Korbut was a Russian gymnast who
won two gold medals at the 1972 Olympic
games.
but the women fought and were coura-
geous throughout the war. And third, de-
spite the long years of occupation, the city
and the Republic has come back, until
now it is on the way to its greatest years
in the period ahead.
And so, this is truly a hero city and a
hero Republic. And I think General Sec-
retary Brezhnev wanted Mrs. Nixon and
me to visit this city in order to help you
celebrate this great day in which you com-
plete 30 years since liberation.
How do we best celebrate such a day?
With a magnificent luncheon like this,
with fine food, good wines, and good com-
pany; by a parade yesterday and by visits
to memorials that we will be privileged to
make later in the afternoon.
But the best way to celebrate a day
which marks the ending of a war is to
build peace. And the greatest and best
memorial that we can build to the one-
fourth of all the citizens of this Republc
who were killed in World War II is to
build a structure of peace so that their
children and grandchildren will not die in
another war.
As I saw these fine looking young men
who served us, this thought crossed my
mind: What we who served in World
War II have on our hands is the respon-
sibility of determining whether these
young men will grow up in a period of
peace or whether they, too, will have to go
through the horrors of war. And I can
assure you that in our first two meetings—
the first in Moscow, the next in Washing-
ton and other parts of the United States-
and the third here in the Soviet Union,
that the General Secretary and his col-
558
