[179] June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
other's institutions, purposes and objec-
tives.
They are determined to develop their
bilateral relations in a spirit of esteem,
respect and mutual advantage. In the past
year, they have moved from estrangement
to a constructive working relationship.
This year, from that base, they are moving
to a relationship of friendship and broad
cooperation.
They view economic development and
commercial relations as an essential ele-
ment in the strengthening of their bilateral
relations and will actively promote them.
To this end, they will facilitate coopera-
tive and joint ventures among appropriate
governmental and private institutions and
will encourage increased trade between
the two countries.
They consider encouragement of ex-
changes and joint research in the scien-
tific and technical field as an important
mutual aim and will take appropriate
concrete steps for this purpose.
They will deepen cultural ties through
exchanges of scholars, students, and other
representatives of the cultures of both
countries.
They will make special efforts to in-
crease tourism in both directions, and to
amplify person-to-person contact among
their citizens.
They will take measures to improve air
and maritime communications between
them.
They will seek to establish a broad
range of working relationships and will
look particularly to their respective For-
eign Ministers and Ambassadors and to
the Joint Commission on Cooperation, as
well as to other officials and organizations,
and private individuals and groups as
appropriate, to implement the various
aspects of the above principles.
II. JOINT COOPERATION COMMISSION
The two governments have agreed that
the intensive review of the areas of econo-
mic cooperation held by President El-
Sadat and President Nixon on June 12
constituted the first meeting of the Joint
Cooperation Commission, announced
May 31, 1974. This Commission will be
headed by the Secretary of State of the
United States and the Minister of For-
eign Affairs of Egypt. To this end, they
have decided to move ahead rapidly on
consultations and coordination to identify
and implement programs agreed to be mu-
tually beneficial in the economic, scienti-
fic and cultural fields.
The United States has agreed to help
strengthen the financial structure of
Egypt. To initiate this process, United
States Secretary of the Treasury William
Simon will visit Egypt in the near future
for high level discussions.
III. NUCLEAR ENERGY
Since the atomic age began, nuclear
energy has been viewed by all nations
as a double-edged sword-offering oppor-
tunities for peaceful applications, but rais-
ing the risk of nuclear destruction. In its
international programs of cooperation,
the United States Government has made
its nuclear technology available to other
nations under safeguard conditions. In
this context, the two governments will be-
gin negotiation of an Agreement for Co-
operation in the field of nuclear energy
under agreed safeguards. Upon conclu-
sion of such an agreement, the United
States is prepared to sell nuclear reactors
and fuel to Egypt, which will make it pos-
sible for Egypt by the early 1980s to
generate substantial additional quantities
504
