[168] June 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
extend the proceedings interminably,
while adding nothing substantial to the
evidence the Committee already has.
Once embarked on a process of contin-
ually demanding additional tapes when-
ever those the Committee already has
failed to turn up evidence of guilt, there
would be no end unless a line were drawn
somewhere by someone. Since it is clear
that the Committee will not draw such a
line, I have done so.
One example should serve to illustrate
my point. In issuing its subpoena of May
15, the Committee rested its argument for
the necessity of these additional tapes
most heavily on the first of the additional
conversations subpoenaed. This was a
meeting that I held on April 4, 1972, in
the Oval Office, with then Attorney Gen-
eral Mitchell and H. R. Haldeman. The
Committee insisted that this was necessary
because it was the first meeting following
the one in Key Biscayne between Mr.
Mitchell and his aides, in which, accord-
ing to testimony, he allegedly approved
the intelligence plan that led to the Wa-
tergate break-in; and because, according
to other testimony, an intelligence plan
was mentioned in a briefing paper pre-
pared for Mr. Haldeman for the April 4
meeting. Committee members made clear
their belief that the record of this meet-
ing, therefore, would be crucial to a de-
termination of whether the President had
advance information of the intelligence
activities that included the break-in.
As it happens, there also was testimony
that the ITT matter had been discussed
at that April 4 meeting, and the Commit-
tee therefore also requested the April 4
conversation in connection with its ITT
investigation. On June 5, 1974, a com-
plete transcript was provided to the Com-
mittee for the purposes of the ITT probe,
together with an invitation to verify the
transcript against the actual tape. This
transcript shows that not a word was
spoken in that meeting about intelligence
plans, or about anything remotely related
to Watergate as the Committee can
verify.
I cite this instance because it illustrates
clearly on the basis of material the Com-
mittee already has the insubstantiality
of the claims being made for additional
tapes; and the fact that a Committee
demand for material does not automati-
cally thereby convert the requested mate-
rial into "evidence."
As for your declaration that an adverse
inference could be drawn from my as-
sertion of Executive privilege with regard
to these additional materials, such a dec-
laration flies in the face of established law
on the assertion of valid claims of privi-
lege. The Supreme Court has pointed out
that even allowing comment by a judge
or prosecutor on a valid Constitutional
claim is "a penalty imposed by courts for
exercising a Constitutional privilege," and
that "it cuts down on the privilege by
making its assertion costly." In its deliber-
ations on the Proposed Federal Rules of
Evidence, the House of Representatives—
in its version-substituted for specific lan-
guage on the various forms of privilege
a blanket rule that these should “be gov-
erned by the principles of the Common
law as they may be interpreted by the
courts of the United States in light of
reason and experience. . . ." But as
adopted in 1972 by the Supreme Court-
the final arbiter of "the principles of the
Common law as . . . interpreted by the
courts," and as codification of those prin-
ciples the Proposed Federal Rules
480
