[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have full confidence that we will meet
that responsibility.
The White House,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President handed the message on
the State of the Union to Carl Albert, Speaker
of the House of Representatives, and Gerald
R. Ford, President of the Senate, before deliver-
ing his address.
January 30, 1974.
27 Remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast.
January 31, 1974
Mr. Vice President and Mrs. Ford, Sen-
ator and Mrs. Stennis, and all of the very
distinguished guests here, and those who
may be listening on television and radio
to this National Prayer Breakfast:
It has always been the custom that the
President has the privilege of making the
final statement at these breakfasts, and
as usual having that responsibility is one
that is difficult because of the eloquence
that has usually preceded him and of the
statements that have been made which
make what he says simply repetitive of
what has gone on before.
There are some thoughts, very brief
ones, that I would like to leave with you
this morning, however, that have occur-
red to me, and one is how very thankful
we are that it was just a year ago that we
had the prayer breakfast Senator Sten-
nis was supposed to be in the position that
he now occupies-he could not come, and
I had the privilege of reading a note that
he had scribbled when he first became
conscious after he had had his operation.
at the hospital, a note to the prayer break-
fast. We are so thankful that John Stennis
is well and strong and that he is with us
today.
And as usual, we are very proud to have
all of the visitors from abroad, the ambas-
sadorial corps, the visitors from various
countries, the Purdue Glee Club, which
has honored us with its presence here to-
day. You know, we have something in
common. When I went over and had my
picture taken, I asked whether any of
them were on the Purdue football team,
and nobody held up his hand. I said,
"That is just like me. I made the glee
club, but I didn't make the football
team." But what a great glee club it was.
If their football team was up to the glee
club, they would be in the Rose Bowl.
I know that many have made a great
effort to come to this prayer breakfast
from various parts of the country and the
world. Billy Graham was taking a long-
needed vacation at Acapulco. And I rode
up with him in the car, and I can assure
you that the tan he has is real. That is no
makeup. He is going to go back to see his
wife, Ruth, after this prayer breakfast
and after perhaps several other engage-
ments today with members of this group.
When I first addressed a prayer break-
fast as President, I made a statement
about all the Presidents of this country.
You know, the difficulty with a President
when he makes a statement is that every-
body checks it to see whether it is true.
And in this particular instance, I stated
what I thought was the truth, and that
was that every President in our history
had been a religious man, had belonged to
a church. And afterwards, I received quite
a few letters from people and said, "What
about Lincoln?"
100
