Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [209]
USSR will continue to remain in close
touch with a view to coordinating the ef-
forts of both countries toward a peaceful
settlement in the Middle East.
INDOCHINA
Both Sides noted certain further im-
provements in the situation in Indochina.
In the course of the exchange of views
on the situation in Vietnam both Sides
emphasized that peace and stability in the
region can be preserved and strengthened
only on the basis of strict observance by
all parties concerned of the provisions of
the Paris Agreement of January 27, 1973,
and the Act of the International Con-
ference on Vietnam of March 2, 1973.
As regards Laos, they noted progress
in the normalization of the situation as a
result of the formation there of coalition
governmental bodies. Both Sides also
pronounced themselves in favor of strict
fulfillment of the pertinent agreements.
Both Sides also stressed the need for an
early and just settlement of the problem
of Cambodia based on respect for the
sovereign rights of the Cambodian people
to a free and independent development
without any outside interference.
STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF THE
UNITED NATIONS
The United States of America and the
Soviet Union attach great importance to
the United Nations as an instrument for
maintaining peace and security and the
expansion of international cooperation.
They reiterate their intention to continue
their efforts toward increasing the effec-
tiveness of the United Nations in every
possible way, including in regard to peace-
keeping, on the basis of strict observance
of the United Nations Charter.
IV. COMMERCIAL AND ECONOMIC
RELATIONS
In the course of the meeting great at-
tention was devoted to a review of the
status of and prospects for relations be-
tween the USA and the USSR in the com-
mercial and economic field.
Both Sides reaffirmed that they re-
gard the broadening and deepening of
mutually advantageous ties in this field
on the basis of equality and nondiscrimi-
nation as an important part of the founda-
tion on which the entire structure of US-
Soviet relations is built. An increase in the
scale of commercial and economic ties
corresponding to the potentials of both
countries will cement this foundation and
benefit the American and Soviet peoples.
The two Sides noted with satisfaction
that since the previous summit meeting
US-Soviet commercial and economic
relations have on the whole shown an
upward trend. This was expressed, in par-
ticular, in a substantial growth of the ex-
change of goods between the two coun-
tries which approximated $1.5 billion in
1973. It was noted that prospects were
favorable for surpassing the goal an-
nounced in the joint US-USSR commu-
nique of June 24, 1973, of achieving a
total bilateral trade turnover of $2.3 bil-
lion during the 3-year period 1973-1975.
The Joint US-USSR Commercial Com-
mission continues to provide an effective
mechanism to promote the broad-scale
growth of economic relations.
The two Sides noted certain progress
in the development of long-term coopera-
tion between American firms and Soviet
organizations in carrying out large-scale
projects including those on a compensa-
tion basis. They are convinced that such
cooperation is an important element in
573
