Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 4 [32]
the country in getting together our budget
documents and, of course, the budget
itself, during this period.
I think this is an outstanding budget
for two reasons. One, it is not inflationary,
not inflationary because it is in balance in
terms of full employment. It is very im-
portant that we have the cooperation of
the Congress in not exceeding the budget,
because if it does exceed the budget sub-
stantially, it will mean that it will become
inflationary.
On the other hand, while the budget is
non-inflationary-in other words, it does
not have unnecessary spending in it-it
is also a budget which is expansionary,
expansionary in terms of providing the
funds for our new initiatives that I de-
scribed in the State of the Union.
It also will have a strong expansionary
effect on the economy because of its size,
over $300 billion.
Another feature I should mention is
that it has an increase for defense, a
substantial increase, which I justified in
the State of the Union Message.
The final point I will make is that in
terms of the budget, it is a subject that is
never a popular one with the country,
with the Congress or anybody else, because
the people over in the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget always have to say no,
no to people who have this pet project
or that.
In these two small books a great deal
of money is contained and also a great
number of projects. But we could have
three times as many books and a lot of
other worthy projects that could be in-
cluded. Decisions have to be made in
which we pick those things for Govern-
ment to act on that are most important
to the people and that we can afford. And
here we have it, have it in terms of a
budget that will not add to the fires of
inflation-as a matter of fact will fight
inflation-and at the same time a budget
that will be antirecession, one that is flex-
ible enough and has the funds available to
be moved in wherever we consider it
necessary, where there are any indications
of downturns in the economy in certain
areas because of the energy shortage and
other reasons that you are familiar with.
So with that, I congratulate the people
who have prepared the budget, all of you
who have worked so long and so hard.
The country is in your debt, and so if you
aren't very popular among certain Mem-
bers of Congress and others to whom you
have had to say no, including many mem-
bers of the Administration and depart-
ments, I can say there are millions of
people across this country that will benefit
from the sound, sensible, and responsible
work that you have done in preparing the
budget for the next year.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:31 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. The cere-
mony was attended by staff members of the
Office of Management and Budget.
In his remarks, the President referred to Roy
L. Ash, Director, and Frederic V. Malek, Dep-
uty Director, Office of Management and
Budget.
32 Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal
Year 1975. February 4, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The Federal budget must be both a
consistent statement of our national ob-
jectives and a responsible plan for achiev-
43-437 O 75 - 10
III
