Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 5 [33]
and for 5 years we have made solid
progress.
I could go over the litany of what we
have done. We have increased the budget.
We just put out the budget yesterday, and
comparing with what it was in the year
1969, 5 years ago, it has gone from $17
billion to over $35 billion for health care,
including new initiatives in the field of
cancer and heart disease and sickle cell
anemia and drug abuse and many other
areas with which all of you are familiar.
But having spoken of what we have
done in the past, we today have to look to
the future, and I repeat that while we
do have the finest health care anywhere
in the world, there are still too many
Americans who lack health insurance
protection.
Let me give you some of the numbers.
You probably know them, but it is good
for the national audience to hear them.
One out of every 10 Americans has no
coverage at all, either public or private.
Among those who do have it, 4 out of 10
are not covered for visits to the doctor's
office.
Now, you as people who operate and
work in the hospital field know that
when the visits to the doctor's office are
not covered, that creates an incentive
for people to go into hospitals when hos-
pital care might not be necessary.
Less than half of the present programs
have major medical coverage that pays
for long, expensive, what we call cata-
strophic illnesses, and very few over 65
have this protection at an age it is often
most needed. What this all means is that
a very substantial number of our people
simply cannot afford the high quality
medical care that is now available in
America.
For some, it means that they delay seek-
ing medical attention until no amount of
medical attention can help them. And for
others, catastrophic illness in America
means catastrophic debt.
I would like at this point to make a
personal observation from my own experi-
ence as to what catastrophic illness can
do to a family.
Forty-five years ago, my oldest brother
contracted tuberculosis. In those days, we
did not have the new methods of treat-
ment which handled tuberculosis very ef-
fectively and very quickly, and for 5 years
my oldest brother was bedridden. My
mother took care of him, took him to Ari-
zona, I remember, for 3 of those 5 years.
It was, of course, a very great burden on
the family from the standpoint of the
separation. It was, from a financial stand-
point, a disaster.
As a matter of fact, we recovered from
it. We were able to go on and seek our
education and the rest, but that example
could be repeated today in millions of
American homes. Not with regard to tu-
berculosis. We can be thankful, as I have
indicated, that the advances in medical
science would not require 5 years of bed-
rest as a possible, not cure, but possible
way to arrest the disease.
But there are other diseases, all of
which you are familiar with, which do
require not only a great deal of money but
also a great deal of time in a hospital.
Now, 3 years ago I proposed to the
Congress a national health insurance pro-
gram to insure that no American would
be denied financial access to high quality
medical care because of an inability to
pay.
I believed in that-you know, every-
body in politics has some particular pro-
gram that he believes in very deeply be-
cause of his own personal experience. I
have related a personal experience, one
43-437 - 75 - 11
127
