[25] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
strengthen the peace, we must also con-
tinue each year a steady strengthening of
our society here at home. Our conscience
requires it, our interests require it, and
we must insist upon it.
As we create more jobs, as we build a
better health care system, as we improve
our education, as we develop new sources
of energy, as we provide more abundantly
for the elderly and the poor, as we
strengthen the system of private enter-
prise that produces our prosperity-as we
do all of this and even more, we solidify
those essential bonds that hold us together
as a nation.
Even more importantly, we advance
what in the final analysis government in
America is all about.
What it is all about is more freedom,
more security, a better life for each one of
the 211 million people that live in this
land.
We cannot afford to neglect progress at
home while pursuing peace abroad. But
neither can we afford to neglect peace
abroad while pursuing progress at home.
With a stable peace, all is possible, but
without peace, nothing is possible.
In the written message that I have
just delivered to the Speaker and to the
President of the Senate, I commented that
one of the continuing challenges facing
us in the legislative process is that of the
timing and pacing of our initiatives, se-
lecting each year among many worthy
projects those that are ripe for action at
that time.
What is true in terms of our domestic
initiatives is true also in the world. This
period we now are in, in the world-and
I say this as one who has seen so much of
the world, not only in these past 5 years
but going back over many years—we are
in a period which presents a juncture of
historic forces unique in this century. They
provide an opportunity we may never
have again to create a structure of peace
solid enough to last a lifetime and more,
not just peace in our time but peace in
our children's time as well. It is on the
way we respond to this opportunity, more
than anything else, that history will judge
whether we in America have met our re-
sponsibility. And I am confident we will
meet that great historic responsibility
which is ours today.
It was 27 years ago that John F. Ken-
nedy and I sat in this Chamber, as fresh-
men Congressmen, hearing our first State
of the Union address delivered by Harry
Truman. I know from my talks with him,
as members of the Labor Committee on
which we both served, that neither of us
then even dreamed that either one or both
might eventually be standing in this place
that I now stand in now and that he once
stood in, before me. It may well be that
one of the freshmen Members of the 93d
Congress, one of you out there, will de-
liver his own State of the Union message
27 years from now, in the year 2001.
Well, whichever one it is, I want you to
be able to look back with pride and to say
that your first years here were great years
and recall that you were here in this 93d
Congress when America ended its longest
war and began its longest peace.
[At this point, the President paused to acknowl-
edge applause from the audience. He then re-
sumed speaking.]
Mr. Speaker, and Mr. President, and my
distinguished colleagues and our guests:
I would like to add a personal word
with regard to an issue that has been of
great concern to all Americans over the
past year. I refer, of course, to the inves-
tigations of the so-called Watergate affair.
As you know, I have provided to the
54
