Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 28 [91]
because we want to win-yes, we want to
win-it is because America needs the kind
of leadership that these candidates across
the country-those who are running for
reelection and the new candidates-the
kind of leadership that they can provide.
And it is because that at this particular
time in our history, America has a great
goal, a great goal at home which I have
described, but an even greater goal
abroad in which we, in America, what we
do just think of it-will determine the
fate of 3 billion people on this Earth for
the balance of this century and maybe
thereafter.
My friends, that is America's destiny.
That is why we are here. That is what we
are going to be working for, and I can
tell you,
you, with the help of the candidates
that you are going to help to elect and
with your support over these next 3 years,
we are going to achieve these great goals
for America and the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:53 p.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Washington
Hilton Hotel. The dinner was cosponsored by
the Republican National Committee, the Re-
publican Senatorial Campaign Committee,
and the National Republican Congressional
Committee.
91 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Romanian Convention With Respect to Taxes on Income.
March 28, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Conven-
tion between the Government of the
United States of America and the Gov-
ernment of the Socialist Republic of
Romania with Respect to Taxes on In-
come, signed at Washington on Decem-
ber 4, 1973.
The Convention was signed during the
visit to the United States of the Romanian
President, Nicolae Ceauşescu. It is evi-
dence of the continued improvement and
expansion of United States-Romanian
relations.
The primary purpose of this Conven-
tion is to promote economic and cultural
relations between the two countries by
removing many tax barriers. The con-
vention follows generally the form and
content of conventions recently con-
cluded between this government and
Western European countries.
I hope that the Senate will act favor-
ably on this Convention at an early date.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 28, 1974.
NOTE: The text of the convention and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Execu-
tive B (93d Cong., 2d sess.).
323
