Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 28 [65]
I am not suggesting, of course, that
what we need is a war, which, of course,
is always something that requires an
effort bigger than ourselves. But I am
suggesting that to live in a time when the
challenges are the challenges of peace,
that is a great time.
Let's remember that, and let's use this
peace and use it well over the next 3 years
and the next 8 years after that, because we
are going to be there for a long time.
I would like to refer to all of the pro-
grams that I touched upon in the State of
the Union Message, but I shall not do so
today. That would take too much time,
and other speakers will direct their re-
marks, I am sure, to many of those pro-
grams.
But I would say that looking over the
next 3 years, some of the goals that we can
set for ourselves and can achieve are
these:
First, in terms of our economy, what
we are trying to build is a new prosperity,
one without war and without inflation.
Now, that is a great goal. It is not easy to
achieve, but it can be achieved only
through recognizing a fundamental prin-
ciple: The way to a real new prosperity in
America without war and without infla-
tion is not through more and more reliance
on government, but more and more
reliance on people. We are the party of
people.
That is why, when I had to consider
the options on our health
program, there
were those who suggested that what we
ought to do is to go all the way. We had
problems on health, problems in terms of
many people who could not get health
care because they could not afford it. And
there were those who suggested, because
there were problems, we should simply
get rid of the present health care system
altogether and go to the kind of systems
that have been tried abroad, a complete
government-controlled system, govern-
ment-controlled from top to bottom.
I rejected that. I rejected it for this
reason: because whatever the problems
of health care in America are, just remem-
ber, we have the highest quality of medical
care in the United States today. And I
can tell you that if you visit the countries
that have gone down the road of a com-
plete government-controlled system and
you find an individual who, if he can af-
ford it, wants to get the best care, he
comes here, he doesn't stay there. Let's not
destroy that quality.
And that is why we have sent to the
Congress and we ask your support for a
program which provides the opportunity
for health insurance for all Americans
which is not compulsory, as far as the
Americans are concerned, which provides,
particularly, health care for those who
need it, which provides for health care
for catastrophic illnesses, but which rejects
any program which would add $80 billion
or $100 billion to the tax burden on
American people and particularly which,
rather than throwing out our present
private medical care system, our present
private insurance system, works through
them.
If I may repeat what I have said on
many occasions: I always want to have a
health care system in the United States in
which the doctor is working for the pa-
tient and not for the Government.
Let me turn now to the problem of
energy, and you see that problem. You see
it in the gas lines that people line up for
gasoline, and they wonder why can't we
do something about those gas lines, why
can't the Government solve the problem?
The Congress yesterday passed a bill,
217
