Richard Nixon, 1974
July 27 [231]
231 Remarks on Presenting the Presidential Medal of
Freedom to Charles LeRoy Lowman. July 27, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are gathered here today for the pur-
pose of presenting the Medal of Freedom
to Dr. Charles Lowman. I shall read a
citation in just a moment, but it is very
difficult on such an occasion like this not
to mention the distinguished career of this
very distinguished Californian and distin-
guished American without going into a
little more length than the citation itself.
First, he is 94 years of age and in
magnificent health, as you can see. Sec-
ond, in his 94 years, he has been eminently
successful as a doctor, but he has devoted
most of his time in that 94 years helping
other people, free of charge. He is par-
ticularly known for his work in ortho-
pedics and, in that field, especially known
for his work with young people.
There are thousands and thousands of
children, for example, today in California
and in other parts of this Nation who are
walking who otherwise would be crippled
except for Dr. Lowman. There are thou-
sands and thousands of adults who are
standing straighter, feeling better, who do
not suffer from the various ailments in-
volved in this kind of medicine because of
Dr. Lowman's hard work and also his
real genius.
He is, as we know, a distinguished man
in his field. He will be remembered by his
colleagues for what he has written, for
what he has said, for what he has done,
for his great technical skill. But he will be
remembered by those he has helped and,
I think, by his fellow Americans by the
millions, because he has a great heart. He
is a very fine human being, generous with
his time, concerned about those less for-
tunate than he is, and it is this kind of
man who deserves the Medal of Freedom,
the highest recognition that our Govern-
ment can give to an individual who is not
in the Armed Forces of the United States.
I will now read the citation, and we will
present the Medal of Freedom:
[At this point, the President read the citation,
the text of which follows:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
AWARDS THIS
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM
ΤΟ
CHARLES LEROY LOWMAN, M.D.
A pioneer in medicine, a physician of sur-
passing skill, and a great humanitarian, Dr.
Charles LeRoy Lowman has devoted his life to
the service of his fellow man. His good works
have enriched the lives of thousands of patients,
but none more so than the generations of handi-
capped children who have been treated at the
hospital that he founded in Los Angeles early
in this century. The world will long be indebted
to this distinguished and noble American.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:27 a.m. at
the Western White House, San Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
biographical data on Dr. Lowman and a fact
sheet on the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Dr. Lowman responded to the President's
remarks as follows:
Mr. President:
I can't thank you enough. This is probably
the crowning achievement of my life, and we
shall always remember it. I can't help but feel
that in honoring me, you are realizing the back-
ground at the Orthopedic Hospital, and all the
hundreds who have been my helpers are the
ones who are responsible for much of the re-
sults of what we have attained today.
We started in with about $500 and 509 pa-
tients, and we moved into an old stable at the
Orthopedic Hospital, and we stayed in that
615
