[62] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
62
Remarks on Signing a Proclamation Honoring Vietnam
Veterans. February 26, 1974
THIS PROCLAMATION that I am
now signing, all of the Members of the
House and the Senate who have sponsored
it are aware of it. The members of the
press and perhaps the Nation are not
aware of why we have a proclamation
designating March 29 as Vietnam Vet-
erans Day.
That is the day that the last American
combat soldier left Vietnam, the day,
therefore, that marks the final conclusion
of America's longest and, without ques-
tion, its most difficult war.
It seems to me appropriate that in sign-
ing this proclamation that reference be
made to those who fought in that war,
those who served in that war, why they
fought, and why their service was not only
in the interest of the country but in the
highest tradition of service to the United
States of America, as far as the wars in
which we have been engaged throughout
our history, wars which, we trust, we will
not have to be engaged in in the future if
our foreign policy is as successful as we
hope to make it.
I know that there are some who quarrel
with the phrase that I have often used,
that our men in Vietnam and those who
served in the Armed Forces finally
achieved what many thought was impos-
sible-peace with honor.
I do not use this phrase in any jingo-
istic sense. I use it, because when I con-
sider the alternative, I realize how much
those who served did for their country
under difficult circumstances.
This has been described as a war with-
out heroes, without heroes perhaps except
for those who occasionally receive a Medal
of Honor that we hand out, but very little
attention given to it, those without heroes,
a war in which for the first time our
prisoners of war come home and for a few
fleeting months are recognized for the
character that they showed as prisoners.
But when I refer to peace with honor
achieved by over 22 million who served
in Vietnam, I think of what would have
happened had they not served and had
we failed in our objective.
I am not now going to go into how the
war began. It would serve no useful pur-
pose to point out the difficulties that some
of us have had as to how the war was
conducted, but I do know this:
It was important to bring it to a con-
clusion in the right way, in a way that
America remained respected throughout
the world, in a way in which our allies
had confidence in us, the neutrals did not
lose their faith in us, and particularly
where those who might be our opponents
still respected us, respected not only our
power but respected our strength in terms
of will and willingness to use that strength
for a cause to which we were committed.
What would have happened had we
not ended the war in the way that we did
end it? Seventeen million people in South
Vietnam, instead of having a government
which is non-Communist with a right to
choose for the future, would now be under
Communist control.
The 7 million people of Cambodia who
are fighting against very great odds would
certainly now be under Communist con-
trol. The small countries of Malaysia and
Singapore, the much larger country of
Indonesia, Thailand, the 200 million peo-
210
