[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
gest, also, that we should follow this rule:
The President should treat the press just
as fairly as the press treats him.
PAYMENTS TO WATERGATE DEFENDANTS
[9.] Q. Henry Keys, United Press In-
ternational, Washington, Mr. President. I
wonder if you would explain the differ-
ence between a statement you made last
August regarding payments to the Water-
gate defendants and what you said at your
press conference this month.
You will recall that in August, you said
you were told that the funds had been
raised for attorneys' fees and this month
that Mr. Dean had told you the money
was to be used for keeping the defendants
quiet, not simply for their defense. Could
you explain the difference between those
statements?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I stated in
Chicago, my statement on March 6 was
incorrect insofar as it said that I learned
that payments had been made prior to
the time that the demand for blackmail
by Mr. Hunt-alleged demand for black-
mail, I should say, since it has not yet been
tried that payments had been made for
the purpose of keeping defendants still.
I should have said they were alleged to
have been made, because as a matter of
fact, those who were alleged to have made
payments to defendants for their defense
fees and for their support-Mr. Ehrlich-
man, Mr. Haldeman, Mr. Mitchell-all
have denied that that was the case. They
have said it was only for the support of
the defendants and only for their attor-
neys' fees, which would be completely
proper.
Under the circumstances, therefore, it
would not be appropriate for me to say
anything further on this point, because
these men have a right, now, in a court of
law to establish their innocence or to have
established the guilt, if they are guilty,
of whether or not the payments were
made for one purpose or the other.
FOOD PRICES AND PRODUCTION
[10.] Q. Curtis Beckmann, news direc-
tor, WCCO Radio, Minneapolis. This is a
followup to your comment about increas-
ing production and decontrolling prices.
Some cattlemen's groups now are predict-
ing another round of beef shortages this
fall because of current low prices at the
farm level for the cattle the prices are
way down. And with the experiences of
controls on food that we have had, espe-
cially beef, what steps would you antici-
pate in handling another beef shortage
which they are expecting in the fall?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sorry that I have
to tell the audience here that there is an
echo in this room. Did you say food or
fuel?
MR. BECKMANN. Beef-food and beef.
THE PRESIDENT. Beef, that is sure
food. Okay.
The situation with regard to pressure
on prices I would summarize in this way:
It is not over. For example, the inflation-
ary effects of the energy problem will con-
tinue to push prices up until we get more
production.
Insofar as food is concerned, the
prospect is better. We expect a very big
harvest of grain foods, particularly. But
as far as beef prices, which is your point,
the problem is still going to be a very dif-
ficult one because of the fact that those
who-and I am not an expert on how beef
is raised. Here in Texas you can find a
290
