[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
would you not consider stepping forward
and taking the witness stand?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that for the
President of the United States to appear
in a court of law, any court of law, for the
purpose of testifying, would be setting a
precedent that would be most unfortu-
nate. I believe that any information that
I have has been made available, which
could affect the guilt or innocence of the
individuals involved, and I think the ap-
pearance of the President of the United
States in any one of these cases would be a
precedent which we would regret later.
TAX INVESTIGATIONS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, through the
courtesy of the media, we have been made
aware of your income, your tax deduc-
tions, and your tax liabilities. As an ordi-
nary citizen, how can we go about getting
the same pertinent, candid information
from the Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Members of the Senate,
particularly our two streaking Senators?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I have enough trouble
with the Senate and the House without
asking them to submit to the same kind
of investigation that I have been submit-
ting to. [Laughter]
But second, sir, with regard to your
questions on income tax, let me be quite
direct. Questions were raised with regard
to whether or not I had paid or reported
the amount of taxes that I should have.
I voluntarily asked the Joint Committee
on Taxation of the House and Senate to
consider this matter.
It has been considering it, and as Chair-
man Long and the ranking minority mem-
ber of the Senate Finance Committee have
indicated, there has been no evidence of
fraud on the part of the President.
There may be evidence that he may
owe more taxes due to primarily, ap-
parently—it is a debatable technical point
as to whether a gift of three-quarters of a
million dollars worth of [Vice] Presidential
papers which was delivered 3 months
before the deadline, whether the paper-
work on it was completed in time to
qualify for the deduction.
If it was completed in time, as I under-
stand it, I get the deduction. If it was not
completed in time, I don't get the deduc-
tion, I pay the tax, and the Government
gets to keep the papers.
Well, under the circumstances, that is
hard for me to realize, but the President,
when the IRS is concerned, I can assure
you, is just another citizen, and even more
so. [Laughter] And that is perfectly proper.
COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN THE UNITED
NATIONS
[14.] Yes, sir.
Q. Mr. President, we are hearing
increasing and persistent objections to
the Communist influence on the United
Nations and certain of its agencies.
My question relates to UNICEF. What
are we doing to keep our contribu-
tions to UNICEF from Communist con-
trol, and by whose authority do branches
of the U.S. Post Office assist in the sale
and distribution of cards for UNICEF?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, sir, that is a
matter I will have to look into. It is enough
to have the problems of the United States
to solve without looking into the United
Nations, I can assure you. But speaking
quite directly, it is quite true that the
Soviet Union, being a major nation, has
274
