[34] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
can do much to ensure quality care while
helping to bring about significant savings
in health costs.
3. MORE BALANCED GROWTH IN HEALTH
FACILITIES
Another provision of this legislation
would call on the States to review build-
ing plans for hospitals, nursing homes and
other health facilities. Existing health in-
surance has overemphasized the place-
ment of patients in hospitals and nursing
homes. Under this artificial stimulus, in-
stitutions have felt impelled to keep
adding bed space. This has produced a
growth of almost 75 percent in the num-
ber of hospital beds in the last twenty
years, so that now we have a surplus of
beds in many places and a poor mix of
facilities in others. Under the legislation
I am submitting, States can begin remedy-
ing this costly imbalance.
4. STATE ROLE
Another important provision of this
legislation calls on the States to review
the operation of health insurance carriers
within their jurisdiction. The States
would approve specific plans, oversee
rates, ensure adequate disclosure, require
an annual audit and take other appro-
priate measures. For health care pro-
viders, the States would assure fair reim-
bursement for physician services, drugs
and institutional services, including a
prospective reimbursement system for
hospitals.
A number of States have shown that an
effective job can be done in containing
costs. Under my proposal all States would
have an incentive to do the same. Only
with effective cost control measures can
States ensure that the citizens receive the
increased health care they need and at
rates they can afford. Failure on the part
of States to enact the necessary authorities
would prevent them from receiving any
Federal support of their State-adminis-
tered health assistance plan.
MAINTAINING A PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
APPROACH
My proposed plan differs sharply with
several of the other health insurance plans
which have been prominently discussed.
The primary difference is that my pro-
posal would rely extensively on private
insurers.
Any insurance company which could
offer those benefits would be a potential
supplier. Because private employers would
have to provide certain basic benefits to
their employees, they would have an in-
centive to seek out the best insurance
company proposals and insurance com-
panies would have an incentive to offer
their plans at the lowest possible prices.
If, on the other hand, the Government
were to act as the insurer, there would
be no competition and little incentive to
hold down costs.
There is a huge reservoir of talent and
skill in administering and designing health
plans within the private sector. That pool
of talent should be put to work.
It is also important to understand that
the CHIP plan preserves basic freedoms
for both the patient and doctor. The pa-
tient would continue to have a freedom
of choice between doctors. The doctors
would continue to work for their patients,
138
