Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 20 [55]
sary for successful fulfillment of the pro-
gram's goals and has been in daily use
since its inauguration.
ELIMINATION OF SMALLPOX
Finally, I am pleased to report that one
of the most successful efforts ever under-
taken to improve world health will soon
realize its goal-the global eradication of
smallpox. This is an activity originally
endorsed and consistently supported by
the United States.
The Eighteenth World Health Assem-
bly in 1965, at the initiative of the U.S.
Delegation, adopted a resolution declar-
ing worldwide eradication of smallpox a
major World Health Organization objec-
tive. When the program began in 1966, 45
countries reported smallpox. At the end of
1973, this number had been reduced to
11. In 1966, smallpox was endemic in 25
countries. Today it is endemic in only
four. In the Americas, where smallpox
was a devastating disease for centuries,
not a case has been reported since April
1971.
As a result of this global effort, the
probability of contracting smallpox in the
United States today is virtually non-
existent. There has not been a docu-
mented case of this disease in the United
States since 1949.
Because of these dramatic results, our
Public Health Service has decided that
routine immunization of children should
no longer be required.
CONCLUSION
The policies outlined in this message
can make 1974 a pivotal year in the his-
tory of health care in the United States.
By preserving all that is best in our tradi-
tional medical system, and by devising the
fairest, most efficient means to deal with
health challenges that lie ahead, we can
strike a uniquely American balance that
will preserve the independence and integ-
rity of patient and health professional
alike.
"Health," wrote Thomas Jefferson,
nearly two centuries ago, "is the first
requisite after morality." Today, as we
approach our Bicentennial as a nation, we
can lay the foundations for a balanced
health care system that will convert the
age-old ideal of high quality health care
for all into a new American reality. I urge
the Congress to act rapidly on the meas-
ures I am proposing to achieve the objec-
tive we all share.
The White House,
February 20, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President met
separately with Republican Congressional lead-
ers and Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare Caspar W. Weinberger to discuss the
message.
The White House also released, on the same
day, a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the message by Secretary Weinber-
ger and Charles C. Edwards, Assistant Secre-
tary for Health, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare.
43-437 - 75 - 15
191
