[80] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
world in terms of anyone who might be a
potential adversary of the United States,
and what that visit and the other develop-
ments that we have discussed mean to
you.
I will tell you this very simply: What
it means is that we believe very strongly
that our generation, this generation that
now has the responsibility for govern-
ment, owes something to you and future
generations.
We have had four wars in this century,
and young Americans have fought and
died very bravely for their country. We
have never gained anything out of those
wars except the chance for other coun-
tries to be free and to build a peace.
And now what we want is not just
peace in our time but peace in your time—
and I am speaking particularly to all the
young people here we want a generation
of peace. And in order to do that, it is
necessary to talk to people who even
might be your opponents and might think
very differently from you, rather than to
have the option of fighting them.
It also is necessary-and this is the im-
portant thing to remember that the
United States never forget that the
strength of America, its military strength,
its economic strength, the character of
America, is essential if we are going to
be able to maintain the peace of the
world.
And when I come here to the heartland
of America, just let me say two things.
From a military standpoint, I know that
in this great State of Tennessee, as indi-
cated by the votes of your Senators and
your Congressmen, the people of Tennes-
see support strongly my position that the
United States must never become the
second strongest nation in the world.
And I know, too, that here in the State
of Tennessee, there is that strong charac-
ter, that patriotism which will see to it
that America is not only strong militarily
but that we will be the world's leader,
which it is our destiny to be, because with-
out our leadership there cannot be peace.
And that brings me back to Mrs. Nixon.
Sometimes we think of the strength of mis-
siles and other weapons that we have. But
just as important is the sympathy, the
understanding which can only come from
people-to-people contact. She brings from
the people of South America to the people
of the United States their affection, and
she brought to them, better than anyone
else could, the feeling that every Ameri-
can has for everybody in the world.
Let us clearly understand, we want to
be the enemies of no people in the world.
We want to be friends with all people in
the world, but we will maintain our
strength so that America can play the
great role of peacemaker in the years
ahead and that this young generation will
be the first in this century to enjoy a gen-
eration of peace, and with your help we
will do it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The remarks began at 6:14 p.m. at
Nashville Metropolitan Airport.
278
