[55] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
In 1971, appropriations for the Na-
tional Cancer Institute were approxi-
mately $233 million. For fiscal year 1975,
I have asked the Congress to appropriate
$600 million.
We have made substantial progress in
bringing the results of research as rapidly
as possible to a maximum number of
people. The latest advances in cancer
therapy are being made widely available
throughout the country for patients with
leukemia, Hodgkin's disease and other
lymphomas. We will assure that the new-
est and best cancer therapies will be avail-
able to the medical community. Major
studies are underway at several institu-
tions to detect lung cancer-the major
cancer killer at its earliest stages. In ad-
dition, the National Cancer Institute has
pooled its resources with the American
Cancer Society to open 20 demonstration
centers for the early detection of breast
cancer, the leading cause of death for
American women in their reproductive
years.
These are only a few of the important
advances in our cancer program dedicated
to informing and helping the people of
America today, while continuing the
search for causes, cures and means of pre-
venting all cancers.
HEART DISEASE RESEARCH
The greatest single risk to health and
life in the United States is heart disease.
Collectively, heart, blood vessel, lung and
blood disease affect more than 30 million
Americans. High blood pressure is one of
the most commonly encountered forms of
heart and blood vessel disease, affecting
an estimated 23 million adult Americans,
or between 10 and 15 percent of the popu-
lation of the United States.
In my State of the Union message in
1972, I promised to give these diseases
increased attention. Later that year I
signed into law the National Heart, Blood
Vessel, Lung and Blood Act of 1972. To
implement that act, I have requested ap-
propriations of $309 million for fiscal year
1975, an increase of $23 million over this
year. Special emphasis will be placed on
research to prevent heart attacks and high
blood pressure. The programs in sickle
cell disease will also be continued.
INTERNATIONAL HEALTH PROGRESS
We have long recognized that health
problems are universal and that their solu-
tion requires international collaboration.
We have been heavily involved with activ-
ities of the World Health Organization,
and we have worked directly with many
different countries. Among the most
significant of these bilateral activities is
our recent agreement with the Soviet
Union.
The United States and the Soviet Union
have enjoyed 16 years of fruitful relation-
ships in the field of health. From 1958
until 1972, under a general exchange
treaty between our State Department and
the USSR Foreign Ministry, we have ex-
changed many of
many of our best medical
scientists.
Recently, HEW Secretary Caspar
Weinberger, visited the Soviet Union as a
guest of Soviet Health Minister Petrov-
sky. During his visit, he inaugurated a new
Telex link between the Ministry of Health
in Moscow and the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare here in Wash-
ington. This new "health line" provides
the kind of direct communications neces-
190
