Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 8 [73]
having such requirements to change their
laws to conform with this potential action
by the national parties. I am reluctant to
ask for Federal legislation in this area be-
cause it would intrude unduly into the
right of each State to determine its elec-
tion laws, but I am hopeful that the States
will cooperate in this important effort. To
this end, I am instructing the Department
of Justice to give the States such assistance
as they may desire in developing legisla-
tion to make this possible.
D. ENCOURAGING CANDIDATE PARTICIPATION
One of the major items on the agenda
of campaign reform is the need to encour-
age qualified people to run for office and
maintain a strong two-party system. We
should never limit the voter's choice or dis-
courage capable men and women from
seeking to represent their fellow citizens.
I urge the Congress to examine its own
benefits of incumbency which have
mounted over the years. It would be in-
appropriate for the Executive to propose
specific remedies in this Congressional
area, but I suggest there is reason for con-
cern over the marked advantages-
federally funded-that Congressional in-
cumbents now enjoy over their chal-
lengers. Such things as free mailing
privileges, use of "public service" broad-
cast time, and the extensive staff and fi-
nancial fringe benefits of office have made
it progressively more difficult for compe-
tent challengers to have a fair chance in
Congressional races. I readily concede
that the Presidential incumbency advan-
tage is also substantial, but there is some
protection here in the constitutional limit
on length of Presidential service. I urge
the Congress to review this problem and
to develop reforms that will assure a better
balance in Congressional races.
I also propose repeal of the “equal
time" provision of the Communications
Act of 1934 for all Federal elections. The
repeal of this provision would reduce cam-
paign expenditures by allowing the elec-
tronic media the flexibility to provide free
campaign coverage to the major political
candidates, and in doing so would assist
our citizens in reaching sound judgments
on election day.
Finally, I have asked the Department
of Justice to explore the possibility of legis-
lation to reaffirm certain private rights of
public figures so that people interested in
running for public office can have greater
assurance of recourse against slanderous
attacks on them or their families. Land-
mark Supreme Court decisions have se-
verely restricted a public figure's ability to
gain redress against such grievances, but I
would hope that specifically defined limits
can be legislated by the Congress to pre-
vent unscrupulous attacks on public fig-
ures. These reforms are not intended to
restrict vigorous debate, but to enhance it,
to help give it dignity and integrity, and
to improve the prospects for good and de-
cent people who today flinch from politi-
cal participation because of their fear of
slanderous attacks.
III. CONCLUSION
The reforms I have urged here, and
that many in the Congress are seeking as
well, are designed to open up our electoral
process and to correct some of its most
egregious abuses.
I am doubtful that any legislation can
provide the panacea that some seek to
guarantee absolute integrity in the elec-
251
