[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
research and development which I have
long believed was needed.
EDUCATIONAL INNOVATION BEYOND HIGH
SCHOOL
While the National Foundation for
Higher Education which I proposed in
1970 has not been established, the Fund
for the Improvement of Post-secondary
education was set up by the Congress.
The fund is now providing support for the
development and demonstration of more
effective approaches to college level edu-
cation. Our initial assessment leads me to
believe that the fund will, in the years
to come, become the primary focal point
for innovation in higher education.
ASSISTING SCHOOL DESEGREGATION
Under the Emergency School Aid Act
of 1972, an estimated $467 million in
Federal funds will have been provided to
local school districts by the end of 1975
to assist in the process of elementary and
secondary school desegregation, to en-
courage voluntary programs to overcome
minority group isolation, and to assist in
meeting the educational needs of children.
who, because of racial isolation, have not
had an equal educational opportunity.
By the 1975-1976 school year, the bulk
of the problems incident to "de jure" seg-
regation should have passed. However, to
provide assistance to those other school
districts which may still be required to
take special desegregation measures as the
result of court rulings, I have budgeted an
additional $75 million for fiscal year 1975.
In addition, the Federal Government will
continue to provide civil rights education
advisory activities to local districts to assist
them in meeting any remaining problems.
BUSING
I have often expressed my opposition
to the use of forced busing for purposes of
achieving racial balance. I have also pro-
posed legislation which would dictate
reasonable limits on the use of forced
busing, and I have opposed the consoli-
dation of school districts in an effort to
achieve racial balance in the larger dis-
trict. Such consolidation plans have only
led to more busing and the eventual dis-
appearance of the neighborhood school.
The end result of an excessive reliance
on forced busing and the imposition of
arbitrary ratios has frequently been an
increasing concentration of the poor and
minorities in our central cities and the
serious weakening of the very school sys-
tems which must serve them. In some
cases, the education of minority children
has actually suffered, not benefitted, from
such plans.
I shall continue to support the passage
of legislation which makes busing only a
last resort-tightly circumscribed even
then. I will also continue to work with
the Congress to revise my proposals in
light of unfolding events in this area.
FUNDING ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCATION
I am encouraged by the interest the
Congress has continued to show in legis-
lation which follows the concepts put for-
ward in my proposed Better Schools Act.
I believe that meaningful compromise is
now possible, and that we can at last re-
form and consolidate Federal grants for
elementary and secondary education, vo-
cational programs and adult education.
I hope that the Congress will include
four basic elements in this reform:
72
