[229] July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal Government will play its part.
And together, we can achieve the goal
that all of us want: the goal of full pros-
perity without war and without inflation
for ourselves, for our children, and for
America's future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:32 p.m. in
the Los Angeles Room of the Century Plaza
Hotel before a conference on the economy in
Los Angeles, Calif. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio and television. An
advance text of his address was released on the
same day.
In his opening words, the President referred
to William French Smith, president of the
California Chamber of Commerce.
The conference on the economy was spon-
sored by the California Chamber of Commerce,
the California Manufacturers Association, the
Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce, and
the Merchants and Manufacturers Association.
230 Statement About Signing the Emergency Livestock
Credit Act of 1974. July 26, 1974
I AM signing today S. 3679, the Emer-
gency Livestock Credit Act of 1974.
Through a carefully controlled program
of loan guarantees, this bill will provide
emergency assistance to livestock pro-
ducers who have been caught in a recent
cost-price squeeze. When production costs
soared above sales levels in recent months,
many producers-especially in the beef in-
dustry-began operating at a loss, and
some still face the threat of bankruptcy.
Without some form of assistance as pro-
vided in this bill, there might ultimately be
a reduction in the number of producers,
which would in turn lead to reduced sup-
plies and higher prices for the consumers.
I am keenly aware, however, that this
bill also presents some dangers. The as-
sistance provided by this bill should not
be used to bail out short-term speculators
who are normally not engaged in livestock
production, nor should it be used to re-
finance debt unrelated to recent market
conditions or to offset potential losses by
banking institutions, which are in a posi-
tion to absorb some loss as a normal busi-
ness risk. Instead, it should be used only
in those cases where it can make the
critical difference between a producer's
ability to sustain continued meat produc-
tion and a forced reduction in his produc-
tion that in the long run would hurt the
general consumer as well as the producer.
Accordingly, I am asking the Secretary
of Agriculture to administer this act with
deliberation and selectivity to ensure that
it is used only by the bona fide producer
of livestock who is critically affected by
short-term changes in market conditions
and whose continued production would be
severely jeopardized in the absence of
such assistance.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3679, approved July 25,
1974, is Public Law 93-357 (88 Stat. 391).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
614
