[90] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
will not be socialized medicine, but which
is based on private insurance and the
private medical profession, so that we can
maintain the principle that the doctors in
this country will always be working for
their patients and not for the Federal
Government.
You are working for and you are sup-
porting another cause in the field of edu-
cation. I cannot outline all of the various
features of our education program, as I
did in a radio speech just a week ago. I
can summarize two that are very impor-
tant: One, the very simple proposition
that I think most Americans overwhelm-
ingly support, and that is, the place to
educate our children is in their neighbor-
hood schools and not have them bused
across town; and second, for us to recog-
nize that the Federal Government, be-
cause it has more access to funds than do
State and local governments at times, has
a role in education, but that when the
Federal Government provides money for
education, let that money be provided,
but let it not come with strings from
Washington, because the decisions with re-
gard to what is best for education should
be made by the local school districts and
not by some bureaucrats in Washington,
D.C.
In the field of welfare, where we have
been trying to get reform and have failed
and where we are developing a new pro-
gram, where we have differences-have
had but where, I am sure, we can
reach that kind of program that our
candidates will be proud to run on, be-
cause it will have one great goal, one that
I have reiterated time and again, and that
I repeat again tonight: What we must
have as our goal is a welfare program that
will make it less profitable for a person to
go on welfare than to go to work, because
that is the only way that America can be
strong.
In the field of transportation, a program
that will revitalize our Nation's railroads,
a program that will continue the great
start that we have already made in re-
building our merchant marine, a program
that will continue what we have done in
the field of mass transit and, looking to-
ward the future, will provide not only for
the cities but for rural communities as
well, the mass transit that they need so
that our cities and towns will not be
choked with traffic.
In the field of energy, one that has
been, of course, so close to all of us be-
cause of the crisis we had in the Mideast
and which is still with us, even though
the embargo has been lifted, our candi-
dates will be able to point to a program
and a great goal. The goal is independ-
ence for the United States, independence
in 1980, so that the United States will
develop its massive resources, the great-
est that any nation in the world has, its
coal resources, its oil and gas resources,
its nuclear power, and all of the other
potential resources, so that by the time
1980 comes this Nation will be independ-
ent of any foreign country, and no other
foreign country will ever be able to cut
off our supply of energy.
And in the field of opportunity-op-
portunity for all Americans for education,
for health, for all of those things that we
cherish and love in this country-in this
area our candidates will be able to point
not only to a fine record in the past but
also to a program for the future that every
American can be proud of.
Now, if some of you who are somewhat
discerning as this audience, I am sure,
is-politically, thinks of all this, you may
say, "What does this sound like? Is this
320
