[34] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
34 Special Message to the Congress Proposing a Comprehensive
Health Insurance Plan. February 6, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
One of the most cherished goals of
our democracy is to assure every Ameri-
can an equal opportunity to lead a full
and productive life.
In the last quarter century, we have
made remarkable progress toward that
goal, opening the doors to millions of our
fellow countrymen who were seeking
equal opportunities in education, jobs and
voting.
Now it is time that we move forward
again in still another critical area: health
care.
Without adequate health care, no one
can make full use of his or her talents and
opportunities. It is thus just as important
that economic, racial and social barriers
not stand in the way of good health care
as it is to eliminate those barriers to a good
education and a good job.
Three years ago, I proposed a major
health insurance program to the Con-
gress, seeking to guarantee adequate fi-
nancing of health care on a nationwide.
basis. That proposal generated wide-
spread discussion and useful debate. But
no legislation reached my desk.
Today the need is even more pressing
because of the higher costs of medical
care. Efforts to control medical costs un-
der the New Economic Policy have been
met with encouraging success, sharply
reducing the rate of inflation for health.
care. Nevertheless, the overall cost of
health care has still risen by more than 20
percent in the last two and one-half years,
so that more and more Americans face
staggering bills when they receive medical
help today:
-Across the Nation, the average cost
of a day of hospital care now exceeds
$110.
-The average cost of delivering a baby
and providing postnatal care approaches
$1,000.
-The average cost of health care for
terminal cancer now exceeds $20,000.
For the average family, it is clear that
without adequate insurance, even nor-
mal care can be a financial burden while
a catastrophic illness can mean cata-
strophic debt.
Beyond the question of the prices of
health care, our present system of health
care insurance suffers from two major
flaws:
First, even though more Americans
carry health insurance than ever before,
the 25 million Americans who remain un-
insured often need it the most and are
most unlikely to obtain it. They include
many who work in seasonal or transient
occupations, high-risk cases, and those
who are ineligible for Medicaid despite
low incomes.
Second, those Americans who do carry
health insurance often lack coverage
which is balanced, comprehensive and
fully protective:
-Forty percent of those who are in-
sured are not covered for visits to physi-
cians on an out-patient basis, a gap that
creates powerful incentives toward high-
cost care in hospitals;
-Few people have the option of select-
132
