[25] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
challenges we faced 5 years ago, and we
will be equally confident of meeting those
that we face today.
Let us see for a moment how we have
met them.
After more than 10 years of military
involvement, all of our troops have re-
turned from Southeast Asia, and they
have returned with honor. And we
can be proud of the fact that our courage-
ous prisoners of war, for whom a dinner
was held in Washington tonight, that
they came home with their heads high,
on their feet and not on their knees.
In our relations with the Soviet Union,
we have turned away from a policy of
confrontation to one of negotiation. For
the first time since World War II, the
world's two strongest powers are working
together toward peace in the world. With
the People's Republic of China after a
generation of hostile isolation, we have
begun a period of peaceful exchange and
expanding trade.
Peace has returned to our cities, to
our campuses. The 17-year rise in crime
has been stopped. We can confidently say
today that we are finally beginning to
win the war against crime. Right here in
this Nation's Capital-which a few years
ago was threatening to become the crime
capital of the world the rate in crime
has been cut in half. A massive campaign
against drug abuse has been organized.
And the rate of new heroin addiction,
the most vicious threat of all, is decreasing
rather than increasing.
For the first time in a generation, no
young Americans are being drafted into
the armed services of the United States.
And for the first time ever, we have orga-
nized a massive national effort to protect
the environment. Our air is getting
cleaner, our water is getting purer, and
our agriculture, which was depressed, is
prospering. Farm income is up 70 percent,
farm production is setting alltime records,
and the billions of dollars the taxpayers
were paying in subsidies has been cut to
nearly zero.
Overall, Americans are living more
abundantly than ever before, today. More
than 22 million new jobs were created
in the past year alone. That is the biggest
percentage increase in nearly 20 years.
People are earning more. What they earn
buys more, more than ever before in
history. In the past 5 years, the average
American's real spendable income-that
is, what you really can buy with your in-
come, even after allowing for taxes and
inflation-has increased by 16 percent.
Despite this record of achievement, as
we turn to the year ahead we hear once
again the familiar voice of the perennial
prophets of gloom telling us now that be-
cause of the need to fight inflation, be-
cause of the energy shortage, America
may be headed for a recession.
Let me speak to that issue head on.
There will be no recession in the United
States of America. Primarily due to our
energy crisis, our economy is passing
through a difficult period. But I pledge
to you tonight that the full powers of this
Government will be used to keep Amer-
ica's economy producing and to protect
the jobs of America's workers.
We are engaged in a long and hard
fight against inflation. There have been,
and there will be in the future, ups and
downs in that fight. But if this Congress
cooperates in our efforts to hold down
the cost of Government, we shall win our
fight to hold down the cost of living for the
American people.
As we look back over our history, the
years that stand out as the ones of signal
48
