[48] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
appeal to the world and still have it, if we
never forget the real sources of our
strength. First, because America has al-
ways had what we call in a general sense
the Spirit of '76 which we are now recap-
turing 200 years later in 1976, and that
Spirit of '76 means, first, the spirit of
freedom for all people. Second, it means
the spirit of opportunity for all people.
And third, it means a spirit of self-
reliance.
When I look over the history of [this]
country, of the United States and I
think all of you, as you look at it, will
agree with this-America became the
strongest and the richest and the freest
country in the world not because of what
government did, but because what people
did. People made America, and that is
what we must remember today. I refer to
the spirit of self-reliance that has built
this great country, but the spirit of peo-
ple who asked not what is the government
going to do for me, but what can I do for
myself and for my country. That is what
built America, and that is what will build
it in the future.
And there is another spirit which also
has always characterized the American
scene, and it is this-Governor Wallace
referred to the space program: No nation
can be great if it gives up in the race to
explore the unknown.
Clearly apart from anything we gain
militarily from our exploration of space,
we must remember that whether it was
exploring the world in which we live, or
whether it is now exploring the heavens
and the new worlds in the years ahead,
America must never settle for second best.
We must seek to be number one, and
we shall be number one. Because when a
nation fails to seek to do its best, when a
people fail to do everything that they can
to achieve the ultimate in their greatness,
they cease to be a great people.
And then there is another spirit about
America that I would characterize as part
of the Spirit of '76 and it is this: Ameri-
cans have always had strength in adver-
sity. In 200 years we have had 12 wars.
In 200 years we have had many great
depressions. There have been times of dis-
couragement in America. But the Ameri-
can spirit was such that we always became
stronger when the going got tougher.
The American people are not a nation
of quitters. We are a nation that will keep
fighting on until we succeed. As Winston
Churchill once said, speaking in another
context, he said we did not journey all
this way across the centuries, across the
oceans and across the mountains and
across the prairies because we were made
of sugar candy.
It is that character, self-reliance, the
character that I have also mentioned in
terms of strength in adversity that has
made America great, and we must always
revitalize it on an occasion like this.
I think, for example, of that character
in the personal terms of the individual
who has introduced me so eloquently a
few moments ago. I think he will remem-
ber the day I visited him at the hospital
shortly after the totally senseless attack
was made on his life.
I went in and talked to him for a few
moments, and afterwards-Mrs. Wallace
will remember-I came out and gave her
my appraisal, not as a doctor, but as a
layman, of how he was doing.
And I said, "I know nothing about the
physical prognosis, but I know one thing,
there is nothing wrong with his spirit. He
has the will to live. He will come back,
he is going to make it." And he did, be-
cause he has got that strength.
172
