Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 20 [84]
tion with the Soviet Union in the field of
space and in other areas that have re-
ceived perhaps too little attention.
Did you know that we have a new pro-
gram which we developed at the first sum-
mit in Moscow in 1972 for cooperation be-
tween American doctors and people from
the medical profession in America with
Soviet doctors and people from that pro-
fession in the Soviet Union?
Think what that might mean. I know
all of you have heard of the new program
that I announced 2 years ago for $100
million that we are going to spend in order
to find, if we can, an answer to the prob-
lem of cancer-and maybe, the doctors
tell me, it is many answers, not like polio
where one vaccine is the answer, but many
answers.
The other day, perhaps 3 weeks ago, a
month ago, I called a little 8-year-old boy
in Florida. His father had asked me to
call. He had leukemia. They knew he
wasn't going to live. I think he knew it, al-
though they had not told him.
And I remember that call, his voice, his
spirit. We talked about the Dolphins.² He
guessed the score better than I did. Today
that boy is dead. And thousands of others
here, in the Soviet Union, in Europe, Af-
rica, Asia, Latin America, will die of can-
cer and other diseases because we haven't
found those answers.
Now, where is the answer? It may be
in America. We have, I believe, the best
medical profession in the world. But it
might be in the Soviet Union, or it might
be, for example, in Africa or Asia or Latin
America. But wherever it is, that spark of
genius that could find an answer or one
of the answers to any one of the diseases
that devastate mankind, we must go for-
* Miami Dolphins professional football team.
ward together to see that we allow it to
develop.
And we also know this: I was not a
Boy Scout and I see one here but I re-
member they used to tell me about the
Scouts, that they had learned to rub sticks
together, and when they rub them to-
gether they can create a spark. And so it
might be that Soviet doctors working to-
gether with American doctors, rubbing to-
gether, may find that spark that each
working separately might not ever find.
And so I say to you, there are differences
in the world in which we live. Thank
God, we are at peace for the first time in
12 years, all of our prisoners of war are at
home. We are negotiating with the So-
viets, with the People's Republic of China,
two systems with which we have broad
ideological differences. But wherever we
can work together, whether it be explora-
tion of space, or in cleaning up the en-
vironment, or in finding the answer to
those diseases that plague mankind, let us
have the statesmanship to see that we
work together rather than separately, be-
cause all of mankind will benefit, not just
America, and that is what we want.
And now I understand it is time for
the coffeebreak.
And I will simply conclude my remarks
by saying something with regard to my
last visit to Houston, because it also tells
us something about life. It was here, when
the Apollo 13 crew came back. They
didn't make it, but they got back. And
there was some who said they were
failures. They didn't fail. The men and
women on the ground didn't fail, because
you are only a failure when you give up,
and they didn't give up.
And to me, those men with their cour-
age, with their ingenuity, even though
they didn't make it, they told us something
301
