Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 8 [104]
pathy to Madam Pompidou, his family,
and to his countrymen on the occasion of
their very great loss.
NOTE: The President spoke a 10:36 p.m. at
Orly Airport, where he was welcomed by
French Minister of Foreign Affairs Michel
Jobert. Accompanying the President as mem-
bers of the official U.S. delegation to the
memorial services were John N. Irwin II,
United States Ambassador to France; Alexan-
der M. Haig, Jr., Assistant to the President; and
Maj. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
On April 6, 1974, the President attended the
103
memorial services for President Pompidou at
Notre Dame Cathedral. After the services, he
met with Alain Poher, who was interim Presi-
dent of France, at the Elysée Palace, and he
later attended a French Government reception
at the Foreign Ministry for foreign leaders in
Paris for the memorial services.
Throughout the day, the President met
separately at the United States Ambassador's
residence with President Giovanni Leone of
Italy, Prime Minister Harold Wilson of the
United Kingdom, Chancellor Willy Brandt of
the Federal Republic of Germany, and Prime
Minister Pol Hartling of Denmark.
Informal Remarks on Departure From Paris.
April 7, 1974
Au revoir. I will come again.
A very warm goodby and a beautiful
day, but we had a very good visit with
our friends from France. Of course, we
couldn't go into many matters because
of the occasion, but also, it was an oppor-
tunity to see many other people from
around the world. But we always like to
come to Paris.
I look forward to coming back some
day when I have many hours as a tourist
to try the restaurants again.
Forty years ago, I majored in French,
had 4 years of French. After 4 years, I
104 Statement on Signing
Amendments of 1974.
could speak it, I could write it. I read all
the classics. And today, I just understand
a little.
BYSTANDER. When do you come back
in France, Mr. President, again?
THE PRESIDENT. Any time I have a
good excuse. I love it. Goodby. Merci.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:48 a.m. out-
side the United States Ambassador's residence.
Earlier in the day, the President held a break-
fast meeting at the residence with N. V. Pod-
gorny, Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. He then
met with Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka of
Japan.
the Fair Labor Standards
April 8, 1974
I AM today signing S. 2747, the Fair
Labor Standards Amendments of 1974.
Although I have some reservations
about portions of this legislation, its basic
purpose to increase the minimum wage
for working men and women of this coun-
try-deserves the support of all Ameri-
cans.
The federally legislated minimum wage
for most American workers has remained
static for 6 years despite a number of in-
creases in the cost of living. Raising the
minimum wage is now a matter of justice
that can no longer be fairly delayed.
This bill would raise the minimum
wage for most workers from $1.60 to $2.00
337
