[177] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
future, will benefit not only you but bene-
fit us as we learn to work together in
developing and meeting the policies which
will lead to a peaceful and a prosperous
world for all of us.
So finally, Mr. President, I want you to
know that as I announced tonight to our
guests with very great pleasure the fact
that you have accepted
have accepted an invitation to
visit the United States on a State visit and
that Mrs. Sadat will accompany you, that
that will occur before the end of this year,
that it is going to be my privilege to give
you an itinerary also where you will see
not only Washington but, we trust, other
parts of the country that you have not
seen before. And in that connection, we
will not be able, of course, to match cer-
tainly what we have seen in the way of the
antiquities of the past that we have here,
but I can assure you that we will do our
best to demonstrate to you, as you and
your people have demonstrated to us, that
the American people in their hearts have
nothing but the greatest affection and the
highest hopes for our friends in Egypt.
We welcome this opportunity to work
together again as friends, and that friend-
ship that we have had the privilege of
sealing after Dr. Kissinger and his col-
leagues on his side and your representa-
tives on your side laid the foundation, that
friendship is one that we will treasure and,
we trust, pass on to future generations to
enjoy for years to come.
So, ladies and gentlemen, all of us, I
think, would want to join, including our
American friends particularly and our
Egyptian guests as well, in a toast to the
President in the sense that he has been
such a great host for us.
And also, shall we toast him and Mrs.
Sadat a little in advance, wishing him
what he will have, a very fine and warm
welcome in the United States of America
when he returns this visit later this year.
To President Sadat.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:48 p.m. in
Ras El-Teen Palace.
President Sadat responded to the President's
toast in Arabic. His remarks were translated by
an interpreter as follows:
My friends, President Nixon, Mrs. Nixon, their
guests:
It was yesterday that you arrived in our
country and took a historic step in American-
Egyptian relations. After our talks and after
we all listened to your memorable statement in
Cairo, you will perhaps agree with me that the
most important outcome of the visit is the es-
tablishment of American-Egyptian relations on
a clear and sound basis which finds its fruit in
a shared conviction, and then with determina-
tion that it is in the interest of both our coun-
tries and our two peoples not to allow the
reoccurrence of what had strained this relation-
ship in the past and that we work together for
an inspiring future corresponding with the
deepest sense of the essentials of peace for our
region and beyond it.
Mr. President, you spoke about me and the
Egyptian people, whom I have the honor to
represent, in a manner that made me feel the
gravity of the responsibility that I shoulder on
behalf of that people and of the Arab nation,
for these are responsibilities in need of numer-
ous and varied energies that are beyond the
reach of one person.
What really matters is my belief, which
transcends my other beliefs, that the para-
mountcy of building for peace and of working
without hesitation until all peoples of the area
are afforded the safety and the political climate
necessary for the area and its peoples in order
to resume their former standing so that all could
contribute in solidarity in the setting up of a
modern civilization.
When I referred to your attributes, I did
this on purpose in order to emphasize what I
have already mentioned to you concerning my
admiration for your courage in taking the ini-
tiative in making daring and decisive decisions
on all levels on the international plane since
you assumed the leadership of your country.
I am quite confident, Mr. President, that
498
