[29] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
gogic and shortsighted attacks upon
profits.
VII. We must push forward, as we have
been doing, to remove barriers against
the entry of women and minorities into
any occupation and against their maxi-
mum training and advancement. The men
and women of the country are its great-
est economic resource. To fail to use any
of this resource to its full potential is a
serious loss to us all.
Compared with our parents and grand-
parents we are enormously rich. We have
protections against the ebbs and flows of
economic life that they never expected
and barely imagined. But I cannot assure
the American people of an easy time. Like
our parents and grandparents, we have
our own tests. If we meet them with forti-
tude and realism the period ahead can be
one not only of material advance but also
of spiritual satisfaction.
February 1, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's message, together with
the Annual Report of the Council of Economic
Advisers, is printed in "Economic Report of the
President, Transmitted to the Congress Feb-
ruary 1974" (Government Printing Office, 359
pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing held on Jan-
uary 31 on the message by Herbert Stein, Chair-
man, and William J. Fellner, member, Council
of Economic Advisers.
30 Statement About the Death of Samuel Goldwyn.
February 1, 1974
SAMUEL GOLDWYN was one of the
finest examples of what an energetic and
talented individual can do in America. He
came to our shores from the Warsaw
Ghetto and early grasped the potential
of the moving picture. Assembling gifted
writers, performers, and directors, he
made more than 70 movies which trans-
ported movie viewers to faraway, roman-
tic places and gave them fresh and insight-
31
ful glimpses within their world. Truly it
can be said that he helped to elevate mov-
ing pictures from the level of nickel-
odeon melodrama to enduring art.
Mrs. Nixon and I extend our heartfelt
sympathy to his family.
NOTE: Mr. Goldwyn, 91, died in Beverly Hills,
Calif., on January 31, 1974. In 1971, he was
awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
(see 1971 volume, Item 118).
Remarks on Signing the Annual Budget Message to the
Congress, Fiscal Year 1975.
I WANT to take this opportunity to thank
all of the people who are here, people
who have, I understand, according to
Roy Ash and Fred Malek, worked harder
than perhaps any people in Government
in modern times in getting this budget
February 4, 1974
ready and getting it done in such fine
style.
I understand that Roy Ash had to di-
rect several members of the staff to take
Christmas Day off. We are very fortunate
to have people so dedicated working for
ΙΙΟ
