Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 29 [122]
testify. I specifically waived executive
privilege with regard to conversations with
the President, and I waived the attorney-
client privilege with John Dean in order
to permit him to testify fully and, I hope,
truthfully.
Finally, on April 14-3 weeks after
I learned of the coverup from Mr. Dean—
Mr. Ehrlichman reported to me on the
results of his investigation. As he acknowl-
edged, much of what he had gathered was
hearsay, but he had gathered enough to
make it clear that the next step was to
make his findings completely available to
the Attorney General, which I instructed
him to do.
And the next day, Sunday, April 15,
Attorney General Kleindienst asked to see
me, and he reported new information
which had come to his attention on this
matter. And although he was in no way
whatever involved in Watergate, because
of his close personal ties, not only to John
Mitchell but to other potential people who
might be involved, he quite properly re-
moved himself from the case.
We agreed that Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral Henry Petersen, the head of the Crim-
inal Division, a Democrat and career
prosecutor, should be placed in complete
charge of the investigation.
Later that day, I met with Mr. Peter-
sen. I continued to meet with him, to talk
with him, to consult with him, to offer
him the full cooperation of the White
House as you will see from these tran-
scripts-even to the point of retaining
John Dean on the White House Staff for
an extra 2 weeks after he admitted his
criminal involvement, because Mr. Peter-
sen thought that would make it easier for
the prosecutor to get his cooperation in
breaking the case if it should become nec-
essary to grant Mr. Dean's demand for
immunity.
On April 15, when I heard that one of
the obstacles to breaking the case was
Gordon Liddy's refusal to talk, I tele-
phoned Mr. Petersen and directed that
he should make clear not only to Mr.
Liddy but to everyone that—and now I
quote directly from the tape of that tele-
phone call "As far as the President is
concerned, everybody in this case is to talk
and to tell the truth." I told him if neces-
sary I would personally meet with Mr.
Liddy's lawyer to assure him that I wanted
Liddy to talk and to tell the truth.
From the time Mr. Petersen took
charge, the case was solidly within the
criminal justice system, pursued person-
ally by the Nation's top professional prose-
cutor with the active, personal assistance
of the President of the United States.
I made clear there was to be no coverup.
Let me quote just a few lines from the
transcripts—you can read them to verify
them so that you can hear for yourself
the orders I was giving in this period.
Speaking to Haldeman and Ehrlich-
man, I said: ". . . It is ridiculous to talk
about clemency. They all knew that."
Speaking to Ehrlichman, I said: "We
all have to do the right thing... We just
cannot have this kind of a business..."
Speaking to Haldeman and Ehrlich-
man, I said: “The boil had to be pricked
We have to prick the boil and take
the heat. Now that's what we are doing
here."
Speaking to Henry Petersen, I said:
"I want you to be sure to understand
that you know we are going to get to the
bottom of this thing."
395
