Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 25 [121]
love peace. But we ended World War I,
and then we thought we were going to
have peace, and the sons of those that
fought in World War I had to fight in
World War II.
And then we thought we had peace
after that long and difficult war. And the
younger brothers and even the sons of
some of those who fought in World War
II fought in Korea.
And then when that war was ended by
President Eisenhower in 1953, we
thought, "Well, now this must be the last
one in this century." But the younger
brothers of those that fought in Korea,
and even some of their sons, fought in
Vietnam.
We must not let this happen again. And
that, Governor Waller, as you said so
eloquently in your introduction, is what
our foreign policy is about today.
Why do we talk to the Soviet Union
leaders? Why do we talk to the leaders of
the People's Republic of China? Because
we agree with their philosophy? No, they
don't like our philosophy; we don't like
theirs. But taking, for example, China,
one-fourth of all of the people in the world
live in China. They are among the ablest
people in the world. They are not a super
power today. They will be, 15 years from
now. And far better to have the United
States talking to them now than waiting
until then. That is why the opening to
China is so important to peace in the
world-not just now but in the genera-
tions to come.
Why do we talk to the leaders of the
Soviet Union when we are both now ap-
proximately equal insofar as our nuclear
power is concerned? Not because we agree
in all of our interests around the world,
because some places they are adverse to
each other, and not certainly, as I have
indicated, because our philosophies are
the same, because they are not, but be-
cause both sides recognize a simple fact
of life: that the leader of America-who-
ever he is-and the leader of the Soviet
Union-whoever he is in the foreseeable
future-if he ever resorts to the use of
nuclear war, will be committing, in effect,
national suicide for his own country.
That must not happen, and that is why
we are negotiating a limitation on nuclear
arms. That is why we are trying to nego-
tiate, in addition, a limitation on and a
reduction of forces in Europe, on a mutual
basis.
Having referred, however, to these
things, let me say that in order for the
United States to play this role, a great
and a proud role of peacemaker in the
world, in order, for example, for us to play
the role that we are playing in the Mid-
east, where in that troubled area of the
world that has not known peace for 25
years they have had four wars in 25
years; as a matter of fact, it probably
hasn't known it for 1,000 years—the
chances that our initiatives there to bring
an era of peace to that troubled area of
the world will depend on America's
leadership.
And let me tell you what that leader-
ship entails. First, it entails strength. I
refer, first, to military strength. By that,
I do not mean military strength in terms
of the arrogance of power in which we
attempt to push others around. That is
never the way we want to use it. We can
be proud that in the wars that we have
fought in this century, we have never used
our strength to destroy freedom, but only
to defend it. We have never used our
strength to break the peace, but only to
keep it. And the other nations of the world
know it.
385
