Richard Nixon, 1974
June 9 [167]
American people are famous for, there is noth-
ing that you cannot vanquish to the good of
mankind.
Therefore, permit me to propose a toast to
the President of the United States and His
Majesty King Faisal of Saudi Arabia.
167 Remarks at a Luncheon of the National Citizens'
Committee for Fairness to
Rabbi Korff, Secretary Simon, Secretary
Butz, Senator Curtis, all of the very dis-
tinguished guests both here at the head
table and in this audience:
Tomorrow, as you know, Mrs. Nixon
and I will start a very long journey of
15,000 miles in which we will visit five na-
tions, four of which have never been
visited by a President of the United States
before. This will be a long trip. It will be a
difficult trip from the physical standpoint,
the long journey as well as the many
events that are planned. It will also be a
difficult trip from the standpoint of the
diplomacy involved, in attempting to
build on the progress that has already
been made as a result of the trips that
have been taken there by Secretary Kis-
singer before and the negotiations that
we have had.
But I can assure you that on this long,
difficult, and very important journey, that
when we sometimes may feel tired, that
we will never be discouraged, and we will
always be heartened by the memory of this
luncheon that we are having today.
As Senator Curtis has implied, what we
say here will probably be little noted by
the media, but what you have done here
and throughout the United States will be
long remembered, not only by the Presi-
dent but by all future Presidents for whom
you are working.
I think Rabbi Korff deserves special
credit, not only for his magnificent leader-
the Presidency. June 9, 1974
ship but for his designation of this group,
which covers 49 of the 50 States, as being
not simply one that supports a man but,
even more important, that supports an
institution, the Office of the Presidency.
We are grateful to Rabbi Korff. We are
grateful to each and every one of you and
to the hundreds of thousands and mil-
lions throughout this country who recog-
nize that what is involved, not only in what
has happened over the past few months
and years but what is involved in the
future, is the American Presidency and
what it can do for this Nation, what it can
do not only for Americans but for all the
people who inhabit this globe.
I want you to know that I realize you
come from the heart of America, and you
have touched our hearts.
I have visited-and on most of these
trips Mrs. Nixon has been with me-but
I have visited over 80 countries over the
past 27 years. I have visited many coun-
tries that no President has ever visited
before. And there is a tendency, of course,
for all of us to assume that one journey
means the accomplishment of a goal,
but each of these journeys is one that
simply contributes to a goal which is far
in the future and one to which we must
constantly rededicate ourselves, one
which we must constantly work to
achieve.
For example, on this trip to the Mid-
east, all of the problems that exist in that
475
