Richard Nixon, 1974
May 25 [153]
than in earlier months, and we anticipate
a leveling off of these prices in the next
few months. As a result of these changes
in both food and energy prices, overall
consumer prices in April rose only half as
much as the rate of the previous 3 months.
This is a hopeful indication that our
efforts to curb inflation are having a posi-
tive effect.
Two weeks ago, I initiated new pro-
grams which would put up to an addi-
tional $10 billion into the financing of
housing. If we are going to check inflation,
we cannot quickly escape the disciplines
of tight money and high interest rates. As
we check the inflation, and lenders and
borrowers come to expect less inflation,
these interest rates will come down. But
in the meantime, we must be sure that the
burden of high interest rates is not con-
centrated too heavily on housing, because
this hurts both the homebuilders and it
hurts the home buyers.
I am confident that we will experience
further improvements in the economy
during the remainder of this
We ex-
year.
pect our output to rise and to rise at a
more rapid rate. We expect the inflation
rate to be significantly lower than the rate
we have experienced in the past 18
months. And while there may still be some
increases in unemployment before the rate
begins to recede, we expect a further ex-
pansion of jobs for American workers.
All of these forecasts are soundly based,
and they are encouraging, but it is not
enough to rely upon forecasts alone. We
must continue to do everything we can
to assure that this economic progress
comes about. To assist me in coordinating
all economic policy and programs, I am
announcing today the appointment of Mr.
Kenneth Rush to be my Counsellor for
Economic Policy. I have known Mr. Rush
for almost 40 years; he is a man with a
distinguished career in business, in the
law, in diplomacy, and in the arts of
government.
As my Counsellor here in the White
House, he will hold Cabinet rank, and I
will look to him to coordinate for me U.S.
economic policy in both the domestic and
international areas.
I am requesting again that the Congress
provide permanent authority for a small,
flexible organization within the Executive
Office-a Cost of Living Task Force-to
monitor wages, prices, industry bottle-
necks, supply shortages, and other factors
that bear on inflation.
The White House has already joined
with Congressional leaders on a bipar-
tisanship basis to study potential economic
shortages of material other than oil and
the steps necessary to deal with these
problems. I hope that the results of that
study will be available in about 6 months
and that action can be taken to deal with
that problem at that time.
As serious as the threat of material
shortages to economic growth is the short-
age of capital for investment. I have
directed the Chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers to establish a high-
level group which will be responsible for
evaluating this situation and devising
measures to deal with it.
In coming weeks, I will be meeting
with major representatives of labor and
business to discuss how we can work to-
gether to advance our efforts to reduce
inflation.
That must be our first objective in keep-
ing the economy moving ahead. We have
to get the rate of inflation down, and we
have to keep it down. Our policy of en-
couraging maximum food production will
contribute to this goal. Last year, the
453
