[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
in 1969 to $3.9 billion in the coming fiscal
year.
-Medical care in VA hospitals and
clinics has been greatly improved and
expanded, with ten new or replacement
hospitals now in service and five more in
preparation.
-Educational benefits per trainee have
more than doubled since 1969.
-Last year two key measures-one ex-
panding health care and the other im-
proving the national cemetery system for
veterans were passed and signed into
law.
-Of vital importance, the unemploy-
ment rate for Vietnam era veterans has
been sliced from II percent in early 1971
to 4 percent by late 1973. As a result,
Vietnam era veterans have a higher em-
ployment rate than others of their same
age, a significant achievement that is well
deserved.
Earlier this week, in a special message
to the Congress, I proposed additional
legislation to help veterans in two crucial
areas in 1974-pensions and education.
My pension proposals would benefit
some 1 million veterans and 1.3 million
veterans' survivors who are in economic
need because of disability, age, or the loss
of a breadwinner. VA pensions already
go a long way toward meeting such needs,
but the pension structure itself is fraught
with inequities and anomalies that are
technical in nature but tragic in conse-
quence. My proposals would correct these
deficiencies.
Veterans now in training require addi-
tional help if their GI bill allowances are
to keep pace with rising costs. I shall there-
fore propose that GI bill benefits be raised
by an average of 8 percent.
I have also set a 1974 goal for the Gov-
ernment of placing an additional 1.2 mil-
lion veterans in jobs or job training. There
remain sizable numbers of educationally
disadvantaged veterans and service-dis-
abled veterans who have never taken ad-
vantage of Federal training opportunities
and are now unemployed. I have directed
that, as a matter of high priority, the Fed-
eral Government's efforts to reach these
veterans be intensified and that they be
counselled and encouraged to use the
available services.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL
AMERICANS
This Administration has made a deter-
mined effort to secure equal opportunity
for those who have been previously denied
such opportunity. I am personally very
proud of the success those efforts have
already achieved, and I am committed
to building on that success in the future.
PROGRESS FOR MINORITY GROUPS
Members of racial minority groups have
made considerable strides toward equal
opportunity in recent years. The follow-
ing are among the more notable bench-
marks of this progress:
-Setting an example as an Equal Op-
portunity Employer in the past five years,
the Federal Government has added more
than 35,000 minority group members to
its civilian employee roles.
-In the Armed Forces, more than 850
minority-group cadets are now enrolled
in the military academies; and whereas
prior to 1971 only four minority group
members had ever achieved general or
flag rank in the armed forces, now sixteen
serve on active duty as generals and
admirals.
-Federal aid to minority business en-
74
