[210]
Public Papers of the Presidents
July 3
210 Independence Day Statement.
July 3, 1974
THE FOURTH of July is a uniquely
American holiday. But it is also a holiday
that echoes the hopes and aspirations of
people throughout the world. In each of
my trips abroad, I have seen tangible
evidence of people's basic belief in the
value of the principles that underlie our
Republic, and outpouring of affection and
2II
respect for the Nation that Abraham Lin-
coln called "the last, best hope of earth."
On this Independence Day, as we cele-
brate our Nation's birth, let us pledge
that by our example, we will continue to
carry to the people of other lands the basic
American message of independence, lib-
erty, and human dignity.
Address to the Nation on Returning From the
Soviet Union. July 3, 1974
MR. VICE PRESIDENT, I want to ex-
press appreciation, not only on my own
behalf but also on Mrs. Nixon's behalf,
for your very gracious and generous words.
Governor Curtis and Mrs. Curtis and to
all of our friends here in Maine, I want
to thank you for giving us such a splendid
welcome as we return.
I know that as I see cars parked what a
real effort it is to come out to an air base.
It took a lot of time and we appreciate
that effort, and we thank you very much.
To each and every one of you, and to
perhaps millions who are listening on
television and radio, I can assure you of
one thing, and that is, it is always good to
come home to America. That is partic-
ularly so when one comes home from a
journey that has advanced the cause of
peace in the world.
We left Moscow earlier today, and as
we did, there were hundreds of United
States and Soviet flags flying side by side,
and I thought of the fact that tomorrow
millions of Americans will be flying the
flag from their homes on the Fourth of
July. And you will be flying those flags
proudly because of what it means in your
own lives and in our lives and also be-
cause of what our flag means in the world.
We can be very proud of the American
flag all over the world today.
I thought also of how much more that
flag means to the world because of the
role the United States has been playing
in building a structure of peace from
which all nations can benefit, a role which
was symbolized so dramatically by those
flags flying side by side in the Soviet
Union.
Our generation, which has known so
much war and destruction-four wars in
this century-now has an opportunity to
build for the next generation a structure
of peace in which we hope war will have
no part whatever.
This is the great task before us, and this
is the greatest task in which any people
could be summoned. In the past month,
Mrs. Nixon and I have traveled over
25,000 miles, visiting nine countries in
Western Europe and the Middle East, as
well as, of course, the Soviet Union. The
visit to each of these areas had a separate
578
