[45] Feb. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
that we might soon lose the alternative of
traveling by train. With the enactment of
the Rail Passenger Service Act of 1970,
that threat was largely erased. AMTRAK,
a private corporation created by the
1970 act, has preserved quality pas-
senger service and reversed steadily de-
clining passenger trends. Over the past
year, the number of passengers carried
has increased by 14 percent.
During the past year we were also
faced with a major rail crisis in the North-
east and Midwest. I proposed and the
Congress enacted the Regional Rail Re-
organization Act of 1973, which provides
for the restructuring of eight bankrupt
railroads into a new streamlined system.
Within the next several years, we expect
that this new system will be able to oper-
ate profitably and can survive as a pro-
ducer, not a consumer, of tax revenues.
In the water transportation area, the
enactment of the Merchant Marine Act
of 1970 marked the most comprehensive
change in our approach to the problems of
the U.S. flag merchant marine in nearly
four decades. We have challenged our
ship construction industries to rebuild our
fleet at reasonable expense and our ship
operating industry to move toward less
dependence on subsidy. At the same time,
we will continue to provide all essential
support to make such a significant tran-
sition possible. The results of these efforts
are becoming increasingly apparent, with
private orders for ships at a record high
of $2.4 billion and ship construction sub-
sidy rates at the lowest level in history.
Some ships are being built for the for-
eign trades without direct subsidy, and
modern ships which will operate without
direct subsidy are now under construc-
tion. Comparison of recent trends be-
tween our shipyards and those of foreign
countries indicates a long-range possi-
bility that we will be able to compete suc-
cessfully in the world's ship construction
market.
Another of our major concerns has
been to protect the safety of the traveling
public and the Nation's commerce. We
have taken resolute and firm action to
protect our air passengers from the threat
of the hijacker.
The highway safety picture has both
encouraging and discouraging aspects.
While we have made steady progress in
reducing the fatality rate, the total num-
ber of deaths has increased. Although the
new mandatory 55 miles per hour speed
limit seems to have resulted in a some-
what lower rate thus far this year, the
problem of highway safety remains one
of the toughest we face.
Our comprehensive highway safety
program has encouraged the production
of safer motor vehicles, eliminated many
hazardous areas on the Nation's high-
ways, and sought new ways to improve
driver performance. In the next fiscal
year, funding for State and community
highway safety programs will be increased
to $148 million. Half of this increase will
be earmarked for a program authorized
by the 1973 Highway Act which allows
special incentive grants to States which
pass mandatory seat belt laws. And con-
tinued emphasis will be placed on keep-
ing the drunk driver off the road. In
addition, I have proposed in my fiscal
year 1975 budget, a $250 million highway
safety construction program. This will,
for example, help eliminate dangerous
obstacles on our highways.
Finally, I would note that over 35,000
miles of interstate highways are now
160
