[173] June 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
thousands of people, we thought of
another great goal toward which we shall
and will work together, that is, the goal
of peace. We have already made progress
toward that goal. Certain roadblocks
along the long and difficult road toward
permanent peace have been removed.
The disengagement on the Egyptian-
Israeli front and then later on the Syrian-
Israeli front laid the foundation for fur-
ther progress in the future.
Let us today recognize that as we meet
then our goals are twofold: economic
progress, progress in all fields for the
peo-
ple of your country, the people of this
area; and peace, peace which is perma-
nent and just and equitable, because
without peace, there can be no progress
and without progress and hope there can
be no peace.
And, Mr. President, finally, I should
like in the presence of your people to pay
a tribute to you.
The historians years later will perhaps
see all of these great events in perspective,
but one fact stands out today: that with-
out the wisdom, without the vision, with-
out the courage, without the statesman-
ship of President Sadat of Egypt, we
would not have made the progress toward
peace that we have made, and the world
owes him a great debt for what he has
done.
And it is for this reason, combined
with the reason that my wife and I have
such pleasant memories of our previous
visit to Egypt in 1963, where we met so
many of your people-but it is for this
reason that I have looked forward to this
moment to meeting you, to talking to you
personally and officially about the prob-
lems that we face in the future, in which
our two great peoples now at last will be
working together.
Progress at home and peace, not only
in this area but for all peoples in the
world, these are our goals, and together
we are privileged to have the opportu-
nity to work for such great goals.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
4:25 p.m. at Qubba Palace, following a motor-
cade from Cairo International Airport. He
spoke in response to the welcoming remarks of
President Anwar el-Sadat.
President Sadat spoke in Arabic. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
It is with great pleasure that we see among
us President Nixon and Mrs. Nixon. It is an
added pleasure that President Nixon has ac-
cepted my invitation to visit Egypt at this par-
ticular and crucial phase which the Middle
East is going through.
Coming at this very junction when the Mid-
dle East crisis is geared towards a peaceful,
honorable, and just settlement, President
Nixon's official visit acquires a major signifi-
cance. The role of the United States under the
leadership of President Nixon is vital to
promote peace and tranquillity in the area.
It is a great challenge, but I am convinced.
that with good will and determination, states-
men of the stature of President Nixon are apt
to meet it. The challenge is whether to sub-
stitute this precarious situation of cease-fire by
a just and durable peace so that our area
would be ushered into an era of normalcy.
It is with vision, forwardness, and collective
human efforts that the Middle East will be af-
forded, at long last, the proper opportunity to
contribute positively to the various endeavors
to build and cement the global strategy for
peace and progress.
I am not only convinced but also confident
that the visit of President Nixon will be a
milestone in the shaping and evolution of
American-Egyptian relations on a sound and
solid basis and in such a manner that I hope
would compensate for the long years of strain
and lack of understanding.
As you will soon witness, Mr. President, the
Egyptian people, who have given the world its
first civilization, will express to you and,
through you, to the American people, their
sentiments and friendship. The recent efforts of
486
