Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
strated the flexibility of the New
Federalism in leaving to State and local
authorities the decisions on how best to
combat crime in their jurisdictions. This
program has helped to make America's
streets safer for our citizens.
-The Comprehensive Employment
and Training Act which I signed into law
in 1973 is a landmark example of the New
Federalism's broad and more flexible
forms of assistance-and it represents a
leading example of what can be achieved
when the Executive and the Congress
team up to enact solid legislation.
-New authorities under the Rural De-
velopment Act are being exercised this
year in a way which is supportive of State
and local development plans and
priorities.
—In addition, within the limits of law,
we have moved administratively to
strengthen the role of State and local gov-
ernments by simplifying and streamlining
Federal grant systems-including proce-
dures for State and local review of project
proposals affecting their jurisdictions, op-
portunities for grant integration and joint
funding, and the decentralization of many
Federal activities to ten Federal Regional
Councils.
In the remaining three years of this
term I shall continue to take every sound
administrative action within the author-
ities available to me to support and
strengthen State and local government,
but we must have the support of the Con-
gress to maintain the progress which has
begun. Proposals for furthering the New
Federalism now before this body and for
which I urge your support include:
-Federal education reforms to con-
solidate support for elementary and sec-
ondary schools as well as vocational and
adult programs, and to promote better
planning on the local level through ad-
vance funding.
-The Better Communities Act, to re-
place several ineffective and restrictive
urban programs with a flexible approach
that would allow local officials to make
essential decisions on the way community
development funds would be spent.
-The Responsive Governments Act,
to provide needed Federal assistance for
improving State and local planning,
decision-making and management capa-
bilities. This would help to strengthen the
capacity of State and local governments
to assume greater responsibility for the
administration of their own programs,
whether federally assisted or not.
-The Disaster Preparedness Act, to
increase the role of State and local officials
in allocating Federal disaster funds and
to cut the tangle of Federal red tape.
In addition to these proposals now
pending, a number of the new initiatives
that I describe elsewhere in this message
also reflect the principles of New Federal-
ism. These include:
-A new public transportation initiative
that would permit States and localities—
both urban and rural-to allocate high-
way
and mass transit funds in accordance
with local conditions and priorities.
-An economic adjustment assistance
program, that would help States and
communities to create employment op-
portunities where they have been affected
by structural changes in their economies
which has brought about persistent unem-
ployment or depressed incomes.
-In the field of health, a comprehen-
sive health insurance plan which would
bring protection against medical expenses
within the reach of all our citizens.
93
