[112] Apr. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
We will seek cooperative solutions to
our energy problems, and we shall share
our resources and our research with
you.
We will seek better ways to pool our
knowledge of science and technology.
We will seek to maintain our level of
aid.
We will seek to consult more closely
with you on international trade and mone-
tary affairs.
And we will continue to encourage the
growth of private capital in ways that are
mutually acceptable.
We recognize that each government in
this hemisphere has the sovereign right to
determine the rules for investors in its
country.
But speaking from experience, we also
believe that private investment is the rich-
est potential source of the technology, the
capital, the organizational skills that the
developing world needs.
For example, the amount of private
capital that flows to Latin America today
is over twice as much as the amount of
public capital. We must recognize that
many of the nations which enjoyed the
fastest rates of economic expansion have
had the benefit of intensive infusions of
private capital as well as public.
This, then, is a summary of the "new
dialog"-peace, political freedom, eco-
nomic growth. The road ahead will not
be easy. It has never been traveled before,
and it is only dimly perceived. The pessi-
mists predict we will lose our way, because
they say our civilization is entering a new
age of darkness.
Let us prove to them, all of us, what
we know in our hearts: We are indeed
entering a new age, but what we see is
not a setting but a rising sun, a new dawn
for the Americas.
I have often been asked, after my trips
to Peking and to Moscow, to Europe, to
Southeast Asia, whether this means a
downgrading of our interest in our friends
in the American hemisphere.
Let me assure you tonight, nothing
could be further from the truth, because
the new initiatives we have undertaken
in these past 5 years are essential if we are
to have world peace. If we have world
peace, all of the people in the Americas
will benefit. And if we have world war,
all of the peoples in the Americas will
suffer.
And that is why I say tonight, let us
join together in these initiatives to seek to
build a new structure of peace, not only
for ourselves but the whole world. And
whatever success we have in this direc-
tion will benefit us all.
And now tonight in proposing a toast,
I cannot propose it to any individual be-
cause all are of equal rank, but I remem-
ber that when I visited my friend Galo
Plaza¹ at his farm, he used a wonderful
expression that I think is the proper ex-
pression I should use in proposing the
toast tonight.
This man, that I have just made an all-
American football player 30 years after
he played football at the University of
California, which will put him in the Hall
of Fame [laughter]-spoke very feel-
ingly about California, the State in which
he got his higher education, and his own
country.
And he said what we must all under-
stand is that despite our differences in
background, despite our differences in lan-
guage, despite our differences in culture,
and despite our difference in political
ideology, we are all one family, we are all
1 Secretary General, Organization of Ameri-
can States.
360
