Appendix B
March
22 The President met with Dean Burch,
Counsellor to the President.
22 The President met with Albert Renlin, of
Hannibal, Mo.; Joseph Stevens and Marion
E. Ramsey, of Kansas City, Mo.; and W.
Marshall Geisecke, of Shawnee Mission,
Kans. The group had sponsored newspaper
advertisements in support of the President.
The President thanked them for their active
support.
22 The President met with Special Envoy
James R. Greene to thank him for his
efforts in securing a settlement with the
Government of Peru for expropriated U.S.
properties.
22 Lew Cenker, president, Lloyd Clark, former
president, and Nat Rogg, executive vice
president of the National Association of
Home Builders, called on the President at
the White House.
25 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Senators James O.
Eastland and John C. Stennis.
25 In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the Presi-
dent signed a request for a budget accelera-
tion for the Mississippi River Flood Control
Program.
25 Vice President Ford met with the President
at the White House.
25 The national officers of the Greek fraternal
Order of Ahepa called on the President at
the White House on the occasion of Greek
Independence Day.
25 Senator Bill Brock, chairman of the Re-
publican Senatorial Campaign Committee,
Representative Robert H. Michel, chairman
of the National Republican Congressional
Committee, and George H. Bush, Republi-
can National Chairman, met with the Pres-
ident at the White House.
March
25 The White House announced that Special
Assistant to the President Stanley S. Scott
would fly to West Africa to study the
drought problem in the six sub-Sahara
countries. He attended the Sahel Chiefs of
Mission Conference in Abidjan, Ivory
Coast, on March 29-30 and visited Upper
Volta on April 1-3, 1974.
26 The President met with Bernice Pentell of
Berkeley and Beverly Acker of Concord,
Calif., who organized the collection of ap-
proximately 68,000 signatures in support
of the President's policies.
26 Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, Supreme Al-
lied Commander, Europe, met with the
President at the White House to review
current NATO issues.
27 The President greeted Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
liam Roy Anderson, of Memphis, Tenn.
Mr. Anderson was a television cameraman
who was responsible for halting a getaway
car in a bank robbery on March 18. They
were accompanied by Attorney General
William B. Saxbe, FBI Director Clar-
ence M. Kelley, and Representative
Dan H. Kuykendall.
28 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House.
28 Ambassador and Mrs. Philip W. Manhard
met with the President at the White House
prior to leaving for Ambassador Manhard's
new assignment as United States Ambassa-
dor to Mauritius.
28 Mrs. Martin Erck, a Republican campaign
worker from Houston, Tex., called on the
President at the White House. She was
accompanied by Representative Bill Archer.
28 The President met with Staff Assistant Jack
D'Arcy who was leaving the White House
Staff. The President thanked Mr. D'Arcy
for his 22 years of work on the staff.
658
