Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 7 [36]
36 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual International
Economic Report of the President.
To the Congress of the United States:
Last year, when I submitted my first
International Economic Report, the
Nation had just concluded its involve-
ment in a lengthy and tragic war. We
were thus able to turn greater energies to
building a more lasting and secure world
peace.
A major part of our peace-building
effort lies in resolving international eco-
nomic problems, and today we can look
back upon a year of progress on that front.
We have strengthened our competitive
position in the world. We have moved
ahead toward vitally needed reforms of
the world economic structure and we have
improved our trade balance beyond our
expectations, reflecting our ability to com-
pete more effectively at home and abroad
with foreign producers. Our strengthened
trade position has in turn contributed sig-
nificantly to the expansion of jobs and
income for our people, and has led to
renewed confidence in the dollar in the
world's money markets.
One of the greatest challenges facing
the international community is to over-
haul our world monetary and trading
systems. During this past year, I have been
heartened by the progress that the Com-
mittee of Twenty, under the auspices of
the International Monetary Fund, has
made toward reforming the international
monetary system and by the way that
transitional monetary arrangements have
proven effective under conditions of
stress. Meanwhile, over 100 nations, meet-
ing in Tokyo this past September, opened
a new round of international trade nego-
February 7, 1974
tiations. And the trade legislation we sub-
mitted last April has moved through the
House for further consideration in the
Senate.
Despite this significant progress, 1973
was also a year in which new problems
vividly brought home to us the degree to
which our own economy is affected by de-
velopments elsewhere. This past year the
major industrial nations experienced si-
multaneous boom conditions for the first
time since 1951. This complicated eco-
nomic policymaking, demonstrating that
the same interdependence which can con-
tribute so much to world prosperity
through trade can also contribute to na-
tional problems. One such problem is in-
flation. While we continue to attack the
causes of excessive price increases within
the United States, we must also realize
that inflation has been a world-wide prob-
lem driving up the cost of world-traded
goods.
Two new problems also arose in 1973,
reminding us of the impact that other
economies have upon our own: last sum-
mer's food shortages and the current oil
crisis. There was an unprecedented and
unforeseen surge in international demand
for American agricultural products last
year. The causes ranged from poor har-
vests abroad to food policy shifts by for-
eign governments, affecting their demand
for agricultural imports. These significant
shifts could not help but have a strong
impact upon our domestic economy: on
the one hand, expanded sales helped the
recovery of our trade balance and helped
ensure our position as a reliable world
141
