Richard Nixon, 1974
May 27 [156]
also be the hallmark of his final struggle
against death.
Mrs. Nixon and I join the Nation in
mourning this sad loss.
NOTE: Mr. Alsop, 60, died in Bethesda, Md.
He wrote the syndicated column "Matter of
Fact" with his brother, Joseph, and he was also
a writer with the Saturday Evening Post and
Newsweek.
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
156 Radio Address on Memorial Day.
May 27, 1974
Good morning:
Memorial Day in America has tradi-
tionally been a time when we pay our re-
spects to those who gave their lives, over
a century ago, in a tragic civil war. In a
broader sense, it has come to stand not
only for the sacrifices of those who served
in the War Between the States but for all
of those who have given their lives in arms
since the birth of our Nation.
This Memorial Day should remind us
of the greatness that past generations of
Americans achieved from Valley Forge
to Vietnam, and it should inspire us with
the determination to keep America great
and free by keeping America safe and
strong in our own time, a time of unique
destiny and opportunity for our Nation.
In looking back on the past, we must
not forget the present. More than 100
years after the last shot was fired at
Gettysburg, and nearly 200 years after
the signing of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, the cause of liberty and human
dignity still depends on America.
Americans were called away to war
under trying and sometimes bitter circum-
stances, four times in this century-World
War I, World War II, Korea, and Viet-
nam. Only today, for the first time in this
century do we live in a time when, thanks
to past sacrifices, a real chance exists for
lasting peace-peace built not on vain
hopes and good intentions, but on solid,
realistic foundations.
We have ended America's longest and
most difficult war in Vietnam. In the Mid-
dle East, a part of the world where con-
flict has become almost a way of life, we
have begun the long, hard work of recon-
ciliation of bringing people together at
the peace table who formerly met only on
the battlefield. We are normalizing rela-
tions with the nation whose people make
up one-fourth of the world's population—
the People's Republic of China. We have
developed a new relationship with the
leaders of the Soviet Union after a long
and costly period of confrontation that
began more than a quarter of a century
ago.
Taken together, all of this means that
in 1974 our hopes for a lasting peace are
brighter than at any time in living mem-
ory,
because we now have a structure of
peace and we are carefully working to
strengthen it. A momentum has been
created that makes it easier for the leaders
of the major powers to settle differences
peacefully, in negotiation instead of in
armed confrontation.
That is something worth bearing in
mind on this Memorial Day. It is some-
thing worthy of our thanks. But it is not
something we can take for granted. Just
as a planted seed requires the right bal-
457
