[165] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
But we must recognize that we are more
faithful to our ideals by being concerned
with results, and we achieve more results
through diplomatic action than through
hundreds of eloquent speeches.
But there are limits to what we can do,
and we must ask ourselves some very hard
questions, questions which I know mem-
bers of this class have asked themselves
many times. What is our capability to
change the domestic structure of other
nations? Would a slowdown or reversal of
détente help or hurt the positive evolu-
tion of other social systems? What price-
in terms of renewed conflict-are we will-
ing to pay to bring pressure to bear for
humane causes?
Not by our choice, but by our capabil-
ity, our primary concern in foreign policy
must be to help influence the interna-
tional conduct of nations in the world
arena. We would not welcome the inter-
vention of other countries in our domestic
affairs, and we cannot expect them to be
cooperative when we seek to intervene di-
rectly in theirs.
We cannot gear our foreign policy to
transformation of other societies. In the
nuclear age, our first responsibility must
be the prevention of a war that could
destroy all societies.
We must never lose sight of this funda-
mental truth of modern, international life.
Peace between nations with totally dif-
ferent systems is also a high moral
objective.
The concepts of national security, part-
nership, negotiation with adversaries are
the central pillars of the "structure of
peace" this Administration has outlined
as its objective.
If a structure of peace is to endure, it
must reflect the contributions and recon-
cile the aspirations of nations. It must
be cemented by the shared goal of coex-
istence and the shared practice of accom-
modation. It must liberate every nation
to realize its destiny free from the threat
of war, and it must promote social jus-
tice and human dignity.
The structure of peace of which I
speak will make possible an era of coopera-
tion in which all nations will apply their
separate talents and resources to the solu-
tion of problems that beset all mankind—
the problems of energy and famine, dis-
ease and suffering problems as old as
human history itself.
It was with this thought in mind that in
February we launched an effort to bring
together the principal consumer countries
to begin working on the problem of equi-
tably meeting the needs of people through-
out the world who are faced with the
prospect of increasingly scarce resources-
in this case, energy.
Out of recognition of the tragedy of
human hunger and of the urgent need to
apply man's technology cooperatively to
its solution, the United States has also
called for a United Nations World Food
Conference to take place in Rome this
fall.
My trip to the Middle East next week
will provide an opportunity to explore
with the leaders of the nations I shall visit
ways in which we can continue our prog-
ress toward permanent peace in that area.
And then later this month, on June 27,
I will again journey to Moscow to meet
with General Secretary Brezhnev to ex-
plore further avenues, further prospects
for a lasting peace, not only between the
Soviet Union and the United States but
among all nations.
Each of these missions, in a way, is a
472
