[28] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be a good year for the economy. We
are going through a period now, due to
the energy crisis primarily, in which the
economy will slow down, but the second
half of the year will be one, according to
the Economic Report, in which the econ-
omy will pick up.
Our budget policies and Government
policies are going to fight for a strong and
good economy on two fronts. On the one
hand, our budget policies and other Gov-
ernment policies will be used to fight
against inflation, which this report pre-
dicts will still be a troublesome problem,
although going down somewhat as a prob-
lem toward the end of the year.
It will also be a policy which will fight
for a strong economy. In other words,
fight against unemployment and for an
economy that will be moving up.
Now, this seems to be fighting in two
different directions, but the two comple-
ment each other. It would be very easy
to fight inflation alone, which would
mean that if you did that you would do
so at the cost of a recession; or it would
be very easy to fight the possibilities of a
slowdown in an economy alone, and you
would do so at the cost of a runaway
inflation.
What we have here is a balanced policy
which does both. What we can have and
what we are working toward, in peace-
time, is an economy in which we will have
a high rate of growth, in which employ-
ment continues to rise, and in which the
rate of inflation is held in check.
This is the goal, and we are going to
make great progress toward that goal in
the
year 1974, despite the jolt we received
from the energy crisis.
I will simply close that out by saying
the energy crisis in the next few months
will, as a result of Government action,
as a result of the cooperation of the Amer-
ican people, as a result of some actions
that may be taken internationally, as
well, we believe the energy crisis will be-
come an energy problem and a manage-
able problem. And as it moves from crisis
proportions to a problem proportion, that
means that the economy will benefit, and
our economic prospectus is based on that
assumption, and I think that assumption
is very well taken.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. The
ceremony was attended by members and staff
of the Council of Economic Advisers.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Senate
Minority Leader Hugh Scott and House Minor-
ity Leader John J. Rhodes on their meeting
with the President to discuss the Economic
Report for 1974 and the President's budget
message.
29 Annual Message to the Congress: The Economic
February 1, 1974
Report of the President.
To the Congress of the United States:
The United States enters 1974 in a posi-
tion of leadership in the world economy.
The dollar is strong, we have constructive
economic relations throughout the world,
and we have the greatest freedom of action
resulting from our great capacity to pro-
duce. We must take the responsibilities
and the opportunities this position of
leadership gives us.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-three
was a year of problems and progress in the
American economy. In some respects the
problems were greater than we expected
104
