[140] May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
140 Statement About Reform of State Workers' Compensation
Systems. May 15, 1974
WHEN the first State workers' compen-
sation laws were enacted more than 60
years ago, they were viewed as a major
social reform. They were expected:
-to replace a substantial part of the
income lost through work-related
disability or death;
-to encourage safe and healthful
workplaces; and,
-to provide medical care, rehabilita-
tion, and, whenever possible, reem-
ployment for those who became in-
jured or ill in the course of their
work.
Furthermore, they were expected to
accomplish these goals efficiently and
with a minimum of controversy.
In succeeding years, workers' compen-
sation legislation was enacted by all the
States, and coverage and benefits were
expanded.
But today it has become clear that the
evolution of the State workers' compen-
sation systems has been too slow to con-
tinue to meet the needs of the intended
beneficiaries. These systems have not kept
pace with the times, and the original goals
of workers' compensation are yet to be
fully achieved.
Many of the flaws in the present sys-
tems were documented by the National
Commission on State Workmen's Com-
pensation Laws. The Commission's re-
port set forth a long list of recommenda-
tions for improvement. It also prompted
a flurry of legislative activity in the States
and no doubt will continue to inspire
further reforms.
To accelerate these reforms and to
evaluate the progress of the States, I have
directed the Secretaries of Labor, Com-
merce, and Health, Education, and
Welfare, and the Federal Insurance Ad-
ministrator within the Department of
Housing and Urban Development to
organize a new Federal task force on
workers' compensation which will include
a capable and well-informed technical
assistance team. As a starting point, this
task force will assist States in the follow-
ing areas:
-the extension of compensation cover-
age to all workers;
-improvement in coverage of occupa-
tional diseases and the development
of less burdensome evidentiary re-
quirements;
elimination of unreasonable limits on
medical and rehabilitation expendi-
tures; and,
-correction of technical or legal limita-
tions which prevent workers from
gaining eligibility for workers' com-
pensation benefits because of varying
jurisdictional requirements.
Immediate improvement is needed in
benefits, particularly for those workers
permanently and totally disabled who
now receive benefits below the poverty
line. Moreover, workers who are perma-
nently disabled and the families of work-
ers who die from work-related injury or
illness should be protected from gradual
impoverishment by the rising cost of
living.
At the end of 1975, an evaluation of
State progress toward these objectives will
be made by the task force and will be
transmitted to the Congress and the
States. Based on this evaluation as well as
436
