[165] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
are moving to insure that this will not-
because it must not happen.
Slowly and carefully over the past 5
years, we have worked with the Soviet
Union to resolve concrete problems that
could deteriorate into military confronta-
tions. And upon these bridges, we are
erecting a series of tangible economic and
cultural exchanges that will bind us more
closely together.
The American people are a great peo-
ple; the Russian people are a great peo-
ple. These two great people, who worked
together in war, are now learning to work
together in peace. Ultimately, we hope
that the United States and the Soviet
Union will share equally high stakes in
preserving a stable international environ-
ment.
The results of this policy have been
heartening. The problem of Berlin, where
our nations were at sword's point for a
quarter of a century, has now been re-
solved by negotiation. Our two countries
have concluded an historic agreement to
limit strategic nuclear arms.
We and our allies have engaged the
Soviet Union in negotiations on major
issues of European security, including a
reduction of military forces in central
Europe. We have substantially reduced
the risk of direct U.S.-Soviet confronta-
tion in crisis areas. We have reached a
series of bilateral cooperative agreements
in such areas as health, environment,
space, science and technology, as well as
trade.
At the Moscow summit in 1972, our
Secretary of the Navy [and] the Com-
mander in Chief of the Soviet Navy signed
an agreement on the prevention of inci-
dents on and over the high seas—a code
of conduct aimed at eliminating danger-
ous actions of the cold war era and a code
of conduct which has already proved a
success.
Over the past 5 years, we have reached
more agreements with the Soviet Union
than in the entire postwar period pre-
ceding that, and this is a record in which
all Americans can take pride.
In keeping with our efforts to bring
America's foreign policy into line with
modern realities, we have also sought to
normalize our relation with the People's
Republic of China, where one-fourth of
all of the people in the world live, a coun-
try with which we shared nothing but
confrontation and distrust during a quar-
ter century of cold war.
Beginning with
with an official dialog
opened in 1971, we have negotiated con-
structive agreements in the areas of trade
and scientific and cultural exchanges. We
established liaison offices in our respective
capitals last year. We expect further
progress in the years ahead.
We have also succeeded, as Admiral
Mack has indicated, in ending our mili-
tary involvement in Vietnam in a manner
which gave meaning to the heavy sacri-
fices we had made and which greatly
enhanced the preservation of freedom
and stability in Southeast Asia.
One result is that today the 20 million
people of South Vietnam are free to gov-
ern themselves and they are able to defend
themselves. An even more important re-
sult is that we have proved again that
America's word is America's bond.
We have preserved the trust of our
allies around the world by demonstrating
that we are a reliable partner in the de-
fense of liberty; we have earned the re-
spect of our potential adversaries by
demonstrating that we are
are a reliable
partner in the search for peace.
America's unique and essential contri-
470
