Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 18 [48]
|
the genius that may find an answer to the
problem of cancer or arthritis or any of
these other diseases that we all know are
being studied and that you are contribut-
ing to?
It may not be an American. It may not
be a white man, or a woman, for that
matter. It may be somebody from Africa,
from Asia, or even from China.
And so, one of the great objectives that
I see, looking ahead, is not only to keep
the peace but to see to it that whatever the
differences we have between governments,
let's see that those who are working for
good health for their people work together
with our people so that, as far as health
is concerned, we work for good health,
not only for America but for 3 billion
people on this earth.
The question then is not simply peace
in the sense of the absence of war; the
question is, what do you do with peace?
And one of the things you do with it is
48
build a better health care system, not only
for America but for the whole world.
One of the things you do is to build
a communication between people even
when governments disagree. Gandhi said
many, many years ago that health is the
true wealth, more important than gold
and silver.
And as we dedicate this hospital, this
health care center and its facilities today,
let us say it is a dedication to better health,
but also we are dedicating an institution
which serves the true wealth, the true
wealth of America and of the whole world,
better health for all of us.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:47 p.m. on
the lawn of the Cedars of Lebanon Health Care
Center. Prior to making his remarks, President
Nixon toured the center's new South Building,
an automated health testing laboratory.
In his opening words, the President referred
to Sanford K. Bronstein who was president of
the Cedars of Lebanon Health Care Center.
Remarks at Honor America Day Ceremonies in
Huntsville, Alabama. February 18, 1974
Governor and Mrs. Wallace, Governor
and Mrs. Waller, Governor and Mrs.
Dunn, Senator and Mrs. Sparkman, Sena-
tor Allen, Congressman Robert E. Jones,
Congressman Jack Edwards, Mayor
Davis, Mr. Chairman,¹ and all of these
very distinguished guests who are here
on this occasion:
I was speaking to Governor Wallace
just before he got up to make his very
gracious introduction, and I told him that
I had read someplace that Huntsville was
the first capital of Alabama for 2 years.
¹ Lou Azar was chairman of the Honor
America Day Committee.
I would like to say today that Huntsville,
which was the first capital of Alabama
many, many years ago-it was capital, as
I understand, for only those 2 years—
today certainly, in terms of the size of
this turnout, is the first city of America
in its devotion to America and in honoring
America.
And as we speak of honoring America
today, I think there is something symbolic
about those who are on the platform
together. When I saw the guest list, I
realized that there were three Governors
here from Mississippi, from Tennessee,
and Alabama-which makes this broader
than simply an Alabama affair. And I
169
