Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 5 [240]
mitted for the information of the Senate
is the report of the Department of State
with respect to the Regulations.
These Regulations are simplified, com-
pletely revised versions of the 1958 Regu-
lations and will make it easier for the
international business system guided by
the Regulations to keep apace with
rapidly advancing telecommunications
technology.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to both the
Telegraph Regulations and the Tele-
phone Regulations and give its advice and
consent to their ratification with the
declarations proposed in the report of
the Department of State.
The White House,
August 5, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The texts of the regulations and the
final protocol and accompanying papers are
printed in Senate Executive E (93d Cong., 2d
sess.).
240 Statement Announcing Availability of Additional
Transcripts of Presidential Tape Recordings.
August 5, 1974
I HAVE TODAY instructed my attor-
neys to make available to the House Judi-
ciary Committee, and I am making pub-
lic, the transcripts of three conversations
with H. R. Haldeman on June 23, 1972.
I have also turned over the tapes of these
conversations to Judge Sirica, as part of
the process of my compliance with the
Supreme Court ruling.
On April 29, in announcing my decision
to make public the original set of White
House transcripts, I stated that “as far as
what the President personally knew and
did with regard to Watergate and the
coverup is concerned, these materials-to-
gether with those already made avail-
able-will tell it all.”
Shortly after that, in May, I made a
preliminary review of some of the 64
taped conversations subpoenaed by the
Special Prosecutor.
Among the conversations I listened to
at that time were two of those of June 23.
Although I recognized that these pre-
sented potential problems, I did not in-
form my
staff or my
or my Counsel of it, or those
arguing my case, nor did I amend my
submission to the Judiciary Committee in
order to include and reflect it. At the
time, I did not realize the extent of the
implications which these conversations
might now appear to have. As a result,
those arguing my case, as well as those
passing judgment on the case, did so with
information that was incomplete and in
some respects erroneous. This was a seri-
ous act of omission for which I take full
responsibility and which I deeply regret.
Since the Supreme Court's decision 12
days ago, I have ordered my Counsel to
analyze the 64 tapes, and I have listened
to a number of them myself. This process
has made it clear that portions of the tapes
of these June 23 conversations are at vari-
ance with certain of my previous state-
ments. Therefore, I have ordered the
transcripts made available immediately
to the Judiciary Committee so that they
621
