Richard Nixon, 1974
[229]
July 25
ence on which we are now moving steadily
forward. Let us take whatever steps are
necessary to make sure that the United
States will never again be hostage to a
cut-off of vital energy supplies by any for-
eign country. And here is another area
where the President alone cannot do the
job. We need the cooperation of the Con-
gress on many pieces of legislation in this
area which await action.
We need to assure adequate long-term
supplies of capital for investment, another
area we have discussed at great length in
recent weeks. In May, I directed the
Chairman of the Council of Economic Ad-
visers to undertake a special study of long-
range capital needs to provide for the
continued growth of our economy and
how to ensure that these needs may be
met.
Too often today the creative energies
of our economic system are stifled by bur-
densome overregulation based on policies
designed for an earlier era. For example,
Government regulations often require
trucks to run empty. This wastes fuel, and
it raises the cost to the consumer of every-
thing these trucks carry. That is just one
example. Many others could be cited.
And consequently, I have directed a
sweeping review of these policies with the
objective of recommending these changes
needed to bring the regulatory agencies
and regulatory policies in line with the
needs of a new era when increasing pro-
ductivity must be a primary means of
achieving our primary economic goals.
And where regulatory agencies, because
of obsolete rules, have the effect of restrict-
ing production rather than encouraging
it, those rules need to be changed. And
they will be changed.
Some of the most important regulations
from this standpoint are not Federal, but
State or local, such as obsolete building
codes. Therefore, this review will encom-
pass the reforms needed at all levels. At
the same time, I again urge the Congress
to enact the regulatory reforms that I have
already proposed-with respect to trans-
portation and financial institutions, for
example in order to make our economic
system more productive and less infla-
tionary.
And now we come to a very sensitive
political point. It is time for us to re-
evaluate the trade-off between increasing
supplies, increasing production, and cer-
tain other objectives that are worthwhile,
such as improving the environment and
increasing safety. Those goals are impor-
tant, but we too often, recently, have had a
tendency to push particular social goals so
far and so fast that other important eco-
nomic goals are unduly sacrificed. And
consequently, these policies must be re-
evaluated and adjusted to the new needs.
Congress should enact the trade reform
bill so that negotiations to reduce trade
barriers can begin. This sometimes sounds
like an esoteric subject of interest only to
those who are in international trade. But
competition from abroad can be a power-
ful force toward increasing productivity
in the United States, creating more jobs,
making more supplies available for Ameri-
can consumers, and in holding down
prices.
Finally, and most important, we must
restore the idea in America that the way
to have more is to produce more. This is
true of a nation, it is true of individuals.
Too many countries are in extreme diffi-
culty because their people have come to
believe that the way to get more is to have
the Government spend more, even though
no more is produced. That has often been
true in this country.
611
