[13] Jan. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mideast, that that area more than any
other is in that category, as recent events
have indicated.
Now, the announcement we have made
today is only a first step, but it is a very
significant step. It paves the way for more
steps which can lead to a permanent
peace. And I personally shall see that all
negotiations, any efforts which could lead
to that permanent peace, not only between
Egypt and Israel but between the other
countries involved, have the full and com-
plete support of the Government of the
United States.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:04 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. His
remarks were broadcast live on nationwide
radio and television.
President
Following the announcement,
Nixon telephoned Prime Minister Golda Meir
of Israel and President Anwar el-Sadat of
Egypt to express his congratulations on the
conclusion of the agreement.
14 Radio Address About the National Energy Crisis.
January 19, 1974
Good afternoon:
Ten weeks ago, I reported to the Nation
on the energy crisis. I asked all Americans
to accept some sacrifices in comfort and
convenience so that no American would
have to suffer real hardship.
Today, I want to report to you on our
progress and answer the basic questions.
that many Americans have asked about
this crisis.
On the positive side, I am glad to be
able to report that we are making solid
progress in facing up to this challenge.
There are several reasons for this:
Far more important than anything else
is what every American has done volun-
tarily. It is your response-the actions you
take to save energy on a personal, volun-
tary, day-in, day-out basis-that is now
the single most important reason for our
success so far.
For the past 7 weeks, we have observed
"gasless Sundays" across the country. Your
cooperation with this program helped to
make it possible for me to announce to-
day that during the month of December,
the total consumption of gasoline in the
United States was nearly 9 percent below
expectations.
Americans are also responding to the
call for lower temperatures at home and
at work. A recent report from New Eng-
land shows that 19,000 homes surveyed
there have reduced heating oil consump-
tion by more than 16 percent under last
year, and that is after making adjustments
for warmer weather.
Utilities are reporting that the con-
sumption of natural gas across the coun-
try has been reduced by approximately 6
percent over last year, while the consump-
tion of electricity-in homes, offices, fac-
tories, and elsewhere-is down by about
10 percent.
Beyond the progress we have made be-
cause of voluntary conservation, we have
also been fortunate because the weather
in the last quarter of 1973 was warmer
than usual, so we did not consume so
much for fuel for heating as we expected.
Even though the oil embargo continues
in the Middle East, we have also received
some oil we did not expect at the time the
embargo was imposed.
12
