[137] May II
Public Papers of the Presidents
sible-what I am simply saying to this
graduating class is that we have a goal.
That goal is, by the year 1980, to be
independent in energy. It is going to take
the cooperation of government. It is going
to take your technological and other abil-
ities to the extent that you work in these
various areas. But it is a goal worth
achieving. It will help us, and it will help
other nations as well.
To put it in its proper context, let us
understand what the mix is in terms of
who does what. The Federal Govern-
ment has a great role to play in this
respect. We will be spending approxi-
mately $15 billion in research in the field
of energy over the next 3 to 4 years. That
is a very large amount of money. On the
other hand, over the next 10 years private
enterprise will be spending $500 billion,
a half a trillion dollars, to achieve the
goal that I am referring to.
And it allows me to make this point:
America became what we are we be-
came rich and productive and strong-
not because of what government did, but
because of what people did. And it is peo-
ple in our private capacities-that is what
counts. You are the ones that are going
to make America move forward in this
and in all the other areas as well.
And now to a second great challenge
for this splendid generation of Americans,
and I refer to the challenge of food. We
are blessed richly in America in this re-
spect. I know that many who write me
about the cost of living speak about high
grocery bills, and yet even at their high-
est, due to the productivity of America's
farmers, due to the fact that they have
been able to produce more with less peo-
ple, today the American housewife pays a
smaller percentage of her budget for food
than does any housewife in the world.
That is to the credit of America's farm-
ers. It is to the credit of our distribution
system. It does not mean that we perhaps
cannot do better over a longer period of
time in bringing those prices within those
realms that everyone feels that he or she
can afford. But what I do say is this: This
is no time for jingoism as to who is num-
ber one or number two on this or that or
the other between countries, but there is
one area where America is by all odds
number one, and that is in agriculture.
And looking to the future, the fact that
America is so productive in agriculture
that we produce enough to feed all of the
American people, to clothe the American
people, and to provide billions of dollars
in aid as well as in sales to countries
abroad, that is a great instrument for
peace in the world, and we are using it for
peace as well as for humanity. So, those
who are in this field of American agricul-
ture deserve the thanks of the Nation, and
this university has played, I know, a very
great role in that respect.
When I think, too, of one of your
former presidents, Dr. Bennett,ยน the first
director of point 4, I think of another area
in which American agriculture can play
a role in dealing with the problem of hun-
ger for the whole world. In a visit to
Brazil in 1967, I was talking to the then
President. Northern Brazil at that time
was one of the poorest areas of the world.
It is still very poor. I have seen poverty
in many places-in India, in Bolivia, in
ยน Dr. Henry G. Bennett was Administrator of
the Technical Cooperation Administration in
1951. The Administration was created by Con-
gress to implement the point 4 program by
providing technical assistance to underdevel-
oped areas of the world in such fields as educa-
tion, agriculture, and health. He was president
of Oklahoma State University from 1926 to
1951.
430
