Richard Nixon, 1974
June 25 [199]
199 Remarks on Arrival at Brussels, Belgium.
June 25, 1974
Your Majesty, Mr. Secretary, and all of
our distinguished guests:
Your Majesty, I wish to express our
grateful appreciation for your gracious
welcome, and also for your eloquent words
with regard to the hopes we all share for
building a structure of peace in the world.
And it is indeed an honor for me to
join with my colleagues in the Atlantic
Alliance in tomorrow reaffirming our
dedication to the great principles of that
alliance. What we must all recognize is
that the Atlantic Alliance has been indis-
pensable in keeping the peace in Europe
for the past 25 years.
As you have noted, this visit to Brussels
comes midway between two other visits,
the first to the Mideast and the next to
the Soviet Union. It is significant that this
is the case, because this symbolizes the
central role that the Atlantic Alliance
plays in pursuing our goal of a lasting
peace in the world. Without the Alliance,
it is doubtful that the détente would have
begun, and without continuing a strong
alliance, it is doubtful if the détente would
continue.
It is also very significant that this meet-
ing will take place in Brussels, now the
capital of Europe, and in Belgium, a
nation which has suffered so much in two
World Wars. And I am sure that all of
those attending the meeting tomorrow
will have in their hearts these sentiments
that we wish that whatever we do there
and whatever decisions we make and
whatever we say may contribute to the
goal we seek, not only for each of our own
countries but for all nations in the world,
a peace that will last.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8:40 p.m. at Melsbroek Military Airport in
response to the remarks of welcome by King
Baudouin. Following the President's remarks,
NATO Secretary-General Joseph Luns spoke.
The remarks of welcome by King Baudouin
and Secretary-General Luns were as follows:
Mr. President:
KING BAUDOUIN
Because Belgium has for several years been
the headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, during which time it has also
been the host of the European Communities, it
is my duty and pleasure to welcome you again
this evening on the soil of my country.
You have just completed a tour in the Mid-
dle East in the course of which the happy re-
sults of untiring diplomacy have been con-
firmed. We all hope that the efforts made will
be the prelude to final peace in that region.
In 2 days' time you will be in Moscow, where
you will carry on conversations the outcome
of which is important for us all. Before starting
them, you have desired not only to come here
to sign the Ottawa Declaration of Atlantic Re-
lations, which again precisely states our con-
vergent objectives, but also to make confident
contacts with the heads of the governments of
friendly and allied nations in order to explain
your views and obtain their opinion.
We are delighted with the action you have
taken. It shows once more that however much
times may change, there is still between our
peoples the same fundamental understanding
based on so many common memories, and so
many peaceful contests or deplorably cruel
battles waged side by side, and on faith in the
same essential values.
Mr. President, throughout the world all men
feel increasingly bound together by the same
destiny. We know that they eagerly wish hos-
tilities to cease, tensions to be reduced, and a
just and lasting peace to be established.
We wish you and Mrs. Nixon a cordial wel-
come and express our hopes for the success of
the work we shall carry out together.
547
