[176] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
deer, a species which was all but non-
existent in this area 30 years ago.
(15) Unimak Island (Aleutian Islands
National Wildlife Refuge), Alaska-
973,000 acres. A rich diversity of wildlife,
including the Alaskan brown bear and
the once-rare sea otter, inhabit this island.
Its scenic coastline, rugged mountains,
and volcanic remnants make the island
ideal for the study of interrelated marine
and terrestrial ecosystems.
In addition, two proposals which have
been previously submitted-Pinnacles Na-
tional Monument and Sequoia-Kings
Canyon National Parks, all in Cali-
fornia-have been augmented by suffi-
cient acreage to warrant resubmission to
the Congress. The enlargements, which
are attributable to revised management
philosophy and plans and the recent ac-
quisition of private inholdings, amount to
5,970 acres in the case of Pinnacles and
68,800 acres in the case of Sequoia-Kings
Canyon.
Three other areas previously pro-
posed-Cabeza Prieta Game Range, Ari-
zona; Desert National Wildlife Range,
Nevada; and Glacier Bay National Monu-
ment, Alaska-contain surface lands suit-
able for wilderness designation. However,
because two of these areas are open to
mining, and all three may contain
minerals vital to the national interest and
have not been subjected to adequate
177
mineral surveys, I am recommending that
action on these proposals be deferred
pending the completion of such surveys.
After a review of roadless areas of 5,000
acres or more and roadless islands, the
Secretary of the Interior has concluded
that seven areas are not suitable for pres-
ervation as part of the National Wilder-
ness Preservation System. These are:
Savannah National Wildlife Refuge,
Georgia; Little Pend Oreille National
Wildlife Refuge and Turnbull National
Wildlife Refuge, Washington; Bowdoin
National Wildlife Refuge and the Na-
tional Bison Range, Montana; National
Elk Refuge, Wyoming; and Horicon Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge, Wisconsin.
In addition to this message, I am trans-
mitting herewith to the Congress letters
and reports from the Secretary of the In-
terior regarding these wilderness propos-
als. I concur with the recommendation of
the Secretary in each case, and I urge the
Congress to give early and favorable con-
sideration to all of these proposals.
The White House,
June 13, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing by Secretary of the Interior Rogers
C. B. Morton on the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System and the proposed wilderness
areas.
Toasts of the President and President Sadat at a Dinner
in Alexandria Honoring the President of Egypt.
June 13, 1974
President Sadat, Mrs. Sadat, and all of
our distinguished guests:
Mr. President, this dinner tonight af-
fords an opportunity for us, in a very
small way, to indicate our very grateful
appreciation to you for the hospitality
that you and your people have shown to
us on the occasion of our visit to Egypt.
496
