[198] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE
Members of the Cabinet, members of the
diplomatic corps, and ladies and gentle-
men:
I first want to express my appreciation
to all of you for taking the time to come
out to see us as we take off on another
journey for peace. This time, we go first
to Brussels, as you know, and then to
Moscow.
Our purpose in Brussels will be to meet
with old friends and to renew our support
of the great NATO alliance which for 25
years has been responsible for and indis-
pensable for keeping the peace in Europe.
We expect to give new purpose and new
direction to that alliance on the occasion
of visiting with the heads of government
of most of the NATO countries.
From Brussels, we go on to Moscow.
There, we shall have the opportunity to
meet again with General Secretary Brezh-
nev and his colleagues. The purpose of
this summit meeting, as was the purpose
of the other two-the first in Moscow 2
years ago, and in Washington and in other
parts of the United States last year-is
threefold: first, we expect to strengthen
the bilateral relations between the two
strongest nations in the world; second, we
hope to develop areas of cooperation to
displace confrontation in other critical
areas of the world that might be those
places where conflict could develop be-
tween the two great powers; and third, we
hope to make more progress on a goal that
we began to achieve and move forward
toward in 1972, of limiting both the bur-
den and also the threat of nuclear arms
over our two nations and over the world
generally.
These are very great goals, and like all
great goals, they are very difficult to
achieve, just as was the case of the goals
we sought to achieve on our first trip to
the Mideast. But we are confident that
when we look at these goals, not only must
we seek to achieve them but we believe
that we can achieve them, because when
we speak of the two strongest nations, the
Soviet Union and the United States, co-
operation between these two great peo-
ples is indispensable if we are to build a
structure of peace in the world that will
last.
And we know that with American
strength, American resolve, and above all,
American determination and dedication,
that we will be able to make progress on
this long but vitally important "Journey
for Peace," not only for America but for
all mankind.
We have appreciated particularly the
messages that we have received before
each of these trips from people all over
America, because your prayers, your good
wishes for our success means that the
American people, the great majority, are
united behind the efforts we are making
to attempt to resolve differences that
otherwise would lead to a runaway arms
race, that otherwise would lead to con-
frontation not only between two great
powers but all over the world, that other-
wise would dash all the hopes and the
ideals that Americans have had from the
beginning of this country, the ideal of a
world of peace so that we can devote the
energies of all great peoples to the works
of peace and not simply to preparing for
war.
Thank you.
NOTE: Following his remarks at 8:12 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House, the Presi-
dent and Mrs. Nixon left by helicopter for
Andrews Air Force Base, Md., where he
spoke at 8:32 a.m.
546
