[141] May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
141 Remarks to Members of the 14th Mexico-United States
Interparliamentary Conference. May 15, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen, and all of our dis-
tinguished guests from Mexico, and also,
of course, our guests from the United
States:
We welcome you very warmly to this
reception. At the conclusion of the re-
marks that I will make, and also the con-
clusion of the response, I hope to have the
opportunity, along with Senator Mans-
field and Congressman Wright, the rank-
ing Congressional people from our side,
to meet all of you before the reception
in the State Dining Room.
Unfortunately, Mrs. Nixon will not be
able to join us for the reception, because
just 10 minutes ago, she started to have a
reception or was supposed to-across
the street at Blair House for another group
of visitors. But I asked her to delay her
departure for that reception for a personal
reason that all of you will, of course,
understand.
I have visited Mexico twice as Presi-
dent, twice as Vice President, and many,
many times as a private citizen. But the
most important time was when Mrs.
Nixon and I came there 34 years ago on
our honeymoon.
And we thought it was such a good idea,
we came back 25 years ago for a reunion
there. And Dr. Kissinger thought it was
such a good idea that he went there this
year for his honeymoon.
So, with those personal references, Mrs.
Nixon will beg your permission to leave
because I know she would like to meet all
of you, and I will then continue with my
remarks.
For 14 years, the parliamentary groups
from Mexico and the United States have
been meeting. And I have had the privi-
lege in 1972, and then again in 1974, to
welcome the group here. These meetings
are very appropriate because we are such
close neighbors geographically.
But our relationship is more important
than simply official and geographical.
There are bonds of friendship which bind
us together. It does not mean that we do
not sometimes have differences on such
matters as the use of the Colorado River
water, et cetera.
But we have learned to settle our dif-
ferences and settle them always at the
conference table in a peaceful way.
And I am very happy that since our last
meeting that our Special Ambassador,
Mr. Brownell,ยน working with your repre-
sentatives was able to work out an
agreement with regard to certain aspects
of the salinity problem between the
United States and Mexico. And I am
confident that the representatives here
from the Senate and House of the United
States will see to it that that agreement is
approved on June 30, which is the date for
its approval.
Another factor that is very different
from one that has usually been the situa-
tion with regard to our meetings is that
this is the first meeting I have addressed
in which the United States is at peace
with all nations in the world.
This means that we can work with you,
our very close friends and neighbors to the
south, and all nations in the world for a
permanent structure of peace.
1 Herbert Brownell was the President's Spe-
cial Representative for the Resolution of the
Colorado River Salinity Problem With Mexico.
438
