Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
lot of them, I am sure, and also how to
write it off. [Laughter] But nevertheless,
the problem is that in the case of beef,
that the beef production by the fall will
not catch up to the point that it will have
a downward pressure on prices.
However, looking at prices generally,
I can say this, across the board: While we
will continue to have a difficult time as far
as the Consumer Price Index is concerned,
through the balance of the second quarter
and, possibly, into the third quarter, we
believe that the upward pressure on prices
will then begin to subside, and in the
latter half of the third quarter and in the
last quarter, that the food—not only the
price level generally, but the food price
level, even including beef-will be on a
downward trend.
I do not mean by that, that we are going
to see the prices come down in the way
that we would like it, because prices are
always too high if you can't make it with
the family budget. But I do mean to say
that our projections are that in the latter
part of this year that the rise in the CPI,
which has plagued us—primarily, 60 per-
cent of the cause of the rise of the CPI,
for example, in the last quarter, has been
due to energy and food—that the rise in
the CPI will begin to abate, and we hope
to continue policies that will assist that.
THE ECONOMY
[11.] Q. Mr. President, David Day
with the Texas State Network in Fort
Worth. You and members of your Admin-
istration have said that you do not expect
the country to go into a serious recession.
Yet a newly released Harris poll indicates
that a big majority of Americans believe
that we are in a recession now. What do
you think is causing this illusion of eco-
nomic recession in the minds of 68 percent
of the people?
THE PRESIDENT. Because 80 percent of
the people listen to television and radio.
[Laughter]
No, seriously, I think Mr. Harris' poll
would probably have been the same last
year, in 1972, when we had one of the
best years
of our history. But let us look at
the situation with regard to recession-
what it is now, what will it be at the end
of the year, and what it will be in the
next year.
At the present time unemployment is
at 5.2 percent. That is higher than we
would like, but that is the lowest peacetime
unemployment we have had in 11 years.
In 1961, in 1962, in 1963, the only peace-
time years of the sixties, unemployment
averaged 5.7 percent. So, on the unem-
ployment front, we certainly are better
off than we were before.
Second, with regard to recession, the
economy--we would have to be very can-
did in admitting has in the past few
months and will for the next few months,
be in a difficult period due primarily to
the energy crisis which we have been pass-
ing through and to other factors.
However, the projections are that as we
enter the latter part of the year, unem-
ployment will go down, the price level
will abate, and by that time I think that
the American people will become con-
vinced, I trust they will, that they are
not in a recession.
I can only say that in terms of recession,
there is no greater goal, of course, of any
President or of any administration than
to adopt policies that will see that every
American has a job who is able and will-
ing to work and that he is able to balance
291
