[33] Feb. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
from my own family, which indicates why
I believe we have got to move in this area
so that other families of modest means will
not be driven, basically, to bankruptcy be-
cause of the inability to handle medical
care problems of a catastrophic type.
And so, when I proposed that to Con-
gress, I hoped that we would get action.
No legislation has reached my desk. As
a matter of fact, I imagine many in this
room oppose the legislation. Many in the
Congress oppose it. The end result, how-
ever, was no action.
Later this week, I am going to send a
new proposal to the Congress to get this
job done, and I am going to urge enact-
ment at the earliest date. The name of
the program: the comprehensive health
insurance plan. It has seven main prin-
ciples. Listen to them carefully, what they
do say and what they do not say, what
they do not say insofar as Federal in-
volvement is concerned:
First, it will offer every American
financial access to balanced comprehen-
sive health care protection.
Second, its cost will be based on each
person's ability to pay.
It will build on our existing public and
private health financing systems and not
destroy them.
It will use public funds only when
needed.
It will maintain the freedom of both
the patients and the doctors to choose.
It will encourage the most effective use
of our health care resources.
And finally, it will give every American
a direct stake in making the system work.
Now, building on these principles, the
same balanced, dignified health care pro-
tection would be offered to every Ameri-
can under one of three plans.
There would be a special employment
plan which would be offered where peo-
ple do work and can contribute to the
plan.
There would be a Government assist-
ance plan which would cover people with
low incomes and those who can't purchase
health insurance at a reasonable cost,
such as those already in poor health or
those whose work entails risks.
And finally, the existing Medicare pro-
gram would continue to serve those over
65, but it would offer improved benefits
matching those in the other plans that we
are recommending.
These plans would largely operate
through the existing private insurance
carriers. Medicare would continue to be
administered as it is now. Coverage under
all these plans would be identical. It
would finance virtually all of the health
protection people need: hospital and phy-
sician's care in and out of the hospital,
drugs, laboratory tests, X-rays, medical
devices, ambulance service, and so forth.
One of the most critical features of this
comprehensive plan is the way it would be
financed. For those who are working and
who are under the employment plan, the
employer would pay the bulk of the cost
of the premiums while the employee
would pay the rest. But note, the employee
as well as the employer pays.
For those who come under the Govern-
ment assistance plan, there would be a
sharing of cost with the Government,
based upon the individual ability to pay
for premiums. Again, if the individual is
able to pay even a small part, he does pay.
No premiums would be charged, only for
those who have very low incomes who
cannot afford to pay premiums. The insur-
ance itself would be channeled again
through private insurance companies.
The overall result is, under this plan,
128
