Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 25 [61]
breaking relations with the Soviets or
turning off our policy of negotiation and
turning back to confrontation would help
him or help thousands of others like him
in the Soviet Union, we might do that.
On the other hand, I look back to the
years of confrontation, and I find that men
like him, as a matter of fact, rather than
being sent to Paris, would have been sent
to Siberia or probably worse.
As far as our relations with the Soviets
are concerned, we shall continue. We shall
continue to negotiate, recognizing that
they don't like our system or approve of
it and I don't like their system or approve
of it. Mr. Brezhnev knows that, and I
know it, and we have discussed it quite
bluntly and directly.
However, it is essential that both na-
tions, being the super powers that we are,
continue to make progress toward limit-
ing arms, toward avoiding confrontations
which might explode into war, as it might
have in the Mideast if we had not had
this period of negotiation, and also con-
tinuing those negotiations for reduction of
forces in Europe and reduction of arms, or
certainly the limitation of arms, and the
various other initiatives that we are un-
dertaking with the Soviets.
In a nutshell, this is what we have to
consider: Do we want to go back to a pe-
riod when the United States and the
Soviet Union, the two great super powers,
stood in confrontation against each other
and risk a runaway nuclear arms race and
also crisis in Berlin, in the Mideast, even
again in Southeast Asia or other places of
the world, or do we want to continue on
a path in which we recognize our differ-
ences but try to recognize also the fact that
we must either live together or we will all
die together?
RESIGNATION AND THE 1974 ELECTIONS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you have said
on many occasions that you would not
resign from the office to which you were
elected, but what if within the next few
months it became evident that your party
was going to suffer a disastrous defeat in
this year's elections. Would you then re-
consider your resolve on this?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I want my party
to succeed, but more important, I want
the Presidency to survive. And it is vitally
important in this Nation that the Presi-
dency of the United States not be hostage
to what happens to the popularity of a
President at one time or another. The sta-
bility of this office, the ability of the Presi-
dent to continue to govern, the ability, for
example, of this President to continue the
great initiatives which have led to a more
peaceful world than we have had for a
generation, and to move on the domestic
front in the many areas that I have de-
scribed, all of these things, these goals, are
yet before us.
We have a lot of work left to do, more
than 3 years left to do, and I am going to
stay here until I get it done.
INSPECTION OF INCOME TAX RETURNS
BY GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
[17.] Q. Mr. President, you have made
a very strong defense on the confidentiality
of Presidential documents and other mat-
ters, and you have launched a program to
protect the privacy of citizens of the
United States.
In light of this, would you explain how
you happened to issue an Executive order
[11697] last year, once modified, to allow
the Agriculture Department to examine
43-437 O 75-16
207
