Richard Nixon, 1974
May 14 [139]
than June 18, 1974. The Wheat Council
may, however, grant an extension of time
to any signatory government that has not
deposited an instrument of ratification by
that date.
It is my hope that the Senate will give
favorable consideration to the two Pro-
tocols so that, subject to the European
Economic Community remaining a party
to the Food Aid Convention, ratification
by the United States can be effected and
instruments of ratification for the Wheat
Trade Convention and the Food Aid Con-
vention can be deposited without undue
delay.
The White House,
May 14, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The texts of the protocols and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Execu-
tive C (93d Cong., 2d sess.).
139 Remarks on Signing Two Bills Providing for Drug and
Alcohol Abuse Prevention.
WE WANT to say, first, that this is again
a demonstration of bipartisan support for
subjects that have no partisan connota-
tions whatever. When we talk about drug
abuse and alcoholism, the party lines are
crossed, and when we talk about solutions,
it is very encouraging to find that both
Republicans and Democrats have worked
long and hard for both of these measures
and that now we have the tools, we be-
lieve, or some of the tools that are neces-
sary to deal effectively with them.
So, I want to express the appreciation
of the Nation to all the Members of Con-
gress, but particularly to the members of
the committee who are here present, for
getting this legislation passed. And now it
is up to those who have the responsibility
within the Administration to see that it is
properly implemented.
And finally, as much as anything else,
there is the need for-in addition to the
money, in addition to the Government
action-there is the need for education, in
May 14, 1974
which the leaders, all of whom are repre-
sented here, can play a great role, and we
trust that you will do so-education in
terms of how our younger people can
avoid the problems with either drug
abuse or alcoholism in the years ahead.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. Present
at the bill signing ceremony were Members of
Congress and Federal officials responsible for
the treatment and prevention programs.
As enacted, S. 1115, the Narcotic Addict
Treatment Act of 1974, is Public Law 93-281
(88 Stat. 124), and S. 1125, an act concerning
alcohol abuse and alcoholism prevention, treat-
ment, and rehabilitation, is Public Law 93-282
(88 Stat. 125).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on provisions of the acts by Caspar W.
Weinberger, Secretary, and Morris E. Chafetz,
Director of the National Institute on Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism, both of the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare; and Rob-
ert L. DuPont, Director of the Special Action
Office for Drug Abuse Prevention.
435
