[113] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Drive through Washington today. It is
a magnificent city. You helped to make it
magnificent with this building. You see
the Archives Building with its columns and
the Capitol and the Whtie House, and
you wonder, how will it be 2-300 years
from now? Will they simply be shells?
Probably not. But even as troublesome,
will they simply be buildings in which peo-
ple work and so forth, but in which the
sense of greatness that now inspires this
Nation is gone, has disappeared, and at a
time that we were strong and rich, we
became weak.
That is something we should think
about as we celebrate our 200th anniver-
sary. And we should think about it be-
cause we must remember that the addi-
tional characteristic about the American
Revolution-in addition to the fact that
it was not simply a single event that oc-
curred and stopped 200 years ago, or 195
years ago, that it was a continuing revo-
lution the other characteristic is that
from the beginning, Americans, their lead-
ers, have spoken of our Revolution having
meaning not only to ourselves but to others
as well.
And from the beginning, that meaning
in terms of the Revolution having mean-
ing to others as well was not in terms of
conquest, but having meaning in terms
instead of destroying freedom, of defend-
ing freedom; instead of destroying peace,
of defending the peace.
That was the American ideal. It is a
strain that runs through American his-
tory from the beginning. Jefferson said it,
you remember, at the time of the Decla-
ration of Independence. He said we act
not just for ourselves but for the whole
human race.
Now, imagine what a statement that
was. Thirteen colonies, they were weak,
they were poor, they could mean nothing
in terms of the balance of power in the
world. But Jefferson and those who signed
the Declaration and later the Constitu-
tion believed in their hearts that they
were acting not only for themselves, the
3 million who lived on the Atlantic sea-
board, but for generations to come in
America and for the whole human race.
And so, that gave them a sense of great-
ness within, which inspired people
throughout the world.
Go down to the Lincoln Memorial. You
will see the immortal words from his great
speeches, and you will see one phrase to
the effect that we will seek a just and
lasting peace, not only among ourselves
but between all nations.
Now, for Lincoln to say that or for
some leader of the South to say that at a
time that America was just completing a
terrible civil war, was highly unrealistic;
that America, weak as it was after such a
war, could play a role, not only for peace
among ourselves but between all nations,
was unthinkable to any pragmatic ob-
server of the international scene. But Lin-
coln believed it, and Lee believed it, and
those who got together after that terrible
strife all continued to believe it.
Woodrow Wilson said it quite elo-
quently, I thought, when he spoke at In-
dependence Hall on July 4, 1912 [1914].
He said a patriotic American is never
so proud of the flag under which he lives
as when it becomes for others as well as
for himself a symbol of hope and liberty.
When Wilson said that, that did have,
from an international standpoint, more
meaning because America was stronger
then, and what happened in America and
what America did abroad would have
made and did make a very great differ-
ence in the world.
366
