Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 1 [235]
|
amended text is also transmitted for the
information of the Senate.
The purpose of the amended text is to
provide a "tacit amendment" procedure
for approving changes in the Annex to the
Convention. That Annex sets forth the
implementing standards and recom-
mended practices for simplifying and
making as uniform as possible the docu-
mentary and other formalities required of
ships on arriving at or clearing ports.
These formalities relate to customs, im-
migration, public health and other re-
quirements imposed on vessels engaged in
international voyages.
I recommend that the Senate advise
and consent to acceptance of the amended
text, which is intended to expedite the
making of desirable changes in the agreed
formalities.
The White House
July 29, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the amendment and ac-
companying papers are printed in Senate Ex-
ecutive D (93d Cong., 2d sess.).
234 White House Statement on the Signing of an
International Agreement on Cyprus. July 30, 1974
THE United States welcomes the an-
nouncement in Geneva of the agreement
reached by the Foreign Ministers of the
United Kingdom, Greece, and Turkey.
We consider this an important step
towards the restoration of peace and
stability in Cyprus.
We commend the intensive and patient
efforts of the three governments con-
cerned which brought about this achieve-
ment. In particular, we wish to pay tribute
to the skill and persistence of Mr. [James]
Callaghan, the Minister of State of Great
Britain, who, as leader of the conference,
deserves great credit for its success and to
the Foreign Ministers of Greece and
Turkey.
NOTE: See Item 227, footnote 2.
235 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Plan for
United States Participation in the World Weather
Program. August 1, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
A well-known maxim says, "Everybody
talks about the weather, but nobody does
anything about it.”
That maxim is no longer valid. We are
confident that the knowledge of weather
we are gaining through studies and ex-
periments carried out under the World
Weather Program will give man the un-
derstanding, tools and techniques neces-
sary to cope with his atmosphere.
We are continuing to make substantial
progress in furthering the goals of this
program. These goals are:
-To extend the time, range and scope
of weather predictions;
-To assess the impact of atmospheric
pollution on environmental quality;
617
