Appendix B
July
July
9 James D. Hodgson called on the President
at the White House prior to assuming his
post as United States Ambassador to Japan.
9 Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, met with the Presi-
dent to discuss the domestic economy and
the budget.
9 Secretary of the Interior Rogers C. B. Mor-
ton and Under Secretary of the Interior
John C. Whitaker met with the President
at the White House.
10 The bipartisan Congressional leadership
met with the President at the White House.
The President and Secretary of State Henry
A. Kissinger briefed the leaders on the Presi-
dent's meetings in Brussels and the Soviet
Union.
10 Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan met
with the President to discuss the problem
of unemployment and Labor Department
programs.
10 The President submitted to Judge Gerhard
A. Gesell a sworn response to written inter-
rogatories in the case of United States of
America v. John D. Ehrlichman, et al.
10 Ten Congressmen were the President's
guests for dinner on board the Presidential
yacht Sequoia.
II The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Vice President Ford
and House Republican leaders John J.
Rhodes and Leslie C. Arends. They dis-
cussed the legislative calendar for the re-
mainder of the year.
II The President met with the Cabinet to
discuss the problem of inflation.
II Vice President Ford and Senate Republican
leaders Hugh Scott and Robert P. Griffin
met with the President to discuss the legis-
lative calendar for the remainder of the
year.
II Senator Carl T. Curtis of Nebraska and
Representative LaMar Baker of Tennessee
met with the President.
12 The President met with Dana Mead of the
Domestic Council who was leaving the
White House Staff to join the faculty of
the U.S. Military Academy at West Point,
N.Y.
12 The President met with Roy Goodearle who
was leaving his position as Associate Direc-
tor of the Oil and Gas Division in the
Department of the Interior.
12 Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz met
with the President at the White House.
15 The President and members of the First
Family went to Palm Desert, Calif., from
their residence in San Clemente where
they remained overnight at the home of
Walter H. Annenberg, United States Am-
bassador to the United Kingdom.
17 The White House announced that, at the
recommendation of the Secretary of State,
the President decided to send Under Sec-
retary of State Joseph J. Sisco to London
for talks about Cyprus with British and
Turkish officials.
24 The President sent a personal message to
Greek Prime Minister Konstantinos Kara-
manlis congratulating him on the assump-
tion of his new responsibilities and express-
ing the full support of the United States
Government in the effort to reestablish
peace on Cyprus and within the Alliance.
The President also stated that he was look-
ing forward to close and friendly relations
with the new leader of Greek democracy.
1
664
