Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 5 [33]
gotten. Specific results are to be achieved
by specific deadlines. These commitments
will be reviewed continually and will
guide day-to-day operations until the ob-
jectives are met.
Congressional procedures, too, are in
need of reform-particularly those that
deal with the budget. In my last three
budget messages I encouraged the Con-
gress to reform its procedures for consider-
ing the budget. I noted that the Congress
faced a fundamental problem because it
lacks a system for relating each individual
spending decision-whether or not it is
part of the appropriation process-to
overall budget totals. The need for a more
systematic congressional process was once
again illustrated during the session just
concluded. Congressional actions, taken
together, increased spending totals over
my proposals by $3.8 billion in 1974 and
by $8.2 billion in 1975.
The Congress is currently moving to-
ward a new budgetary system. I com-
mend this action and urge that the final
procedures worked out by the Congress
recognize the necessary and proper role
of the President and his responsibility for
efficient administration of the executive
branch. I am particularly concerned about
provisions which would subject some of
the most routine financial actions of the
executive branch to veto by either house
of the Congress.
CONCLUSION
The proposals set forth in this budget
are constructive and forward-looking.
They meet the Federal Government's
responsibility to provide vigorous national
leadership toward the solution of major
national problems. They do so within the
bounds of fiscal prudence.
But the Federal Government cannot do
everything. It should not be expected to.
Nor can money alone solve all our prob-
lems. Recognizing these limitations, my
Administration has made an intensive
effort to identify and do well those things
which the Federal Government should do.
By the same token, this budget, like my
previous ones, stresses the revitalization of
individual initiative and of State and local
capabilities. It represents an important
further step in my efforts to restore a
proper balance of individual and govern-
mental power in America.
February 4, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message as sent to the Congress
included illustrative diagrams which have not
been reproduced in this volume.
33 Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the American
Hospital Association's House of Delegates.
February 5, 1974
Mr. Kauffman and all of the members
and guests at this occasion of the Ameri-
can Hospital Association House of Dele-
gates meeting:
I am honored to be the first President
of the United States to address this orga-
nization, and of course,, on such an occa-
sion I am trying to think of a way I can
relate to your organization in terms of
having either been-well, I have been in
a hospital, but I have never worked in a
hospital.
125
