Richard Nixon, 1974
June 14 [180]
We live in a very decisive time in the
history of world diplomacy. Over these
past 3 years, we have seen the United
States of America establish a new rela-
tionship with the People's Republic of
China, where one-fourth of all the people
in the world live. We have seen the end
of America's longest and most difficult
war in Vietnam. We have had a series of
meetings with the leaders of the Soviet
Union to resolve differences and develop,
where possible, areas of cooperation for
peaceful purposes.
But I would be certainly much less than
candid if I were not to admit that despite
these advances in the cause of peace, we
know how difficult and long the road
ahead is if we are to have a permanent
peace.
I think, for example, of His Majesty's
background, the fact that when he was
only 14 years of age he attended a con-
ference at the end of World War I, a war
that was described at that time as one
that would end all wars. But that, of
course, was not the case. Versailles left
only the seeds for a war that was to fol-
low in the next generation.
And then His Majesty attended another
conference after the Second World War
in San Francisco, the conference that set
up the U.N. And yet with all the high
idealism that motivated so many of those
who attended that conference, it did not
produce a framework which guaranteed
what so many wanted, a lasting peace, be-
cause wars continued to come.
And that is why, to the extent that we
can contribute to a great goal, our goal is
not simply a peace that will be an inter-
lude between wars but a peace that can
last, and such a peace must be built care-
fully, step by step, having in mind the fact
that if mistakes are made in the making of
the peace,
the result inevitably will be
simply another conflict.
So, I can say tonight that while we do
have a new and promising relation with
the People's Republic of China, while we
do have a dialog discussing many con-
structive items with the Soviet Union, we
realize that the process of peace is one
that never ends. We must continue to
work in order to preserve it.
And that brings me, of course, to the
area of the world in which we are most
interested at this time-the Mideast. We
want to play a helpful role. And our Secre-
tary of State, we believe, has played a
helpful role working with the govern-
ments in the area to settle longtime dif-
ferences. But we are aware that we cannot
produce an instant formula to solve all
longtime differences. But what is new in
the present situation is that the United
States is playing a role, a positive role,
working toward the goal of a permanent
peace in the Mideast.
And it is for this reason, Your Majesty,
that this visit to Saudi Arabia, clearly
apart from the very great pleasure it gives
us to see you personally again and to see so
many of our friends, it is for this reason
that this visit is important. Because over
the past 27 years, I have had the privilege
of meeting and knowing the leaders of
over 80 nations in the world.
And I can assure all of those assembled
here that in terms of years of experience,
in terms of wisdom, in terms of vision, not
only for his own country and his own area
but for the whole world, there is no man
on the world scene who can surpass our
host tonight, His Majesty King Faisal.
I know that most people--at least, it is
assumed that most people come to Saudi
507
