Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 8 [241]
when I called Mr. Gray, and when he
expressed concern about improper at-
tempts to limit his investigation, as the
record shows, I told him to press ahead
vigorously with his investigation—which
he did.
The second point I would urge is that
the evidence be looked at in its entirety
and the events be looked at in perspective.
Whatever mistakes I made in the han-
dling of Watergate, the basic truth re-
mains that when all the facts were
brought to my attention, I insisted on a
full investigation and prosecution of those
guilty. I am firmly convinced that the
record, in its entirety, does not justify the
extreme step of impeachment and removal
of a President. I trust that as the con-
stitutional process goes forward, this per-
spective will prevail.
241 Memorandum About the Combined Federal Campaign.
August 8, 1974
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
I am pleased to announce that Honor-
able William P. Clements, Jr., Deputy
Secretary of Defense, has agreed to serve
as Chairman of the Combined Federal
Campaign for the National Capital Area
this fall.
This campaign, which begins in Sep-
tember, will combine into a single drive
the solicitation efforts of the United Way
of Metropolitan Washington, the Na-
tional Health Agencies, and the Interna-
tional Service Agencies. In this one drive
we will be seeking to do our share to meet
the needs of more than 150 local, national,
and international health, welfare, and
social service agencies.
These organizations deserve our whole-
hearted support. Working individually we
can do little, but working together through
voluntary organizations we can help the
young, the old, the ill, the disadvantaged,
and all persons who need assistance. There
is no substitute for the help that can be
brought to our neighbors and friends by
the committed voluntary agencies sup-
ported by the Combined Federal Cam-
paign. Truly they are a beacon of hope
for those in need.
Through the Combined Federal Cam-
paign, Federal personnel are offered a
unique opportunity to help persons in our
community, in our Nation, and in overseas
lands by one gift once a year, a pledge
made particularly easy by the availability
of payroll deductions.
I request that you serve personally as
chairman of the combined campaign in
your organization and appoint one of your
top assistants as your vice chairman.
Please advise Deputy Secretary Clements
of the person you designate as vice
chairman.
I know that you will give your whole-
hearted support to this endeavor, and I
hope you will commend the campaign
with its payroll deduction feature to Fed-
eral employees and military personnel in
your organization.
RICHARD NIXON
43-437 O 75-42
-
623
