[227] July 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
because a strong America and a strong
American President is something which is
absolutely indispensable if we are to build
that peaceful world that we all want.
This brings me to one other point that
I want to mention here tonight, partic-
ularly in Roy's presence and in the pres-
ence of so many other people in the
Administration who are out here with me,
and it is very simply this: that in order for
the United States to play the role it does
in the world, we not only need the mili-
tary strength, we not only need the diplo-
matic skill, but essential to that role is an
America that maintains the position of
world leadership, and this we have with-
out any question.
We can argue about whether we are
number one or number two in this or that
or the other area, but economically the
United States is the wonder of the world.
We can say that despite the problems we
have the energy crisis through which we
have passed and are still passing to an ex-
tent, the problem of inflation, which is a
world problem incidentally-and having
met with most of the world leaders re-
cently, I can assure you that I wouldn't
trade their problems for ours anytime, as
difficult as ours are. But in order to main-
tain that strong economy, it is necessary to
have responsible leadership, and it is
necessary to make some very hard deci-
sions.
Roy Ash is one of those men that has to
make a lot of them. He is a man that has
to say no, no to a spending program that
might help some of the people, but would
raise the cost of living for all of the people.
And when we have to make, as we will,
some very hard budget decisions in the
next few weeks and months, it will be
necessary for us to veto some spending
bills that the Congress is inevitably going
to pass, far exceeding our budget. Just
remember we do that not because we like
to say no to some good cause, but because
the greater cause is the whole problem of
inflation which affects every person in
this country. We are out to win that bat-
tle, and we can't win it unless we start
right with the Government of the United
States itself.
I can assure you that with the leader-
ship of men like Roy Ash and Herb Stein,
who is here tonight, and the rest, we are
going to set the example in Washington
of fighting the battle of the Federal budget
so that people can win the battle of the
family budget at home.
And Roy, we thank you for your leader-
ship and all that you have meant in this
respect. Now, before you cheer too long,
you must remember that you may be writ-
ing Roy a letter one of these days saying,
"Why did you cut this program or that
one?" Remember, we told him to, and
you applauded it here tonight. And he
will not do anything, you can be sure,
unless I am backing him, and I will back
him all the way, just as he backs the
Administration.
Let me just conclude with two personal
thoughts. One, as we stand here in this
beautiful home in Bel Air, I think of the
sacrifice that men like Roy Ash and his
wife and his family have made to come
to Washington to serve there. Obviously,
it is a financial sacrifice, but also it is a
personal sacrifice. I haven't been to the
Ash home in Washington, but I can't
imagine it is like this. It is probably very
nice, but it couldn't be like this.
And I think, too, of the dedication of
people that have done that. There are
many in this room that I could mention
who have served in this Administration:
Dave Packard is over here, Bob Finch,
604
