[227] July 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I can assure you that no man in pub-
lic life and I have studied American
history rather thoroughly-has ever had a
more loyal group of friends, has never
been blessed with, certainly, a more loyal
group of friends who have stood by him
through good days as well as tough days
than I have.
And I am just very, very proud to be
here among our California friends and
to say from the bottom of my heart for all
the years past and for all the years to
come, thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:27 p.m. at the
home of Mr. Ash.
228 Statement Announcing Intention To Comply With
Supreme Court Decision Requiring Production
of Presidential Tape Recordings. July 24, 1974
MY challenge in the courts to the sub-
poena of the Special Prosecutor was based
on the belief it was unconstitutionally is-
sued and on my strong desire to protect
the principle of Presidential confiden-
tiality in a system of separation of powers.
While I am, of course, disappointed in
the result, I respect and accept the Court's
decision, and I have instructed Mr. St.
Clair to take whatever measures are nec-
essary to comply with that decision in all
respects.
For the future, it will be essential that
the special circumstances of this case not
be permitted to cloud the rights of Presi-
dents to maintain the basic confidentiality
without which this office cannot function.
I was gratified, therefore, to note that the
Court reaffirmed both the validity and the
importance of the principle of executive
229
privilege the principle I had sought to
maintain. By complying fully with the
Court's ruling in this case, I hope and
trust that I will contribute to strengthen-
ing rather than weakening this principle
for the future-so that this will prove to
be not the precedent that destroyed the
principle, but the action that preserved it.
NOTE: The statement was read at approxi-
mately 4:15 p.m. on live nationwide radio and
television by James D. St. Clair, Special Coun-
sel to the President, from the Laguna Beach
Press Center in the Surf and Sand Hotel, La-
guna Beach, Calif.
Mr. St. Clair's remarks accompanying the
statement are printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 10, p.
829).
For related court documents bearing on the
Supreme Court decision, see the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 10,
pp. 473, 562, 597, 602, 657, 710, and 772).
Address to the Nation About Inflation and the Economy.
July 25, 1974
Mr. Smith, all of the very distinguished
guests on the podium and in this audi-
ence, and all of the millions listening on
television and on radio:
I want to discuss today the major prob-
lem confronting America-inflation.
And I want to discuss where we are in
the fight against inflation, how we got
606
