[65] Feb. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
future ahead, and he was analyzing some
of the young people and their attitudes of
today.
He said he was distressed to find that
among many there was an attitude of,
rather, disillusionment with regard to the
Nation, its future, its challenges, that there
was growing either one or two things-
one, a nostalgia, of looking back, you
know, the fifties and all that sort of thing.
Incidentally, I prefer the movies of the
fifties to some of the stuff that comes out
today. As a matter of fact, I am having
a group of Congressmen and Senators
over to see a movie at the White House
tonight, and I asked Julie to pick one out.
And she finally had to go back to the fif-
ties, because the only other ones that they
had required parental guidance, and I
didn't have room for their parents.
But going against what may be the cur-
rent line among many, that this is rather a
poor time to be young, a poor time to be
thinking of what you may contribute to
your Nation, let me tell you this is a good
time to be your age, it is a good time to be
living in America, and it is a good time to
be interested in and to participate in
politics.
ago,
Having said that, I realize that 5 years
when I first came into office and took
a trip to Europe, I talked to an outstand-
ing European statesman, and we were
talking about youth in America and youth
in Europe, and there were frustrations in
both places.
As you recall, youth in America at
that time was concerned about the war,
and many of them let their concerns be
known in, shall we say, rather vigorous
terms as they trooped around the White
House by the hundreds of thousands, indi-
cating their disapproval of a very difficult,
a very long, and finally a war which came
to an end as a result of our efforts.
My friend, the European statesman,
had a very interesting reaction to some-
thing I said to him. I said, "You know,
once we get this war over and once we get
the draft ended, then our young people
are going to be all right because that is
what is bugging them." He said, "Don't
you believe it." He said, "The problem of
your young people is war; the problem of
our young people is peace."
Think of that for just a moment. We
think that as we look at the war years and
the draft and all of the problems that it
caused for the young people of America,
that those were the most difficult problems
that we could possibly face, but now we
have peace. We have no draft for the first
time in 25 years. We have no war for the
first time in 12 years. And you can take
pride that you supported the men and the
women and the policies that made it pos-
sible for us to end a war which was here.
when we got into office.
But as all of you undoubtedly are stu-
dents of history and, particularly, political
history will agree, great nations find often
that their greater problems occur not when
they are faced with a dramatic challenge-
which a war always presents to a nation,
be it a large war or a small one-but they
are faced with enormous problems in
terms of national spirit in times of peace,
when they wonder what are we going to
do with the peace. And then there is a
tendency to let down, there is a tendency
to say, well, now that we have it, we should
be able to do our thing, and doing our
thing too often means doing a very selfish
thing, rather than thinking in terms of
the Nation, the community, or a cause
bigger than ourselves.
216
