[55] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
pensive services in the short run, it fails to
protect our citizens against the massive
financial loss from catastrophic illness in
the long run.
The Comprehensive Health Insurance
Plan that I recommended to the Congress
two weeks ago would correct these and
other deficiencies. Our plan would pro-
vide a very comprehensive package of
health services. It includes preventive
health services for children and pregnant
mothers, dental care for children, and
mental health care for all. It would pro-
vide for free choice of care, whether from
traditional fee-for-service physicians or
from pre-paid health maintenance organi-
zations, and it would provide incentives
to control costs. It would also eliminate
duplicate billing and accounting proce-
dures for both patients and providers.
Most importantly, it would remove the
threat of family bankruptcy due to the
costs of catastrophic illness.
Placing health benefits within the
financial reach of all Americans is the
central element of our health strategy for
the 1970's. But such benefits alone are not
enough.
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS REVIEW
Under my Comprehensive Health In-
surance proposal, the Professional Stand-
ards Review Organizations now being
established by law would be expanded to
improve the quality of health care for all.
As presently contemplated, there will be
a nationwide system of locally run physi-
cian organizations which will review the
quality and effectiveness of medical care
delivered to Medicare, Medicaid, and
Maternal and Child Health beneficiaries.
These new organizations, called PSRO's,
provide great potential for bringing about
improvements in health care practices by
the best possible utilization of health care
facilities and services.
This program is a unique Federal effort.
It recognizes that physicians at the local
and State level are best suited to judge
quality and appropriateness of care. In-
dividual PSRO's will be established and
operated by local physicians, although the
Federal Government will pay the operat-
ing costs. A number of PSRO's are ex-
pected to be designated and set into opera-
tion by the end of this fiscal year.
CONTROLLING HEALTH COSTS
Assurance of quality is not enough. We
must also avoid the cost inflation which
followed the introduction of Medicare
and Medicaid. Our health insurance pro-
posal would call for States to oversee the
operation of insurance carriers and estab-
lish sound procedures for cost control.
Until these or other controls are in place,
I recommend that our present authorities
to control health care costs be continued.
I am asking the Congress for such
authority.
Between 1969 and 1971, when con-
sumer prices rose at an annual rate of
5.3 percent, medical care services meas-
ured by the Consumer Price Index rose
7.7 percent a year, with hospital costs
rising by over 13 percent each year. In
these years leading up to the beginning of
the Economic Stabilization Program, the
health industry was the most inflationary
sector in the American economy. As such,
it was a special economic problem requir-
ing special regulations.
Two and one-half years of controls
brought the annual rate of increase in
medical prices down from 7.3 percent to
3.7 percent in 1972 and 4.4 percent in
184
