[112] Apr. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
it over 175 years, it is well to conclude
by saying that the hopes of all the people
of the world-not just the Americas but
all the people of the world—for peace, for
progress, for opportunity, lie with our
solidarity, with our unity, and with our
vision. And may the historians one day
record that we, the inheritors of the new
world, helped to build, not only for our-
selves but for the whole world, a structure
of peace and progress for all.
And it is in that spirit that I respond to
the very eloquent remarks of the Foreign
Minister from Paraguay.
And with those words, Mrs. Nixon and
I will now, according to protocol, leave
the room. We understand that refresh-
ments are still available, and for those who
like to, even dancing. And for those who
haven't airplane reservations for Atlanta,
we can provide a bus. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House. An
advance text of his remarks was released on
the same day.
The foreign ministers were attending infor-
mal meetings at the State Department, held
on April 17 and 18, 1974, prior to the opening
of the General Assembly of the Organization of
American States in Atlanta, Ga., on April 19.
Foreign Minister Sapena Pastor responded to
the President's remarks in Spanish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Your Excellency Richard Nixon, President of
the United States of America, Your Excellency
Mrs. Nixon, Your Excellencies ladies and
gentlemen:
The Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the na-
tions of Latin America and the Caribbean have
conferred upon me the extraordinary honor of
replying to your words. Aware of this great
responsibility, I assume this mandate, shielded
by the magnitude of what I represent.
The history of inter-American relations will
record as a very fortunate initiative of yours,
Your Excellency President Richard Nixon, to
have instructed the Secretary of State, Dr.
Henry A. Kissinger, to invite the Ministers of
Foreign Affairs and representatives of the coun-
tries of Latin America and of the Caribbean
that were attending the 28th period of Regular
Sessions of the General Assembly of the United
Nations, to a meeting which was held on Octo-
ber 5, 1973, and to there suggest the initiation
of a "new dialog" to deal with matters of in-
terest for the American continent.
It is true that as close as we were and as
united by common bonds and interests in the
destiny of the continent and of the world, how-
ever, we lived at a distance in the considera-
tion and the treatment of those things which
are basic and vital to our civilization.
And for one part, there was a United States
of America, the leading world power, which
had achieved the highest levels of standards
of living for its people while at the same time
having to be concerned and to take care of
problems and situations scattered throughout
the globe, situations of every order and nature,
at every distance, and of the most varied
degrees of seriousness, and on the other hand,
all of the nations of Latin America and of the
Caribbean with different degrees of develop-
ment, deprived to larger or lesser degree of
the financial and technolgical means necessary
to increase their economic, social, educational,
cultural, scientific, health, and technological
conditions.
The idea of this "new dialog" was immedi-
ately taken up by all of the American nations,
and the distinguished Foreign Minister of
Colombia, Alfredo Vázquez Carrizosa, on be-
half of his government issued an invitation to
the meeting of Bogotá held in November of
1973 where there was an exhaustive debate
before establishment of the items on which
the usefulness of a dialog was established.
Thus came about the Conference of Tlate-
lolco, held in February of 1974, where under
the skillful and enlightened leadership of the
Foreign Minister of Mexico, Don Emilio
Rabasa, and this time with the presence of the
Secretary of State of the United States of
America, the dynamic and clearly successful
international negotiator, Dr. Henry A. Kis-
singer, there was an advanced consensus
achieved on the solutions to the subjects
brought up at Bogotá.
362
