[158] May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
158 Remarks at the Swearing In of Kenneth Rush as
Counsellor to the President for Economic Policy.
May 29, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are here today for the swearing in,
as assistant to the President, of Kenneth
Rush, and it carries me back almost 40
years, when I first met him. I thought he
was then a rather senior person, although
he was 24 and I was 21. He was an assist-
ant professor at Duke University Law
School in the field of corporations.
As assistant to the President, as we
have already indicated, he will have the
primary responsibility for advice and
counsel in the economic area, both domes-
tic and international. I think he certainly
is a man who meets the qualifications that
are needed for this very, very great
responsibility.
His international credentials are well
known as Ambassador to Germany, as
Deputy Secretary of State, and also on the
defense side as Deputy Secretary of
Defense.
What is probably not as well known is
that he is a distinguished lawyer and was
one of the top business leaders of the
United States, chief executive officer of a
great American corporation.
I think he is bringing to this position
what is needed at this time, not only the
coordination but also the ideas that we
need to keep our economy growing and to
fight the major battle that we have to
fight on the economic front to handle
inflation.
In addition, we are naming him as a
member of the Cabinet, Counsellor to the
President, and as a member of the Na-
tional Security Council, a position he
should be in because of his wide creden-
tials in the international field and, par-
ticularly, the national defense field.
With all of those responsibilities, I don't
know if he is going to be able to spend
much time at home, but we welcome him
as a member of the Cabinet today, as a
member of the National Security Coun-
cil, and as an assistant to the President.
Mr. Justice Powell of the Supreme
Court will administer the oath. Here is
the Bible.
[At this point, Associate Justice Lewis F.
Powell, Jr., administered the oath of office. The
President then resumed speaking.]
Before our new Counsellor responds
briefly, I should point out that while he
has great additional responsibilities in our
battle against inflation, holding the line,
he gets no additional money. Now, if you
would like to say something, you may.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
Counsellor Rush responded to the President's
remarks as follows:
Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mem-
bers of the Cabinet, distinguished Mr. Justice
Powell, and ladies and gentlemen:
As the President said, I have known him for
almost 40 years, and I knew him when he was
president of the student body of the Duke Law
School, and when he was second in the class,
but when he was first, working about twice as
hard as the President did as a student.
Five years ago, I joined the President's offi-
cial family and went to Germany, and during
those 5 years, we have made, I think, incredible
progress in achieving his great goal of a genera-
tion of peace.
And in the achieving of this goal, Mr. Presi-
dent, I have seen at firsthand how very essential
it is to have your strong support and your guid-
ance. Without that, the very idea would never
462
