[182] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
about what other steps may be taken or
should be taken in order that the peace be
just and be equitable. You have indicated
your concern about such matters as the
Palestinians, which we, of course, under-
stand; your concern about your borders,
which we, of course, understand; and
other matters that are for future negotia-
tions.
I would like to tell you that I have an
instant solution for these very complex
problems, but you would know with your
vast experience in diplomacy and negotia-
tions, as would our other guests here, that
I do not bring any instant solution to these
problems.
I do know that for 30 years that resort
to war by either side, by whatever chance,
has not solved these problems.
And I do know that the United States,
for that reason as well as for other reasons
involving our interests in justice and
equity, now is directly involved in attempt-
ing to get solutions for these problems
through the channels of peace rather than
through resort to war.
The fact that a first step has been taken
has been credited with very good reason to
the persistence and ability of our Secretary
of State and his colleagues. But your own
statesmanship, your own recognition of
what could be accomplished and should be
accomplished as a first step, played an in-
dispensable part in obtaining this first
disengagement step in this critical area.
Tomorrow we will explore in greater de-
tail all of the factors involved in the prob-
lems that you have touched upon tonight.
I can simply state tonight, however, that
we do not consider the first step to be the
last step. It is a beginning, and a good
beginning. But now we must move for-
ward step by step as each case permits it
to be done until we reach our goal of a
just and equitable peace.
And while, Mr. President, as I said ear-
lier, it would be very easy to make rather
overblown promises about what can be ac-
complished and when it can be accom-
plished, I can tell you that the United
States is committed irreversibly to parti-
cipating where we can be of assistance in
working out an equitable and just peace
settlement.
And it is with that spirit of good will, of
understanding, and of determination that
we will enter our talks tomorrow with you
on what various steps can be taken in the
future that can be effective.
Having referred to that specific prob-
lem, may I return, in conclusion, to the
theme which you touched upon so elo-
quently in your remarks.
America is fortunate to have many of
Syrian background as citizens of our coun-
try. They are all good American citizens
but proud of their Syrian background, and
they have enriched the diversity of our
American life.
And tonight, Mr. President, as I met
you, Mrs. Asad, your wonderful family,
had the opportunity to see some exhibits
of your culture, I realize how much both
of our countries have missed in being apart
for so many years over these past 20 years.
As I sensed at this dinner tonight and
as I sensed as we rode through Damascus
earlier today, it is natural for Syrians and
Americans to be friends. It is not natural
for us to be enemies. And I would hope
and trust that we would never again allow
differences to drive us apart as they have
over these past few years.
We will not always agree, just as friends
do not always agree. But as friends, we
will learn from each other, and we will
512
