Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 16 [80]
dience that despite the fact that I at times
may have appeared to be a bit partisan,
I didn't intend to be at all. [Laughter]
The only reason that I am going out is
that they said you were waiting for me to
leave. [Laughter] Let me say I have ap-
preciated your response and your patience,
and while I leave the podium, I don't
expect to leave the Presidency until Janu-
ary 20, 1977.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 1:02 p.m. in the International Ballroom
of the Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago, Ill. It was
broadcast live on nationwide radio and
television.
80 Remarks at Nashville, Tennessee, on Mrs. Nixon's Return
From Venezuela and Brazil.
MRS. NIXON. I can tell you that it is
mighty nice to be back here in Tennessee,
where we always have so many friends
who come out to welcome us.
This is truly a wonderful homecoming
and a wonderful birthday surprise to have
so many friends here with your signs and
all these Scouts who are out and all the
beautiful roses from the Girl Scouts.
I appreciate everything, and I bring
you messages today from leaders, from
leaders all over the world, because our
delegation was one of 88 who met in
Venezuela and also in Brazil for the
inaugural ceremonies. And I had a chance
to visit with these leaders. They wanted
me to convey the message that they sup-
port us in our quest for peace and that
they have good will and good wishes for
all the people of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor and Mrs.
Dunn, Senator Baker, Senator Brock, and
the Members of Congress, all of the dis-
tinguished guests who are here:
I want to express appreciation to all of
you for coming out here today for two
reasons. First and foremost, because as
you know, this is my wife Pat's birthday,
and I don't know any place in this coun-
try where she could get a finer, warmer
welcome than right here in middle
Tennessee.
March 16, 1974
Second, I wanted to express to the
people here our appreciation for your
coming out in such great numbers.
As you know, we are here for the open-
ing of the Opry House, the new one, and
I think you will be interested to know that
last year in the White House, we had
country music in the White House on
Pat's birthday. So we decided to come to
country music in order to celebrate the
second time here today.
But the particular point I would like
to make is with reference to the trip that
Mrs. Nixon, my wife Pat, has just taken
to Latin America, and the trips that she
has taken with me all over the world, and
what they mean to all of us, and par-
ticularly what they mean to the young
people who are here, your children, and
your future.
You think, for example, of going to
Latin America, to Venezuela and Brazil,
and how far it is, and you wonder what all
this means to your future. And I am sure
you must have thought the same thing at
the time that you saw on television our
visit to the People's Republic of China,
where one-fourth of all the people in the
world live, and what it means to you.
And you must have thought that, too,
when we went to the Soviet Union, where
you have the most powerful nation in the
277
