Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [25]
Special Prosecutor voluntarily a great deal
of material. I believe that I have provided
all the material that he needs to conclude
his investigations and to proceed to prose-
cute the guilty and to clear the innocent.
I believe the time has come to bring
that investigation and the other investiga-
tions of this matter to an end. One year
of Watergate is enough.
And the time has come, my colleagues,
for not only the Executive, the President,
but the Members of Congress, for all of us
to join together in devoting our full en-
ergies to these great issues that I have dis-
cussed tonight which involve the welfare
of all of the American people in so many
different ways, as well as the peace of the
world.
I recognize that the House Judiciary
Committee has a special responsibility in
this area, and I want to indicate on this
occasion that I will cooperate with the
Judiciary Committee in its investigation.
I will cooperate so that it can conclude its
investigation, make its decision, and I will
cooperate in any way that I consider con-
sistent with my responsibilities to the Of-
fice of the Presidency of the United States.
There is only one limitation. I will fol-
low the precedent that has been followed
by and defended by every President from
George Washington to Lyndon B. John-
son of never doing anything that weakens
the Office of the President of the United
States or impairs the ability of the Presi-
dents of the future to make the great de-
cisions that are so essential to this Nation
and the world.
Another point I should like to make
very briefly: Like every Member of the
House and Senate assembled here tonight,
I was elected to the office that I hold. And
like every Member of the House and
Senate, when I was elected to that office,
I knew that I was elected for the purpose
of doing a job and doing it as well as I
possibly can. And I want you to know
that I have no intention whatever of ever
walking away from the job that the peo-
ple elected me to do for the people of the
United States.
Now, needless to say, it would be under-
statement if I were not to admit that the
year 1973 was not a very easy year for me
personally or for my family. And as I
have already indicated, the year 1974
presents very great and serious problems,
as very great and serious opportunities
are also presented.
But my colleagues, this I believe: With
the help of God, who has blessed this land
so richly, with the cooperation of the Con-
gress, and with the support of the Ameri-
can people, we can and we will make the
year 1974 a year of unprecedented prog-
ress toward our goal of building a struc-
ture of lasting peace in the world and a
new prosperity without war in the United
States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 p.m. in the
House Chamber of the Capitol after being in-
troduced by Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio and television.
Earlier in the day, the President met at the
White House with Vice President Ford and
members of the Republican Congressional
leadership Senators Hugh Scott and Robert P.
Griffin and Representatives John J. Rhodes and
Leslie C. Arends-to discuss the address and
message.
55
