Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 24 [119]
to supplement and consolidate what has
been achieved so far. I am therefore re-
questing a Special Assistance program for
the Middle East, and have asked the Con-
gress to provide the following:
-For Israel: $50 million in security
supporting assistance and $300 mil-
lion in military credit sales. Israel's
continued ability to defend herself re-
duces the prospect of new conflict in
the Middle East, and we must con-
tinue to assist her in maintaining that
ability.
-For Egypt: $250 million in support-
ing assistance. These funds would be
used for the tasks which come with
peace: clearing the Suez Canal, re-
pairing the damage in adjacent areas,
and restoring Egyptian trade.
-For Jordan: $100 million in military
assistance grants, $77.5 million in
security supporting assistance, and
$30 million in military credit sales.
Jordan has been a moderating force
in the Arab world and these funds
will enable her to maintain a position
of moderation and independence
which will be crucial to a permanent
settlement in the area.
-For a Special Requirements Fund:
$100 million. This fund will be used
for new needs that may arise as the
outlines of a peaceful settlement take
shape, including provision for peace-
keeping forces, refugee aid or settle-
ment, and development projects.
All of this aid will contribute to the
confidence these nations must have in
the United States and in their own secu-
rity if they are to have the base from which
to negotiate a lasting settlement. It will
strengthen moderate forces in an area
where only moderation can form the basis
for a settlement acceptable to all.
TOWARD RECONSTRUCTION OF INDOCHINA
Another area of acute and continuing
concern to this Government is Southeast
Asia. Our aid in Indochina is no less
crucial than our aid in the Middle East
in achieving a peaceful outcome which
protects our interests and reflects our past
involvement in these two areas. I am
asking the Congress to authorize the ap-
propriation of $939.8 million to assist
South Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos in
their efforts to shift their economies from
war to peace and to accelerate the
reconstitution of their societies.
We have already invested heavily in
these countries. Progress has been signifi-
cant, and we are nearing success in our
efforts to assist them in becoming self-
sufficient. Although our total request is
higher than last year, the budget I am
proposing is actually austere. We must rec-
ognize that a modest increase in economic
assistance now will permit the develop-
ment of viable, self-supporting economies
with lower requirements for assistance
within a few years.
The South Vietnamese face an unusu-
ally difficult task in reconstructing their
economy and caring for their war-torn
population even as the effort to end hos-
tilities goes forward. Progress in recon-
struction, economic development and
humanitarian programs, which offer the
hope of a better life for the people there,
should make it clear that a peaceful settle-
ment of political disputes is in the interest
of all.
This year and next the South Viet-
namese face several related challenges
which make increased U.S. economic as-
sistance essential:
-They must resettle more than a mil-
lion refugees and displaced persons.
375
