[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
flation, we must recognize the clear lesson
of recent years: While direct controls over
prices and wages can help fight inflation
in the short-run, they have a very limited
useful life. Inevitably, their eventual effect
is to create or aggravate significant distor-
tions in production and distribution. Ac-
cordingly, I will continue to watch the
wage-price situation closely and to pursue
a policy of gradual, selective decontrol
except in particularly troublesome areas.
At the same time, those Federal pro-
grams that will help reduce inflation by
increasing the supply of scarce resources
will be strengthened. One key area where
we can look forward to expanded supplies
is that of food. With a new national farm
policy that encourages rather than dis-
courages output, we achieved a record
harvest in 1973 and another record har-
vest now appears likely in 1974. Increased
agricultural output is the only sure way to
bring food prices down-and increased
output is what our new policies are
producing.
Rapid inflation is not inevitable and it
must not be tolerated. To regain control
of inflation, however, will require patience
and persistence over the long course.
My Administration is dedicated to achiev-
ing this objective and we are confident
that with the help of the American people
we will succeed.
Another most pressing economic prob-
lem-and a major contributor to infla-
tion-is the energy crisis. As the cost of
using our own fuel resources came to
exceed the cost of imports in the 1960's,
it became increasingly attractive for us to
import oil and petroleum products. Un-
fortunately, our growing dependence on
imports made our entire economy more
vulnerable to outside forces. That vulner-
ability has been tested in recent months—
as has the even greater vulnerability of
the developed countries of Western Eu-
rope and Japan and the less developed
countries which have no oil. Every Ameri-
can has learned the consequences of this
vulnerability: short fuel supplies and
higher fuel prices.
To a large extent, our flexible, adapt-
able economy will solve the longer run
energy problem through the normal work-
ings of the marketplace. As energy prices
reach somewhat higher levels than the
bargain rates of the past, conservation will
be encouraged while domestic energy pro-
duction will be expanded. One example
of normal market forces at work has been
the recent shift to smaller cars with better
gas mileage. Over the next few years we
can also expect to see an expansion of coal
production and new output of oil and
natural gas.
Nevertheless, we will still have to im-
port some of the oil we will need in the
immediate future. It is essential, there-
fore, that we seek a more reasonable price
for oil in the world market.
It is also imperative that we review our
current and prospective supplies of other
basic commodities. I have therefore di-
rected that a comprehensive report and
policy analysis be made concerning this
crucial matter so that governmental ac-
tions can properly anticipate and help
avoid other damaging shortages.
Even with the inflation and energy
problems, 1973 was a year
of many im-
portant economic gains for American
people.
First, employment in 1973 increased by
2.7 million persons; this 3.3 percent rise
in employment was the largest since 1955.
New job opportunities greatly benefitted
all categories of workers, including wom-
en, non-whites, teenagers, and Vietnam
62
