Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
our training and employment programs
in the coming year.
Other proposals related to economic se-
curity that I made to the Congress last
year, and on which I again urge action,
include:
-The establishment of minimum vest-
ing, funding and fiduciary standards for
private pension programs, so that workers
could have greater assurance of receiving
the pensions they expect and deserve when
they retire. I urge that we work together
to resolve speedily the remaining disagree-
ments and to enact responsible legislation
which increases employee protection with-
out burdening employers to such an ex-
tent that existing plans are jeopardized or
new ones discouraged.
-Extension to State and local govern-
ments of the law forbidding employment
discrimination against older workers.
-Improvement of the Federal-State
unemployment insurance program in sev-
eral ways: by increasing the State limits
that keep some unemployed workers from
receiving a reasonable proportion of their
normal wage, by extending coverage to
farmworkers, and by prohibiting payment
of benefits to strikers while assuring bene-
fits to non-participants unemployed as a
result of a strike.
These general improvements in unem-
ployment insurance should be augmented
by a special extension of present benefits
for those specific areas of the country
which experience particularly high levels
of unemployment over the next
months. In addition, basic coverage should
be provided for those in these areas who
do not at present have any unemployment
insurance. I will submit special legislation
to achieve this purpose.
I also continue to support legislation to
raise the minimum wage. Higher prices
have eroded the purchasing power of
workers receiving the current minimum
wage. But we must be careful to guard
against enacting a bill which includes
sharp increases or coverage extensions
that would keep low income workers from
being employed or a bill with a minimum
wage for youths so high that we un-
wittingly deny them jobs.
Finally, we must attack one of the most
troublesome problems faced by both rural
and urban areas; the existence of per-
sistent and often severe unemployment or
low incomes in areas whose character has
been altered by changes in our economy
and technology. Within the next several
weeks, I will propose an Economic Ad-
justment Assistance program to help
States and communities in overcoming
problems caused by structural changes in
their economies. This program would re-
place the present Economic Development
Administration and the Regional Action
Planning Commissions after a period of
orderly transition.
INCOME SECURITY
One measure of a nation's character is
the respect it accords to its elderly. An-
other is the way it helps those in need. We
can be proud of the efforts we have made,
but it is time to reassess where we are and
what direction we should take in the
future.
We can take pride in the fact that:
-Cash benefits under social security
have risen from $26 billion in fiscal year
1969 to $63 billion in fiscal year 1975,
primarily as the result of five benefit in-
creases totaling almost 70 percent and
reaching 29 million persons.
-A program of Supplemental Security
Income has been initiated and will soon be
67
