[215] July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
June 20, 1974, and released with the Presi-
dent's letter, read as follows:
My dear President,
The forthcoming celebration of the Bicenten-
nial of the United States stirs in France a
popular and loud echo.
We treasure the memory of the historical
events which associated closely our nation to
the birth and the independence of the United
States of America. The friendship which links
our two peoples and which has been sustained
and strengthened by so many ordeals we have
been through side by side originated on the
land and sea battlefields of the War of
Independence.
As a token of this friendship, I am pleased
to let you know that we have decided to offer
to the American people a "sound and light"
spectacle which would take place from the year
1976 onwards, in Mount Vernon, on the site
of the historical mansion of George Washing-
ton, which numerous French people, including
myself, have visited.
Please accept, my dear President, the assur-
ances of my very high consideration.
VALERY GISCARD D'ESTAING
216 Remarks on Signing the Congressional Budget and
Impoundment Control Act of 1974. July 12, 1974
ON THIS occasion, I would like to speak
briefly about the significance of this bill.
The major problem facing the country
today, whether it is abroad or at home, is
the problem of inflation. This bill deals
with that problem, and that problem is
one that affects every American.
There are many causes for inflation, as
we know, but a major cause for inflation is
overspending by government, when gov-
ernment spends more than it takes in, in
revenues. And this bill addresses that par-
ticular part of the problem because as we
work together to keep down the cost of
government, it means that we can help
keep down the cost of living for every
American.
I should say that one of the reasons we
have had difficulties in the past in this
respect and I speak not only of this Ad-
ministration but all administrations,
Democrat and Republican-is that too
often the Congress has been, and both
sides in this respect, and the Executive
have appeared to be, at odds.
But fighting inflation is everybody's bat-
tle. It is not a Republican battle or a
Democratic battle. It isn't the Executive's
battle or the Congress battle. Everybody
must fight together.
What this bill is, is the most significant
reform of budget procedures since the
Congress and this country began. What
this bill does is to provide a means where-
by the Congress and the Executive, not
only now but in administrations to come,
will work together to keep the budget from
getting out of control.
And by working together, it means that
by keeping down the cost of government,
as I have already indicated, we can help
every American family balance their
family budgets.
I want to express, particularly, the ap-
preciation that is due to the members of
the committee who have worked a long
time, as you can see from the size of this
bill, to develop it. I want to commend the
bipartisan spirit which motivated it
throughout. And I would say finally that
the same spirit of bipartisanship, that same
spirit of cooperation, not only between
parties but between the Congress and the
Executive, will enable us to achieve two
586
