[84] Mar. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
tendency somewhat to think of it as a
stunt. And there are many even in the
United States today that raise the ques-
tion, why go to the Moon? What is there?
No people. Why have this orbital mission?
And let me put it in terms of what it
means to America, to any great people. A
great people must always explore the un-
known. Once a great people gives up or
bugs out, drops out of competition of ex-
ploring the unknown, that people ceases
to be great.
Two centuries ago, three centuries ago,
exploring the unknown meant Spanish
and French and British sailors and the rest
crossing the seas, not knowing what they
would find, looking for a new world. And
now we know our world, and there are
other worlds out there, far out. What are
they? What is the unknown? We must go.
We must go, because since it is there, fail-
ure to try to find what is there means that
we have lost something that has been
great in the American spirit from the time
that we were a very small nation.
You remember when we were just 13
colonies and how those pioneers went
across the country. They were exploring
the unknown. The other day, I remember
I was a little concerned that it took 10
minutes more than the 3-hour schedule for
our flight from Washington down here to
Houston, and I think of my great-grand-
parents, or my grandparents, coming
across the country by train, my great-
grandparents, of course, and yours per-
haps, in covered wagons.
We think, for example, of how much
has happened since then and how much
progress we have made. What I am say-
ing, however, is this: You need not need
to know that there is something there in
order to have justification for trying to
find out what is there. That is the mark of
the scientist, but it is also the mark of a
great people.
So, we must explore the unknown. That
is why we are putting the money that we
are into the space program-putting it in
there because we realize that not only
might we learn something but also that
we are going to do something for the
American spirit, which is tremendously
important, which allows me to pay a trib-
ute to our astronauts and what they have
done for that spirit.
They have traveled America, and they
have traveled the world, and believe me,
they represent the best that is in America,
these fine young men. I was going to say
young men until I saw the men that are
going to be on this next spacecraft.
[Laughter]
I asked Colonel Stafford¹ about that,
and he said, "Well, you ought to know,"
he says, "experience, also, counts." But let
me tell you, the reports that we receive
around the world, universally, from the
Communist world and the free world have
been ecstatic, about how magnificently our
representatives in space have represented
us as they have gone around the world.
One of the byproducts-there are tech-
nological byproducts, there are scientific
byproducts-but the greatest byproduct is
this: what it does for our own spirit, that
we as a great nation are moving forward
in this area.
And now, finally a word with regard to
cooperation with the Soviet Union. I am
not going to get into some of the political
problems and the other problems that are
so difficult to solve that will be discussed
again at the third summit, but coopera-
1 Col. Thomas P. Stafford, USAF, was train-
ing at the Johnson Space Center to head a 3-
man United States crew which was scheduled
for the joint Apollo-Soyuz Test Project.
300
