Richard Nixon, 1974
[19]
Jan. 24
ing research to find out what works in
education. My proposal for the establish-
ment of a National Institute of Educa-
tion in 1970, and the funding for the
institute I will recommend in my new
budget show how I believe this principle
can be carried out.
-Fifth, we must firmly insist that all
Americans have an equal opportunity for
education. The legislation I am support-
ing, the new budget, and the enforcement
of non-discrimination to which I am
committed all reflect this principle.
III. ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCATION
Traditionally State and local govern-
ments have exercised primary responsi-
bility for education in this country. States
and localities provide more than 90 per-
cent of the money for elementary and
secondary education while the Federal
Government provides less than 10 per-
cent. But in the last decade the tail has
wagged the dog. Federal laws, rules and
regulations have imposed an elaborate
set of "do's" and "don'ts." They often
prevent State and local agencies from
using Federal funds to best meet their
needs.
the Federal Government, so we have to be
gamblers." School districts across the
Nation will begin putting their annual
budgets together next month, but unless
we soon enact reforms they will not know
how much their Federal funds will be
until late fall.
To overcome this deficiency, which has
plagued school boards in recent years, I
plan to ask for supplemental appropria-
tions for the current fiscal year of $2.85
billion. The money will be used by schools
in the school year beginning this fall. If
the Congress acts on this request swiftly,
those who run our elementary and sec-
ondary schools as well as vocational and
adult education programs would for the
first time know how much Federal money
they would have before the school year
begins, not several months after the year
has begun.
The supplemental appropriations re-
quest will be formally transmitted to the
Congress as soon as acceptable authoriz-
ing legislation is enacted. It is therefore
important for that authorizing legislation
to be passed early this spring, so that we
can provide forward funding at the earl-
iest possible date.
FORWARD FUNDING
As if the Federal red tape were not
confusing enough, the Federal funding
process has created a situation in which
school districts develop future budgets
with a diminished degree of confidence
or accuracy. School districts, for instance,
have been faced with three entirely dif-
ferent allocations of funds just since
July of 1973. As one school board member
put it: "When we put our budget to-
gether, we don't know what we'll get from
CONSOLIDATING FUNDS FOR ELEMENTARY
AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
In 1971 I asked the Congress to con-
solidate and simplify numerous Federal
aid programs for education. I again urged
this in 1972.
Last year, I proposed this reform under
the label of the Better Schools Act. The
label itself, unfortunately, became a con-
troversial matter within the Congress. It
is not the label that should concern us,
however, but the children and the struc-
ture of the programs designed to help
35
