[183] June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
President Asad spoke in Arabic. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
It was a good opportunity to receive in
Damascus Mr. Richard Nixon, the President of
the United States of America, since his visit
afforded us the opportunity to exchange views
on matters concerning our bilateral relations
and the Middle East issue. Many values of
civilization and humanity link the American
people and the Syrian-Arab people. It is
natural that the American citizens of Syrian
descent form one of the bridges of understand-
ing that would pave the way for a new phase
in relations between our two peoples, relations
based on the mutual interests and the respect of
each side for the independence and sovereignty
of the other side.
We welcome the participation of the United
States of America in the Damascus Interna-
tional Fair this year. We declare our readiness
for conducting a dialog to consolidate friend-
ship between the peoples of both countries and
to establish ties of cooperation in the educa-
tional and economic fields so as to serve the
interests of both sides.
The Syrian Arab Republic extends thanks to
President Nixon for the constructive efforts
which the United States of America exerted
for reaching an agreement on the disengage-
ment of forces on the Golan Heights. The
Syrian Arab Republic declares its readiness to
pursue its sincere and constructive cooperation
with the Government of the United States of
America for laying down the firm basis for a
just and lasting peace in the Middle East region.
The agreement of the disengagement of
forces and our understanding constitutes a first
step towards, and an integral part of, the com-
prehensive, just settlement of the issue. Such
a settlement cannot be reached without Israel's
withdrawal from all the occupied Arab ter-
ritories and the securing of the national rights
of the Palestinian people in conformity with
our understanding of Security Council Resolu-
tion Number 338 of October 22, 1973, this
understanding which we communicated to the
United Nations in due time.
We are dedicating our utmost efforts for
achieving a just and lasting peace in our
region. We consider this peace an essential
condition for the stability of international peace
and security. We believe that peace in any
region cannot be consolidated if the people of
that region is robbed of his basic rights that
are recognized under the Charter of the United
Nations and its resolutions.
President Nixon and I have agreed to con-
solidate dialog and cooperation between our
two countries for achieving a just and lasting
peace in our region and in the world.
We also agreed to enhance the relations be-
tween our countries in all fields.
Finally, we have agreed that diplomatic rela-
tions between our two countries be restored as
of today at the ambassadorial level.
Thank you.
184
Remarks on Arrival at Tel Aviv, Israel.
June 16, 1974
Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your
Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
It is for me, as I am sure all of you can
imagine, a very great moment to be stand-
ing here, as the President has indicated, as
the first American President to be here in
Israel and, particularly so, because our
two countries have been joined together
in friendship from the time of Israel's
birth as a nation in our modern times.
We have been through, over these years,
some difficult times. During the period
that I have served as President of the
United States, we have been through some
difficult times together, and I can only say
that the friendship that we have for this
nation, the respect and the admiration we
have for the people of this nation, their
courage, their tenacity, their firmness in
the face of very great odds, is one that
makes us proud to stand with Israel, as we
516
