Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [25]
achievement are those in which the Ad-
ministration and the Congress, whether
one party or the other, working together,
had the wisdom and the foresight to select
those particular initiatives for which the
Nation was ready and the moment was
right-and in which they seized the
moment and acted.
Looking at the year 1974 which lies
before us, there are 10 key areas in which
landmark accomplishments are possible
this year in America. If we make these
our national agenda, this is what we will
achieve in 1974:
We will break the back of the energy
crisis; we will lay the foundation for our
future capacity to meet America's energy
needs from America's own resources.
And we will take another giant stride
toward lasting peace in the world—not
only by continuing our policy of negotia-
tion rather than confrontation where the
great powers are concerned but also by
helping toward the achievement of a just
and lasting settlement in the Middle East.
We will check the rise in prices without
administering the harsh medicine of re-
cession, and we will move the economy
into a steady period of growth at a sus-
tainable level.
We will establish a new system that
makes high-quality health care available
to every American in a dignified manner
and at a price he can afford.
We will make our States and localities
more responsive to the needs of their
own citizens.
We will make a crucial breakthrough
toward better transportation in our towns
and in our cities across America.
We will reform our system of Federal
aid to education, to provide it when it is
needed, where it is needed, so that it will
do the most for those who need it the
most.
We will make an historic beginning on
the task of defining and protecting the
right of personal privacy for every Amer-
ican.
And we will start on a new road toward
reform of a welfare system that bleeds the
taxpayer, corrodes the community, and
demeans those it is intended to assist.
And together with the other nations of
the world, we will establish the economic
framework within which Americans will
share more fully in an expanding world-
wide trade and prosperity in the years
ahead, with more open access to both
markets and supplies.
In all of the 186 State of the Union mes-
sages delivered from this place, in our
history this is the first in which the one
priority, the first priority, is energy. Let
me begin by reporting a new development
which I know will be welcome news to
every American. As you know, we have
committed ourselves to an active role in
helping to achieve a just and durable
peace in the Middle East, on the basis of
full implementation of Security Council
Resolutions 242 and 338. The first step in
the process is the disengagement of Egyp-
tian and Israeli forces which is now taking
place.
Because of this hopeful development, I
can announce tonight that I have been
assured, through my personal contacts
with friendly leaders in the Middle East-
ern area, that an urgent meeting will be
called in the immediate future to discuss
the lifting of the oil embargo.
This is an encouraging sign. However,
it should be clearly understood by our
friends in the Middle East that the United
States will not be coerced on this issue.
49
