Richard Nixon, 1974
June 24 [194]
will be tall, and they will back you as they
have in the past, in seeking the peace that is
sought by all.
There is an Arabic saying that goes some-
thing like this, and I hope I can quote it cor-
rectly: May Allah make the end better than
the beginning.
It seems to me that this welcome here is
indicative of the attitude that the American
people have in all 50 States. They appreciate
your accomplishments, they appreciate what
you have done for America, and they are grate-
ful for the foundation that you have laid for a
lasting peace in the world as a whole.
We welcome you back and are glad you are
here.
194 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Peter M. Flanigan
as Assistant to the President. June 24, 1974
Dear Peter:
It is with the deepest regret and a per-
sonal sense of sadness that I accept your
resignation as Assistant to the President
and Executive Director of the Council on
International Economic Policy, effective
on a date to be determined.
While I have long known of your in-
tention to return to private life, neverthe-
less, I am always reluctant to see so valued
a friend and associate depart. You know
of my profound admiration for your
splendid achievements over the past five
years, and I shall not dwell on them at
length. Let me say, however, that of the
many men and women who have served
our Administration, few can match-and
none exceed the exceptional skills,
energy and dedication you brought to your
duties.
Through our early association in the
campaigns, your work from 1969 to 1971
in the domestic field and, still more re-
cently in the area of international eco-
nomics and trade, I have always had full
confidence in your abilities to deal with
complex problems with immense effec-
tiveness and unfailingly good judgement.
It is with a particular sense of satisfaction
that I recall the key roles you have played
in such diverse areas as the transition from
the draft to an all-volunteer armed forces,
and the progress we have made toward
reform of the international economic sys-
tem. Throughout, we have shared a com-
mon commitment to a strong and pros-
perous America in a world at peace, and
it has been a constant source of reassur-
ance to me to have your assistance and
productive support in these efforts. I shall
always treasure your loyal friendship and
your superb service to our Party, this
Administration and to our Nation.
As you depart, I want you to know how
much I appreciate your offer to devote
part of
of your time in the future to public
service. You may be certain we will take
advantage of your generosity. Pat joins
with me in extending to Brigid and you
our heartfelt good wishes for every suc-
cess and happiness in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of Mr. Flanigan's letter of
resignation, released with the President's letter,
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Since the formation of New Yorkers for
Nixon in 1959, my participation in your cam-
paigns and in your Administrations has been
the most stimulating and rewarding experiences
of my life. I am grateful for the opportunity to
serve the Nation, and proud that the oppor-
tunity has been as part of your Presidency.
You may recall our conversation at Camp
541
