[48] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
afford all of the problems that wealth
and richness bring, and what we must re-
member is that we cannot let this happen
in America.
We are strong and we are rich, but there
is so much more work left to be done here
at home to build better opportunities for
our children for education and health
and all the other areas that we want for
them. And abroad there is so much more
to be done that only America can do to
leave a legacy for generations to come of
a peaceful world.
This is the destiny of America. This is
why God has blessed this country as richly
as He has, and this is why on this Honor
America Day we are going to be worthy of
that challenge.
And finally, ladies and gentlemen, a
personal note, and I think most of my
colleagues from Washington will agree
with this. Washington is a great capital,
it is the first capital in the world, and it
is a great city, but sometimes those of us
who live there and work there find that
in the Nation's Capital there is a tendency
for partisanship to take over from states-
manship. In the Nation's Capital some-
times there is a tendency in the reporting
of news-and I do not say this critically,
it is simply a fact of life—that bad news
is news and good news is not news. And
as a result, those of us who work there
and try to develop the policies for the
Nation may get a distorted view of what is
America and what it is really like. It is
there you hear more than any place in
the world that America is sick, that there
is something wrong with this country that
cannot be corrected.
Just let me say this one thing, and I
say it in a very personal sense. I thank you
for coming out in such great numbers to
welcome me and Governor Wallace and
the other guests on this occasion, but I
thank you for reminding all of America
that here in the heart of Dixie we find
that the heart of America is good, the
character of America is strong, and we
are going to continue to be a great nation
when we are 200 years old.
[At this point, the President received a plaque
from Gerald A. Ludick, president of the Madi-
son County Sertoma Club, which sponsored
the second annual Honor America Day cele-
bration. The President then resumed speaking.]
Thank you very much and I would like
to say just a word about the Sertoma Club.
As you know, it is a service club. It is not
America's oldest service club, it is not its
longest service club, but I can say to you,
Mr. President, in terms of the contribu-
tion that any service club makes to patriot-
ism in America, there is no service club
in America that equals the Sertoma Club.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:52 p.m. at Big
Spring International Park.
49 Statement About the United States-Peruvian Agreement on
Investment Disputes. February 19, 1974
I AM pleased that this morning in Lima,
Peru, the United States and the Govern-
ment of Peru have concluded an agree-
ment which resolves a number of invest-
ment dispute problems that have clouded
relations between our two Governments
for the past 5 years. This agreement is
consistent with my deep concern about
just treatment of United States invest-
ments overseas and constitutes another
174
