[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
lion from private industry is the way for
America to become self-sufficient.
OIL COMPANIES AND THE ENERGY
SHORTAGE
[5] Q. Mr. President, yesterday Mr.
Meany somewhat formally charged that
the oil shortage was a contrived shortage,
or at least I think he said half-contrived.
Up to that time, most communicators and
most forms of communication had dis-
cussed the possibility, and the man on the
street had very freely said the oil com-
panies created it. Does this Administration
believe that the oil companies exploited a
situation and pushed the prices to unbe-
lievable highs and really took advantage
of the American people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, speaking of
the unbelievably high prices, I was talking
to somebody who had just taken an auto-
mobile trip from Paris, down through
Austria and then into Rome. He averaged
$1.35 for gasoline. We are not going to
go that high, I can assure you.
The second point, with regard to a so-
called contrived energy crisis, manipu-
lated by the big oil companies, now let me
just make one point very clear: Politically,
it would be very easy to stand here and
blame it all on the oil companies-and
they are certainly looking after their in-
terests-but I would also say that as far as
this Administration is concerned, this is
not a contrived matter.
The energy problem has been one that
has led to our economic difficulties. It is
one of the primary reasons we have an
inflationary spiral at the present time. It is
one of the primary reasons for the diffi-
culties in automobile sales and for adding
to the difficulties that we have in housing
which, of course, began previously because
of higher interest rates and other reasons.
What I would say, in answer not to Mr.
Meany, but to many other people who
probably don't have the facts or want to
believe or do believe that you can blame
the oil companies for something that has
gone wrong, but what I do want to say
is this: There is an energy shortage in
America. That energy shortage has been
dealt with very effectively by this Admin-
istration.
When it first reached a crisis point be-
cause of the Mideast oil embargo, there
were projections made-you probably saw
some in your local newspapers, as well as
heard them on television and radio-that
we would have 8 to 10 percent unemploy-
ment. We haven't reached that. It is 5.2
percent at this point. And we, of course,
hope to continue to fight that battle
effectively.
The second point is that, as far as the
energy crisis is concerned, which we are
moving through-and we have, I believe,
broken the back of it, although it will still
be a continual, nagging problem until we
become self-sufficient-but the second
point with regard to it is very simply this:
that the whole world has become more
prosperous, the whole world demands
more energy, and even if there had not
been an oil embargo from the Mideast,
we would have an energy problem.
I said that over a year and a half ago
and have kept repeating it to the Congress.
Now, the thing to do, rather than to blame
the big oil companies and say they could
do something about it-they could if they
had the oil-the thing to do is to develop
the resources of this country so that we
don't depend on any foreign country for
our energy.
The second thing to do, incidentally—
and I would urge Mr. Meany and all
266
