[51] Feb. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
51 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Economic
Adjustment Assistance Legislation. February 19, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The industrialization of America is es-
sentially a story of change and progress.
For most communities, that change is usu-
ally beneficial, enhancing general pros-
perity. But for some, adjustment to change
can be difficult. As new developments un-
fold in energy, defense needs, technology,
and international trade, some areas of the
country will inevitably suffer transitional
pains even as the Nation as a whole is
benefiting.
There are now over 400 areas in the
country which have experienced chronic
unemployment and low income levels, de-
spite a general increase in national pros-
perity. In these depressed areas it is also
not unusual to find inadequate educa-
tional and health arrangements as well as
substandard housing.
For nearly a decade, the programs of
the Economic Development Administra-
tion and the Regional Action Planning
Commissions have been attempting to
alleviate economic distress and restore eco-
nomic viability to these chronically dis-
tressed areas. Last year I proposed to ter-
minate the programs of EDA, and remove
the Federal role in the decisionmaking
process of the Title V Regional Commis-
sions, because those programs had not
been effective. Subsequently I agreed with
the Congress to continue those programs
for one more year while we reexamined
the problems and the ability of current
and proposed Federal programs to deal
with the problems.
The study, conducted over the last
several months by the Department of
Commerce and the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, was completed and
transmitted to the Congress on Febru-
ary 1, 1974. It concludes that:
-Current economic development pro-
grams fail to provide adequate assistance
for economic change before the changes
have done serious damage to the viability
of recipient communities;
-The project-by-project allocation of
Federal assistance results in dispersion of
available resources in amounts too small
to do much lasting good, and it also fails
to encourage a comprehensive and
planned multi-level government and pri-
vate response to the problems of eco-
nomic adjustment;
-There is a need for a more effective
form of Federal assistance to permit
States and communities to develop com-
prehensive and targetted adjustment
efforts.
If new economic opportunities can be
developed in an area before labor, capi-
tal, and hope are dispersed, the normal
rhythm of economic life can be main-
tained. We can then avoid the enormous
outlays for economic assistance that are
required to help distressed areas, and we
can prevent the irretrievable loss of re-
sources that occurs in spite of this
assistance.
THE ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Based upon our experiences with cur-
rent programs and the conclusions of the
recent Government study, I believe it is
time to revamp our approach to adjust-
ment assistance.
176
