[34] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
able to every American, but for everyone,
participation in the program would be
voluntary.
The benefits offered by the three plans
would be identical for all Americans, re-
gardless of age or income. Benefits would
be provided for:
-hospital care;
-physicians' care in and out of the
hospital;
-prescription and life-saving drugs;
-laboratory tests and X-rays;
-medical devices;
-ambulance services; and,
other ancillary health care.
There would be no exclusions of cov-
erage based on the nature of the illness.
For example, a person with heart disease
would qualify for benefits as would a per-
son with kidney disease.
In addition, CHIP would cover treat-
ment for mental illness, alcoholism and
drug addiction, whether that treatment
were provided in hospitals and physicians'
offices or in community based settings.
Certain nursing home services and
other convalescent services would also be
covered. For example, home health serv-
ices would be covered so that long and
costly stays in nursing homes could be
averted where possible.
The health needs of children would
come in for special attention, since many
conditions, if detected in childhood, can
be prevented from causing lifelong dis-
ability and learning handicaps. Included
in these services for children would be:
-preventive care up to age six;
-eye examinations;
-hearing examinations; and,
-regular dental care up to age 13.
Under the Comprehensive Health In-
surance Plan, a doctor's decisions could be
based on the health care needs of his
patients, not on health insurance cover-
age. This difference is essential for quality
care.
Every American participating in the
program would be insured for catastrophic
illnesses that can eat away savings and
plunge individuals and families into hope-
less debt for years. No family would ever
have annual out-of-pocket expenses for
covered health services in excess of $1,500,
and low-income families would face sub-
stantially smaller expenses.
As part of this program, every Ameri-
can who participates in the program
would receive a Healthcard when the
plan goes into effect in his State. This
card, similar to a credit card, would be
honored by hospitals, nursing homes,
emergency rooms, doctors, and clinics
across the country. This card could also
be used to identify information on blood
type and sensitivity to particular drugs-
information which might be important in
an emergency.
Bills for the services paid for with the
Healthcard would be sent to the insur-
ance carrier who would reimburse the
provider of the care for covered services,
then bill the patient for his share, if any.
The entire program would become
effective in 1976, assuming that the plan
is promptly enacted by the Congress.
HOW EMPLOYEE HEALTH INSURANCE
WOULD WORK
Every employer would be required to
offer all full-time employees the Com-
prehensive Health Insurance Plan. Addi-
tional benefits could then be added by
mutual agreement. The insurance plan
would be jointly financed, with employers
paying 65 percent of the premium for the
first three years of the plan, and 75 per-
134
