[25] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
give special help to the truly disadvan-
taged among our people. College students
faced with rising costs for their education
will be able to draw on an expanded pro-
gram of loans and grants. These advances
are a needed investment in America's
most precious resource, our next genera-
tion. And I urge the Congress to act on
this legislation in 1974.
One measure of a truly free society is
the vigor with which it protects the
liberties of its individual citizens. As tech-
nology has advanced in America, it has
increasingly encroached on one of those
liberties-what I term the right of per-
sonal privacy. Modern information sys-
tems, data banks, credit records, mailing
list abuses, electronic snooping, the col-
lection of personal data for one purpose
that may be used for another-all these
have left millions of Americans deeply
concerned by the privacy they cherish.
And the time has come, therefore, for
a major initiative to define the nature
and extent of the basic rights of privacy
and to erect new safeguards to ensure that
those rights are respected.
I shall launch such an effort this year
at the highest levels of the Administration,
and I look forward again to working with
this Congress in establishing a new set of
standards that respect the legitimate needs
of society, but that also recognize per-
sonal privacy as a cardinal principle of
American liberty.
Many of those in this Chamber tonight
will recall that it was 3 years ago that I
termed the Nation's welfare system "a
monstrous, consuming outrage an out-
rage against the community, against the
taxpayer, and particularly against the
children that it is supposed to help."
That system is still an outrage. By im-
proving its administration, we have been
able to reduce some of the abuses. As a
result, last year, for the first time in 18
years, there has been a halt in the growth
of the welfare caseload. But as a system,
our welfare program still needs reform as
urgently today as it did when I first pro-
posed in 1969 that we completely replace
it with a different system.
In these final 3 years of my Adminis-
tration, I urge the Congress to join me
in mounting a major new effort to replace
the discredited present welfare system
with one that works, one that is fair to
those who need help or cannot help them-
selves, fair to the community, and fair to
the taxpayer. And let us have as our goal
that there will be no Government program
which makes it more profitable to go on
welfare than to go to work.
I recognize that from the debates that
have taken place within the Congress over
the past 3 years on this program that we
cannot expect enactment overnight of a
new reform. But I do propose that the
Congress and the Administration together
make this the year in which we discuss, de-
bate, and shape such a reform so that it
can be enacted as quickly as possible.
America's own prosperity in the years
ahead depends on our sharing fully and
equitably in an expanding world pros-
perity. Historic negotiations will take
place this year that will enable us to en-
sure fair treatment in international
markets for American workers, American
farmers, American investors, and Ameri-
can consumers.
It is vital that the authorities contained
in the trade bill I submitted to the Con-
gress be enacted so that the United States
can negotiate flexibly and vigorously on
behalf of American interests. These ne-
gotiations can usher in a new era of inter-
national trade that not only increases the
52
