[188] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
188 Joint Statement Following Discussions With
June 18, 1974
King Hussein of Jordan.
ON THE INVITATION of His Majesty
King Hussein, President Richard Nixon
paid the first visit of a President of the
United States of America to the Hashe-
mite Kingdom of Jordan on June 17 and
18, 1974.
During this visit President Nixon and
His Majesty King Hussein discussed the
full range of common interests which
have long bound Jordan and the United
States in continued close friendship and
cooperation.
The United States reaffirmed its con-
tinued active support for the strength and
progress of Jordan. The President ex-
plained to His Majesty in detail the pro-
posal he has submitted to the Congress of
the United States for a substantial in-
crease in American military and economic
assistance for Jordan in the coming 12
months. The President expressed his grati-
fication over the efforts which Jordan is
making under its development plan to ex-
pand the Jordanian economy, to give sig-
nificant new impetus to the development
of Jordan's mineral and other resources
and production, and to raise the standard
of living for all its people.
The President expressed admiration
for His Majesty's wise leadership and
stated his view that effective and steady
development would make a substantial
contribution to peace and stability in the
Middle East. The President promised a
special effort by the United States Gov-
ernment to provide support in a variety
of ways for Jordan's development efforts
and in this regard welcomed the recent
visit to Washington of His Royal High-
ness Crown Prince Hassan.
His Majesty emphasized the impor-
tance of maintaining Jordan's military
strength if economic progress and devel-
opment are to be assured.
His Majesty expressed the view that re-
sources invested in maintaining the secu-
rity and stability of the Kingdom are re-
lated to its economic growth, for without
order and peace it is unrealistic to expect
to marshal the energies and investment
needed for economic progress. The Presi-
dent agreed with His Majesty and prom-
ised, in cooperation with the Congress,
to play a strong role in maintaining Jor-
dan's military strength.
His Majesty and the President agreed
that they will continue to give U.S.-Jor-
danian relations their personal attention.
In this context, it was agreed that a joint
Jordanian-U.S. Commission will be es-
tablished at a high level to oversee and
review on a regular basis the various areas
of cooperation between Jordan and the
United States in the fields of economic
development, trade and investment, mili-
tary assistance and supply, and scientific,
social and cultural affairs.
His Majesty and the President have
long agreed on the importance of moving
toward peace in the Middle East. The
President discussed the steps which have
been taken in this regard since His Maj-
esty's visit to Washington in March of
this year. His Majesty expressed Jordan's
support for the very significant diplomatic
efforts which the United States has made
to help bring peace to the Middle East.
His Majesty and the President discussed
the strategy of future efforts to achieve
peace, and the President promised the ac-
534
