Richard Nixon, 1974
May 15 [141]
To build that permanent structure of
peace requires an attitude which our
friends in Mexico have had for many,
many years, and that is to be able to estab-
lish some kind of dialog even with those
nations with whom you have very great
differences. That is why the United
States has moved forward in a dialog with
the leaders of the People's Republic of
China, representing one-fourth of all the
people who live on the Earth. That is why
we have had two meetings at the summit
with the leaders of the Soviet Union, and
another one that will occur in June. These
two great nations, representing great peo-
ples, have very significant differences,
profound differences insofar as their sys-
tems of government are concerned as
compared with our system of government.
But in the kind of world in which we
live, it is essential if we are to have any
chance for peace to survive, that nations
that have differences in political philos-
ophies learn to talk about those dif-
ferences, rather than to fight about those
differences.
But we must go beyond that. It is es-
sential that all the peoples of the world
devote their efforts to the challenges of
peace, working cooperatively against those
various problems which plague all of our
civilizations in one way or another.
So, whether it is in the problem of com-
bating hunger by increasing food supply,
whether it is the problem of developing the
energy supplies of the world, whether it is
the problem of cleaning up the environ-
ment of the world, whether it is the prob-
lem involving all of us in terms of better
health for all the people of the world,
these are problems that should never
divide peoples, regardless of our systems
of government. These are problems that
all of us should work together to solve.
And while, of course, great attention is
paid to the efforts that we have been mak-
ing to work toward solution of these prob-
lems, working toward a new dialog with
great nations like the Soviet Union and
the People's Republic of China, with
which the United States has not had good
relations in the past, let us never forget
that the fact that we are talking to na-
tions who have been our adversaries does
not mean that we have lost our interest
in, or our affection for, or our primary
interest in our friends.
And we hope that Mexico and the
United States can set an example of two
great peoples working together in meeting
the challenges of peace, because we know
that we can accomplish far more work-
ing together than working separately.
I say that based on many things, but
particularly because of my recollection of
the enormous contribution that has been
made to the United States, to our great
and diverse population, by those of Mexi-
can background.
And so today, I say to you, we are not
here as two peoples, but as one people.
We may speak a different language. We
may have different backgrounds. But we
are devoted to the same great goals:
peace in the world for all people and a
higher standard of living for all people
in the world.
And you, as the parliamentary leaders
of your great country, I am sure, will
work with our leaders in making sug-
gestions for new approaches, new ap-
proaches which not only will mean bet-
ter relations between our two countries
but which will provide that example of
friendship and cooperation between two
great neighbors which will be an example
for relations between all countries in the
world.
439
