Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 4 [67]
ministration and campaign officials. The indict-
ment was returned in the United States Dis-
trict Court for the District of Columbia, Judge
John J. Sirica presiding. The men indicted and
the positions they held during the period
covered by the indictment were: H. R. Halde-
man, Assistant to the President; John D. Ehr-
lichman, Assistant to the President for Domestic
Affairs; John N. Mitchell, Attorney General
and, later, campaign director of the Commit-
tee for the Re-Election of the President;
Charles W. Colson, Special Counsel to the
President; Robert C. Mardian, an official of the
Committee for the Re-Election of the Presi-
dent; Kenneth W. Parkinson, an attorney rep-
resenting the Committee for the Re-Election of
the President; and Gordon C. Strachan, Staff
Assistant to Mr. Halderman.
67 Letter to Chairmen and Ranking Minority Members of
the Senate and House Veterans' Affairs Committees
About Improvements in the Veterans Disability
Compensation Program. March 4, 1974
I AM WRITING to ask that your
committee, the Senate [House] Committee
on Veterans' Affairs, work with us in
giving special consideration to ways that
we can improve the benefits received by
disabled veterans and their survivors.
Of the twenty-nine million living veter-
ans in America, over two million have
been disabled in the military service of
their country. Those who have died of
such disabilities have left nearly 375,000
survivors who look to a grateful nation for
assistance.
In a sense, the Nation can never fully
repay these men and women and their
families for their devotion and sacrifice.
We can assure, however, that the value of
the benefits they receive from veterans
programs keeps pace with the cost of liv-
ing, and we can act to assure that VA
compensation to service-disabled veterans
provides full compensation for impaired
earning ability.
In the past, the Nation has generously
responded to the needs of these veterans
and their families in a number of ways-
through VA compensation payments,
medical care, vocational rehabilitation
and education, and specially adapted
housing, automobiles and life insurance.
In total, the Veterans Administration
budget will provide $5.3 billion for these
programs in fiscal year 1975, an increase of
56 percent over the amount spent in 1969.
It is nonetheless true that many dis-
abled veterans are under-compensated
today. As you know, the Congress has been
reviewing along with the Administration
the results of an in-depth survey of service-
disabled veterans. The survey was de-
signed to determine the accuracy of the
VA compensation rating schedule and
thereby the ability of VA compensation
payments to meet the declared objective
of this program: to compensate veterans
for impairment of their earning capacity.
Preliminary results of this survey, already
shared with your Committee, together
with further analysis recently completed,
confirms the need for structural change.
These survey results show that many
disabled veterans are under-compensated
by a rating schedule basically unchanged
since 1945 and that the degree of under-
compensation is greatest for many of the
severely disabled. Accordingly, I have
asked the Administrator of Veterans Af-
fairs to work with your Committee to
43-437 O 75 - 17
-
223
