Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 20 [55]
skills to more patients. Their services
would be reimbursable under our Com-
prehensive Health Insurance Plan.
Other measures that I have proposed
would assure that qualified students would
be able to receive training in health edu-
cation institutions regardless of financial
barriers. Under my proposed scholarship
legislation, scholarships would be offered
to any student who agrees to serve in pro-
grams or shortage areas of national need
after graduation. I am also proposing to
increase the upper limits on guaranteed
loans. The loan guarantee program would
provide larger annual loans to students
with repayment deferred until after
graduation. These would be particularly
helpful to those seeking education in the
health professions, but would be available
in all fields. Loans for education costs are
a particularly appropriate financing
mechanism for health professionals who
can look forward to exceptionally favor-
able lifetime earnings.
ENCOURAGING HEALTH MAINTENANCE
ORGANIZATIONS
One of our major initiatives to
improve the access to care is the encour-
agement of Health Maintenance Organi-
zations. In certain instances, HMO's have
proved their ability to deliver quality
health care to people when and where
they need it at prepaid premium rates. It
may be possible to use this mechanism to
extend health care services into under-
served areas where individual health prac-
titioners are unavailable.
Since 1970 we have been seeking direct
authority to demonstrate the HMO con-
cept more broadly. This past Decem-
ber 29, I signed legislation into law which
will stimulate the development of HMO's
in many different settings.
I am requesting a total of $125 million
for 1974 and 1975 to begin this important
new program. We expect to fund 170
HMO's during the life of this legislation.
Our Comprehensive Health Insurance
Plan would require employers to also offer
HMO care where available, a provision
that we believe will further promote
HMO development.
We will use Federal funds to support
feasibility and planning studies, to pay
initial development costs, and to subsidize
initial operating deficits of HMO's for
the first three years. In addition, loan
guarantees will be offered to profit-mak-
ing HMO's in medically underserved
areas for planning, initial development
and initial operating deficits.
The HMO law I signed represents an
important response to the challenge of
finding better ways to improve health
care for the American people. It will build
on the partnership that already exists be-
tween the Federal and the private sector
by allowing both the provider and the con-
sumer of health services to exercise the
widest possible freedom of choice.
HEALTH EDUCATION FOR ALL
Access to health care is also affected by
the degree to which our citizens exercise
their individual responsibility to maintain
health, prevent serious illness, and prop-
erly use the health services which are
available to them. By accepting this re-
sponsibility and acting wisely, they can
prolong their lives and prevent much
needless disease and disability. They can
also make full and efficient use of the
health services available to them.
187
