[81] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
evening means to me personally and, of
course, to my wife Pat. But one thing that
Governor Dunn was telling me was that
people come, he said, from hundreds of
miles-he says, as a matter of fact, they
come from all over America-just to be
here at the Grand Ole Opry performances.
I think tonight a record has been estab-
lished, because my wife left Brasilia 9
hours ago. She flew 5,000 miles to get here.
And Howard Baker tells me that they
have a Grand Ole Opry House now in
London, right out at the airport, called
"Nashville," so it has reached there. We
will be exporting it to other places, I am
sure. I mean, somebody was telling me
that there is only one thing stronger than
country moonshine and that is country
music.
I saw a couple of fellows outside that
were combining the two, and believe me,
it was plenty strong.
Speaking in a very serious vein, though,
I want all of our friends here in this open-
ing night, and those listening on radio
and television, to know what country
music has meant to America and, I think,
also to the world.
First, country music is American. It
started here, it is ours. It isn't something
that we learned from some other nation,
it isn't something that we inherited, be-
cause we Americans, of course, come from
all over the world, in a sense. And so, it is
as native as anything American we could
find.
Country music also has a magnificent
appeal all across the country. It is not
regional. Before we had country music at
the White House and you know we
brought it there on many occasions-we
had some very sophisticated audiences
there listening to the great stars, opera
stars and all that sort of thing, and then
Johnny Cash came and he was a big hit
at the White House, and Merle Haggard
came and he was a big hit at the White
House [applause]-go ahead, go ahead,
he is probably listening-and Glenn
Campbell, Roy Acuff.
Let me tell you something about that
POW night. We had some fine Holly-
wood stars, you know, singing some of the
more modern music that is-well, it is a
little hard to understand. I mean, well, I
was going to say a moment ago, you have
a tendency to pay a little more attention
to what the girls are not wearing than
hearing the music, but you did a little of
that tonight here, too, I can see. But she
could sing, she could sing.
But I wanted to tell you something,
that I was sitting at that historic evening
when these magnificent men who had
served the United States in Vietnam and
who had been prisoners of war were be-
ing entertained at the White House-the
largest dinner ever held at the White
House and I was sitting at a table with
six of them and their wives.
6
All six of them had been in prison for
years or more, and all of these stars
went on, the modern stars and the older
stars and the rest, and the new types of
music and the rest. The one that got the
biggest applause was Roy Acuff.
And I asked one of them, I said, "You
know, that is rather curious that you
would find that music the one you liked
the best." And they said, "Well, you have
got to understand, we understood it."
They knew it. In other words, it went back
a few years, but they understood it, and it
touched them and touched them deeply
after that long time away from America.
What country music is, is that first
280
