Preface
The dates shown at the end of item headings are White House
release dates. In instances where the date of the document differs
from the release date, that fact is shown in the note immediately
following the item. Textnotes, footnotes, and cross references have
been supplied where needed for purposes of clarity.
Remarks or addresses were delivered in Washington, D.C.,
unless otherwise indicated. Similarly, statements, messages, and
letters were released at the White House in Washington unless
otherwise indicated. All times shown are local time.
Items published in this volume are presented in chronological
order, rather than being grouped in classes. Most needs for a
classified arrangement are met by the subject index. For example,
a reader interested in veto messages sent to Congress during 1974
will find them listed in the index under the heading "Veto mes-
sages and memorandums of disapproval.”
Appendixes A through E have been provided to deal with
special categories of Presidential issuances and actions, as noted
below.
White House releases not included as items in this volume and
not appearing in later appendixes are listed in Appendix A.
Items of general interest announced by the White House dur-
ing 1974 and not noted elsewhere in the volume are listed in
Appendix B.
Though not all proclamations, Executive orders, and similar
documents required by law to be published in the Federal Register
and Code of Federal Regulations were issued as White House
releases during 1974, a complete listing of these documents by
number and/or subject appears in Appendix C.
Posthumous awards of the Congressional Medal of Honor dur-
ing 1974 are listed in Appendix D.
The President is required by statute to transmit numerous
reports to the Congress. Those transmitted during the period
covered by this volume are listed in Appendix E.
This series is under the direction of Fred J. Emery, Director, and
Ernest J. Galdi, Deputy Director, of the Office of the Federal
Register. Editors of the present volume were Faye Q. Rosser,
Kenneth R. Payne, and Carol L. Minor, assisted by other members
VIII
