Richard Nixon, 1974
May 20 [146]
other two programs, with the Federal and
State governments paying those costs
which are beyond the means of the in-
dividual insured.
The medical care offered by these three
plans would be identical for all Ameri-
cans regardless of age or income. Benefits
would be provided for hospital care, phy-
sicians' care in and out of the hospital,
prescription and lifesaving drugs, labora-
tory tests and X-rays, medical devices,
ambulance services, and many other forms
of health care.
There would be no exclusions from cov-
erage based on the nature of the illness.
A person with heart disease, for example,
would qualify for benefits just as would a
person with kidney disease.
In addition, the comprehensive health
insurance plan would cover treatment for
mental illness, alcoholism, and drug addic-
tion, in or out of the hospital.
Certain nursing home services and other
convalescent services would also be in-
cluded. Home health services, for in-
stance, would be covered so that long and
costly stays in nursing homes could be
averted when possible.
To no group is proper health care more
important than to our children. Many
conditions, if detected in childhood, can
be prevented from causing lifelong dis-
ability and learning handicaps. For this
reason, children receive special attention
under the comprehensive health insur-
ance plan. Services for children would in-
clude preventive care up to the age of 6
and would provide for eye examinations,
hearing examinations, and regular den-
tal care up to age 13.
There has been a great deal of debate
in recent years about health insurance
legislation. And there are, naturally, di-
vergent points of view on the question of
how to provide the highest possible qual-
ity of health care for all Americans. Some
believe that we should socialize our system
of health care. Now, this might make
health care available to all, but it would
diminish the quality of care available.
It would destroy the incentive for excel-
lence which motivates those who provide
our health care. There are others who be-
lieve we should do nothing. This would
mean that fewer and fewer Americans
would have access to the kind of care
which we are capable of providing.
Neither course of action, or inaction, is
acceptable. What we must have is a crea-
tive relationship between government and
our private health care system which pro-
vides the best possible care for all at a
price that all can afford.
Sometimes the best way to measure
what we can accomplish in the future is
to look at what we have achieved in the
past. A generation ago, polio was a
deadly, crippling disease, striking down
rich and poor alike. The man who served
longest as President of the United States
spent most of his adult life as a cripple
because, at that time, there was no known
way to prevent or cure polio.
In my own family, two of my brothers,
one older, one younger, died of tuberculo-
sis because, in the 1920's and 1930's, tu-
berculosis was still an uncontrolled killer
disease.
Today, both of these once dreaded
diseases are no longer a threat to the
American people. In the same way, if we
work together the people, the President,
and the Congress-we can apply the
genius of the American system while work-
ing with other nations as well in finding
cures for other dreaded diseases such as
cancer and heart diseases. Equally impor-
tant, we can make the best possible medi-
445
