Richard Nixon, 1974
July 25 [229]
ing above the budget. And beyond this, I
have directed the heads of all Federal
departments and agencies-without ex-
ception to trim already-programed Fed-
eral spending toward the goal of $300
billion.
I have also ordered a reduction of
40,000 in the number of Federal em-
ployees provided for in the budget for the
current year. This alone will save $300
million.
For the 1976 fiscal year-in which we
are now preparing the budget—a year
which begins in just 11 months, I shall
submit a budget that will not only be in
balance but that will actually reduce the
rate of growth of Federal spending, so that
the increase from 1975 to 1976 will be less
than the increase from 1974 to 1975 rather
than more. And when necessary, in pro-
posing this budget, I shall propose repeal
of existing legislation that makes spending
mandatory.
Two weeks ago, I signed the Congres-
sional Budget and Impoundment Control
Act of 1974. For the first time in our
Nation's history, this law provides a
mechanism for the Congress to consider
the whole budget comprehensively, not
just its parts. It will be essential that this
law be used effectively with the clear, con-
tinuing objective of reducing or eliminat-
ing expenditures that would help some of
the people, but cause higher prices for all
of the people.
We have to understand one fact. The
President alone cannot cut the cost of
Government. This new law provides a
means by which the Congress and the
President can work together to accomplish
that goal. And I am confident that a
majority of the Members of the Congress
will support the efforts of the President to
balance the Federal budget so that mil-
lions of Americans will have a chance to
balance their family budgets.
The other principal weapon in the Gov-
ernment's arsenal to control inflation is
monetary policy-that is, the control over
the expansion of money and credit.
It is the function of the Federal Re-
serve System to maintain an adequate
supply of money and credit, but to prevent
that supply from rising too fast. The Fed-
eral Reserve is doing so. Holding down
money and credit in the face of a rapid
inflation causes high interest rates, which
nobody likes. But allowing more rapid
monetary expansion would soon cause
even more rapid inflation and even higher
interest rates. And therefore, the course of
the Federal Reserve, the course it is on, is
the necessary route to less inflation and
lower interest rates.
Like
any other part of the anti-inflation
program, monetary restraint can be over-
done. It has not been overdone up to this
time, and it will not be overdone. We shall
provide the expansion of money and credit
necessary to support moderate growth of
the economy at reasonable prices. Chair-
man Burns, of the Federal Reserve, has
assured me of the intention of the Federal
Reserve to avoid extremes of restriction
in the effort to conduct an effective anti-
inflationary monetary policy-an effort
which every American should endorse.
There will not be a credit crunch in which
the money for essential economic activity
becomes unavailable.
And so, as far as the Federal Govern-
ment is concerned, we will cut the growth
of Federal spending. We will hold down
the growth of money and credit to check
private spending. And I call on State and
local governments, and on businesses and
consumers, to hold down their own spend-
ing and increase their own savings as their
609
