Richard Nixon, 1974
June 17 [187]
know, Your Majesty, in the White House
for the state dinners which you have at-
tended so often while we have been there.
And as they played favorites from all na-
tions, but several from American musical
comedies, I can assure you that their abil-
ity as musicians, but particularly their
ability to play in any idiom, and partic-
ularly ours, in a way that we understood
it, was enormously impressive. And you
made us feel very much at home, and
they did with that splendid performance,
which incidentally we could hear but not
see, but it is right out that door, I under-
stand. It was not a record player.
Your Majesty, you have spoken of your
first visit to the United States, and I
remember it well. I have mentioned on
the occasions of your visits since I have
been President what President Eisen-
hower thought of you at that time.
Nineteen hundred and fifty-nine, 15 years
ago, when you were a very young king—
you still are a very young king, but very
mature and very wise because of the years
you have been a king, a king all of
your
adult life-but you were only 23 then,
and I remember that President Eisen-
hower afterwards told me and he has
been known to be a very good judge of
men-he told me that he was enormously
impressed with what he called the quiet
inner strength that the King of Jordan
had. Little did he know or did we know
at that time how often that inner strength
would be called upon to save this country.
And I know, however, that before his
death he saw that evaluation vindicated.
I have seen it vindicated, and I can
say tonight, looking through the pages
of history since you have been King of this
country, that but for the strong courageous
leadership of His Majesty, the King of
Jordan, this country would not be in ex-
istence today. And we in the free world
are all proud and respectful of the leader-
ship you have given. And that is one of the
reasons why in our friendship with Jordan
it is one that does not just begin now, it
is one that goes back to the time that Jor-
dan became the state that it presently is.
It is one that has continued throughout
the period of your reign as King, and it is
one, I can assure you, Your Majesty, that
will continue now and in the future.
Because as we travel abroad in these
years and make what we hope will be new
friends, new friends, for example, in main-
land China, the People's Republic of
China, Soviet Union, and new friends in
this part of the world, in the Mideast, let
us always remember that we do not forget
our old friends. We remember that the
friendship that has bound us together has
served us both well, and you can be sure
that that friendship will always continue
as long as we have an opportunity to have
the kind of discussions that have charac-
terized our relationships since I have held
this office and, I am sure, will characterize
them whoever may be the President in
the years to come when, I trust, you will
still be the King of this country.
You have spoken of the journey that we
have taken, and, Your Majesty, you have
very properly and, I may say, in very good
grace have mentioned some difficult
problems that remain unsolved. And I
wish this evening that I could have
brought with me a briefcase full of solu-
tions and I could have laid them out on
this table, because there is nothing in my
heart that I want more, nothing that the
American people want more than a solu-
tion to these problems that not only have
brought war four times to this troubled
area of the world in the last 30 years but
also these problems which have divided
529
