Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 2 [237]
The report was prepared jointly by the
Departments of Transportation and of
Housing and Urban Development as re-
quired by section 4(g) of the Department
of Transportation Act of 1966. In particu-
lar, it documents the cooperative efforts
on legislative proposals, policies and activ-
ities that are being taken by this Adminis-
tration to assure that urban transportation
systems most effectively serve both na-
tional transportation needs and the de-
velopment policies of individual urban
areas.
I commend this report to the attention
of the Congress.
The White House,
August 1, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 40-page report is entitled "Report
to the Congress of the United States on Urban
Transportation Policies and Activities."
237 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Establishment
of a Cost of Living Task Force. August 2, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Earlier this year, before the expiration
of the legislation authorizing the Cost of
Living Council, I proposed to the Con-
gress that a residual group within the
Executive Office of the President be au-
thorized to monitor wages and prices, as
an on-going part of our fight against in-
flation. The Congress did not act on this
proposal.
In my economic address on May 25 of
this year, I called for the establishment of
a Cost of Living Task Force to monitor
wages and prices. Again, no Congressional
authorization was forthcoming. While I
continue to oppose mandatory wage and
price controls, it is essential that wages
and prices be carefully watched, that labor
and management be constantly aware of
public concern in this area, and that Gov-
ernment have the information it needs to
persuade labor and management to do
their duty in the effort to reduce inflation.
We have carried out this monitoring func-
tion as best we can with our existing re-
sources, under the leadership of my Coun-
sellor for Economic Policy, Kenneth Rush.
The need for a properly authorized group
continues, however, and it now appears
that many Members of the Congress are
prepared to reconsider their earlier oppo-
sition to my proposal for such a group. A
senate spokesman for the majority party
of the Congress is now advocating such a
proposal.
Therefore, I am today transmitting a
legislative proposal to establish a Cost of
Living Task Force. I invite all those who
have come to see the need for this pro-
posal to join as bipartisan co-sponsors in
this vital step in our fight against infla-
tion.
The White House,
August 2, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the proposed task force.
619
