Richard Nixon, 1974
July 17 [221]
gional boundaries and Federal regional
councils to harmonize activities of the
principal agencies disbursing grants-in-
aid, and we have greatly improved Fed-
eral consultation with State and locally
elected officials on the administration of
federally assisted programs.
IMPROVING THE MANAGEMENT OF
GOVERNMENT
Yet we recognize that even as we work
to change basic relationships among Fed-
eral, State and local governments through
our New Federalism efforts, it is also
vitally important to ensure that the people
who manage the institutions of govern-
ment become as efficient and responsive
to human needs as possible.
To improve general management of the
Federal Government, I launched an in-
tensive effort last year to establish clear
objectives for Federal agencies and de-
partments and to measure our progress
toward meeting those objectives-not by
producing a thinly veiled display of activ-
ity or by rearranging work processes but
by producing specific program results.
Each major department and agency has
been working with me in developing ob-
jectives to be achieved throughout the
year, and they are measuring specific re-
sults by specific deadlines. These commit-
ments are continually reviewed and help
to guide day-to-day operations until the
objectives are met.
Today I call upon the Congress to join
me in carrying forward our program of
managerial reform by enacting and other-
wise supporting a comprehensive series of
changes to improve the quality of man-
agement at all levels of government.
Specifically, I ask the support of the
Congress for my proposals to begin a
large-scale effort aimed at upgrading the
training and education of government
executives and to institute reforms in the
personnel system by which Federal execu-
tive manpower is managed. These two
initiatives should contribute substantially
to the achievement of fundamental, long-
term improvements in the capacity of
governments to manage their programs
more effectively.
EDUCATING CAREER EXECUTIVES
I propose that we give first attention to
improving the means by which our cur-
rent managers and executives learn the art
of public management. Such learning
comes from both work experiences and
formal education and training. Because
of the lack of appropriate emphasis, many
of our career managers and executives
have not had the benefit of recent educa-
tion or training in modern methods of
management. American business and in-
dustry have proved that education and
training in management improves the
capacity of people to lead more effectively.
The level of investments in this type of
training made by progressive private em-
ployers greatly exceeds public sector in-
vestments for the same purpose. It is time
that government caught up.
Therefore, I am taking three related
actions:
First, I am instructing the Civil Service
Commission to establish a Program Man-
agement Fellowship with selected colleges
and universities for postgraduate educa-
tional programs for Federal executives. I
shall recommend to the Congress an ap-
propriation of $10 million for the first 250
Federal participants in this program. This
sum will pay for both tuition and salaries
of those in the program. In this program
43-437 - 75-40
591
