[126] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
126 Statement Supporting Legislation To Enlarge the
Havasupai Indian Reservation. May 3, 1974
I AM PLEASED to announce my sup-
port of a major enlargement of the Hava-
supai Indian Reservation in the Grand
Canyon. Ousted from lands on the can-
yon rim almost a century ago, the Hava-
supai Tribe lives isolated on two small
tracts at the bottom of the canyon. The
tribe has patiently appealed for the res-
toration of a land base on the rim. This
addition would return historic and reli-
gious sites, ancient burial grounds, and
life-sustaining springs to the Havasupai.
In addition to its historic and religious
claims, the tribe needs this land to relieve
overcrowding on the reservation and to
provide a better economic base.
The land which the tribe seeks lies
within the national park and forest sys-
tems. When Senators Goldwater and Fan-
nin introduced a bill to enlarge the res-
ervation early in this Congress, the De-
partments of Interior and Agriculture
took the position that a year should be de-
voted to studying the question. However,
after consultation with Secretary Morton,
Secretary Butz, Commissioner [of Indian
Affairs Morris] Thompson, the Arizona
delegation, and receiving representations
of the tribe, I have concluded that the
Havasupais have waited long enough. The
House Interior Committee will take up
the bill early next week, and Congressman
Steiger will offer this plan as an amend-
ment to the bill at that time.
Therefore, I am recommending, first,
that sufficient acreage to meet the tribe's
economic and cultural needs, up to
251,000 acres of national park and forest
lands, be held in trust for the Havasupai
Tribe; second, that the tribe and the Na-
tional Park Service conduct a joint study
of the area held in trust and develop a
master plan for its management; and
third, that the Secretary of the Interior be
given a right of access over the lands de-
leted from the Grand Canyon National
Park and held in trust for the Havasupai,
in order that he may continue to admin-
ister the matchless resources of that park.
This plan, which would be due a year af-
ter enactment of the legislation, would
preserve the area's scenic and environmen-
tal values, with special provisons for en-
vironmentally sensitive uses. During the
interim, the National Park and Forest
Services would administer the area so as
to protect the status quo: that is, no de-
velopment would be permitted, and use
could not exceed present levels. What I
am proposing, in short, is instant trust
status for the land which the Havasupais
have claimed and, one year later, a deter-
mination by both the tribe and the Secre-
tary of the Interior as to how the values
which originally led to the inclusion of
the area in national parks and forests can
be maintained under Indian ownership.
I note that the acreage to be placed in
trust for the tribe does not include a cor-
ridor along the Colorado River. This cor-
ridor is under scrutiny by the Department
of the Interior for possible wilderness des-
ignation, and today's recommendation
would not affect the outcome of that deci-
sionmaking process.
With the environmental protections
built into the recommendation I am mak-
ing today, I believe that transfer of park
and forest lands into trust for the Hava-
supais would protect the integrity of the
410
