[45] Feb. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
transportation technology, in improve-
ments and diversification of types of
freight service, and in rehabilitation of
deteriorating physical facilities. Before
such investments are made, we must also
complete a comprehensive evaluation of
the regulatory and institutional structure
of both the railways and of the rest of the
surface transportation industry. The De-
partment of Transportation and others
within the Federal Government will be
conducting such an evaluation in the com-
ing months. In the meantime, however,
the Transportation Improvement Act can
serve as a vehicle for making important
improvements in the condition of the rail-
roads, and I urge its enactment during this
session of the Congress.
While the focus of the Transportation
Improvement Act is on freight service,
we must continue to be equally concerned
about the quality of passenger service on
our railroads. It is clear from the energy
crisis that an increasing number of Ameri-
cans are anxious to build and use a better
passenger system. My budget for fiscal
year 1975 provides significant new capital
and operating funds for AMTRAK to
expand and improve its current service.
In addition we will move ahead promptly
in carrying out the Regional Rail Reorga-
nization Act of 1973.
One of the most exciting moments in
our history occurred in 1869 when the
Union Pacific Railroad, building west
from Omaha, met the Central Pacific,
building east from Sacramento. The join-
ing of our Nation in this manner opened
a whole new era of economic growth for
America. Today our railroads are more
necessary than ever. They make efficient
use of fuel with little negative impact on
the environment, and they deliver nearly
35 percent of the Nation's freight at low
cost. The essential tracks are there, the
system that crisscrosses the country with
a web of steel rails is in place. Now we
must make it work again.
III. CONCLUSION
For too long we have focused a great
deal of attention on some forms of trans-
portation to the detriment of others, we
have permitted decision-making at the
Federal level to scramble priorities at the
State and local levels, and we have begun
to lose the diversity and flexibility in
transportation systems that encourage
competition and, therefore, great efficien-
cy and greater effectiveness in the em-
ployment of these systems.
We have a clear understanding of these
problems now, and we have begun to
come to grips with them. I believe 1974
will see a crucial breakthrough in ex-
panding and enhancing America's na-
tional system of transportation so that it
once again serves our Nation with a maxi-
mum of flexibility, diversity, and balance.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 13, 1974.
NOTE: On the same day, Secretary of Transpor-
tation Claude S. Brinegar met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss proposals
included in the message.
The White House also released fact sheets on
the proposed unified transportation assistance
program and the transportation improvement
bill and the transcript of a news briefing on the
message by Secretary Brinegar.
164
