[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
toral process. If our campaigns, like the
communication of ideas in every area of
our public life, are to remain free and
spirited, they will frequently be caustic
and hard-hitting, and some excesses and
abuses will inevitably occur.
The central purpose of the reforms I
suggest is to get the really important
political information out to the people, to
let them know as much as possible about
their candidates, and to eliminate abuses
which cross the boundaries of fair play.
America has had a remarkable history
and tradition of campaign electioneering.
Given full access to the actions and
thoughts of political aspirants, the Ameri-
can people have shown great wisdom at
the ballot box over two centuries of self-
government. The reforms I propose today
are intended to strengthen the will of the
people by making our election process
more open.
The White House,
March 8, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Earlier in the day, the President met
with the Cabinet to discuss matters including
campaign reform.
On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the proposed legislation by
Counsellor to the President Bryce N. Harlow.
74 Radio Address About the American Revolution
Bicentennial. March 10, 1974
Good afternoon:
Just 12 months from now, in March of
1975, the United States will officially be-
gin to celebrate the 200th anniversary of
our birth as a nation. As we prepare for
this occasion, I want to talk with you
today about some of our plans for the
Bicentennial era and what it can mean
for every American.
The Bicentennial offers us a unique
opportunity a time to take a long look
backward, but more importantly, a time
to look forward, a chance to rekindle the
spirit that in 200 years built 13 small de-
pendent colonies into the strongest nation
in the world.
That will be the purpose of our Bicen-
tennial celebration-a rededication to
American values, as well as a reaffirma-
tion of our strength and potential as a
free people working together to achieve
great goals, not only for ourselves but for
all people in the world.
Our Bicentennial will be very different
from the Centennial celebration held in
Philadelphia 100 years ago. In 1876, the
great attractions were Alexander Graham
Bell's remarkable invention, the tele-
phone, and the massive 40-foot high Cor-
liss steam engine which powered the
fair's machinery and brightened its
grounds with electric lights, although the
children attending that celebration prob-
ably thought the best invention was a
brand new drink called root beer.
In 1976, there will be no single city in
which we celebrate our 200th anniversary
and no single exhibition of our progress.
No one city would be big enough. All
America will be the showcase. The Bicen-
tennial will be in each of our 50 States
and territories so that all Americans can
participate in it, because this is a celebra-
tion that belongs to all Americans.
To ensure the success of the Bicenten-
nial, strong and vigorous leadership is
252
