Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 1 [28]
always to see that what we believe America
should be prevails.
Call this humility, which they called it
in Lincoln's case, call it what you like, but
it is the way a great country ought to be.
America is a nation of destiny, and
whether freedom survives in the world
and whether the weak nations of the
world can be as safe as the strong, which
is our goal, depends on America.
I do not say this in arrogance. I do not
say it without recognizing that other great
powers in a different way may also work
together with us toward that great pur-
pose, but I do know that without Ameri-
can strength and I speak not just of our
military strength primarily; primarily I
speak of our moral strength and our spiri-
tual strength and our faith in our national
destiny-without America's strength, the
world would not have the chance today
that it has for freedom and for peace and
for justice in the years ahead.
So, my friends, may I thank you all for
the prayers that I know you have offered
for our national leaders; may I urge you
all, whatever your faiths may be, to pray
in the future at times, perhaps, in silence.
Why? Because too often I think we are a
little too arrogant. We try to talk to God
and tell Him what we want, and what all
of us need to do and what this Nation
needs to do is to pray in silence and listen
to God and find out what He wants for
us, and then we will all do the right thing.
NOTF: The President spoke at 9 a.m. in the
International Ballroom of the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel.
Representative Albert H. Quie of Minne-
sota presided at the 22d annual breakfast which
was sponsored by the Senate and House Prayer
Breakfast Groups.
Approximately 3,000 guests, including rep-
resentatives from government, the diplomatic
corps, industry, labor, and the academic com-
munity, attended the breakfast.
28' Remarks on Signing the Economic Report for 1974.
February 1, 1974
AS I conclude the signing of the report,
I want to say that I am very grateful for
the advice that we have received from
the economic experts in the Government
and those here in the White House, par-
ticularly. We get them together like this
only once a year when this report is issued.
I think the economic record of this Ad-
ministration has been outstanding, and
certainly the advice that the President has
received has been honest advice and, gen-
erally, I think, very good advice.
At one of my press conferences I made
some remarks that were supposed to be
disparaging of economists, and I pointed
out that they didn't seem to have all the
answers.
Let me tell you, I value, however, the
advice of my economic advisers because
they are experts, and simply because the
experts don't know all the answers doesn't
mean that the amateurs know the an-
swers. I happen to be the amateur. Here
are the experts. And I would say that the
answers as to where we are and where we
are going are here quite honestly set forth
for the American people, as well as for
the Congress.
Just shorthanding it, as I see it, our eco-
nomic outlook for the year 1974 is that it
103
