Richard Nixon, 1974
May 7 [130]
129 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the United States-Japan Cooperative Medical
Science Program. May 6, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress
the Seventh Annual Report of the United
States-Japan Cooperative Medical Sci-
ence Program.
This joint research effort in the bio-
medical sciences, undertaken in 1965 fol-
lowing a meeting between the Prime
Minister of Japan and the President of the
United States, continues to focus upon
diseases of both worldwide importance
and of special significance to the peoples
of Asia: cholera, environmentally induced
diseases, leprosy, malnutrition, the para-
sitic diseases filariasis and schistosomiasis,
tuberculosis, and the viral diseases dengue
and rabies.
The sustained success of this biomedical
research program reflects its careful man-
agement and the strong commitment of
both nations to its continuation. The in-
creasingly effective research planning and
communication between investigators in
our two countries has intensified our sci-
entific productivity and strengthened our
determination to work together toward
better health for all mankind.
The White House,
May 6, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 17-page report is entitled "Sev-
enth Annual Report to Congress: United
States-Japan Cooperative Medical Science
Program."
130 Remarks on Signing the Federal Energy Administration
Act of 1974. May 7, 1974
I WOULD like to say, as we put that
piece of legislation in the box, that as you
know, there are 17 major proposals that
I have sent to the Congress in the field
of energy. Two now have been passed, the
Alaska pipeline and the Federal Energy
Administration, a very important bill, now
an act, which you gentlemen are responsi-
ble for passing.
The Nation is in your debt for all the
hard work, the compromise which
brought forth a very responsible piece of
legislation, and I express that apprecia-
tion to you. And of course, we will also
appreciate any further action that can
be taken on the other energy measures
which
you, in your judgment, in a bipar-
tisan atmosphere, deem fit to be in the
best interest of the country.
We have here, of course, Bill Simon,
who tomorrow will leave the-well, not
his interest in energy, because he is going
to have to have a lot of energy over in the
Treasury Department-but he is going
to leave that particular position, and we
have Mr. Sawhill who will replace him.
But, Bill, this is your, shall we say, swan
song, but I hope you can move faster than
a swan in your new position.
And it is a very, I think, appropriate
occasion that we have this measure now
passed so that our new energy director,
Mr. Sawhill, will have the tools to do the
job in the various areas.
43-437 O 75 29
·
-
415
