Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 9 [41]
resources to help solve our most vexing
problems. I am today asking the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
to establish energy conservation as a ma-
jor theme of FEBs for fiscal year 1974.
Please inform your senior officials in
the field of my strong personal interest in
their work as Federal Executive Board
members, and urge their continued in-
volvement and support.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 26-page report was prepared by
the Office of Management and Budget.
40 Statement Following Splashdown of Skylab 3.
February 8, 1974
ON BEHALF of the American people,
I salute Skylab's third crew of astronauts
on their safe return to Earth.
They have successfully completed man's
longest space journey and brought to an
end one of the most scientifically produc-
tive endeavors in the history of human
exploration. From the Skylab program,
we have learned that we can live and
work in space for long periods of time.
And we have found that the results of
these efforts can be of enormous practical
value to life on Earth.
Skylab now joins the ranks of the Santa
Maria, the H.M.S. Beagle, the Spirit of
St. Louis, and the Eagle. Each of these
great vehicles has carried us beyond the
contemporary limits of human knowledge
into a new comprehension of our own pos-
sibilities and a new definition of our own
destiny.
We welcome the men of Skylab home,
and we salute them and all their pre-
decessors who have launched us on this
great adventure.
NOTE: The statement was radioed to astronauts
Lt. Col. Gerald P. Carr, USMC, Lt. Col. Wil-
liam R. Pogue, USAF, and Dr. Edward G.
Gibson on board the U.S.S. New Orleans in the
Pacific at the conclusion of their 84-day mission.
41 Remarks About Negotiations To End Independent
Truck Stoppages. February 9, 1974
BILL USERY is probably one of the great
mediators of our time. He is patient, un-
derstanding, fair, and very strong. You
see, the thing is, too, that he is able to—
I am speaking about Usery-he has the
ability not only to negotiate but also in
getting this word out to the truckdrivers
and their owners and so forth, the inde-
pendent operators, that they can get a full
tank of gas in 80 percent now, getting the
word out to them also that a 6 percent
increase in rates is allowed, which means
that the cost-price squeeze they are under
has been alleviated.
All right, so their legitimate complaints
are being met. The point is that this is
not like you have no problem, for example,
with Fitzsimmons and the Teamsters. He
gets the word to 400,000 people, and they
pledge, in a peaceful way, with the policies
that we have.
Here you have got a bunch of people
145
