Richard Nixon, 1974
July 10 [213]
212
Statement on the Death of Former Chief Justice
Earl Warren. July 9, 1974
I AM deeply saddened at the death of
former Chief Justice Earl Warren. Amer-
ica has lost one of her finest public serv-
ants. He was a man to whom the public
trust was a sacred trust. Few men have
been called upon to do so much in the
service of their nation, and few have per-
formed with such distinction. Even in
retirement, Earl Warren repeatedly gave
his talents to the service of his countrymen.
County district attorney, State attor-
ney general, Governor of California, can-
didate for Vice President of the United
States, and Chief Justice of the United
States, Mr. Warren gave each task his
full energy and ability. Much honor was
paid him, and he gave much honor in
return.
Earl Warren not only rendered out-
standing service to our country, but he
was a distinguished figure in the Repub-
lican Party. In all things he was never a
partisan of political advantage, but always
a partisan for America.
He was an articulate spokesman for the
ideals he cherished. He did not invite con-
troversy, but neither did he shun it; he
fulfilled his duty as he saw it.
Mrs. Nixon joins me in extending to
the Warren family our sincere condo-
lences. While Mr. Warren's death de-
prives us of a good and able American,
his service to America will continue to
shape the course of American life for gen-
erations to come and will reflect the high-
est purposes of America forever.
NOTE: Mr. Warren, 83, died in Washington,
D.C.
He was Governor of California from 1943 to
1952 and served as Chief Justice of the United
States from 1953 to 1969.
The President attended funeral services for
Mr. Warren at the Washington Cathedral on
July 12, 1974.
213 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the International Coffee Agreement. July 10, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the International
Coffee Agreement Act, as extended and
amended, I transmit herewith my annual
report on the operations of the Interna-
tional Coffee Agreement in 1973.
The overproduction and surpluses in
coffee which prevailed when the 1962 and
1968 coffee agreements were negotiated
no longer existed when the 1968 agree-
ment expired on September 30, 1973. In
fact, the agreement's price-quota provi-
sions had lapsed nine months earlier and
it was clear that producers and consumers
would be unable to reach agreement on
similar provisions in a new coffee agree-
ment. The 1968 agreement, therefore, was
extended for two years effective Octo-
ber 1, 1973, but without its operative eco-
nomic clauses.
A decade of international cooperation
on coffee as represented by the 1962 and
1968 agreements should not be ignored.
The prevailing atmosphere has not been
583
