Richard Nixon, 1974
June 16 [185]
I have seen in the streets of Cairo, Lenin-
grad, London, Japan-all over the world.
This may sound rather idealistic and
overly simplistic, but I am convinced that
what motivates the great majority of the
leaders of the world today, whatever their
differences may be on major matters, is a
desire to have progress within their coun-
tries and is a recognition that without
peace there cannot be sustained progress.
And so we now come to the problems
we confront in building that kind of
peace. It takes courage, and great cour-
age, to fight in war, and we admire that
courage. And I pay tribute particularly
tonight to those in the Israeli Armed
Forces who have shown courage far
beyond the call of duty in their service to
their country every time they have been
called to serve.
It also takes courage, a different kind
of courage, to wage peace. It requires
risks, just as war requires risks, and the
stakes are high, just as the stakes in war
are high. And so, this is what has charac-
terized our foreign policy which has been
subject perhaps to some legitimate criti-
cism, because we have taken risks, the
opening, for example, of relations on a
new basis with the People's Republic of
China, not because there was any differ-
ence in our attitude toward their system
of government or their attitude toward
ours, but because the leaders of the Peo-
ple's Republic of China had one-fourth
of all the people in the world, and unless
the United States of America, as the most
prosperous nation in the world today, finds
a way to start a dialog with the most
populous nation in the world today, 15,
20, 25 years from now, the whole human
race may pay a very great price.
And so, we began. All differences are
not ended. But the dialog is begun, and
peace in the Pacific has a better chance to
survive as a result of that risk we took.
Our dialog with the Soviet Union has
been subjected, as we know, to some
rather sharp criticism. It also contains
risks for us, perhaps for them as well. But
the alternative to negotiation, of course,
is confrontation, and the alternative to
talking is to return to the cold war where
there would be no influence whatever of
the United States on their policies, or
theirs, for that matter, on ours, where they
might come into armed confrontation.
And it is in that spirit that we will go
to Moscow again, just a week after return-
ing from the Mideast, on June 27, go there
to continue a dialog between the two
strongest nations in the world, but to con-
tinue it recognizing that under no cir-
cumstances, will we negotiate at the ex-
pense of any other nation, large or small.
We believe that is in the interest of
peace, because if the two strongest nations
are unable to find a way to live together
in peace, uneasy, competitive, call it what
you will, the chances for civilization to
survive, the civilization which we feel so
strongly as we stand in this place here
tonight, the chance for that civilization to
survive is infinitely less.
And that brings us, of course, to the
area of the Mideast. I would be, as a prag-
matist, and my colleague, Dr. Kissinger,
also as a pragmatist, would agree that
when we talk about bringing an era of
peace to the Mideast, we do not consider
this to be a simple task, an easy task, or
even one in which the goal can surely be
achieved. But we do know that we must
try. We do know that we must begin.
There have been four wars in a little over
a generation in this area, and unless we
change the situation some way, somehow,
there will be another war and another
521
