[38] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
38 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
Activities Under the Uniform Relocation Assistance and
Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970.
February 7, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the third an-
nual report of each Executive department
and agency on their activities during fiscal
year 1973 under the Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act of 1970.
In general, the agencies' reports in-
dicate that the Uniform Act has been
well received by those displaced by Fed-
eral and federally-assisted projects and
by the affected communities. The assist-
ance provided by the Uniform Act largely
compensates persons for the disruptions
and inconveniences resulting from public
acquisition. The payments made to per-
sons who relocate have had a generally
favorable impact on the public, and the
down payment assistance provisions of the
Uniform Act have resulted in increased
home ownership opportunities for some
displaced persons.
The agencies' reports indicate that the
primary criticism directed toward the
Uniform Act has been expressed on behalf
39
of displaced small businesses. Agencies are
not able to deal with the problems of dis-
placed businesses as successfully as they
can deal with those of individuals dis-
placed from their homes. This matter will
be reviewed to determine possible
solutions.
During the past year, I transferred
responsibility for executive branch leader-
ship in the implementation of the Uni-
form Act to the General Services Admin-
istration. The Administrator has recently
reported to me concerning accomplish-
ments under this program and has also
outlined plans to assure continuation of
programs initiated by the Office of Man-
agement and Budget and to further im-
prove the administration of the Uniform
Act. I endorse these efforts and include
his report as an attachment to this
transmittal.
The White House,
February 7, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
Memorandum About the Annual Report on Federal
Executive Boards. February 8, 1974
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
Over the past 12 years Federal Exec-
utive Boards have more than proven their
worth as locally-based coordinating
mechanisms.
The results reported in the attached
annual report give further evidence of
the boards' usefulness to Federal agencies
and to the citizens of major cities in which
they are located.
I am particularly pleased to note the
increased involvement of representatives
of other levels of government and private
groups in the work of the boards. Work-
ing together they can generate ideas and
144
