Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 8 [244]
In all the decisions I have made in my
public life, I have always tried to do what
was best for the Nation. Throughout the
long and difficult period of Watergate, I
have felt it was my duty to persevere, to
make every possible effort to complete the
term of office to which you elected me.
In the past few days, however, it has
become evident to me that I no longer
have a strong enough political base in the
Congress to justify continuing that effort.
As long as there was such a base, I felt
strongly that it was necessary to see the
constitutional process through to its con-
clusion, that to do otherwise would be un-
faithful to the spirit of that deliberately
difficult process and a dangerously de-
stabilizing precedent for the future.
But with the disappearance of that base,
I now believe that the constitutional pur-
pose has been served, and there is no
longer a need for the process to be
prolonged.
I would have preferred to carry through
to the finish, whatever the personal agony
it would have involved, and my family
unanimously urged me to do so. But the
interests of the Nation must always come
before any personal considerations.
From the discussions I have had with
Congressional and other leaders, I have
concluded that because of the Watergate
matter, I might not have the support of
the Congress that I would consider neces-
sary to back the very difficult decisions
and carry out the duties of this office in the
way the interests of the Nation will
require.
I have never been a quitter. To leave
office before my term is completed is
abhorrent to every instinct in my body.
But as President, I must put the interests
of America first. America needs a full-
time President and a full-time Congress,
particularly at this time with problems
we face at home and abroad.
To continue to fight through the
months ahead for my personal vindication
would almost totally absorb the time and
attention of both the President and the
Congress in a period when our entire focus
should be on the great issues of peace
abroad and prosperity without inflation
at home.
Therefore, I shall resign the Presidency
effective at noon tomorrow. Vice Presi-
dent Ford will be sworn in as President
at that hour in this office.
As I recall the high hopes for America
with which we began this second term, I
feel a great sadness that I will not be here
in this office working on your behalf to
achieve those hopes in the next 2½ years.
But in turning over direction of the Gov-
ernment to Vice President Ford, I know,
as I told the Nation when I nominated
him for that office 10 months ago, that
the leadership of America will be in good
hands.
In passing this office to the Vice Presi-
dent, I also do so with the profound sense
of the weight of responsibility that will fall
on his shoulders tomorrow and, therefore,
of the understanding, the patience, the
cooperation he will need from all
Americans.
As he assumes that responsibility, he
will deserve the help and the support of
all of us. As we look to the future, the first
essential is to begin healing the wounds of
this Nation, to put the bitterness and divi-
sions of the recent past behind us and to
rediscover those shared ideals that lie at
the heart of our strength and unity as a
great and as a free people.
By taking this action, I hope that I
627
