Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 4 [32]
The budget carries forward the New
Federalism philosophy. This philosophy
stresses the need to recognize the different
roles appropriate to each level of govern-
ment, and to the private sector-thereby
strengthening individual choice and self-
reliance in America. The New Federalism
calls for Federal support in meeting na-
tional problems and holds that State and
local authorities are best able to make
decisions on local and statewide needs in
accordance with local conditions and
community aspirations. Federal aid in the
areas of law enforcement, manpower, and
rural development incorporate the princi-
ples of the New Federalism. I now propose
to apply this philosophy in major reforms
of Federal assistance for health, education,
community development, and transporta-
tion.
Our welfare system is inefficient and
inequitable. I urge the Congress to work
with my Administration in developing a
new system that is simple, fair, and
compassionate.
I am once again proposing a compre-
hensive plan for national health insurance
that would make adequate insurance
against the costs of health care available
to all Americans. This far-reaching re-
form is long overdue. I urge early con-
gressional action on it. The budget
proposes measures to prepare for this
program.
Federal taxes impose a large burden on
the Nation. Each Federal program, there-
fore, must be managed as efficiently as
possible and each must be subject to con-
tinuous scrutiny as to how well it meets
today's highest priority needs. This budget
supports the major management initia-
tives I have undertaken to ensure that
Federal programs produce results that
truly satisfy the needs of the American
people and do so at the lowest possible
cost to the taxpayer.
The end of American combat involve-
ment in the Vietnam war and the reduc-
tion of cold war tensions in recent years
have contributed to a significant shift in
the composition of the Federal budget.
Defense outlays remained virtually con-
stant from 1968 to 1974, despite sub-
stantial cost increases and the pay raises
which have accompanied the transition to
an all-volunteer armed force. These
added costs were offset by large savings
resulting from reductions in men and
materiel. Defense costs have been a de-
creasing share of our national budget,
falling from 44% of Federal spending in
1969 to an estimated 29% in 1975.
Conversely, Federal nondefense spend-
ing has increased from 56% of Federal
spending in 1969 to 71% in this budget. In
the process, the form that Federal spend-
ing takes has shifted dramatically away
from support for direct Federal operations
and toward benefit payments to individ-
uals and grants to State and local govern-
ments.
When I took office as President in 1969,
defense outlays were nearly one-fifth more
than combined outlays for aid to in-
dividuals under human resource programs
and for aid to State and local govern-
ments. While our defenses are being main-
tained and strengthened, this budget
proposes spending nearly twice as much
money for aid to individuals and to State
and local governments as for defense. This
dramatic shift in Federal spending both
reflects and supports the New Federalism.
THE BUDGET AND THE ECONOMY
During the past year, our economy op-
erated at close to full capacity. In fact, the
113
