Richard Nixon, 1974
May 29 [159]
have come about. Without that, of course, we
would not have our present relations with
Moscow and with Peking.
And as we move from confrontation to nego-
tiation and as we move forward in this genera-
tion of peace that we are seeking, the President
has pointed out very strongly that we cannot
disassociate security, political matters, and
economic matters. I feel, as I come to the
White House to help the President on economic
affairs, that I am participating just as much in
seeking the generation of peace as I was as
Ambassador to Germany or in the Defense
Department or the State Department.
Without a strong nation and a strong econ-
omy, we obviously cannot have a strong defense.
And without allies with whom we can patch
up economic differences without confrontation,
we are not going to have a strong alliance. And
without a united front in the Government,
pushing the President's objectives in economic
matters, we are not going to have the proper
governmental guidance.
Mr. President, I am looking forward very
much to working with you. I know the task is
not going to be an easy one or I wouldn't par-
ticularly want it, and I don't think you would
need anyone in the post. But I shall do my
best. I am looking forward to working with
your very able executives and advisers in this
work.
Thank you very much.
159 Remarks About a Syrian-Israeli Agreement Leading to
the Disengagement of Forces. May 29, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have an announcement that will also
be made today in Jerusalem and in
Damascus. The announcement reads as
follows: "The discussions conducted by
United States Secretary of State Dr.
Henry Kissinger with Syria and Israel
have led to an agreement on the disen-
gagement of Syrian and Israeli forces.
The agreement will be signed by Syrian
and Israeli military representatives in the
Egyptian-Israeli Military Working Group
of the Geneva Conference on Friday"-
this Friday—“May 31.”
Just a word about the significance of
this development. It is obviously a major
diplomatic achievement, and Secretary
Kissinger deserves enormous credit for
the work that he has done, along with
members of his team, in keeping this nego-
tiation going and finally reaching an
agreement when, at many times over the
past few weeks, it seemed that the nego-
tiations would break down.
Also, credit goes to the governments
concerned who had great differences
which had to be resolved. I have sent
messages of congratulations to Prime
Minister Meir of Israel and also to Presi-
dent Asad of Syria, congratulating them
with regard to the statesmanship that they
have shown in resolving differences that
seemed totally without any prospect of
resolution a month or so ago and even,
as a matter of fact, several times over
the past month.
This particular agreement, together
with the agreement that was reached ear-
lier on disengagement of Egyptian and
Israeli forces, now paves the way for prog-
ress in Geneva and, of course, with the
various governments involved, toward
our objective and, we trust, their ob-
jective as well, of achieving a permanent
peace settlement for the entire Mideast
area.
However, we should have in mind that
despite the fact that these two agreements
have now been signed, or have been
reached, that there are many difficulties
43-437 - 75-32
463
