Richard Nixon, 1974
May 24 [152]
Watergate. It is obvious that the sub-
poenaed diaries are intended to be used to
identify even more Presidential conver-
sations, as a basis for yet additional
subpoenas.
Thus, it is clear that the continued
succession of demands for additional
Presidential conversations has become a
never-ending process, and that to continue
providing these conversations in response
to the constantly escalating requests would
constitute such a massive invasion into the
confidentiality of Presidential conversa-
tions that the institution of the Presidency
itself would be fatally compromised.
The Committee has the full story of
Watergate, in so far as it relates to Presi-
dential knowledge and Presidential ac-
tions. Production of these additional con-
versations would merely prolong the
inquiry without yielding significant addi-
tional evidence. More fundamentally,
continuing ad infinitum the process of
yielding up additional conversations in
response to an endless series of demands
would fatally weaken this office not only
152
in this Administration but for future
Presidencies as well.
Accordingly, I respectfully decline to
produce the tapes of Presidential con-
versations and Presidential diaries re-
ferred to in your request of April 19, 1974,
that are called for in part in the sub-
poenas dated May 15, 1974, and those
allegedly dealing with Watergate that
may be called for in such further sub-
poenas as may hereafter be issued.
However, I again remind you that if
the Committee desires further informa-
tion from me about any of these conversa-
tions or other matters related to its in-
quiry, I stand ready to answer, under
oath, pertinent written interrogatories,
and to be interviewed under oath by you
and the ranking Minority Member at the
White House.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Peter W. Rodino, Jr., Chair-
man, Committee on the Judiciary, House of
Representatives, Washington, D.C.]
Statement on the Death of Duke Ellington.
May 24, 1974
ONE of the most memorable dates of my
first term as President was April 29, 1969.
On that day Edward Kennedy Ellington,
better known to generations of Americans
as Duke, celebrated his 70th birthday by
coming to the White House to accept the
first Presidential Medal of Freedom
awarded by my Administration.
The wit, taste, intelligence, and ele-
gance that Duke Ellington brought to
his music have made him, in the eyes of
millions of people both here and abroad,
America's foremost composer.
We are all poorer because the Duke is
no longer with us. But his memory will
live on for generations to come in the mu-
sic with which he enriched his Nation.
NOTE: Mr. Ellington, 75, died in New York
City, N.Y.
The President designated Pearl Bailey to
be his personal representative at funeral serv-
ices in New York City on May 27, 1974. Stan-
ley S. Scott, Special Assistant to the President,
was the official White House representative.
451
