[51] Feb. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Rural Development Act, and the pro-
posed Better Communities Act. States and
communities could also conduct more
rational planning for economic adjust-
ment because they would have a better
understanding of the amount of Federal
resources which would be available to
them for that purpose. And they would
no longer design programs on the basis of
what States and local governments think
Washington wants, rather than what they
themselves need.
STRENGTHENING REGIONAL PLANNING
AND COORDINATION
The Economic Adjustment Act would
authorize interstate compacts to permit
States to work together on common ad-
justment efforts. States which participate
in multi-State economic adjustment orga-
nizations could use funds allocated under
the act for joint adjustment efforts, in-
cluding administrative costs and planning
activities of the regional organization. Re-
gional organizations could participate in
the development of the plans of the mem-
ber States to assure that the State plans
reflect any regional adjustment needs.
The principal Federal authority and
responsibility under the act would be
given to ten Federal Regional Adminis-
trators, one in each Standard Federal
Region. The Federal Regional Adminis-
trators would have responsibility for re-
viewing State plans, obligating funds to
the States, and evaluating performance by
the States in using the funds.
The Federal Regional Administrators
have the responsibility of working closely
with the Federal Regional Councils in
each Federal region to help assure im-
proved coordination among the many
Federal programs which affect economic
activities in an area or region. I plan to
request the Secretary of Commerce to
carry out the central Federal administra-
tive and policy responsibilities under the
act.
TRANSITION PERIOD PROPOSED
The Economic Adjustment Assistance
Program would replace the programs now
conducted by the Economic Development
Administration and the Regional Action
Planning Commissions. Although current
authority for those programs is now due
to expire at the end of this fiscal year, I
am prepared to accept legislation to ex-
tend that authority for the purpose of pro-
viding for an orderly transition to the
Economic Adjustment Assistance
Program.
With the expectation that the Congress
will provide the required legislation for
the new program and will extend the pro-
grams of EDA and the Regional Commis-
sions, my budget for fiscal year 1975
includes funding for EDA and the Title V
Commissions at a level of $205 million.
The budget also includes an additional
$100 million as initial funding for the new
act. This will provide a total of $305 mil-
lion for these programs in fiscal year 1975,
an increase of nearly $50 million over the
1974 levels.
The concerns and suggestions of Mem-
bers of Congress have played a major role
in shaping this legislative proposal. I hope
that the dialogue between the Congress
and the executive branch will continue as
the Congress considers this proposal.
The Economic Adjustment Act can
provide the basis for an important im-
provement in the ability of our States and
communities to adjust to economic
changes and prevent unnecessary distress
178
