Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 31 [27]
So, I had to go back to the history books
to find out about Abraham Lincoln. And
I found that his law partner who prac-
ticed with him in Illinois had written the
first biography of Lincoln and said that
he was a man who had no religion, as a
matter of fact, that he was a nonbeliever.
I then found that when he ran for Con-
gress his opponent was an evangelist, and
although Lincoln won that year for Con-
gress, his opponent who was the evange-
list campaigned against him on the basis
of Lincoln being a nonbeliever.
I found also that Lincoln never joined
a church, one of the few Presidents who
never belonged to any church. He often
attended with his wife the New York
Avenue Presbyterian Church, and the pew
down there so marks the place where he
and his wife used to sit, but he never
formally joined a church.
But in a very fine little book-and the
size of a book does not decide how fine it
is-Elton Trueblood in 1973 on the reli-
gion of Lincoln,¹ the anguish that he
went through during the War Between
the States, makes some eloquent points
about Lincoln, the man with a very deep
religious conviction. He said that while
he never belonged to a church that he
probably prayed more than any man
who has ever been in the White House.
And the reason he prayed more was per-
haps twofold, one because he had a mysti-
cal sense of the destiny of America. He
did not have a feeling of arrogance about
his side as compared with the other side;
he did feel that America was destined to
be united; he did feel that for that reason
that some way, somehow, after that ter-
¹David Elton Trueblood, "Abraham Lin-
coln: Theologian of American Anguish" (New
York: Harper and Row, 1973).
rible struggle in which men on both sides
and women on both sides prayed fervently
to the same God that it would come out
all right, and he did believe that America
had something to stand for and something
to believe in, and something to do in the
world bigger than itself. And he often said
that. In other words, that there was some-
thing other than just Lincoln-the politi-
cian, the President—and the American
people, each individual, but there was
what he called the Almighty, the Univer-
sal Being, sometimes he referred to Him
as God, who guided the destiny of this
Nation.
The second reason, of course, that Lin-
coln must have prayed so much was be-
cause the problems of the country were so
great. When you think of the fact that
his wife had several brothers who fought
on the Confederate side, and some were
killed, you think of the tragedy that
marked his life-one of his sons died
while he was in the White House. When
you think of all these things, you can see
why this man, who had such deep emo-
tional feelings, often went to his knees in
prayer, although he did not belong to any
church.
And finally, I noted in reading this
little book by Elton Trueblood that while
Lincoln prayed more perhaps—or at least
it is said that he probably prayed more
than any President who has been in the
White House-it is very hard to find at
any time an oral prayer. He was on his
knees, and he prayed in silence.
I often wondered about that, and I
thought a little of my own upbringing,
about the place of silent prayer, and there
is, of course, a place for both.
My father, who was a Methodist, be-
lieved very strongly in spoken prayer, and
my mother, who was a Quaker, believed
ΙΟΙ
