Richard Nixon, 1974
July 21 [227]
Herb Klein, Charlie Thomas, Fred
Russell, and others.3 They are legion. But
what is vitally important for us to all
remember is this-we think in terms of
those that hold the highest office, the
Presidency of the United States and all
the glory, even though it has some-
times many very great burdens, burdens
which we assume without any complain-
ing about them, because that is part of the
job-but we have to remember that for
this government of ours to work effec-
tively, it takes men and women of great
dedication, willing to sacrifice a great deal,
willing to take a lot of unfair criticism,
which they do, if they do anything worth-
while, to come to Washington and do a
job.
And I just want to say that I have been
very proud of the people we have had in
our Administration for their dedication.
I have been proud of the hard work they
have put in. When people, say, look at our
record in the field of foreign policy or look
at what we have accomplished in this or
that or the other area, I can just assure
you this: It isn't done simply by one in-
dividual, it is done because there are
hundreds of people in the top leadership
and, of course, thousands throughout an
administration, many of whom I never
get a chance to meet and thank personally,
who are also working.
And so, I pay a tribute not only to Roy,
3 David Packard, Deputy Secretary of De-
fense (1969-1971); Robert H. Finch, Secre-
tary of Health, Education, and Welfare (1969-
1970) and Counsellor to the President (1970-
1972); Herbert G. Klein, Director of Com-
munications for the Executive Branch (1969-
1973); Charles S. Thomas, Chairman of the
National Tourism Resources Review Commis-
sion (1971-1973); and Fred J. Russell, Under
Secretary of the Interior (1970-1971) and
Ambassador to Denmark (1971-1972).
to his family, but to all of the other Ad-
ministration families who are here to-
night, and my thanks to them.
And finally, to all of you: I mentioned
that we go back a number of years—I look
around here, and I don't see any of you
looking a bit older than I remember when
I campaigned the old 12th Congressional
district out through San Marino in that
area, and some who live there, I remem-
ber. Then, when I campaigned the State
of California for the United States Senate
and I met most of you then if I hadn't met
you before, in 1950, and then of course,
the Presidential campaigns, the Vice
President campaigns and the rest.
You wonder sometimes, and I am often
asked, you know, how do you really take
the burden of the Presidency, particularly
when at times it seems to be under very,
very grievous assault. Let me say, it isn't
new for it to be under assault, because
since the time we came into office for 5
years, we have had problems. There have
been people marching around the White
House when we were trying to bring the
war to an end, and we have withstood
that, and we will withstand the problems
of the future.
People wonder, how does any individ-
ual, in these days when we have very high-
pressured campaigns, usually, in the media
and the rest, taking on public figures, how
does an individual take it, how does he
survive it, how do you keep your com-
posure, your strength, and the rest?
Well, there are a number of factors.
First, you have got to have a strong fam-
ily, and I am very proud of my family.
But the second thing is, you have got to
have also a lot of good friends, people that
you have known through the years, people
who write you, who call you, or who see
you and say, "We are sticking by you."
605
