Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 14 [47]
46
Statement at the Conclusion of the Washington Energy
Conference. February 13, 1974
I WOULD like to express my satisfaction
with the outcome of the international
energy conference which has just been
meeting in Washington. The United
States has approached the energy prob-
lem in a spirit of cooperativeness among
consumers and between consumers and
producers—and I am pleased that this
attitude struck a responsive chord with
the participants of the Washington Con-
ference. I believe that we are now well
launched on an international effort to
deal with all aspects of the problem. At
the same time, this is only a beginning,
and all the nations concerned must now
pool their efforts and their ingenuity in
the following up of the work of the con-
ference. The United States is ready to do
so and looks forward to working with all
the other countries involved.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
47 Remarks at a Dedication Ceremony at the Cedars of
Lebanon Health Care Center, Miami, Florida.
February 14, 1974
Mr. Bronstein, all of the members of the
board of directors, and the distinguished
guests, and ladies and gentlemen:
When I noted that on my schedule I
had been invited to participate in the dedi-
cation of a health care center of the Cedars
of Lebanon, I said to one of my aides,
"Well, I would be glad to do it, but I
haven't got time to fly to California," be-
cause in the years that I was growing up,
perhaps the most well-known health care
or hospital center in the Los Angeles area
was the Cedars of Lebanon. And I had
not realized, even though I had come to
Miami on many occasions, that there was
also here, although a younger institution,
one by the same name, Cedars of Lebanon.
I am glad to discover the Cedars of
Lebanon in Miami. I congratulate you
who have made it possible.
On this occasion I would like to pay
tribute to all of those who made possible
this new health care center and those who
have contributed to the Cedars of Leba-
non Health Care Center over the past 12
years in which it has been in existence.
In doing so, I would like to put in per-
spective the work of this center insofar as
it affects the health not only of the people
of south Florida but of America and even
of the world.
And I would like to refer briefly to the
fact that this year, 1974, will be one when
we can expect possibly a great step for-
ward in better health care for all Ameri-
cans. This is something we can all be
thankful for.
There has been introduced in the Con-
gress a new Administration measure, as
you know, called the comprehensive
health insurance program. It is one which
will provide for health care for all Ameri-
cans those who can afford to pay will
pay; those who cannot afford to pay will
be taken care of. It means that no Ameri-
can will ever be denied health care be-
165
