[33] Feb. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
suggesting that all those who favor a dif-
ferent plan do not just as honestly and
sincerely believe in their plans as I do.
you
But what I am simply saying is this:
The people in this room know our present
system; you know its strengths, and
know its weaknesses. The people in
this room know what would happen
if the Federal Government simply wiped
out our private medical profession,
our private health care system, and
imposed a huge Government bureaucracy
over you where the doctors would be
spending more time filling out forms than
they would be treating their patients-and
a lot of them do that already, incidentally,
I am afraid.
But with this in mind, knowing how
you so deeply believe in our present sys-
tem-because you have grown up in it,
you have helped to make it work-I want
you all to be aware of the fact that in
order to save it, it is essential that we have
it meet the needs that most of the people
in this country feel need to be met.
Now, we have to recognize that the
average person, when you poll them, says
that health care costs too much, every-
thing costs too much. That is an obvious
reaction of most people, but particularly
in this field there is a general rebellion
against high costs. On the other hand,
what we must realize is that when we are
confronted with that kind of a reaction
among people at large, it is essential to
try to find the right answer, or otherwise,
we will be plagued for the rest of our lives
with the wrong answer.
à
I think there can be a right answer. I
think that today I have outlined for you
program that moves in the right direction.
And to the extent that you can sincerely
bring yourselves to believe in this program
as a better way to improve our health care
system in the United States, I therefore
ask for your support, because I think it is
essential that whenever we have a Gov-
ernment program we should work through
those that have to operate it rather than
over them, have them participate volun-
tarily in developing it because they are the
ones that are going to have to make it
work.
That is why, again, I oppose the efforts
of those who would simply impose a com-
plete federally controlled program against
the will of the medical profession, many
in this audience who are in the health
care responsibilities, because it is vitally
important for any system, if it is to work,
for those who have to operate it to have
a part of it, to believe in it, and to feel it
is a system that will be in the interest of
the patients that they serve as well, of
course, as in their own interests.
When I spoke at the State of the Union,
I spoke of the legacy that I would like to
leave after my term of service in the
Presidency, 8 years. And when I referred
to that, I said that many could have dif-
ferent priorities. One President may want
to leave a legacy of parks, or another
President may want to leave a legacy of
better highways. As far as I am concerned,
the most important legacy at this par-
ticular time in history that a President of
the United States can leave is a legacy of
peace.
Let me just say a word with regard to
that legacy, because it relates to the
legacy you will leave as well. We have
peace now. We have ended the Nation's
longest war. But we have ended wars
before, so the real question before the
130
