Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [209]
auspices of the previously established US-
USSR Joint Committee on Cooperation
in the Field of Environmental Protection.
CULTURAL EXCHANGES
The two Parties, aware of the impor-
tance of cultural exchanges as a means of
promoting mutual understanding, express
satisfaction with the agreement between
the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New
York City and the Ministry of Culture of
the USSR leading to a major exchange
of works of art. Such an exchange would
be in accordance with the General Agree-
ment on Contacts, Exchanges and Co-
operation signed July 19, 1973, under
which the parties agreed to render assist-
ance for the exchange of exhibitions be-
tween the museums of the two countries.
ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW CONSULATES
Taking into consideration the intensive
development of ties between the US and
the USSR and the importance of further
expanding consular relations on the basis
of the US-USSR Consular Convention,
and desiring to promote trade, tourism
and cooperation between them in various
areas, both Sides agreed to open addi-
tional Consulates General in two or three
cities of each country.
As a first step they agreed in principle
to the simultaneous establishment of a
United States Consulate General in Kiev
and a USSR Consulate General in New
York. Negotiations for implementation of
this agreement will take place at an early
date.
Both Sides highly appreciate the frank
and constructive atmosphere and fruitful
results of the talks held between them in
the course of the present meeting. They
are convinced that the results represent a
new and important milestone along the
road of improving relations between the
USA and the USSR to the benefit of the
peoples of both countries, and a signif-
icant contribution to their efforts aimed
at strengthening world peace and security.
Having again noted in this connection
the exceptional importance and great
practical usefulness of US-Soviet Sum-
mit meetings, both Sides reaffirmed their
agreement to hold such meetings regularly
and when considered necessary for the dis-
cussion and solution of urgent questions.
Both Sides also expressed their readiness
to continue their active and close con-
tacts and consultations.
The President extended an invitation to
General Secretary of the Central Com-
mittee of the CPSU, L. I. Brezhnev, to
pay an official visit to the United States
in 1975. This invitation was accepted with
pleasure.
RICHARD NIXON
President of the United States of
America
L. I. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the Central Com-
mittee CPSU
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was
released at Moscow, U.S.S.R. It was signed at a
ceremony in St. Vladimir Hall of the Grand
Kremlin Palace.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the joint
communique by Secretary of State Henry A.
Kissinger. The briefing is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
10, p. 763).
During the President's visit to the Soviet
Union, Ronald L. Ziegler, Press Secretary to
the President, and L. M. Zamyatin, General
Director of TASS, held two news briefings on
the discussions conducted between United
States and Soviet officials. Transcripts of the
news briefings were released on June 28 and 30.
577
