Richard Nixon, 1974
May 11 [137]
that you live in a world where you can
look forward to working with other people
whoever they are, whatever the color of
their skins, whatever their background,
whatever their political philosophy, but to
work with them and not against them in
those common causes of a better environ-
ment, a healthier world, a better world.
This is a great goal.
And I say to you tonight that on this
goal, you have often heard me speak of
the need for us to work for what is called
the generation of peace. That is stating it
in much, it seems to me, too inadequate
terms, although it would be more than
we have had in this century, because
Americans fought World War I and
thought it was the last. And then came
World War II for the sons of those of
World War I. And after World War II
and the United Nations and all the great
hopes, we thought, now a period of peace.
And the younger brothers of World War
II were killed in Korea. And after Korea
came Vietnam, and the sons of those who
fought in World War II and Korea, or
their younger brothers, lost their lives
there.
And now what? It is not enough to
end wars. What we must do is to build a
new structure of peace in the world, and
that requires something that America, and
America only, must play a leading—and,
in the free world, the leading role.
Because today, as distinguished from
the period before World War I and World
War II, we cannot look across the seas to
Europe and say, "Oh, the British can do
it, or the French can hold the line." There
is no other nation in the free world that
has the strength militarily, that has the
productivity economically, that can pro-
vide the leadership role that America is
providing today in negotiating a reduction
of nuclear arms with the Soviet Union,
in opening a dialog with the People's
Republic of China, in attempting to find,
in one of the most diplomatic ventures of
all time, in attempting to find a way in
which peace can be brought to the cradle
of civilization, the cradle of civilization
and the religions—of many religions—in
the Mideast, which could well be equated
as the Balkans of the 1970's unless we
do something about it and do something
now.
I do not suggest to this audience where
you, particularly in your schools of arts
and sciences, have concentrated on these
subjects, that the way to peace is easy.
And I would never suggest that once you
get peace, you have it, because peace is a
continuing process, it is never an end.
But the United States today has the
unique position because of our strength,
because of our wealth, because we are
respected, because it is known throughout
the world that we seek domination over
no other country, that we will not use
our power to destroy peace anyplace or
to destroy freedom, only to defend it. Be-
cause of these factors, America now has
a chance, a chance that may never come
again, to play the role of peacemaker in
the world. And the question is, will we
meet the challenge?
And the answer is not just in govern-
ment, not just in the present leaders, the
answer is in all the great mass of the
American people: whether a nation that
has sacrificed so much is willing now still
to play a world role, whether a nation
like America, which is so rich, still has the
strength, the vision, the sense of destiny
to play that role.
To the members of the graduating class,
I think you have it. To the members of
the graduating class, I want you to know
433
