[123] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
cult than predicting the Washington
weather-I can assure you that as far as
most of the economic advice that I have
been able to get, both within the Gov-
ernment and from without is concerned,
it is this: a leveling out of the downturn in
the second quarter, an upturn in the third
and fourth quarters of this year, a very
good year in '75, and the best year in our
history in '76. This is something I think we
can achieve, because we have passed
through the major part of the energy
crisis.
Automobile production, one of the weak
spots in the economy, is finally beginning
to turn up. Housing is a special problem,
and it is one of those rare areas I say
rare as far as I am concerned-where
Government must play a significant role.
And announcements that I will be making
next week with regard to Government ac-
tion will stimulate a sagging housing mar-
ket, because it is essential that in this
particular area, we continue to have that
growth which is not only important in
terms of the families who buy and live
in our houses or rent them, but it is also
important to the overall strength of our
economy.
But having spoken of what Government
can do be responsible in its fiscal poli-
cies, be responsible in its monetary poli-
cies, be responsible in terms of not
imposing controls when controls will have
short-term advantages and long-term dis-
aster-what we must remember above
everything else is that what built America,
what made us what we are, the strongest,
the freest, the most prosperous nation in
the world, is not what Government did,
but what private enterprise did. That is
the secret of the American dream.
Let me give you a very timely example.
Everybody is concerned about energy. And
I often get questions: "What is the Gov-
ernment going to do? How much are we
going to spend?" A great deal, $15 billion
over the next 3 years or 4 years, possibly,
maybe $20 billion. And people gasp,
"That is bigger than Manhattan [the
Manhattan Project]; that is as big as the
space program," or what have you.
But let me point this out: What Gov-
ernment does in the energy field and what
we spend in the areas of research and the
other areas in which we are working is im-
portant. Fifteen billion dollars over 3 years
or 4 years is a lot of money. But over the
next years—10 years—do you realize that
to achieve the goal that we must achieve,
of being independent of any other coun-
try for our energy, that private enterprise
will be spending $500 billion? That makes
Manhattan, which gave a big boost to the
economy, look very small. It makes the
space program, which gave a good boost to
the American economy, look very small
indeed.
And so, in this one area alone, you can
see that our Project Independence for
1980, if we move forward not just with
what Government does but in unleashing
and encouraging private enterprise in
every respect, this is going to add enor-
mous strength to the economy of this
country.
Let me just speak of some actions that
can help in that respect, and if you don't
mind, a little lobbying: In this respect,
what we have to do is to develop the re-
sources that we have, and the Congress
should deregulate natural gas. Why? So
that we can get enough gas to bring the
price down. The Congress should pass the
legislation that will allow America to use
to the maximum necessary the resource in
energy that we have more of than any in
the free world. We have two-thirds of all
400
