Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 19 [114]
ferson dreamed about, Lincoln, Wilson,
the Presidents, the common people, all
the peoples throughout our history.
We, on the 200th anniversary of our
Nation, at a time that a civilization has
the danger of going downward because it
is rich, of becoming weak because it is
rich, of tearing itself apart with internal
strife because of its wealth, rather, not be-
cause it does not have it, that at this time
there will be a renewal of America's sense
of destiny, so that we can leave a legacy
such as no generation has left in any na-
tion in this century, a legacy of peace for
114
all mankind, of real peace, that not only
Americans can enjoy but that others as
well can enjoy.
There is a great goal. And as we dedi-
cate ourselves to that great goal, that
American Revolution that you represent
so well here in this great hall will get a
new sense of life, a new sense of vigor, a
new sense of destiny that will make it live
for another 200 years and long after that,
I am sure.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 a.m. in
Constitution Hall.
Statement About Energy Conservation Policy in Federal
Land Use. April 19, 1974
AT a time when all Americans are being
asked to conserve energy, it is imperative
that their Government set an example in
this effort. I have established energy con-
servation goals for Federal departments
and agencies which are even more ambi-
tious than those being asked of the gen-
eral public. The results thus far have been
most encouraging. We must provide the
same responsible Government leadership
to the use of land and other natural re-
sources in meeting our energy needs.
In my January 23, 1974, energy mes-
sage to the Congress, I stressed again the
necessity for streamlining the site selection
process for energy facilities. The avail-
ability of potential sites, of course, resolves
around the general issue of land use.
Therefore, on the basis of recommenda-
tions by the Federal Property Council, I
am announcing three actions to be imple-
mented in a manner consistent with ap-
plicable environmental laws and zoning
regulations, which will ensure that our
Nation's energy requirements are con-
sidered in Federal land use decisions.
First, I am directing the Administrator
of the General Services Administration to
review all pertinent Federal regulations
to determine the need for amendments
ensuring that GSA and the Federal agen-
cies and departments consider energy im-
plications in building design, building
management, land acquisition, and land
disposal actions. Working with the Fed-
eral Energy Office and other appropriate
agencies, GSA shall submit proposed
amendments within 90 days to the Federal
Property Council for review.
Second, I am directing the Administra-
tor of the General Services Administration
to consider the need for energy sites for
powerplants, storage areas, or refineries in
the disposal of surplus Federal property
under existing laws and regulations. The
need for energy sites should be given care-
369
