Richard Nixon, 1974
July 2 [208]
tainly the first opportunity I have had, to
go to the Crimea, to Oreanda, and then
yesterday the visit to Minsk.
The difficulty with our position at this
point is that your hospitality has been so
great we do not know how to equal it
when you make your next visit to the
United States just a year from now. But
I can assure you that you will be received
warmly and that we expect next year to
continue on the path of progress which
began just 2 years ago on my first visit as
President to Moscow in 1972.
Tomorrow we will sign the final docu-
ments of our meetings. Altogether with the
other documents that we have agreed to,
they will add up to a very significant prog-
ress in Soviet-American relations, prog-
ress toward our common goals of reducing
the danger of war and increasing the
hopes for and actually the products of
peace, the benefits of peace for all of our
people.
Yesterday, when I visited the famous
memorial at Minsk, many thoughts went
through my head. I referred earlier in the
television address to the village black-
smith, Kaminsky, holding his dead 15-
year-old son in his hands. I thought of
many things, but above all, what that
young boy whose life was snuffed out at
such an early age might have been had
he lived. Possibly there was a great scien-
tist, one who could possibly have com-
posed great music or created beautiful
works of art, or one who in the field of
medicine might have found an answer to
the problem of cancer or one of the other
dread diseases which afflict all of man-
kind.
And as I think of our work together
with you and your colleagues, I realize
that we are working for the future of our
children, our grandchildren, and for all
of those who live throughout the world.
Our goal will not be accomplished in
one meeting or two or even three. But by
continuing our close consultation, by con-
tinuing our meetings, we will make defi-
nite
progress toward our goal of a perma-
nent peace between our two nations and
for all people.
None of this would have been possible
in the past or will be possible in the
future unless it was supported, as it is, by
a majority of our people. I know from my
visit to the Soviet Union that your policies
are supported by a great majority of the
Soviet people, your policies looking to-
ward the reduction of the dangers of war
and increasing the opportunities for peace.
And I can assure you, Mr. General Sec-
retary, that our policies, looking toward
closer relations and friendship, not only
with the Soviet people but with the lead-
ers of this government, has the support of
the great majority of the American
people.
And finally, I would say that the prog-
ress that we have made and will make in
the future not only was possible and will
be possible because of the support of our
people, it is possible and will be possible
because of the initiative taken by the lead-
ers of both countries.
And all of us who have had the oppor-
tunity to meet with you and members of
your government have valued the personal
relations and the personal friendship that
has been established by these meetings.
And whatever our differences, we must
recognize they could never be solved un-
less we met as friends.
And so, tonight, in proposing the health
of the General Secretary, the President,
President Podgorny, Prime Minister Kosy-
565
