[122] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
vant to my knowledge or actions with
regard to Watergate are not included,
but everything that is relevant is in-
cluded the rough as well as the smooth-
the strategy sessions, the exploration of
alternatives, the weighing of human and
political costs.
As far as what the President personally
knew and did with regard to Watergate
and the coverup is concerned, these mate-
rials-together with those already made
available will tell it all.
I shall invite Chairman Rodino and the
committee's ranking minority member,
Congressman Hutchinson of Michigan, to
come to the White House and listen to
the actual, full tapes of these conversa-
tions, so that they can determine for them-
selves beyond question that the transcripts
are accurate and that everything on the
tapes relevant to my knowledge and my
actions on Watergate is included. If there
should be any disagreement over whether
omitted material is relevant, I shall meet
with them personally in an effort to settle
the matter. I believe this arrangement is
fair, and I think it is appropriate.
For many days now, I have spent many
hours of my own time personally review-
ing these materials and personally decid-
ing questions of relevancy. I believe it is
appropriate that the committee's review
should also be made by its own senior
elected officials, and not by staff
employees.
The task of Chairman Rodino and
Congressman Hutchinson will be made
simpler than was mine by the fact that
the work of preparing the transcripts has
been completed. All they will need to do
is to satisfy themselves of their authentic-
ity and their completeness.
Ever since the existence of the White
House taping system was first made
known last summer, I have tried vigor-
ously to guard the privacy of the tapes. I
have been well aware that my effort to
protect the confidentiality of Presidential
conversations has heightened the sense of
mystery about Watergate and, in fact, has
caused increased suspicions of the Presi-
dent. Many people assume that the tapes
must incriminate the President, or that
otherwise, he would not insist on their
privacy.
But the problem I confronted was this:
Unless a President can protect the privacy
of the advice he gets, he cannot get the
advice he needs.
This principle is recognized in the con-
stitutional doctrine of executive privilege,
which has been defended and maintained
by every President since Washington and
which has been recognized by the courts,
whenever tested, as inherent in the Presi-
dency. I consider it to be my constitutional
responsibility to defend this principle.
Three factors have now combined to
persuade me that a major unprecedented
exception to that principle is now neces-
sary:
First, in the present circumstances, the
House of Representatives must be able
to reach an informed judgment about the
President's role in Watergate.
Second, I am making a major excep-
tion to the principle of confidentiality
because I believe such action is now neces-
sary in order to restore the principle itself,
by clearing the air of the central question
that has brought such pressures upon
it-and also to provide the evidence which
will allow this matter to be brought to a
prompt conclusion.
Third, in the context of the current
impeachment climate, I believe all the
American people, as well as their repre-
sentatives in Congress, are entitled to have
390
