Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 4 [32]
similar reform in additional areas this
year:
The principles embodied in the Educa-
tion Grants Consolidation and Reform I
proposed last year deserve priority atten-
tion. State and local education agencies
should have greater freedom to direct
Federal assistance toward meeting what
they view as high priority local needs. I
will continue to work with the Congress,
therefore, on legislation to consolidate and
improve education grant programs.
The Better Communities Act would re-
place several ineffective grant and loan
programs with a more streamlined ap-
proach to the problems of urban areas.
This act would allow localities to decide
for themselves how to allocate community
development funds. The budget proposes
funding for this program of $2.3 billion in
1975.
The Unified Transportation Assistance
Program I am proposing this year would
provide $2.3 billion in highway and mass
transit funds, and permit States and
localities to allocate these grant funds
flexibly, in accordance with local condi-
tions and priorities. Since transportation
is a major consumer of energy and is
strongly affected by the energy crisis, high
priority must be given to enabling States
and localities to make decisions on trans-
portation systems based on their assess-
ment of economy, energy conservation,
environmental impact, and safety
considerations.
I am proposing legislation for a new
Economic Adjustment Assistance pro-
gram. This legislation would permit States
and communities to respond flexibly to
problams of economic
economic change and
unemployment.
Another central feature of the New
Federalism is strengthening the ability of
State and local governments to perform
effectively. The Responsive Governments
Act would broaden Federal assistance
available for improving State and local
planning, decisionmaking, and manage-
ment capabilities.
I urge the earliest possible enactment
of all these measures.
In parallel with these legislative initia-
tives, my Administration is continuing its
efforts to consolidate and streamline cate-
gorical grant programs, to simplify com-
plex and burdensome procedures, and to
remove unnecessary, inflexible program
restrictions.
As part of this same effort, Federal pro-
grams are being decentralized along uni-
form regional lines, and the Federal
Regional Councils are being strengthened
to facilitate coordination of Federal with
State and local activities at the operating
level.
The budget accelerates our programs
for aiding State and local governments in
improving water quality. The Environ-
mental Protection Agency has allotted $4
billion to the States for 1975 to make
grants for municipal sewage treatment
plants, a $1 billion increase over the allot-
ment for 1974. Priorities for grants within
these allotments will be determined by the
States. A total of $6.9 billion was made
available for this program in 1973 and
1974, more than twice the amount made
available in the preceding 2 years.
STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF THE
INDIVIDUAL
Abraham Lincoln believed that:
"The legitimate object of Government
is to do for a community of people what-
ever they need to have done, but cannot
do at all, or cannot do so well, for them-
121
