Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
I. REPORT ON THE CURRENT EMERGENCY
Last year the United States consumed
roughly 18 million barrels of petroleum,
in one form or another, every day. This
represented about one-half of our total
energy consumption. The level of petro-
leum consumption was also rising, so that
we expected demands to reach about 20
million barrels a day in 1974-
While the country is rich in natural
resources, our production of petroleum
resources is far less than our demands.
Last year we were producing approxi-
mately 11 million barrels of petroleum a
day, and the level of production was
declining.
The difference between our demands
and our domestic consumption must be
made up, of course, by imports from
abroad, reductions in demand, or in-
creased domestic production. Even before
the embargo on oil in the Middle East,
our foreign supplies were barely adequate.
Since the embargo, the shortage has be-
come a good deal more serious. The Fed-
eral Energy Office has estimated that
during the first three months of 1974, our
imports will fall short of our normal de-
mands by 2.7 million barrels a day. If the
embargo continues, shortages could ex-
ceed three million barrels a day during
the rest of the year. That shortfall is the
major factor in our current emergency.
ENCOURAGING PROGRESS
With the Nation confronting a severe
energy shortage, I appealed to the public
eleven weeks ago to undertake a major
conservation effort on a personal, volun-
tary basis. My appeal was repeated by
public servants across the land. The Con-
gress acted quickly to pass laws putting
the Nation on year-round daylight sav-
ings time and reducing the national high-
way speed limits to no more than
55 miles
per hour. The Federal Government began
moving swiftly to ensure that fuel sup-
plies were allocated fairly and that con-
servation measures were undertaken
within the Government. Most impor-
tantly, the people themselves responded
positively, lowering the thermostats in
their homes and offices, reducing their
consumption of gasoline, cutting back on
unnecessary lighting, and taking a number
of other steps to save fuel.
Largely because of the favorable public
response, I can report to the Congress to-
day that we are making significant prog-
ress in conserving energy:
-Total consumption of gasoline in the
United States during the month of De-
cember was nearly nine percent below
expectations.
-Consumption of home heating oil has
been reduced. A recent survey of 19,000
homes in New England showed they had
reduced heating oil consumption by more
than 16 percent under last year, after
making adjustments for warmer weather.
-Utilities report that consumption of
natural gas across the country has been
reduced by approximately 6 percent over
last year, while the consumption of elec-
tricity is down about 10 percent.
Beyond the progress we have made be-
cause of voluntary conservation, we have
also been fortunate in two other respects.
The weather in the last quarter of 1973
was warmer than usual, so that we did
not consume as much fuel for heating as
we expected. In addition, the oil embargo
19
