Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 17 [13]
13 Remarks About an Egyptian-Israeli Agreement
on Disengagement of Military Forces. January 17, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have an announcement that I am sure
will be welcome news, not only to all
Americans but to people all over the
world. The announcement has to do with
the Mideast, and it is being made simul-
taneously at 3 o'clock Washington time in
Cairo and in Jerusalem, as well as in
Washington. The announcement is as fol-
lows:
In accordance with the decision of the
Geneva Conference, the Governments of
Egypt and Israel, with the assistance of
the Government of the United States,
have reached agreement on the disengage-
ment and separation of their military
forces. The agreement is scheduled to be
signed by the Chiefs of Staff of Egypt and
Israel at noon Egypt-Israel time, Friday,
January 18, at Kilometer 101 on the
Cairo-Suez Road. The Commander of the
United Nations Emergency Force, Gen-
eral Siilasvuo, has been asked by the
parties to witness the signing.
A brief statement with regard to this
announcement, I think, is in order.
First, congratulations should go to
President Sadat, to Prime Minister Meir,
and their colleagues for the very con-
structive spirit they have shown in reach-
ing an agreement on the very difficult
issues involved which made this announce-
ment possible.
Also, we in the United States can be
proud of the role that our Government
has played, and particularly the role that
has been played by Secretary Kissinger
and his colleagues, in working to bring
the parties together so that an agreement
could be reached, which we have just
read.
The other point that I would make is
with regard to the significance of the
agreement. In the past generation there
have been, as we know, four wars in the
Mideast, followed by uneasy truces. This,
I would say, is the first significant step
toward a permanent peace in the Mid-
east. I do not understate, by making the
statement that I have just made, the dif-
ficulties that lie ahead in settling the dif-
ferences that must be settled before a
permanent peace is reached, not only here
but between the other countries involved.
But this is a very significant step reached
directly as a result of negotiations between
the two parties and, therefore, has, it
seems to me, a great deal of meaning to
all of us here in this country and around
the world who recognize the importance
of having peace in this part of the world.
The other point that I would make is
with regard to the role of the United
States. Our role has been one of being of
assistance to both parties to bring them
together, to help to narrow differences,
working toward a fair and just settlement
for all parties concerned, where every
nation in that area will be able to live in
peace and also to be secure insofar as its
defense is concerned.
Looking to the situation in the world
generally, I think that we could probably
say that the area of the world that poten-
tially is the one in which the great powers
can be brought into confrontation is the
II
