[32] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
-a strong national government, con-
cerned with essential national needs;
-State and local governments close to,
and responsive to, the needs of indi-
viduals and local communities; and
-private citizens endowed with civil
liberties that are secure from govern-
mental encroachment.
During the first century and a half of
our national experience, State and local
governments were able to meet commu-
nity and State needs from their own reve-
nue sources. They were financially inde-
pendent of the Federal Government.
During the past 40 years, however, the
needs of State and local governments have
outstripped their resources. The Federal
Government has therefore come to play a
larger and larger role in financing their
day-to-day operations. In the 4 years be-
tween 1969 and 1973, Federal grants to
States and localities doubled. In 1973 this
financial aid, disbursed through literally
hundreds of separate programs, provided
more than 20% of total State and local
revenues.
Unfortunately, these Federal programs
have all too often been accompanied by
regulations and restrictions which have
stifled innovation and initiative on the
part of State and local officials, severely
limiting the ability of those officials most
familiar with problems at the local level
to respond to local needs.
In response to this problem I have ap-
plied a philosophy of government that has
come to be known as the New Federalism.
It calls for each level of government to
focus its attention on the functions most
appropriate to that level. By strengthen-
ing the resources and responsibilities of
State and local governments, it permits
their policies and programs to reflect local
needs more sensitively.
Broader sharing of Federal revenues
with State and local governments is help-
ing to make this philosophy a reality.
Under the General Revenue Sharing pro-
gram, now in its second year, State and
local governments receive over $6 billion
a year for use in meeting State and local
needs as they see them.
This Administration has also sought to
substitute broad-based formula grants for
narrow categorical grant programs, giving
State and local governments significant
discretion as to how funds are used and
insuring that Federal aid is more equitably
distributed among recipients. These prin-
ciples now apply to several major areas of
Federal assistance.
The Law Enforcement Assistance pro-
gram has demonstrated the feasibility of
broad-based formula grants. Aid under
this program is being increased from $28
million in 1969 to $747 million in 1975
and is helping to make the streets of
America safer.
The Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act which I signed in December
extends these same grant principles to
manpower programs. Under this Act, the
Federal Government will no longer specify
the types, methods, and proportions of
various manpower services to be pro-
vided. Instead, State and local govern-
ments will be able to use the funds allo-
cated to them to provide the mix of
services which they decide best meets the
needs of their areas. The budget provides
for $2 billion in outlays for this program
in 1975.
New authorities under the Rural Devel-
opment Act are being implemented this
year in a manner which is supportive of
State and local development plans and
priorities.
I urge congressional action to achieve
120
