Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 4 [7]
6 Letter of Sympathy to Mrs. Tex Ritter About the
Death of Her Husband. January 3, 1974
Dear Mrs. Ritter:
It was with a deep sense of sadness that
Mrs. Nixon and I learned of the death of
your husband and our good friend, Tex.
His passing is a great loss to our Nation
and I am sure Americans throughout the
land join me in expressing our heartfelt
sympathy to you and your family.
Few people have captured in song and
words the rich heritage of the American
spirit as did Tex. With rare compassion
and understanding he used his immense
talents to tell of the joys and the sorrows,
the good times and the sad times which
each of us has known as an individual and
all of us have shared in common. In his
career, both in film and music, and in the
conduct of his personal and public life,
Tex Ritter set an example of concern
and devotion to his fellow citizens which
won him the profound respect of his col-
leagues and the enduring admiration of
fans around the world.
While words have little meaning at this
time, Mrs. Nixon and I want you to know
that our hearts and prayers are with you.
You may be sure that your husband will
be remembered with affection and that
he will continue to enrich the lives of
countless people through his songs about
the land he loved so well and so long.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Mrs. Tex Ritter, Nashville, Tennessee]
NOTE: Woodward Maurice "Tex" Ritter, 67,
died in Nashville, Tenn., on January 2, 1974.
He was a singer of country-western music and
also acted in a number of western films.
The text of the letter was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
7 Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Select Committee
on Presidential Campaign Activities Responding to
Subpoenas Requiring Production of Presidential
Tape Recordings and Documents. January 4, 1974
Dear Mr. Chairman:
This letter is in response to the three
subpoenas issued by you as Chairman of
the Senate Select Committee on Presi-
dential Campaign Activities and received
on my behalf by White House Counsel on
December 19, 1973.
These subpoenas call upon the Presi-
dent to produce all of the material in his
"custody or possession, or the custody of
the Executive Office of the President, or
the White House, actual or construc-
tive..." which are described in exten-
sive attachments. Only six months ago,
your Committee concluded that record-
ings of five conversations were necessary
for your legislative determinations. Now,
in one subpoena alone, you list, with
widely varying precision, some 492 per-
sonal and telephone conversations of the
President ranging in time from mid-1971
to late 1973 for which recordings and re-
lated documents are sought; and, in ad-
dition, in the same subpoena, recordings
and related documents are sought for
categories of Presidential conversations,
5
