Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 18 [113]
preciation for what you are doing and are
going to do in each of your States and
each of your communities in seeing that
we have not just a celebration in Inde-
pendence Hall, where it all began, but
throughout the Nation.
Incidentally, I should not say in Inde-
pendence Hall where it all began, because
there are people from Virginia and Boston
and other places here who think it began
there.
But we know that this organization,
among all the great organizations of
America, will have its heart in this cele-
bration, will have its heart, and you will
give of your funds, of your time, of your
energy, and of your spirit to make it one
that all Americans will appreciate and,
particularly, young Americans will find
inspiration in.
I would like to address this morning
perhaps the more profound subject of
what the American Revolution was really
all about, and this, of course, could be a
long dissertation, but I think I can sum-
marize what most observers believe the
American Revolution was about in a very
few words.
First, it had a distinct quality in one
respect. The American Revolution was
not something that just occurred in 1776
and then ended. It was not an event that
you look back to and say, on that day the
American Revolution started, it was fin-
ished when Yorktown came, and then it
was all over. America was independent.
That, of course, was a great event. But
the American Revolution is distinct be-
cause it has been a continuing revolution,
a continuing revolution throughout the
200-year history of our Nation.
Americans are not a people that are
ever satisfied with things as they are.
Americans are a people that want prog-
ress. They want more opportunity, more
freedom, more progress, more prosperity
for their children than they had for them-
selves. And so our Revolution began, it is
true, in 1776, but it is continuing through-
out our whole history and will continue in
the future, and this is one thing we must
remember as we celebrate that great day
of the past.
There is another thought that occurs
to anyone who observes the American
Revolution—and any revolution for that
matter—and it is a very troubling thought
in a sense, because when you read through
the pages of history, you will find that gov-
ernments, civilizations have a tendency to
be weakest when they appear to be richest.
I know many
of you
have been to Rome
and to Athens. Perhaps at night you have
walked, as I have, through the Forum.
You have seen that all that remains of the
great Roman civilization; all that remains
of the great Athenian civilization of
ancient Greece are those magnificent col-
umns, glistening in the night. And when
you read the history of what happened to
Athens and Rome-and others, for that
matter, could be used as examples—but
when you read that history, you find that
those civilizations came down not because
they were poor and not when they were
poor, but when they were very rich; not
because they were weak materially, from
a military standpoint, because at that time
they were quite strong.
It was because they had lost something
within; they had lost their sense of mis-
sion, their sense of destiny, their sense of
character. They turned inward. They
were thinking only selfishly of themselves,
and as a result, other peoples, not as
civilized, not as rich, not apparently as
strong, overran them. And all that is left
are the columns.
365
