Richard Nixon, 1974
May 22 [148]
and the assets of the Federal Government
to be of assistance to the State and local
community in dealing with those
problems.
But the most important thing I find in
all of these areas is the problem of jobs.
Are they going to stay there or, because of
a disaster, are they going to move, and is
Xenia going to become, for example, a
dead city, or Wilkes-Barre, or what have
you?
It is the long-term problem of trying to
attract industries into these various disas-
ter areas, new industries, as well as keep-
ing those that are there. And while we do
provide more relief of course, through
the Small Business Administration, we do
provide relief for many of the businesses
that are there there is no question but
that a longer-term program for disaster
areas where we can attract or encourage
new employment enterprises to come in
is essential.
Secretary Lynn and I have talked about
this at great length, and he has 30 days
in which to have consultation with Mem-
bers of Congress to give us a plan that
will be of assistance in this direction. I
have been, in talking to people in these
areas and you also have been talking to
them-we have to be very candid about it,
it does not come quickly in terms of the
jobs. We can get the housing, mobile
housing in quickly, we can get the food in,
we can get temporary facilities for schools.
But the long-term existence of and re-
building of a city or of a town or of a
community that suffers the disaster, that
is something that we must remember is
first and foremost in the minds of all of
these people.
Do you agree, Mr. Chairman?
SENATOR JENNINGS RANDOLPH. Yes,
Mr. President. I think for the first time
the Congress met this obligation in the
careful way that was necessary. We used
to just appropriate money very quickly
when a disaster hit-a tornado, hurricane,
flood, earthquake-but now we have the
machinery with which to move carefully
and effectively to cover the subject mat-
ters that you have mentioned. And I do
commend all of those who are here today
from the two committees who worked
diligently in this bipartisan way, because
the country needs certainly a solid pro-
gram of the type that has been enacted
into law. The hodgepodge, it is over, and
now we are able to do the job.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. John, do you agree?
REPRESENTATIVE JOHN A. BLATNIK. I
certainly agree. We had this very im-
provised, sort of a makeshift operation
before. A disaster would strike as though
it were striking for the first time, and we
would move in. Now we know a flood or
tornado and different types of cata-
strophic situations do occur with quite
some regularity, and we have a going
operation, with machinery structured,
moving at once and, as the Senator said,
in a very systematic and effective and a
responsive way to move very effectively.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President,
could I just add that Senator Baker, the
ranking minority member of the Public
Works Committee in the Senate, and I,
we want to express publicly our apprecia-
tion for the members of the subcommittee,
for Quentin Burdick and for Pete
Domenici and the others who went into
the field within hours and for their lead-
ership in this matter.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the problem is
now a national one. I mean, I go back
through disasters at Anchorage, Alaska,
and the hurricanes which struck in Penn-
43-437 - 75 - 31
447
