Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 28 [65]
the hands of the United States is a very
dangerous thing, we will use it irrespon-
sibly. We have made our mistakes in for-
eign policy through our history, but in
this century four wars have been fought.
Consider them: World War I, World
War II, Korea, Vietnam. In every case
the United States did not fight for con-
quest; in every case we got nothing out
of it in terms of territory; in every case the
United States was fighting to defend free-
dom, not to destroy it; in every case we
were fighting to build a world of peace
rather than a world of conquest and
destruction.
And I say that as far as strength is con-
cerned, as long as we live in a world in
which strength is important, let's be sure
that the United States never is the second
strongest nation in the world. Let's keep
it strong.
And so, looking over these next 3 years,
I believe that we can continue to build a
structure of peace. We can make great
progress, particularly toward a reduction
of tensions in Europe and also building a
permanent peace in the Mideast, a goal
that has eluded man not only in this cen-
tury but for centuries before.
I believe also that on the homefront we
can move forward with our programs for
medical care for all, opportunity for all,
better education for our people, a better
transit system, and prosperity without war
and without inflation.
Something else is required. That is
something that you have enthusiasm,
spirit, faith, belief. You know, when this
country was so young, 13 States, 3 million
people, it was weak, it was poor. But
America had something that caught the
imagination of the world, and the Ameri-
cans knew it. Jefferson spoke of, we act
not just for ourselves but for the whole
human race. And Democrats and Repub-
licans, be they Presidents or other leaders,
through the years have talked that way.
It didn't really matter that much what
America did when it was weak and poor,
but today it is the indispensable element.
America's strength, its wealth, its prosper-
ity is essential, but most important is the
American spirit. Do we have faith in our-
selves, do we have a belief in our destiny,
are we willing to assume the responsibil-
ities of leadership in the world or are we
going to turn away from them?
That is where your leadership comes in,
and I know that we can count on you-
count on you to support these great goals
rather than to take that easy way, after
going through a long and difficult war, of
bugging out of our responsibilities. The
Americans are not quitters. We are going
to continue to fight for those things we
believe.
George Bush told me, in addition to
talking about some of these national-in-
ternational issues, that this was, after all,
a conference of potential political leaders,
candidates for Congress or the Senate or
President, or some other minor office,
whatever you may say. [Laughter]
And so, I close today with just a few
words of advice for the potential politi-
cians who may be in this room, men and
women.
First, and this one is going to surprise
you, don't assume that the time to run for
an office is only when it is a sure thing.
Show me a candidate who is not a hungry
candidate, show me a candidate who isn't
willing to take a risk and risk all, even
risk losing, and I will show you a lousy
candidate.
Show me a candidate who is willing to
221
