Richard Nixon, 1974
July 21 [227]
how long we have worked together and
fought together for good causes.
I want you to know, too, that the only
regret I have on such an occasion like this
is that we can't have the opportunity to
sit and chat with each of you, as we have
here at this table. But when there are 150
people, you can have only one table for 8,
and consequently, that opportunity is
denied us.
And I suppose that many of you out
there, all of whom, of course, we met in
the receiving line, wonder what we talked
about.
I would normally say that on such an
occasion that when you see the President
of the United States and his wife at a table
with six other people, well, they talk
about the very things you are talking
about-what happened at the Bohemian
Grove ยน before you came down, you won-
der whether that swimming pool is really
there under you or not, and you hope the
boards don't break because that is a swim-
ming pool you are all sitting on there, you
know.
And you wonder about the fact that
Roy Ash is probably the only person in
this great city or in this Nation who has
his own tent.
He owns the tent. I mean, he doesn't
rent it, he owns it himself, he constructed
it. That, among many other reasons, is
one of the reasons we made him Director
of the Office of Management and Budget.
But tonight, it would be of interest for
you to know that as you saw two or three
members of the White House Staff come
1 The Bohemian Grove was a redwood grove
in northern California owned by the Bohemian
Club of San Francisco and site of the club's
annual encampment.
up and speak to me, that we had had some
very serious international problems over
the last few hours-I should say, the last
several days.
And at this time, it appears that there
are some very hopeful signs and that a very
positive announcement will be made, per-
haps before we finish this dinner, be made
from Washington in the State Depart-
ment.
I will not indicate to you what the na-
ture of that announcement is, except to say
this: that in this rather tragic struggle, it
could have been much more tragic and
would be if it were to be allowed to con-
tinue between two friends and allies of
the United States, arising over Cyprus.2
This struggle is one that could only be
averted by the leadership of the United
States of America. This is true in all parts
of the world today. American leadership
is the key to whether or not nations that
could be at swords' point, nations that
could be engaged in war against each
other, may find a way to get along, to
avoid war, and in this instance, of course,
our goal has been, as you have noted, to
attain a cease-fire between Greece and
Turkey before it exploded between these
traditional enemies in times past, but two
nations that have been friends and NATO
partners over the last 27 years. This cer-
tainly is a goal that we are rightfully dedi-
On July 20, 1974, Turkish troops invaded
the island of Cyprus in response to the ouster, on
July 15, of Archbishop Makarios, President of
Cyprus, by troops of the Cypriote National
Guard led by Greek officers. A cease-fire agree-
ment was reached on July 21 between the
governments of Greece and Turkey, after which
further negotiations on the situation were held
in Geneva, Switzerland, under the auspices of
the United Kingdom.
601
