[44] Feb. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
this admonition to his fellow Americans
on such an occasion as this in this par-
ticular period of our history. He would
have hoped that America, with its strength
and its wealth, would not turn away from
greatness despite the fact that some other
nations in the world turn inward, failing
to assume their responsibilities for building
a peaceful world.
Lincoln would have said a great na-
tion, a strong nation, a rich nation, and
a great people will use their strength and
their wealth to build a world in which
peace and freedom can survive for them-
selves and for others as well. This, I think,
is the Lincoln heritage for today. It is the
Lincoln admonition for tomorrow and, I
would trust, for the next generation and
perhaps for the next century.
I do not suggest all of this in any sense
that America wants to dominate any other
country, because we do not. I do not sug-
gest this because America wants strength
simply because of the jingoistic idea that
we must be number one. That is not the
reason.
I do suggest it because I know, as
Lincoln would have known, that in today's
world, without America and its strength
and its will and its respect and its deter-
mination, peace and freedom will not sur-
vive in the world. What a great challenge
for a great people.
I conclude simply by paraphrasing what
Lincoln said so many years ago so much
more eloquently: We could meanly lose
what is mankind's last best hope for peace
and freedom, but we could also nobly
save it.
Abraham Lincoln, who saved the
Union, would say to us today: Let this
great Union-North, South, East, and
West-now save the cause of peace and
freedom for the whole world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:31 p.m. at
the Lincoln Memorial. Following his remarks,
he participated in a wreath-laying ceremony
marking the 165th anniversary of Abraham
Lincoln's birth.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Ronald H. Walker, Director of the National
Park Service, and John C. Whitaker, Under
Secretary of the Interior.
45 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Transportation
Legislation. February 13, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
From the earliest days, ours has been a
diverse and mobile society. Americans are
constantly in motion. For much of our
early existence, the history of America
was in great part the history of the con-
stant push westward, with the related de-
velopment of our canals, our highways,
and our railroads. And as we developed
our internal transportation system, we also
pushed out across the seas in our sailing
ships, our steamboats, and later in our
tankers and freighters and airplanes.
One of the foundations of our free
society is our highly developed system of
commerce. And that system of commerce
is based on our diverse system of transpor-
tation. Transportation accounts for much
of the progress we have made as a nation
in 200 short years. We have developed
sophisticated and effective ways to move
goods and produce, and we have devel-
158
