Appendix B
March
April
28 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
reception at the White House for members
of the National Newspaper Publishers
Association.
29 Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger met
with the President at the White House to
report on his meetings with Soviet leaders
in Moscow.
April
2 Secretary of Commerce Frederick B. Dent
met with the President at the White House
to discuss the Secretary's forthcoming trip
to the Soviet
Soviet Union, Bulgaria, and
Romania.
2 The President greeted the 10 finalists in the
28th annual "Boy of the Year" competition
of the Boys' Clubs of America. He presented
a plaque to George Clark, age 17, of Phila-
delphia, Pa., who was selected as the "Boy
of the Year."
2 The President met at the White House with
Graem Yates, of Charlotte, N.C., who had
painted a portrait of the President. Mr.
Yates was accompanied by Representative
James G. Martin.
2 The President met at the White House with
Robert Semler, of Pitman, N.J., who had
painted a portrait of the President. Mr.
Semler was accompanied by Representative
John E. Hunt.
3 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Senate Majority
Leader Mike Mansfield.
4 Marion H. Smoak, who had resigned as
Chief of Protocol, met with the President.
4 The President greeted Connie Okum, of
Cincinnati, Ohio, who collected 14,000
signatures in support of the President's
policies.
4 J. A. Fletcher, age 87, of Raleigh, N.C.,
called on the President at the White House.
He was accompanied by Senator Jesse A.
Helms.
4 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
dinner at the White House for members of
the Chowder and Marching Society.
5 The President telephoned Henry Aaron of
the Atlanta Braves baseball team to congra-
tulate him on hitting his record-tying 714th
home run.
11 President Houari Boumedienne of Algeria
met with President Nixon at the White
House. In the evening, President Nixon
hosted a working dinner for the Algerian
President.
17 Klaus Schütz, mayor of West Berlin, met
with the President at the White House.
17 Former Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller met
with the President at the White House to
discuss the Governor's National Commission
on Critical Choices for America.
18 Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy
met with the President at the White House.
18 The President presented the 1974 Na-
tional Teacher of the Year Award to Vivian
Tom of Yonkers, N.Y., at a ceremony in the
Oval Office at the White House. Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare Caspar
W. Weinberger also attended the cere-
mony.
23 The President met at the White House
with the Quadriad-Secretary of the
Treasury-designate William E. Simon, Di-
rector Roy L. Ash of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, Chairman Arthur F.
Burns of the Federal Reserve Board, and
Acting Chairman Gary L. Seevers of the
Council of Economic Advisers. Director
John T. Dunlop of the Cost of Living
Council also participated in the meeting.
659
