Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 6 [70]
discussion between White House Coun-
sel and Mr. Doar. It is the goal for all of
us, I think, the goal of the committee—I
think it would be theirs, it certainly is
mine-to get a prompt conclusion to this
matter as soon as possible.
And I would say further that as far as
the materials we have turned over, they in-
clude not only the famous subpoenaed
tapes, which were turned over to Mr.
Jaworski, but they include, in addition to
that, I additional tapes—a total of 19
tapes-over 700 documents, and enough
material that Mr. Jaworski was able to
say that he knew all and that the grand
jury had all the information that it need-
ed in order to bring to a conclusion its
Watergate investigation.
CONVERSATIONS AT MARCH 21ST
MEETING
[3] Miss Thomas.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Haldeman, your
former top aide in the White House, has
been charged with perjury because he
testified that you said it would be wrong to
pay hush money to silence the Watergate
defendants, and last August you said that
was accurate. Can you, and will you, pro-
vide proof that you did indeed say it
would be wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Thomas, it would
be improper, as, of course, you know, for
me to comment on the substance of any
charges or indictment that have been
made against any of the defendants in this
matter. However, it is proper for me to
comment on what I said and what I did on
the 21st of March, which is the date in
question.
On that occasion, Mr. Dean asked to see
me, and when he came into the office,
soon after his arrival he said that he
wanted to tell me some things that he had
not told me about the Watergate matter.
And for the first time, on March 21, he
told me that payments had been made
to defendants for the purpose of keeping
them quiet, not simply for their defense.
If it had been simply for their defense,
that would have been proper, I under-
stand. But if it was for the purpose of
keeping them quiet-you describe it as
"hush money"-that, of course, would
have been an obstruction of justice.
I examined him at great length. We ex-
amined all of the options at great length
during our discussion, and we considered
them on a tentative basis-every option as
to what the defendants would do, as to
who in the White House might be in-
volved, and other information that up
that time had not been disclosed to me
by Mr. Dean.
Then we came to what I considered to
be the bottom line. I pointed out that
raising the money, paying the money, was
something that could be done, but I
pointed out that that was linked to clem-
ency, that no individual is simply going
to stay in jail because people are taking
care of his family or his counsel, as the
case might be, and that unless a promise
of clemency was made, that the objective
of so-called "hush money" would not be
achieved.
I am paraphrasing what was a rela-
tively long conversation.
I then said that to pay clemency was
wrong. In fact, I think I can quote it di-
rectly. I said, "It is wrong, that's for
sure." Mr. Haldeman was present when I
said that. Mr. Dean was present. Both
agreed with my conclusion.
Now, when individuals read the entire
transcript of the 21st meeting, or hear
the entire tape, where we discussed all
231
