Richard Nixon, 1974
June 17 [187]
I am sure, you have heard from my brothers,
the heads of state in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and
Syria.
The first is our great satisfaction over the new
era of good will that is opening up between the
United States and the Arab world. As a friend
of longer standing, I may be permitted to say
how gratified I am by the new relationship that
has developed between you and President
Sadat, and between you and President Asad.
Possibly nothing that has happened in these
last momentous months will contribute more to
a lasting peace in the area than this new un-
derstanding between you.
A second thought that I know has been
presented to you in Cairo, Jidda, Damascus—
and now in Amman-is the absolute unity of
position of the four countries in firmly backing
the implementation of the principles of Reso-
lution 242 as the basis for any peaceful settle-
ment. No nation, it is written into the United
Nations Charter, shall acquire territory of
another nation by armed force. And that prin-
ciple, among others, is given specific interpreta-
tion in the '67 resolution by calling for with-
drawal of Israeli forces from Arab territory oc-
cupied in the war of 1967.
Only when Israel abides by the spirit of the
United Nations Charter and only when Israel
obeys the letter of the Security Council resolu-
tion can "secure and recognized borders" come
into being. It should now be clear to Israel that
security and territory are not synonymous, that
true security rests on the recognition by her
neighbors of her right to live in peace within
those borders. So long as Israel continues to
occupy Arab territory, there will neither be
peace nor security in the Middle East.
Third, disengagement of forces can be ar-
ranged, truce lines can be drawn, and political
settlements can be negotiated, but there can be
no peace until the major issue in the conflict
between Israel and the Arab world is resolved
and resolved justly. That is the problem of
Palestine. There can be no peace until the legit-
imate rights of the Palestinian people are
recognized and restored. The Palestinian prob-
lem has never been a refugee problem, but one
of the inherent rights of a people to return to
their homeland and to determine their own
future. Once the occupied territory has been
evacuated by the Israelis, only Palestinians can
decide what its future is to be. They can choose
continued union with Jordan, a new form of
federation, or the creation of a separate state.
The choice is theirs and theirs alone, and what-
ever their choice, it will enjoy our full accept-
ance and support.
And finally, Mr. President, I would now like
to speak, in the name of all Arabs, Moslems,
and Christians alike, these same thoughts I am
sure you also have heard from President Sadat,
His Majesty King Faisal, and from President
Asad. I want to speak of the city of Jeru-
salem. The Arab world, and the world of Islam
stretching far beyond the Arab world into
Africa and Far East Asia, will never allow the
Arab city of Jerusalem to remain under the
control of Israel. Arab sovereignty over the holy
city must be reinstated. This the return of
Arab sovereignty over the Arab city of Jeru-
salem-is the cornerstone for a just and lasting
peace in the Middle East. Only thus can Jeru-
salem become the city of peace for all those who
worship the One God-Moslems, Christians,
and Jews.
Mr. President, your visit to Jordan on your
"Journey for Peace" is an inspiring occasion for
us. We hope you will take back with you a
memorable picture of what your great and dedi-
cated leadership, and the initiative that
America has taken, have done to move the
heart and raise the hopes of the Arab world.
As America continues-as surely it must-on its
"Journey for Peace," not only in the Middle
East but throughout the world, please tell your
people that you go with the gratitude and con-
fidence of the Arab people and the blessing of
all mankind.
My one regret, and that of the Queen, is
that you and Mrs. Nixon will not be staying
with us for a longer time. We sincerely hope
that you will both come back to see us again.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, may I ask
you to rise and join me in a toast to the Presi-
dent of the United States and to Mrs. Nixon,
a toast from the people of Jordan to the people
of America and to the fervent hope that the
friendship that exists between our two coun-
tries will continue to prosper under the peace
we are all so earnestly seeking.
The President and Mrs. Nixon.
Now, Mr. President, I have the honor of
presenting to you the Order of the Hussein
ben Ali Kilada, the highest order in Jordan.
533
