Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 19 [14]
Finally, let me tell you what your Gov-
ernment has been doing to meet this
crisis.
A fuel allocation program has been set
up so that no area of the Nation is being
subjected to undue hardship. We have
begun the process of converting oil-burn-
ing utilities to the use of coal wherever
possible, freeing some 200,000 barrels of
oil a day for use in other areas.
At my request, laws governing energy
conservation, such as year-round daylight
savings time, have been enacted by the
Congress and are now in effect. Teams of
Federal inspectors have been sent to in-
vestigate fuel prices at gasoline stations
and truckstops. Where price gouging is
discovered, it is being stopped.
Within the Government, where we have
a special obligation to set an example, I
first directed that energy consumption be
cut by at least 7 percent. That goal has
now been met, and it has been exceeded.
Consumption of energy by the Federal
Government has been cut by more than
20 percent under anticipated demands.
These are just some of the steps we have
taken to meet the problem head-on, and
you can expect more in the future.
Nothing which the Federal Govern-
ment might do could be successful, how-
ever, without the full cooperation of the
American people. It is your sacrifice that
is making the difference. You deserve the
credit.
If this voluntary cooperation continues,
I can say confidently to you today that we
can prevent hardships this winter and that
we can avoid gas rationing this spring.
Your Government has a responsibility to
prepare for the worst, so that we shall
be ready to ration gas is necessary.
But with continued cooperation by
everyone, we all have good reason today
to hope for the best, and you can be sure
that with your help I will do everything
in my power to achieve the goal of avoid-
ing gas rationing.
Now let me turn directly to the tough
questions which are now being asked by
millions of concerned Americans.
First, will the big oil companies be
allowed to make huge profits from the
shortage? Will they reap the benefits of
your personal sacrifices?
My feelings on this question could not
be stronger. The sacrifices made by the
American people in the energy crisis must
be for the benefit of all the people and
not just for the benefit of big business.
Your sacrifices must mean that jobs
can be preserved, that schools can stay
open, that homes will be heated. They
must not mean that a few get rich at the
expense and sacrifice of the many.
I recognize, as you do, that the prices
of gasoline, heating oil, other petroleum
products are rising. Now, these prices are
going up because the costs of foreign oil
are going up. The nations from which we
still import oil have increased their prices
from some $4 billion ($4) a barrel 5
months ago to as much as $12 a barrel
today. This tripling in costs is passing on
to you, the consumer, and that is why
prices are rising.
I will do everything I can to hold down
the price of foreign oil. Scare stories that
the American people will soon be paying
a dollar for a gallon of gas are just as
ridiculous as the stories that will say that
we will be paying a dollar for a loaf of
bread. The American people cannot af-
ford to pay such prices, and I can assure
you that we will not have to pay them.
At the same time, I pledge to you that I
13
