[179] June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
maximum feasible contribution, in ac-
cordance with Congressional authoriza-
tion, to Egypt's economic development,
including clearing the Suez Canal, recon-
struction projects, and restoring Egyptian
trade. In addition, the United States is
prepared to give special priority attention.
to Egypt's needs for agricultural commod-
ities.
Consistent with the spirit of cultural
cooperation, the United States Govern-
ment has agreed to consider how it might
assist the Egyptian Government in the
reconstruction of Cairo's Opera House.
The Egyptian Government for its part
intends to place the "Treasures of Tutank-
hamen" on exhibit in the United States.
Both governments, in
in conclusion,
reiterate their intention to do everything
possible to broaden the ties of friendship
and cooperation consistent with their mu-
tual interests in peace and security and
with the principles set forth in this state-
ment.
In thanking President El-Sadat for the
hospitality shown to him and the members
of his party, President Nixon extended an
invitation to President El-Sadat, which
President El-Sadat has accepted, to visit
the United States during 1974.
Cairo, Egypt, June 14, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
MUHAMMED ANWAR-EL-SADAT
NOTE: The text of the document was released
at Cairo, Egypt.
180 Remarks of the President and King Faisal Ibn Abdul Aziz
of Saudi Arabia at a State Dinner in Jidda.
June 14, 1974
Your Majesty, Your Royal Highnesses,
Your Excellencies, and distinguished
guests:
Your Majesty, speaking for all of us
here who are your guests from the United
States, I express appreciation for this
magnificent dinner and also for your very
gracious remarks.
This is indeed a very historic visit as
far as I personally am concerned and as
far as the United States is concerned, be-
cause, of the five nations that we are visit-
ing on this journey for peace through the
Mideastern area, Saudi Arabia has the
longest record of unbroken friendship
with the United States of all those nations.
And while I have had the opportunity on
several occasions to receive not only Your
Majesty but others representing your
country in the United States and to meet
and talk to you there, I am honored that
this is the first visit of an American Presi-
dent to Saudi Arabia.
And I believe that it is important and
significant to point out to all of those
assembled here that this visit is not one
that is necessary because of any differences
we have in a bilateral sense, because as
Your Majesty pointed out and as Prince
Fahd's recent visit to the United States ยน
underlined, we have embarked on new
areas of cooperation in the economic and
security fields which we are sure will serve
the interests of not only our two countries
but the interest of peace in this part of the
world.
1 See Item 166.
506
