[125] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
dialog with the leaders of the People's
Republic of China, a nation that is not a
nuclear power of great significance today,
but will be within a few years, and a na-
tion in which one-fourth of all the people
in the world live.
There cannot be peace in the world un-
less the Soviet Union, unless the People's
Republic of China, as well as the United
States, talk with each other, negotiate with
each other. That is what we have done.
That is the great breakthrough that we
are now going to exploit for all of the peo-
ple of the world.
And at a time that we are talking to
those who have been and might be in the
future our potential adversaries, we have
not forgotten our friends, our friends in
Europe, our friends in Latin America, our
friends in other parts of Asia as well as in
the Mideast and Africa.
Now, what I have outlined for you here
today is, therefore, when you look at it in
a global sense, a pretty simple problem,
but it requires leadership.
I want to tell you why America's lead-
ership is so indispensable. Three weeks
ago in Paris, I met with the leaders of most
of the major nations of Europe, with Mr.
Podgorny of the Soviet Union and with
the leaders of 25 other countries. And I
want you to know that as I talked to those
leaders, one fact came through very loud
and clear: that unless America assumes
the responsibility of leadership, there is
no chance for peace and freedom to sur-
vive in the world today.
And you wonder why, why after every-
thing that we have done-Korea, Viet-
nam, World War I, World War II-
why can't somebody else do it? There is no
other free nation that has the power or
can develop it. And so, the future of peace
in the world is in our hands. And we are
not going to fail the world or ourselves in
attempting to bring about that peace.
If we are to provide that leadership,
America is going to have to have strength
in three areas that I would mention to-
night. First, we
First, we must have military
strength. Johnny Rhodes very properly re-
ferred to the need to keep our Govern-
ment spending down. But let me just say
this: Let us be sure that in the field of
our military strength that no President of
the United States ever goes to the con-
ference table as the head of the second
strongest nation in the world.
Second, in addition to the military
strength necessary for America to be re-
spected and to play the role of peace-
maker, it is essential that we have eco-
nomic strength.
Let us look at the American economy
very briefly. It has been going through a
very difficult period, primarily related to
our energy problems. But as we look to-
ward the future of the economy for this
year, here is what we see: We see the
economy moving up; automobiles finally
beginning to move up; housing, which
will receive stimulus from programs that
we will announce this week, will begin to
move up. And I would say tonight that I
can make safely this prediction: that by
the end of '74 we will say it was a good
year economically, '75 will be a better
year, and '76 will be the very best year
America has ever had economically.
Now, to accomplish those goals we need
policies that are designed to deal with cer-
tain problems. One is the problem of in-
flation. The problem of inflation, of
course, must be fought on all fronts. But
one front we must remember is this, and
that is what your Government spends in
Washington, D.C. And that is why it is
essential that we all remember that when
1
406
