Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 30 [123]
the known coal resources in the free world,
and what we need to do is to change the
environmental standards so that we can
mine that coal and use that coal and use
it effectively, and it can be done.
And further down the line, we must
move forward in the development of nu-
clear power, where the United States was
first in finding the secret to breaking the
atom and, now, we seem to be so far
behind in using it for peaceful means. We
must move forward in the development
of deepwater ports.
There are other areas that I could men-
tion, but my intention here is not to put
pressure on the Congress, my intention
here is to point out the great promise that
it holds for America. It is possible for this
great and powerful economy, this Nation,
to be totally independent of any other
nation, so that we will never go through
what we did in October of last
year when
they cut off our energy supplies.
Long-term: 24 years from now-and
Arch has been-24 years from now, well,
he may be around for that 2000th birth-
day of the millennium. But all I can say is
that as we look at the future of America,
the prospects for world peace are good if
we lead, the prospects for a strong econ-
omy are good if we play to our strength,
which is private rather than Government
enterprise.
But also, we must remember that the
history of nations tells us that great civili-
zations have fallen not when they were
poor and when they were weak, but when
they were rich and apparently strong. Be-
cause the tendency inevitably then—and it
was true of Rome and it was true of Greece
and it was true of many other civiliza-
tions--the tendency then at a time of great
wealth and affluence is an inward turning,
turning away from greatness, turning
away from leadership, and failing to keep
the character and the strength that
brought that civilization to where it was.
And that brings me finally to the most
important point of all. We can be mili-
tarily strong, we can be economically
strong, and still fail in this great goal that
we are trying to achieve of building a
lasting peace in the world-if America is
not strong in its character among its
people. And that means faith in this coun-
try, faith in its system, faith, it seems to
me, that is well justified.
And I can tell you that sometimes when
we hear the media reports, some of them,
sometimes when we read the newspapers,
there is a tendency to emphasize those
things that are wrong. And there are
things wrong, and we should correct them,
whether it is in our economy or any other
area, but let us never forget that as you go
out across this great country of ours, you
see a very different America than you will
see here in Washington, D.C.
I do not mean that Washington is not
a great city, populated by many very great
people, but I do suggest that out in this
country, there is still that character that
crossed the mountains and the prairies
and went all the way to the Pacific and
built America to where it is, and you see
it best in times of adversity.
I close with this one example. A Presi-
dent has many duties, and one is to go to
disaster areas. And every time you go,
your staff tells you, "Go in and give them
a lift." And I can tell you, every time I
go in, those who go through the disasters
give me a lift.
It was true when I visited Mississippi
in 1969 during the Camille hurricane. It
was true when I was in Pennsylvania at
401
