[125] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the production of oil and gas which can
and will be made available for production.
And looking further down the road, we
must move forward in areas that nobody
ever thought of 10, 15 years ago: the de-
velopment of nuclear power, the cleanest
fuel of all; to develop too, in addition to
nuclear power, of research in the field of
solar energy in which you are so inter-
ested in this particular area. We must ex-
plore every possible area that we have.
But I am simply suggesting this inso-
far as this problem is concerned: The
way
to move forward, the way to become in-
dependent of any other nation for our
energy supplies, is not to say, "What is
the Federal Government going to do?"
The way to do it is to remember how we
got where we are, and that is through giv-
ing private enterprise a chance to develop
the enormous resources of America, so
that we can be the strongest in the world
in terms of energy.
I know that many of you, of course,
have heard of our programs. They are
progressive programs providing for bet-
ter education, providing for new transit
for our cities and our rural areas as well,
providing for better use and better plan-
ning for our lands and so forth across
this country.
And I suppose some of you wonder if
this isn't simply a throwback to the days
of old when everything was done by the
Government. Let me tell you the differ-
ence: We believe that the Federal Gov-
ernment has a role to play in all these
areas. Federal money should be spent in
the field of education. It should be spent
in the field of transit. It should be spent
in the field of land use. But there is this
big difference: The decisions as to how
that money should be spent should be
made by the States, the local communities,
and the people, and not by bureaucrats
in Washington, D.C.
And so I say to you tonight, through
relying on the great resources, natural,
that we are so richly blessed with, through
relying on those principles that we believe
in and that I have tried to enunciate to-
night and those behind me have enunci-
ated many times before audiences here
and across the Nation, America can and
will have the economic strength that is
needed to provide the leadership that is
indispensable if we are going to have a
world of peace.
And now to the third element. It is one
that is perhaps more difficult to describe.
Let me describe it, perhaps, in a way that
may not have occurred to some of you
who have not had the opportunities to
see some of the nations that I have. The
Soviet Union, 250 million Russians. The
People's Republic of China, one-fourth of
all the people in the world. They have
systems of government with which I to-
tally disagree and you disagree. And yet,
I recognize as I met their leaders, I recog-
nize as I saw their people, I recognize a
steel-like strength and determination,
even though their system is one that I
totally disagree with.
And I look at America. Here we are,
the richest nation in the world. Here we
are, a very strong nation, and the question
is: Does America have the strength of
character, the sense of vision, the sense
of destiny to provide the leadership? Our
answer, I think, would be yes. But as
you look at the history of great civiliza-
tions through the years, you find a very
disturbing fact. Whether it was Greece or
Rome or civilizations before that, they
fell not when they were weak or poor, but
when they were rich and thought they
were strong.
408
