Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 3 [5]
of so many Americans to my request that
they slow down on the highways even
when the speed limits have not officially
been lowered. Estimates indicate that we
can save nearly 200,000 barrels of fuel a
day by observing a national limit of 55
miles per hour.
This bill also will permit the use of
highway funds to support the cost of car-
pool demonstration projects, which can
do so much to reduce the number of
automobiles being inefficiently used on
congested urban highways. The Depart-
ment of Transportation is studying meth-
ods to improve the effectiveness of car-
pooling, and this legislation will require
a report to the Congress on this matter by
the Secretary of Transportation.
These steps are just two of many that
can and will be taken to help us through
this period of acute energy shortages.
With the attitude of cooperation and
mutual concern expressed by a wide range
of conservation actions by individual
Americans, the social and economic im-
pacts of the energy crisis can be minimized
and we can look even more confidently
to the day when we will become self-
sufficient in energy.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11372 is Public Law
93-239 (87 Stat. 1046).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
4 Statement About the Death of Ambassador
Charles E. Bohlen. January 2, 1974
I HAVE learned with deep sorrow of the
death of Ambassador Charles E. Bohlen.
During the course of his nearly 40 years
in the Foreign Service, Ambassador
Bohlen participated in some of the historic
events of this century. The many Presi-
dents and Secretaries of State he served
greatly valued his wise counsel, his inti-
mate knowledge of the Soviet Union, and
his sure grasp of world affairs. As Ambas-
sador in such diverse posts as Moscow,
Manila, and Paris, he rendered outstand-
ing service to his country and earned the
loyalty and affection of his colleagues. His
death deprives the Nation of one of our
most distinguished diplomats and a truly
outstanding public servant. Mrs. Nixon
joins me in extending our deepest sym-
pathy to his family.
NOTE: Ambassador Bohlen, 69, died in Wash-
ington, D.C., on January 1, 1974. He served
as United States Ambassador to the Soviet
Union from 1953 to 1957, the Philippines from
1957 to 1959, and France from 1962 to 1968.
The statement was issued at San Clemente,
Calif.
5 Statement About Signing a Bill To Increase Social
Security Benefits. January 3, 1974
I HAVE signed into law H.R. 11333, an
extremely important, far-reaching meas-
ure. This new law will raise social secur-
ity benefits for nearly 30 million Ameri-
cans and will bring increased benefits to
some 3.4 million aged, blind, and disabled
persons who have started receiving new
supplemental security income benefits this
week.
Just 6 months ago, I signed legislation
3
