[153] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
straint and sacrifice, but the ultimate goal
of prosperity in peacetime, prosperity
without war, is one which is worthy of
sacrifice. It is attainable. It will require
the fullest cooperation between the Ad-
ministration and the Congress, and I can
pledge to you the complete cooperation of
the Administration with the Congress in
achieving this goal.
It will also require the fullest coopera-
tion of labor, of business, commerce, and
industry, and of you, the American peo-
ple. I am asking today for your coopera-
154 Memorial Day Message.
May 25, 1974
ONCE AGAIN, on Memorial Day 1974,
the American people join in tribute to the
courageous servicemen and women who
have given their lives to protect our coun-
try's liberty and bring peace to our Na-
tion and the world.
In honoring the fallen, let us also
remember the millions of others who have
served in past wars and the fine men and
women who today serve in our all-volun-
teer Armed Forces. They, too, have pre-
served our freedom; they, too, are helping
to create a future free of war.
tion. I am confident that we can, together,
achieve our great goal of prosperity in
peacetime.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
Key Biscayne, Fla. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio.
On the same day, the White House released
at Key Biscayne, Fla., an advance text of the
address and an announcement containing addi-
tional biographical data on Mr. Rush. The an-
nouncement is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 10, p.
551).
The peace we enjoy today, and the
peaceful future we look forward to, are
based on the devotion and sacrifice of the
long, brave line of men and women in
uniform who have proudly served the
American flag. The prayers and the grati-
tude of the American people are with
them and their families on this Memorial
Day.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released at
Key Biscayne, Fla.
155
Statement on the Death of Stewart Alsop.
May 26, 1974
STEWART ALSOP's hard, valiant
struggle against cancer has ended at last,
but his life and his writings will remain a
standard for his profession for years to
come. One of America's premier political
commentators, he built his reputation
upon a rigorous independence of mind,
a dedicated and fearless pursuit of the
truth, an uncommon devotion to the Na-
tion's welfare, and an insistence that in all
matters, no matter how controversial,
good will and decency should prevail. It
was characteristic of Stewart Alsop that
the courage which marked his military
service during World War II and his long,
distinguished career as a journalist should
456
