[202] June 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
To see the extent of the progress that
has been made, we can point to the fact
that over the past 2 years, more agree-
ments have been negotiated and signed
between our two countries in those 2 years
than in the entire history of the relations
of our two countries up to that period.
And it is significant to note the charac-
ter of those agreements. In part, they
have dealt with the concern that both
of our nations have with regard to the
need to avoid war, and motivated by that
desire the desire to avoid war-we have
begun the process of limiting nuclear arms.
And in 1973, we negotiated and signed
the historic agreement with regard to the
prevention of nuclear war. But that is only
one side of the equation as far as our
agreements are concerned. We both seek
peace, but we seek peace that is more than
simply the absence of war. We seek peace
because of the positive progress it can
bring to both of our peoples.
And that is why we have negotiated a
number of agreements in the areas of
peaceful progress. They are too numer-
ous to mention, but they cover all fields of
human endeavor: health, science, the en-
vironment, the peaceful exploration of
space, agriculture. Many others could be
added, but together what they mean is
that both our great peoples now have a
stake in peace from a positive standpoint.
We must still do everything that we
can to negotiate those agreements that
will lessen the burden of armaments and
reduce the danger of war. But we must
go further and add to this and to give to
every individual in each of our coun-
tries a positive stake in peace, because it
is in this way that two peoples with dif-
ferent systems of government can estab-
lish relationships that will not be broken.
in the future.
And it is also, I think, very worthwhile
to note how these agreements were nego-
tiated. They were possible because of a
personal relationship that was established
between the General Secretary and the
President of the United States. And that
personal relationship extends to the top
officials in both of our governments.
It has been said that any agreement is
only as good as the will of the parties to
keep it. Because of our personal relation-
ship, there is no question about our will
to keep these agreements and to make
more where they are in our mutual
interests.
And also, we both can say that this new
relationship between our two nations is
overwhelmingly supported by the people
of the Soviet Union and overwhelmingly
supported by the people of the United
States.
And now, looking to the future, we
wonder how history will judge the leaders
of these two nations and their people dur-
ing this period. Too often in the past, his-
tory has judged those nations to be great
which were engaged in aggressive war and
in conquest. But what we are doing is
establishing a record where the two
strongest nations in the world and their
leaders will seek greatness, not by what
they might accomplish in war, but great-
ness by what they accomplish in the works
of peace.
And without the cooperation of these
two strongest nations in the world, the
cooperation of both their leaders and their
people, there can be no lasting peace in
the world. And consequently, we believe
that these meetings that we have had and
554
