Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 21 [56]
in human misery. Despite the very posi-
tive evidence that we are on the right
track in removing the menace of drug
abuse from our society, more remains to
be done.
In my message to the Congress of
June 17, 1971, requesting legislation for
the present full-scale Federal offensive
against drug abuse, I made it clear that
there was much we did not know about
this problem. I noted in that message
that "it is impossible to say that the en-
forcement legislation I have asked for
here will be conclusive-that we will not
need further legislation. We cannot fully
know at this time what further steps will
be necessary. As those steps define them-
selves, we will be prepared to seek further
legislation to take any action and every
action necessary to wipe out the menace
of drug addiction in America."
While our enforcement efforts are prov-
ing effective in finding drug traffickers,
our system of criminal justice is not as
effective in dealing with them after they
are arrested. Justice Department studies
show that more than a quarter of those
who are convicted of narcotics trafficking
do not serve a single day behind bars.
These studies also indicate that nearly half
of those arrested for drug trafficking may
be continuing their criminal activities
while out on bail. Further, because of the
enormous sums of money involved in
trafficking, a drug law violator finds it
easier to post a high bail than do persons
involved in other types of crime.
We have identified these loopholes in
the criminal justice system, and now we
must close them. I will submit shortly to
the Congress legislative proposals which
would increase the penalties for those
who traffic in narcotics, provide manda-
tory minimum sentencing of narcotic
traffickers for first time offenses, and
enable judges to deny bail, under certain
conditions, pending trial.
NEW LEGISLATION AIMED AT DRUG
TRAFFICKERS
The new penalties for narcotics traffick-
ing would provide minimum Federal sen-
tences of not less than three nor more
than fifteen years for a first offense. It
would provide not less than ten nor more
than thirty years for a second offense. Ad-
ditionally, the proposal would increase the
maximum Federal penalty for illicit traf-
ficking in other dangerous drugs from the
present five years for a first offense to ten
years; and for the second offense, the
minimum penalty would be three years
and the maximum penalty would be in-
creased from ten to fifteen years.
This proposal would also enable judges
to deny bail in the absence of compelling
circumstances if a defendant arrested for
trafficking dangerous drugs is found (1)
to have previously been convicted of a
drug felony, (2) to be presently free on
parole, probation, or bail in connection
with another felony, (3) to be a non-
resident alien, (4) to have been arrested
in possession of a false passport, or (5) to
be a fugitive or previously convicted of
having been a fugitive. The defendant
must be brought to trial within 60 days or
the matter of bail would be reopened,
without regard to the earlier findings.
CONCLUSION
Drug abuse is a problem that we are
solving in America. We have already
turned the corner on heroin. But the task
ahead will be long and difficult, and the
closer we come to success, the more diffi-
193
