[167] June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
area will not be solved. We will simply
build on the progress that has been made.
We can give assurances to our friends,
long-time friends in the area, that they
should have. We can also give assurances
to those who have been our adversaries in
the area of what our goal is—not one of
domination, but one of assuring for every
nation in that area and every nation on
the globe the right to independence, the
right to security, the right to seek their
own way to achieve their own goals.
This is the American foreign policy in
a nutshell. It is one that we have sought,
sometimes unsuccessfully, but it is one to
which we have been dedicated through-
out the years that I can remember.
What I want each and every one of you
to understand is that as we talk about the
Presidency and we think of the remainder
of the term of this President, that we still
have much to achieve. We have already
achieved a great deal at home and abroad.
Because of its timeliness, speaking only of
what has happened abroad, in the past 5
years we have seen the whole world
change and change for the better: the end
of a long war in which the United States
had been involved, and ending it with the
respect and the honor which is essential
for a great power if it is to be a leader
after the end of a war; the opening of
communication with the leaders of one-
fourth of all the people in the world who
inhabit the People's Republic of China;
the opening of negotiations with the great
super power, the Soviet Union, with
whom we have, as we have with many
other nations, basic disagreements in
philosophy which will not be solved in
our time or in theirs, but countries with
which we are seeking to develop those
means of communication so that we can
see that the talents of the American peo-
ple and the Russian people and the Chi-
nese people, and wherever people may
live throughout this world, are devoted to
the works of peace rather than to the
works of war.
This is the goal that Americans be-
lieve in-devoted, for example, to energy,
speaking in the narrow sense, that Secre-
tary Simon has had such great experience
in, energy adequate for all people wher-
ever they may be; speaking, for example,
about food, which Secretary Butz is an
expert in, in which the United States can
provide the leadership which we, as the
most efficient agriculture producer in the
world, can provide so that hunger can be
eradicated, not only here but throughout
the world.
These are great goals, and they require
total dedication, not to be diverted by
war, not to be diverted by confrontation,
but dedication to the challenges of peace.
I say that in order to accomplish these
goals, it will take everything in terms of
dedication, in terms of hard work that
we will be able to contribute in the bal-
ance of our term. But it will take far more
than that.
Whoever is the American President, be
he a Democrat or Republican, in the years
ahead to the end of this century—we will
not try to look beyond that-but whoever
is the American President will hold within
his hands the responsibility for building
on the great initiatives that we have
begun.
I can assure you that the hope for build-
ing a peaceful world rests in the leadership
of the United States, and that leadership,
of course, rests in the hands of whoever
may be President.
And so, the cause you have worked for,
I
476
