Richard Nixon, 1974
July 1 [204]
203
White House Statement on the Death of
Mrs. Martin Luther King, Sr.
THE PRESIDENT and Mrs. Nixon were
most distressed to learn of the tragic death
of Mrs. Martin Luther King, Sr., the
death of one of her parishioners, and the
wounding of another.
It is a terrible irony that a family whose
devotion to nonviolence has so greatly ad-
vanced the cause of social justice in the
United States should have two of its own
members struck down in this fashion.
The President's prayers are with Dr.
King, Sr., in this hour of his bereavement,
and with the members of the Ebenezer
Baptist Church upon whom this tragedy
falls with a special force.
204
June 30, 1974
NOTE: Mrs. King was slain by an assailant
during services at the Ebenezer Baptist Church
in Atlanta, Ga.
The President designated Stanley S. Scott,
Special Assistant to the President, to serve
as his Personal Representative at funeral serv-
ices for Mrs. King held in Atlanta on July 3.
Other members of the official delegation in-
cluded H. R. Crawford, Assistant Secretary
for Housing Management, Department of
Housing and Urban Development, and John
H. Powell, Jr., Chairman of the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission.
The statement was released at Oreanda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Wash-
ington, D.C.
Statement on the Death of President Juan Domingo Perón
of Argentina. July 1, 1974
MRS. NIXON and I, on behalf of the
American people, have sent a message of
condolence to the wife of former President
Perón. We are saddened by the death of
the President of the Argentine Republic,
Juan Domingo Perón, who was a source
of inspiration to his countrymen. At a time
when others would have been content to
retire from public life, he accepted the
challenge to return to his country to guide
and assist the Argentine people. He dedi-
cated the last years of his life to this task.
NOTE: President Perón, 78, was President of
the Argentine Republic from 1946 to 1955, and
from September 1973 until his death in Buenos
Aires.
The President designated Secretary of Com-
merce Frederick B. Dent as his Personal Repre-
sentative, with the rank of Special Ambassador,
at funeral services for President Perón held in
Buenos Aires on July 4. Other members of the
official delegation included Robert C. Hill,
United States Ambassador to Argentina, and
Jack B. Kubisch, Assistant Secretary of State
for Inter-American Affairs.
The statement was released at Moscow,
U.S.S.R. and Washington, D.C.
557
