[86] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
built on good intentions, but hopelessly
bound up in miles of redtape.
On March 5, I sent a letter to the chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Labor
and Public Welfare stating my intention
to veto any bill that complicates the fund-
ing process and hinders the return of con-
trol to States and communities. I repeat
that intention today.
The Federal Government has a role to
play in education, but that role must
never place Federal employees-your em-
ployees in the role of master social
planners. Instead, Washington should use
its resources to help you and your teachers
do a better job of educating your children.
It is you, as parents and teachers, who
should decide how that job can be done
better.
Let me illustrate the problem we face
in our current Federal programs in edu-
cation. Suppose you were buying furni-
ture for your house, and you were borrow-
ing in order to do so. It would be absurd
for you to have to take out a different loan
for each piece of furniture. It would be
even more absurd if you were not al-
lowed to choose whether to have one sofa
and two armchairs or two armchairs and
a dining room table. But that is how some
of our most important Federal education
programs work today.
To get Federal money-your tax
money for teachers or books or equip-
ment, your school board has to sort out
over 50 Federal educational programs to
find the one that comes closest to match-
ing its needs. Next, your school board and
officials have to check a stock of Office of
Education publications to discover the
right way to apply for the available money.
And finally, they have to wait for a deci-
sion from Washington to find out whether
they get any money. All of this can take
from 3 to 9 months, depending on the
Washington timetable-not the timetable
of the school year, which, of course, is the
important one to you.
Your school district will probably be
putting together its budget for the coming
school year during this month and next.
If past history is the rule, your school
board will not know what Federal funds
it can count on until the school year is
half over.
Here is how the kind of legislation I
support could chop through this mass of
redtape and cut out the delays:
First, it would consolidate funding for
our current fragmented programs. State
and local school districts could then draw
upon the consolidated funds and would
make the basic decision on how that
money shall be spent. The bill now before
the House of Representatives would rep-
resent progress in this direction.
Second, the legislation I have proposed
would provide Federal money to schools
a year in advance. This would enable your
school board to plan ahead, knowing how
much it can count on from the Federal
Government.
I intend to request almost $3 billion in
supplemental funds to enable us to get
Federal funds to the schools this spring
so that for the first time, they will be able
to plan ahead, knowing the size and ex-
tent of the Federal contribution.
But unless the Congress quickly passes
an education bill that serves the best in-
terests of the American people, we can-
not send the funds to the schools this
spring, and this is when they need it.
Let me now turn to the problem of fi-
nancing an education beyond high school.
We have made a big step forward by start-
304
