Richard Nixon, 1974
May 25 [153]
most important functions of Govern-
ment. We must hold the line at this level
of spending and even reduce it if we can.
The Congress and the Administration
must act to insure that we do not initiate
new and costly spending programs that
commit us to rapidly rising expenditures
in the future. One of the ongoing eco-
nomic problems that we face today is the
fact that past spending commitments con-
tinually frustrate efforts to manage the
budget in a stabilizing way.
Possibly the gravest danger to the econ-
omy today is the threat of a general
tax reduction. However popular that may
be, nothing could be more irresponsible
than to cut taxes in the present infla-
tionary situation. The notion that a large
tax cut can be given to the vast majority
of the American people and that the
money made up by taxes on a few people
who are rich, or corporations, is one
which holds great appeal-especially in a
political year. But the tax which is trans-
ferred to industry simply comes back to
the taxpayer in some hidden form, such
as higher prices or lower pay..
Another temptation we must avoid is
the call for cheap money by means of
monetary expansion. All this will do will
speed up the rate of inflation, and it will
increase the cost of borrowing money. The
requirements for full economic recovery
may sound like harsh medicine-budg-
etary restraint, no tax cut, tight money-
but there is no alternative if we want to
keep down the cost of living. I wish I
could tell you there is a way out of the
present inflation without such measures,
but there is not. We cannot spend our way
to prosperity. Neither can we achieve
prosperity of price stability by putting
America back into a straitjacket of
controls.
The American economy, like the Amer-
ican Government itself, is an instrument
for achieving the purposes of the Ameri-
can people. We want to make that eco-
nomic instrument as powerful and flexible
as we can so that all of you, the American
people, can achieve your goals, whether
those be new automobiles, better medical
care, or cleaner air. At the same time, a
more productive economy is vital to our
role of political, military, and humani-
tarian leadership in the world, leadership
which is absolutely indispensable if we are
to build a structure of peace, not only for
America but for the whole world.
To make the American economy
stronger and more productive will re-
quire more saving, more investment, more
research and development, more advance-
ment of the skills of the people, and a more
effective economic organization. Many
initiatives of this Administration are di-
rected to these purposes. I would mention
specifically our suggestions for reform
of financial institutions, for improved
manpower training programs, for reform
of educational finances, for expanded re-
search and development, especially in the
field of energy. I also want to emphasize
the importance of Congressional enact-
ment of the trade reform bill which I have
proposed.
This is vital not only to strengthening
the American economy in the long run,
but it will also provide the United States
Government the means to play its proper
role in the development of the world econ-
omy. We are beginning to emerge from a
very difficult period in the history of our
economy. We are not completely through
this difficulty, but all the economic indi-
cators prove that we are making encour-
aging progress.
The weeks ahead will still require re-
455
