[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. MCGONIGLE. What I would like
to ask you, sir, is why this accessibility has
not marked your Administration through-
out the entire tenure of your years in the
White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, with forums like
this I think I should be more accessible, I
agree.
No, seriously, the press conference is a
very useful medium through which a Pres-
ident can convey his views to the Ameri-
can people. There are times, however,
when a press conference, a President de-
termines, would not be useful, because of
very sensitive negotiations that are going
on where even a "no comment" could be
very unhelpful.
I would suggest that in the future, as
I see the future, it is likely that I will con-
tinue to have a considerable number of
meetings with the press, and I would wel-
come the opportunity to take the questions
that people from Phoenix and the Wash-
ington press corps ask. I will try to answer
them as responsibly as possible.
INFORMATION FOR HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE INVESTIGATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Chris Clark,
WLAC-TV, Nashville, Tennessee. Mr.
President, it appears likely that the House
Judiciary Committee might subpoena the
tapes and records which you have refused
to give to them. My question is this: Will
you honor such a subpoena and turn over
such records if that becomes the case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think in re-
sponse to that question, I should put it in
perspective by pointing out what we have
already provided to the committee, and
what our general policy is, and what the
status appears to be at the present time
with regard to possible future furnishing
of information. I have already directed
that all of the information that we turned
over to the Special Prosecutor, which in-
cludes 19 tapes and over 700 documents,
be turned over to the House Judiciary
Committee. In addition, I have directed
that seven Government agencies turn over
several boxloads of documents that they
requested be turned over so that they
could conduct their investigation.
In addition to that, as you know, Judge
Sirica yesterday directed that the records
of the grand jury, any records that might
be pertinent to this investigation, be
turned over to them. That was done not
only without our opposition but with our
acquiescence, because we want them to
have all the facts that they need to con-
duct a thorough inquiry. Before, however,
they had examined any of this material,
they demanded 42 more tapes, several
hundred documents, and access to every
document and/or tape, in effect, which is
in the White House.
Now, on that point we are still discuss-
ing the matter with Mr. Doar, the counsel
for the committee, and of course, he is
discussing it with the committee mem-
bers. The reason that we do not say “Come
in and bring your U-Haul trailer and haul
it all out" very simply is this: It is not be-
cause of a lack of desire to cooperate. It
is, first, because we believe that the com-
mittee has enough information to conduct
its investigation and to see whether any
charges it may have against the President
are true or false.
Second, insofar as additional docu-
ments are concerned, in other words,
virtually a hunting license or a fishing
license-whatever you want to call it-
within the White House is concerned, I
am following the precedent that every
President, Democrat and Republican,
288
