Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 10 [11]
the situation and the work to be done. It
would establish a task force drawn from
the consuming countries which would
formulate a consumer action program.
Part of this program would be concerned
with new cooperative measures designed
to deal with the explosive growth of glo-
bal energy demand and to accelerate the
coordinated development of new energy
sources. Another task would be to de-
velop a concerted consumer position for
a new era of petroleum consumer-pro-
ducer relations which would meet the
legitimate interests of oil producing
countries while assuring the consumer
countries adequate supplies at fair and
reasonable prices.
In calling for a meeting of the major
industrial consumer countries, we are
fully conscious that the energy problem is
one of vital importance to all consuming
countries, particularly those of the devel-
oping world whose hope for a better life
critically depends on access to energy on
reasonable terms. Whereas our immediate
concern is to get preparations underway
as promptly and effectively as possible,
clearly the interests of all consumers, in-
cluding the developing countries, will have
to be represented in an appropriate
manner.
A concerted effort of this kind is but a
first and essential step toward the estab-
lishment of new arrangements for inter-
II
national energy and related economic
matters. To this end, a meeting of con-
sumer and producer representatives
would be held within 90 days. I am send-
ing personal messages to the heads of
government of the OPEC [Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries] states
to assure that they understand the purpose
of the proposed meeting of consumer
states.
We face a profound challenge to turn
this period of crisis into one of opportunity
for constructive and creative cooperation
which will be of benefit to all the peoples
of the world. I look forward to hearing
your reply and comments.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the heads of government of Canada,
the Federal Republic of Germany, France,
Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, and the
United Kingdom. An additional paragraph in
the letter to German Chancellor Willy Brandt
informed him, in his capacity as head of the
government then in the presidency of the Eu-
ropean Economic Community, that a repre-
sentative from that organization would be wel-
come at the meeting. That portion of the letter
is printed in the Department of State Bulletin
(vol. LXX, p. 123).
The Secretary General of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development
was also invited to attend the meeting.
The text of the letters, dated January 9,
1974, was released on January 10 at San
Clemente, Calif.
Letter to Heads of Government of Major Oil-Producing
Nations Informing Them of Plans for a Meeting
on International Energy Problems. January 10, 1974
TODAY I have invited governments of
the major oil consuming countries to send
representatives to a meeting in Washing-
ton on February eleventh. The purpose of
this meeting will be to seek a consensus
among the participants, looking toward a
meeting of consumers and producers,
which would establish new mutually bene-
9
