[27] Jan. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
in silent prayer, and both agreed that
there was a place for both.
When I was 8 or 9 years old, I asked
my grandmother-a very saintly woman,
a little Quaker lady who had nine chil-
dren-I asked her why it was that the
Quakers believed in silent prayer. When
we sat down to table we always had silent
grace, and often at church, while we some-
times would have a minister or somebody
got up when the spirit moved him, we
often just went there and sat and we
prayed.
Her answer was very interesting, and
perhaps it relates to why Lincoln prayed
in silence. My grandmother spoke to me
on this occasion, as she always did to her
grandchildren and children, with the
plain speech. She said, "What thee must
understand, Richard, is that the purpose
of prayer is to listen to God, not to talk
to God. The purpose of prayer is not to
tell God what thee wants but to find out
from God what He wants from thee."
Now, my grandmother did not believe
that others who used oral prayer were
wrong, because that would not have been
the Quaker way. She thought they might
be right. In fact, both could be right.
We read Lincoln's Second Inaugural,
the most eloquent of all the inaugurals,
and we see it all captured there, pointing
out that people prayed on both sides, and
yet the war had come, but not speaking in
arrogance about the North as against the
South, but expressing his belief that the
destiny of this Nation would eventually be
served by the survival of the Union.
So, the thought I would leave with this
audience here today is very simply this: I,
too, believe that America has a destiny.
I do not believe it in the sense that some
national leaders of times past have be-
lieved it about their countries.
Our destiny is not to rule any other
country. Our destiny is not to conquer
any other country. Our destiny is not to
start war against any other country. Our
destiny is not to break freedom, but to
defend it.
Our destiny also is to recognize the right
of people in the world to be different from
what we are. Even some may have dif-
ferent religions. Even some, we must
accept, may not have a religious belief,
as we understand a religious belief, to
believe.
But on the other hand, while I know
this goes counter to the ideas of many of
my good friends in this audience who be-
lieve as my mother and father deeply
believed in the missionary work of our
church, I think that America today must
understand that it is in its role as a world
leader that we can only have peace in the
world if we respect the rights, the views
of our neighbors, our friends, and of the
people of all the nations of the world.
It is that respect for other people,
despite differences in political philosophy,
despite differences in religion, that has
brought us so far along the road to world
understanding and world peace over these
5 years.
It is rather hard sometimes for us to
have that respect, sometimes for each
other in our political process and some-
times for other nations who have totally
different political views, but I would only
suggest that we go back to Lincoln-and,
of course, I go back to my grandmother-
and I would pray for this Nation at this
time, and I hope all of you would, too,
whether orally or in silence, that we try to
listen more to what God wants rather
than to tell God what we want, that we
would try to find out what God wants
America to be rather than to ask Him
102
