Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 8 [244]
keep as our goal turning away from pro-
duction for war and expanding produc-
tion for peace so that people everywhere
on this Earth can at last look forward in
their children's time, if not in our own
time, to having the necessities for a decent
life.
Here in America, we are fortunate that
most of our people have not only the bless-
ings of liberty but also the means to live
full and good and, by the world's stand-
ards, even abundant lives. We must press
on, however, toward a goal, not only
of more and better jobs but of full oppor-
tunity for every American and of what we
are striving so hard right now to achieve,
prosperity without inflation.
For more than a quarter of a century in
public life, I have shared in the turbulent
history of this era. I have fought for what
I believed in. I have tried, to the best of
my ability, to discharge those duties and
meet those responsibilities that were en-
trusted to me.
Sometimes I have succeeded and some-
times I have failed, but always I have
taken heart from what Theodore Roose-
velt once said about the man in the arena,
"whose face is marred by dust and sweat
and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs
and comes short again and again because
there is not effort without error and short-
coming, but who does actually strive to do
the deed, who knows the great enthusiams,
the great devotions, who spends himself in
a worthy cause, who at the best knows in
the end the triumphs of high achieve-
ments and who at the worst, if he fails, at
least fails while daring greatly."
I pledge to you tonight that as long as
I have a breath of life in my body, I shall
continue in that spirit. I shall continue
to work for the great causes to which I
have been dedicated throughout my years
as a Congressman, a Senator, Vice Presi-
dent, and President, the cause of peace,
not just for America but among all na-
tions-prosperity, justice, and opportu-
nity for all of our people.
There is one cause above all to which
I have been devoted and to which I shall
always be devoted for as long as I live.
When I first took the oath of office as
President 52 years ago, I made this sacred
commitment: to "consecrate my office, my
energies, and all the wisdom I can sum-
mon to the cause of peace among
nations."
I have done my very best in all the days
since to be true to that pledge. As a result
of these efforts, I am confident that the
world is a safer place today, not only for
the people of America but for the people
of all nations, and that all of our children
have a better chance than before of living
in peace rather than dying in war.
This, more than anything, is what I
hoped to achieve when I sought the Presi-
dency. This, more than anything, is what
I hope will be my legacy to you, to our
country, as I leave the Presidency.
To have served in this office is to have
felt a very personal sense of kinship with
each and every American. In leaving it, I
do so with this prayer: May God's grace
be with you in all the days ahead.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:01 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television.
Prior to delivering the address, the President
met separately with a group of bipartisan Con-
gressional leaders in his office at the Old Execu-
tive Office Building and a group of more than
40 Members of Congress in the Cabinet Room
at the White House.
On August 7, 1974, Senators Hugh Scott
and Barry Goldwater and Representative John
J. Rhodes met with the President in the Oval
Office at the White House. The White House
629
