[11] Jan. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
ficial arrangements for international
energy and related economic matters.
Recent developments have emphasized
the critical importance of energy to the
prosperity and stability of the interna-
tional economy. Severe disruptions of eco-
nomic activity and of the world monetary
system, whether caused by insufficiency
of energy supplies or abrupt price move-
ments could prove disastrous for con-
sumers and producers alike.
Oil importing nations are vitally con-
cerned with mechanisms which will as-
sure adequate supplies at reasonable
prices. Oil producing states, in turn, are
concerned with arrangements that will as-
sure fair payment for and rational use of
their non-renewable resources.
Accordingly, as suggested by Secretary
of State Kissinger in his speech in London
in December, the United States believes
it is necessary to deal with these matters
urgently.
The United States is undertaking this
initiative as a constructive and positive
step, consistent with the publicly stated
views of a number of oil producing na-
tions which have called for a consultative
relationship between producers and con-
sumers. It is my hope that the results of
the forthcoming meeting will lead to an
early joint conference of consumer and
producer nations.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the heads of government of Abu
Dhabi, Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela.
The text of the letters, dated January 9,
1974, was released on January 10 at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
I 2 Statement About the Death of Frederick A. Seaton.
January 17, 1974
I AM deeply saddened by the death of
Fred Seaton, a valued friend of more
than 20 years. America was enriched by
his many years of selfless and dedicated
service in a wide range of positions in-
cluding Secretary of the Interior in the
Eisenhower Administration and United
States Senator from Nebraska.
Fred Seaton was a son of our Nation's
heartland. A distinguished servant of his
Government and a newsman and news
publisher, he graced the lives of all who
knew him. Mrs. Nixon joins me in extend-
ing to his family our most sincere con-
dolences at the loss of this good and
gracious man.
NOTE: Mr. Seaton, 64, died in Minneapolis,
Minn., on January 16, 1974. He served in the
Senate from 1951 to 1953 and was Secretary
of the Interior from 1956 to 1961. At the time
of his death, he was publisher of the Hastings
Tribune in Nebraska.
ΙΟ
