Richard Nixon, 1974
June 16 [185]
hatreds go back over many years, where
the differences seem insoluble, where na-
tions many times are unstable, that we can
find a way to build a permanent, just, and
durable peace.
I would simply close my remarks on
this point by saying it is more difficult, per-
haps, than the opening to China was, and
that was a difficult mission and venture,
but worth taking the risk. It is more diffi-
cult than our bringing America's longest
and most painful war to an end and bring-
ing it to an end in the right way so that
America would remain respected in the
world, respected by its allies and its ad-
versaries alike.
It is more difficult perhaps even, some
would say, than the continuing dialog be-
tween the two strongest nations in the
world which must go forward if we are to
have any chance for a peaceful world.
Here, where civilization began, we have
the greatest challenge, but also the great-
est opportunity to make sure that civiliza-
tion continues. This is the cradle of civi-
lization. We must make sure that it does
not become its grave.
And it is that challenge that I am con-
fident that the leaders of Israel will join
with us in trying to seek those solutions to
those differences which remain, so that
we can build that permanent peace that
we want in this area, because peace for
Israel, peace for the Mideast, will mean
that the whole world has a better chance
for peace.
And, Mr. President, I know from hav-
ing talked to you that you are dedicated
to such ideals, and consequently, in pro-
posing this toast to the people of your
country, the people of Israel, I suggest
that we raise our glasses to the President
of Israel.
President Katzir.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
11:15 p.m. in the Knesset, the Irsaeli Parlia-
ment building, in response to a toast proposed
by President Katzir.
President Katzir's remarks were as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Secretary Kissinger,
honored guests:
We meet this evening in the great hall of the
Knesset, the legislative body of the State of
Israel, heir to the tradition of the great Knes-
set of close to 2,500 years ago. The great Knes-
set came into being during the first return to
Zion after the destruction of the first temple,
and it was the great Knesset which continued
the prophetic tradition and laid the foundations
for the democratic life of the Jewish people.
The modern Knesset, too, has come into being
during a period of return to Zion, the second
return, realizing the 2,000 year old dream of
the Jewish people.
A generation ago, a battered people emerged
from the valley of the shadow of death into the
light of liberty. Here, where Jewish peoplehood
was born, where our lawmakers proclaimed the
Biblical ethic, where the prophets spoke their
immortal message, here did we, the surviving
sons of that people, rekindle the torch of na-
tional independence, thereby ending 20 cen-
turies of exile. Israel's history records that the
first country to welcome us back into the family
of sovereign nations-literally 5 minutes after
our declaration of independence-was the
United States of America. From that day to
this, a fabric of friendship has become closely
interwoven between our peoples.
Mr. President, welcome to you and to all
your distinguished fellow Americans who are
with you.
Your presence here tonight is a magnificent
personal expression of that understanding and
friendship, making this an exalted moment in
the history of the American-Israeli relations.
You come to an ancient land, to Jerusalem,
City of David, whose Jewish memories run
4,000 years deep. You come to a small people,
poorly endowed in geography, but alive with
passion of creation. And whilst the differences
between our countries in size and age are great,
this has not hindered the intimacy of our peo-
ples. This is surely so because our human pur-
pose as nations rests upon deep affinities of
ideals and experience.
523
