[61] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
key points of individual income tax re-
turns of America's 3 million farmers and a
Justice Department advisory opinion say-
ing that this Executive order should serve
as a model for all the Federal Government
departments?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as a matter of
fact, in the privacy message [address],
which, as you know, I issued on Saturday,
I did not raise this question specifically,
but certainly I want that question, along
with others, considered. Because in this
whole area of privacy, it isn't just a ques-
tion of those who run credit bureaus and
banks and others with their huge com-
puters, but the Federal Government itself,
in its activities, can very much impinge on
the privacy of individuals.
This is a matter that I think should be
considered by the Commission that I have
appointed, which is chaired, as you know,
by the Vice President.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND
AMBASSADORIAL APPOINTMENTS
[18.] Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
Your personal lawyer, Mr. Herb Kalm-
bach, entered a plea of guilty today to a
criminal charge of accepting $100,000 in
exchange for an ambassadorial post. In
your capacity as President you approve of
ambassadors and send the nominations to
the Senate. Were you consulted in any
manner on this engagement and this con-
tribution by Mr. Kalmbach or anyone
else in the White House, and have you
done any research on this in the White
House to determine who is responsible
for it?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to the
first question is no; the answer to the sec-
ond question is yes. And I would go fur-
ther and say that ambassadorships have
not been for sale, to my knowledge, am-
bassadorships cannot be purchased, and I
would not approve an ambassadorship
unless the man or woman was qualified,
clearly apart from any contributions.
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW
[19] Q. Mr. President, at our last
meeting we were remiss in asking you for
your reaction to the resignation of Vice
President Agnew, and so, for the sake of
filling in that hiatus in the record, I would
ask you if you believe that the conduct of
the Vice President, and particularly his
conduct surrounding and leading up to
his resignation, in fact brought dishonor
upon his office, this Administration, and
the country?
THE PRESIDENT. It would be very easy
for me to jump on the Vice President
when he is down. I can only say that in his
period of service that he rendered dedi-
cated service in all of the assignments that
I gave to him.
He went through, along with his fam-
ily, a terribly difficult situation, and he
resigned, as I think he thought he should,
because of the embarrassment that he
knew that would cause to the Adminis-
tration and also because he felt that in
view of the criminal offense that was
charged that he should not stay in office.
Now at this point, I am not going to join
anybody else in kicking him when he is
down.
TAX DEDUCTION FOR VICE PRESIDENTIAL
PAPERS
[20.] Q. Mr. President, thank you very
much. To follow on an earlier question
about taxes, April 21, 1969, was a signif-
icant day for you in taxes and for the
208
