Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [209]
come the dangers of the use of environ-
mental modification techniques for mili-
tary purposes.3
Both Sides reaffirmed their interest in
effective international agreement
which would exclude from the arsenals
of states such dangerous instruments of
mass destruction as chemical weapons.
Desiring to contribute to early progress
in this direction, the USA and the USSR
agreed to consider a joint initiative in the
Conference of the Committee on Dis-
armament with respect to the conclusion,
as a first step, of an international Con-
vention dealing with the most dangerous,
lethal means of chemical warfare.
Both Sides are convinced that the new
important steps which they have taken
and intend to take in the field of arms
limitation as well as further efforts toward
disarmament will facilitate the relaxation
of international tensions and constitute a
tangible contribution to the fulfillment of
the historic task of excluding war from the
life of human society and thereby of en-
suring world peace. The US and the
USSR reaffirmed that a world disarma-
ment conference at an appropriate time
can play a positive role in this process.
III. PROGRESS IN THE SETTLEMENT OF
INTERNATIONAL PROBLEMS
In the course of the meeting detailed
discussions were held on major interna-
tional problems.
Both Sides expressed satisfaction that
relaxation of tensions, consolidation of
peace, and development of mutually bene-
ficial cooperation are becoming increas-
ingly distinct characteristics of the devel-
The text of the joint statement is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 10, p. 753).
opment of the international situation.
They proceed from the assumption that
progress in improving the international
situation does not occur spontaneously but
requires active and purposeful efforts to
overcome obstacles and resolve difficulties
that remain from the past.
The paramount objectives of all states
and peoples should be to ensure, individ-
ually and collectively, lasting security in
all parts of the world, the early and com-
plete removal of existing international
conflicts and sources of tension and the
prevention of new ones from arising.
The United States and the Soviet Union
are in favor of the broad and fruitful eco-
nomic cooperation among all states, large
and small, on the basis of full equality and
mutual benefit.
The United States and the Soviet Union
reaffirm their determination to contribute
separately and jointly to the achievement
of all these tasks.
EUROPE
Having discussed the development of
the situation in Europe since the last
American-Soviet summit meeting, both
Sides noted with profound satisfaction the
further appreciable advances toward es-
tablishing dependable relations of peace,
good neighborliness and cooperation on
the European continent.
Both Sides welcome the major con-
tribution which the Conference on Secu-
rity and Cooperation in Europe is mak-
ing to this beneficial process. They con-
sider that substantial progress has already
been achieved at the Conference on many
significant questions. They believe that
this progress indicates that the present
stage of the Conference will produce
agreed documents of great international
571
