Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [211]
It is clearly understood by the leaders
of the Soviet Union that in forging the
new relationship between the United
States and the Soviet Union, we will not
proceed at the expense of traditional
allies. On the contrary, the continued
strength of the Western Alliance is essen-
tial to the success and to the process in
which we are engaged of maintaining and
developing the new relationship to the
Soviet Union.
The development of that new relation-
ship provides an opportunity to deepen
the unity of the Western Alliance. We
must not neglect our alliances, and we
must not assume that our new relationship
with the Soviet Union allows us to neglect
our own military strength. It is because
we are strong that such a relationship that
we are now developing is possible.
In his first annual message to the Con-
gress, George Washington said to be
prepared for war is one of the most effec-
tive means of preserving peace. That state-
ment is true today as it was then, and that
is why all of you who are serving in our
Armed Forces today are actually serving
in the peace forces for America and the
world. We thank you for your service.
We are prepared, we in the United
States, to reduce our military strength but
only through a process in which that re-
duction is mutual and one that does not
diminish the security of the United States
of America. It is to that end that we have
been working.
Twenty-five years ago when the NATO
Treaty was signed, it was called "an act
of faith in the destiny of Western Civiliza-
tion." That description was prophetic as
well as accurate, and now, 25 years later,
we might well say the new structure of
peace we are building in the world is an
act of faith in the destiny of mankind.
Like anything built to be permanent, that
structure must be built step by careful
step. It must be built solidly. It must be
such a structure that those who use it will
preserve it because they treasure it, be-
cause it responds to their needs, and be-
cause it reflects their hopes.
Two years ago in my report to the Con-
gress on returning from the first of the
United States-Soviet summits, I expressed
the hope that historians of some future
age will write of the year 1972, not that
this was the year America went up to the
summit and then down to the depths of the
valley again, but that this was the year
when America helped to lead the world
up out of the lowlands of war and on to
the high plateau of lasting peace.
And now, 2 years, two summits later,
the realization of that hope has been
brought closer. The process of peace is
going steadily forward. It is strengthened
by the new and expanding patterns of
cooperation between the United States
and the Soviet Union. It is reinforced by
the new vitality of our Western Alliance
and bringing such encouraging results as
the new turn toward peace in the Mid-
dle East.
In all of our travels to which the Vice
President has referred, one message has
come through more clearly than any other.
We have seen millions and millions of
people over these past few weeks, and
from their faces as well as the words of
those we have seen and the thousands we
have met in every part of the world, this
is the message, and that is that the desire
to end war, to build peace is one that
knows no national boundaries and that
unites people everywhere.
Something else also comes through very
581
