Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 30 [123]
gress-work that must be done in deal-
ing with the great problems that affect
your prosperity, affect your security, that
could affect your lives.
The materials I make public tomorrow
will provide all the additional evidence
needed to get Watergate behind us and to
get it behind us now.
Never before in the history of the Presi-
dency have records that are so private
been made so public.
In giving you these records-blemishes
and all-I am placing my trust in the
basic fairness of the American people.
I know in my own heart that through
the long, painful, and difficult process re-
vealed in these transcripts, I was trying in
that period to discover what was right
and to do what was right.
I hope and I trust that when you have
seen the evidence in its entirety, you will
see the truth of that statement.
As for myself, I intend to go forward,
to the best of my ability, with the work
that you elected me to do. I shall do so in
a spirit perhaps best summed up a century
123
ago by another President when he was
being subjected to unmerciful attack.
Abraham Lincoln said:
very
"I do the very best I know how-the
best I can; and I mean to keep doing
so until the end. If the end brings me out
all right, what is said against me won't
amount to anything. If the end brings me
out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right
would make no difference."
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:01 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television. An advance text of his address
was released on the same day.
The transcripts mentioned in the Presi-
dent's address were included in a publication
entitled "Submission of Recorded Presidential
Conversations to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary of the House of Representatives by Presi-
dent Richard Nixon-April 30, 1974" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 1308 pp., including
appendixes). The publication also included a
summary statement about the transcripts, the
text of which is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 10, p.
459).
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the United States
Chamber of Commerce. April 30, 1974
Mr. President, and all of our distinguished
guests here attending the annual Chamber
of Commerce dinner:
I am honored to be here because I am
always very pleased to address this group.
It has been twice my privilege to do so as
President, and I am happy tonight-par-
ticularly for two reasons that are per-
sonal-one, to congratulate President
Rust for his leadership of this group over
the past year and, two, to congratulate
Arch Booth for finally making it. Twen-
ty-four years as vice president is enough.
I know that your dinner will not begin
until my remarks conclude, and I will not
hold you long. But I thought that since
you are going to hear from so many ex-
perts on the economy, the business cycle,
and other matters that affect the business
leaders of the Nation-and, of course, this
is the largest business organization in the
United States and, for that matter, in the
world—since you are going to hear from
so many of those experts, I thought that
perhaps I could best open this meeting
by putting it somewhat in perspective of
397
