[70] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
these options, they may reach different
interpretations, but I know what I meant,
and I know also what I did.
I meant that the whole transaction was
wrong, the transaction for the purpose of
keeping this whole matter covered up.
That was why I directed that Mr. Halde-
man, Mr. Ehrlichman, Mr. Dean, and Mr.
Mitchell, who was then in New York,
meet in Washington that evening, if pos-
sible it had turned out that they
could not meet until the next day-so
that we could find what would be the best
way to get the whole story out.
I also know what I did with regard to
clemency and with regard to the payment
of money. I never at any time authorized
clemency for any of the defendants. I
never at any time authorized the payment
of money to any of the defendants. And
after we had met on the 22d, I sent Mr.
Dean to Camp David to write a full re-
port of everything that he knew.
That report was not forthcoming, and
consequently, on the 30th of August
(March), a week later, I directed Mr.
Ehrlichman to conduct an independent
investigation, which he did conduct and
presented to me on the 14th of April.
And also on the 30th, on that same
day Mr. Ziegler announced this to the
press corps after I had issued the direc-
tion I directed that all members of the
White House Staff who were called by the
grand jury should appear before the grand
jury and testify fully with regard to any
knowledge whatever they had with regard
to their involvement, if they were in-
volved, or anybody else's involvement.
In other words, the policy was one of
full disclosure, and that was the decision
that was made at the conclusion of the
meeting.
CLEMENCY
[4.] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Without regard to past events or
hush money or anything like that, would
you now consider granting clemency to
any former assistant who might ulti-
mately be convicted?
THE PRESIDENT. The matter of clem-
ency, Mr. Theis, is something that can
only be granted and only be considered on
an individual basis, depending upon the
circumstances involved.
I can only say that under no circum-
stances has any defendant or potential de-
fendant been offered clemency, and none
will be offered clemency. That would be
improper, and I will not engage in that
activity.
INFLATION AND THE CONSUMER
[5] Q. Mr. President, some econo-
mists are warning that consumers are be-
coming so disenchanted with inflation
that they may reduce their spending dras-
tically later this year as sort of a consumer
revolt. Do you share this fear, and what
encouragement do you have for consumers
in this time of the worst inflation in 25
years?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
the inflation, as I pointed out just a week
ago in a press conference, there are two
major factors that have caused it. In fact,
they have been responsible for two-thirds
of the inflation.
One is energy-increased prices for
energy-and the second is food.
Now, the back of the energy crisis has
been broken, and as we go toward the end
232
