[47] Feb. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
cause of lack of ability to pay, and that is a
great goal for Americans that we are all
working for.
It has some new items that perhaps
would not sound particularly important
on such an occasion as this. For example-
I see some young people here in front-it
even provides for dental care for very
young people. It provides for catastrophic
illnesses illnesses which present insur-
ance programs, whether private or public,
do not cover adequately so that we do
not have a situation where a catastrophic
illness means catastrophic debt for a
family. And also it provides for those who
are on Medicare over the age of 65. As
you know, so many of them, if you have
visited these homes and other centers
where they stay, or their own homes, the
problem they confront so often is not only
the loneliness which comes if their chil-
dren and others and friends forget them,
which is perhaps the greatest disservice we
can do to them, but also the fact that when
they develop an illness, their program,
Government program does not take care
of it, and our program is one that will.
I will not go further in describing it.
The doctors, the technical assistants, the
experts will be arguing about it and debat-
ing about it as they should in the months
ahead. But I would like to refer to this
complex, this health care center, how it
came into being, those who made it pos-
sible, and how it will operate in terms of
this approach that we have to the problem
of health insurance in the United States,
because there is another way.
There is another way in which people
suggest that why do we have to go out
and ask individuals to contribute $10,
$100, $1,000 in order to build a center
like this? Why not turn it all over to the
Government? And there are several rea-
sons why, of course, we would oppose that
program.
One is that most of us would not want
an $80 billion increase in taxes. But let
me suggest this: The difficulty with an all-
Government program rather than one
that builds on the great private medical
profession and the private health care that
we have in the United States, the difficulty
with it is not its cost so much in money,
because good health is worth whatever it
costs, but the difficulty would be the cost
in terms of reducing the quality of medical
care.
I simply want to say, when I go to a
hospital or when I have to call a doctor,
I want that doctor to be working for the
patient and not for the Federal Govern-
ment, and that is what this is all about.
Now, our health care system has some
weaknesses, but on the other hand, we
can be proud of the fact that the health
care system in the United States, in terms
of quality, is the best in the world.
What we want to do is to be sure that
that quality is available to all, but in
making it available to all, don't reduce
the quality. Because if medical care is free
and it is poor that isn't the right approach,
and that isn't the American way of doing
things.
The American way is to build on the
present system, which is a great system.
And so, I saw this name, Cedars of
Lebanon, and I wondered, why. And
reading the Psalms, I found out what a
cedar of Lebanon was. It is a remarkable
tree, apparently. It is always green. It is
very sturdy. It can go through great
storms, and also it is a tree that has long
life, and finally, it is a beautiful tree.
And so here as we dedicate the Cedars
of Lebanon Health Care complex, this
section of it, it will produce long life or
166
