[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
-In Washington, D.C., where the Fed-
eral Government has special law enforce-
ment responsibilities, crime has been cut
in half since 1969.
Indictments and convictions of or-
ganized crime racketeers have more than
tripled since 1969, thanks in large meas-
ure to the 1970 Organized Crime Control
Act and to expanded Federal interagency
strike forces. In addition, of course, the
riots, urban terrorism and burnings of the
1960s have now become a thing of the
past.
These indications of success do not mean
that we should slacken our anti-crime
effort, but that we should intensify it. Key
elements of our strategy to do so-most of
which will require the assistance of the
Congress include:
-Comprehensive reform of the Federal
Criminal Code. Last year I submitted a
proposal which was based upon the work
of the Justice Department and a five-year
study completed by the National Com-
mission on Reform of Federal Criminal
Laws. The Federal criminal code has not
been completely revised in a quarter cen-
tury and the need for reform is urgent. I
call upon the Congress to act expeditiously
in reforming our criminal code, to make
it both more workable and more respon-
sive to the demands of our complex
society.
-Restoration of the death penalty un-
der the Federal Criminal Code for several
especially heinous specific crimes which
result in the death of innocent victims.
Examples of such crimes are hijacking,
kidnapping, or bombing.
-Increased Federal assistance to State
and local law enforcement agencies. For
the next fiscal year, I propose funding
through the Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration of $886 million-up from
only $60 million in 1969.
-Increasing the resources available to
the U.S. Attorneys' offices throughout the
Nation-offices which have, in the last
three years,
increased the number of
criminal convictions by 28 percent.
-Creation of additional Federal judge-
ships to assure speedier disposition of
criminal cases. Legislation to accomplish
this goal is now before the Congress.
Comprehensive improvement of Fed-
eral correctional programs. Already 15
additional correctional institutions have
been built, acquired or begun. My 1975
budget request would represent a tripling
of 1969's budget levels.
-A new effort to deal more effectively
with employment problems caused by the
increase in the number of illegal aliens en-
tering this country. Legislation to achieve
this objective is also before the Congress.
PROTECTING THE RIGHT OF PRIVACY
One of the basic rights we cherish most
in America is the right of privacy. With
the advance of technology, that right has
been increasingly threatened. The prob-
lem is not simply one of setting effective
curbs on invasions of privacy, but even
more fundamentally one of limiting the
uses to which essentially private informa-
tion is put, and of recognizing the basic
proprietary rights each individual has in
information concerning himself.
Privacy, of course, is not absolute; it
may conflict, for example, with the need
to pursue justice. But where conflicts oc-
cur, an intelligent balance must be struck.
One part of the current problem is that
as technology has increased the ability of
government and private organizations to
78
