[70] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
to congratulate the Members of the Sen-
ate who voted to sustain the veto of the
energy bill. We are not necessarily asso-
ciating you with that, Miss Thomas.
[Laughter]
In voting to sustain the President's veto,
the Members of the Senate vetoed longer
gas lines and vetoed nationwide rationing.
What we must now do is to move
forward on the various measures that I
have proposed that will accomplish the
goal that this bill mistakenly was aimed to
accomplish, and that is to get down the
price of gasoline. That can only be done
by increasing the supplies of gasoline and
other types of energy.
That is why I trust that the Congress
will move expeditiously on the proposals
that I have made for the deregulation of
natural gas, for doing something with re-
gard to those measures in the field in the
environment which restrict the produc-
tion of coal, which could greatly alleviate
the energy crisis-to the extent it is still
a crisis to go forward also on the Elk
Hills production and exploration for oil
in that Federal area, and in the longer
sense, to go forward with the various pro-
posals that we have made for organiza-
tion in the energy field, which will allow
us to develop our nuclear power, new
sources of energy, and to achieve the goal
we all want to achieve, of independence
for the United States for energy by at least,
and preferably before, the year 1980.
I believe the way to get the price of
gasoline down is to produce more, and
these measures which the Congress has
had before it for a number of months
should be acted upon in order to accom-
plish that goal.
QUESTIONS
MATERIALS FOR HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE
[2.] Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, As-
sociated Press], since Miss Thomas has
already been mentioned, you get the first
question.
Q. Mr. President, your lawyer an-
nounced today that you will turn over to
the House Judiciary Committee all of the
materials that you made available to the
Special Prosecutor. I am wondering, sir,
what about other materials that the com-
mittee might want to see that the Prosecu-
tor didn't see?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier, that
matter has been under discussion, as you
probably know, between Mr. St. Clair,
White House Counsel, and Mr. Doar, the
counsel for the committee. And Mr. St.
Clair has made, I think, a very forthcom-
ing offer. He has indicated that we will
respond to any written interrogatories un-
der oath that the committee may have on
matters that they do not think are covered
adequately by the materials that have been
submitted to Mr. Jaworski. And in addi-
tion, he has indicated that in the event
that that is not satisfactory, in order to
bring the matter to a complete and,
we hope, early conclusion, that the Presi-
dent will be glad to meet with members
of the committee-perhaps the chairman
and the ranking minority member of the
committee—at the White House to an-
swer any further questions under oath that
they may have.
As far as other materials are concerned,
those matters will continue to be under
230
