[87] Mar. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
tilizer to put a bigger portion of their effort
into the production of fertilizer, rather
than into other areas. This, of course, is
only jawboning, because we cannot con-
trol them, we cannot direct it. The market
is what will eventually determine what
they do in this particular area.
In that field, however, I would like to
point up another area where there is a
cross-fertilization, so to speak, of policies.
You have often heard me call upon the
Congress to act on the proposal to dereg-
ulate natural gas. Now, that would seem
to be only something that would affect the
heating of homes in New England and
other parts of the country.
On the other hand, if natural gas is de-
regulated, it means that gas that now is
not being produced and is not being
shipped interstate because of a price level
that is too low will be produced and will
be shipped, and that means, of course,
more production in all areas which have
to do with the energy problem and par-
ticularly in the fertilizer area.
I don't think of any one single thing
that the Congress could do in this partic-
ular area that would be more helpful
than the deregulation of natural gas. It
will take some time before it will have its
effect, but there is no question that the
answer in this field is more production.
The deregulation of natural gas, pro-
ducing, for example, more, as we should,
in some of our Federal preserves like Elk
Hills, which again requires some action
by the Congress, and our general program
of making the United States self-sufficient
in energy by the year 1980-all of these
factors can contribute to helping on a
problem like fertilizer and also on the
general problem of energy for the farm.
Mr. Simon will comment upon that.
As you know, I have stated once the
embargo was lifted by the oil-producing
countries of the Mideast that this meant
that American agriculture should get 100
percent of its needs insofar as energy was
concerned. This, of course, means oil, gas,
propane, and all of the other areas.
Mr. Simon, I am sure, will assure you,
as he has me, that they can meet this goal.
We have the resources to do so. There
will be some spot problems, but those
problems will be dealt with, and he is
prepared to deal with them whenever they
arise. But the farmers, looking to the fu-
ture, can be assured that they are going
to have the energy that they need in terms
of oil and gas and these other elements
that I have spoken of, the energy that they
need to produce at a maximum amount
the food and the fiber that we need, and
that, of course, is of such great importance
to them, to their income, and to their wel-
fare as well as the Nation's welfare.
Another problem, of course, that we
are keenly aware of is one which we be-
lieve and I think you would agree is a
temporary one, and that is the problem
that the cattlemen face.
Having bought when prices were high
and held on perhaps a bit too long, they
are now in a situation where they would
have to sell when prices are lower. What
we can do in a situation like this is limited
to an extent, but at least, as Secretary
Butz, I think, has already reported to you,
we have moved at a time when prices are
lower-assuming that this may be a better
time to buy than later in the year-we
have moved with Government purchases
in a rather substantial amount.
This is not going to solve the problem
of the cattlemen, immediately or totally,
but at least it is a move in the direction
308
