Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
DEVELOPMENT
The undiscovered oil and gas beneath
our Outer Continental Shelf can provide
a significant portion of the energy neces-
sary to make us self-sufficient. I have al-
ready ordered leasing in that area to be
stepped up. Today I am directing the
Secretary of the Interior to increase the
acreage leased on the Outer Continental
Shelf to 10 million acres beginning in
1975, more than tripling what had origin-
ally been planned. In later years, the
amount of acreage to be leased will be
based on market needs and on industry's
record of performance in exploring and
developing leases. In contracting for
leases, the Secretary of the Interior is
also to ensure that the proper competitive
bidding procedures are followed and that
environmental safeguards are observed.
He will, in addition, set up an inter-
agency program for monitoring the en-
vironmental aspects of the new leasing
program. There will be no decision on
leasing on the Outer Continental Shelf in
the Atlantic and in the Gulf of Alaska
until the Council on Environmental Qual-
ity completes its current environmental
study of those areas.
ALASKA PIPELINES
In 1973, the Congress passed the Alas-
kan pipeline bill, allowing the construc-
tion of a vitally needed oil pipeline. The
Secretary of the Interior plans to issue the
construction permit for that pipeline this
afternoon, and construction should begin
this year.
It has long been clear that while an
oil pipeline was needed, it alone would not
be enough. In addition to the huge oil
reserves in the North Slope of Alaska,
there are also gas reserves there of at least.
26 trillion cubic feet-enough to heat 10
million homes for 20 years. Construction
of a gas pipeline should thus accompany
the construction of the oil pipeline. What
is now needed, and what I am directing,
is prompt action by the Administration.
Interior Secretary Morton expects to re-
ceive two competing applications for the
gas pipeline in the near future, one pro-
posing construction across Alaska and the
other proposing construction across Can-
ada. I have asked the Secretary to con-
sider these proposals carefully but
promptly and to deliver a recommenda-
tion to me as soon as possible. I have also
asked the Secretary to undertake a fur-
ther study of the need for future oil and
gas pipeline capacity and the best routes
for new pipelines should they prove
necessary.
STIMULATION OF SYNTHETIC FUEL
PRODUCTION
At current rates of consumption, our
coal reserves could supply our needs for
300 years while shale oil could satisfy
an additional 150 years of demand.
However, these resources are not easily
recoverable, or usable in a manner that
is environmentally acceptable. There-
fore, the development of a domestic syn-
thetic fuels industry-the production of
oil from shale and the production of gas
or oil from coal-can be an important
element of our program for reducing our
future dependence on energy imports.
The recent bidding for the first com-
mercial oil shale lease indicates strong
commercial interest in shale oil develop-
ment. Five other lease offerings of Fed-
eral oil shale lands will be made this
29
