[36] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
supplier of agricultural goods; but on the
other hand, world-wide shortages caused
our food prices to rise significantly. A
number of measures have now been taken
at home and abroad to help prevent a re-
currence of such problems. We have
brought land back into production, we
have taken every step we can to expand
our harvests, and we have established an
agricultural export monitoring system. In
addition, we have called for a World Food
Conference to meet in Rome this year,
where the newly developing problems of
agricultural supply and demand can be
addressed by both producer and consumer
nations.
The second major problem-the oil em-
bargo and its accompanying price in-
creases has given us further evidence of
our interdependence with other nations.
While our country is relatively less depend-
ent upon foreign supplies for our energy
than are most industrial nations, these de-
velopments are adversely affecting many
sectors of our economy. Again, as we have
done with regard to food shortages, we
have taken vigorous actions to meet en-
ergy shortages. The actions taken by the
Executive, the Congress, and especially by
the American people have enabled us to
make significant progress. The consump-
tion of almost every form of energy has
been dramatically reduced. But much
more needs to be done in order not only to
alleviate the current emergency but also
to assure that the United States can de-
velop greater energy resources of its own.
This January, I submitted to the Congress
my third special message on energy, out-
lining further needed legislation. I have
also invited the foreign ministers of the
major oil-consuming nations to Washing-
ton this month, initiating cooperative dis-
cussions on these problems. Those who
will attend this conference recognize that
the large price increases announced late
last year can only create hardships for
the major industrialized economies and
could have a disastrous impact upon the
world's poorest nations.
The new problems we face are of such
enormity that there may be a temptation
to delay further progress toward trade
and monetary reform. Nothing could be
more foolish. It is particularly important
that we move forward in a multinational
attempt to reduce trade barriers so that
individual nations are not tempted to "go
it alone" in seeking solutions. I consider
it essential that we continue to construct
a consultative framework in which new as
well as old issues can be addressed. The
current trade and monetary discussions
provide such a framework and also allow
us to continue our long-term effort to
build a more effective world economic
order. To make this possible, the Trade
Reform Act should be promptly passed
without restrictions upon our ability to
end trade discrimination against other
nations.
The Annual Report of the Council on
International Economic Policy provides
background and analysis which should be
highly useful to the Congress as it con-
siders these complex and important issues.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 7, 1974.
NOTE: The President's message, together with
the Annual Report of the Council on Interna-
tional Economic Policy, is printed in "Inter-
national Economic Report of the President,
Transmitted to the Congress February 1974"
(Government Printing Office, 113 pp.).
The President signed the report in a cere-
142
