[174] June 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
A third reason that this day will be a
memorable one for me has been the op-
portunity that it has provided to know for
the first time through personal discus-
sion-except for a brief telephone con-
versation a few months ago at Aswan-to
know the President of this nation, a man
who in a very short space of time has
earned the respect not only of his friends
and his nation's friends but those who are
his adversaries—or were his adversaries—
and certainly the respect of all observers
in the world.
As we look at this man and what he
has done, I would analyze leaders of the
world that I have met in two different
categories. It is, of course, sometimes
rather dangerous to oversimplify, but I
think it can be fairly said that sometimes
a leader concentrates almost exclusively
on the problems of his own country at the
expense of concentration that he might
well give to problems of the nations
around him or of the world that might
affect his country.
There are other leaders who have
gained their reputations through exactly
the opposite tactic; they have failed to
pay as much attention as they might to
the problems of their own people because
of their desire to become involved in ad-
venturous activities and policies with re-
gard to their neighbors and other coun-
tries in the world.
But what marks the difference between
a leader who is parochial on the one hand
or who is too much concerned about the
problems of other people than his own on
the other, is one who recognizes that the
two problems are inseparable, and so it
is with this nation.
Egypt, because of its size, because of its
location, because of the competence and
quality and ability of its people, because of
its great historical heritage, is destined to
play a great role in this area of the world
and in the whole world, as it has played
such a role in the centuries past.
And consequently, whoever leads this
people and this nation is one who should
concentrate his efforts on building a bet-
ter life for the people of his nation, and
President Sadat has done that. He has
dedicated his Presidency to accomplish-
ing that goal, but he has also recognized
that this country, for the reasons that I
have mentioned, must also play a role,
an activist role, a positive role on the world
scene, and particularly in this area of the
world which has caused so much suffering
and so much potential danger over these
past 30 to 40 years.
And so, the opportunity to meet with
President Sadat, to discuss not only the
new bilateral initiatives we are going to
undertake for better relations between
our own countries, initiatives that will
help us both, to discuss with him also the
problems of this area and to discuss with
him international policies generally was,
for me, a very valuable and a very con-
structive experience.
And so, you can see why I would say
that of all the many days that it has been
my privilege to spend abroad among great
people in many fine capitals, this day will
be remembered, certainly as much or even
more than almost any day I can
remember.
The President has spoken of some of
the difficult problems and the complex
ones that still exist in this area, and I
would be less than candid if I were not
to say, standing here in his presence, that
I do not come, just as Dr. Kissinger did
not come earlier in his conversations, with
488
