Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 30 [95]
We can be thankful that America pro-
duced such men, and we can be thankful
that in the future these men, their cour-
age, their continued service, will make it
possible for us to achieve the goal that all
Americans are dedicated to, peace for our-
selves and for all mankind.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:31 p.m. at
a special joint service review on the parade
grounds at the National War College at Fort
Lesley J. McNair.
In his opening words, the President referred
to Vice Adm. M. G. Bayne, USN, Commandant
of the National War College, and Tran Kim
Phuong, Ambassador to the United States from
the Republic of Vietnam.
94 Message Following Successful Flight of Mariner 10.
March 29, 1974
THE SUCCESSFUL flight of Mariner
10 to the planet Mercury marks another
historic milestone in America's continuing
exploration of the solar system. With this
mission we will begin to end centuries of
speculation about our planetary neighbor
closest to the Sun.
On behalf of all Americans, I extend
warmest congratulations to NASA and
the Mariner 10 team on their outstand-
ing performance. The hard work, skill,
and ingenuity that contributed to the
success of Mariner 10 is in keeping with
that historical tradition which began
when men landed at Plymouth Rock and
has continued through the landing of men
on the Moon.
NOTE: The message was sent to James C.
Fletcher, Administrator of the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration.
The Mariner 10 spacecraft photographed
the planet Mercury and collected data on
its environment and atmosphere, surface, and
body characteristics as part of a long-range
goal of investigating that planet and the planet
Venus. Launched in November of 1973, Ma-
riner 10 passed within 436 miles of Mercury
on March 29, 1974.
The text of the message was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
Reductions in Appropriations
95 Statement About Proposed
for Welfare Programs. March 30, 1974
DUE IN PART to the first major drop
in the Nation's welfare rolls in a number
of years, I am pleased to announce today
that I am asking the Congress to cut al-
most $800 million in appropriations for
welfare programs during the current fiscal
year.
This reduction in costs to the taxpayer
can be made without in any way reducing
welfare benefits to eligible recipients.
In recent years, Americans have had
to live with a continuing upward spiral
in both the size of the welfare rolls and
the cost of the welfare programs. The
tale has been a tragic one, and because the
welfare system is marred with inequities,
it has also been an outrageous one to both
recipients and taxpayers.
HEW Secretary Weinberger has now
reported to me encouraging evidence that
we are beginning to make some progress
in solving the welfare mess. As of the end
of December 1973, there were still 10.8
million people receiving assistance under
327
