Richard Nixon, 1974
May 11 [137]
it is rich. Because what happens inevitably
is a certain complacency, a certain soft-
ness that erodes the strength and the fiber
that made the nation the great nation that
it was.
In 2 years, the United States will reach
that period of 200-years-old, and already
there are those who look at America and
wonder: Will we be rich, as we will be?
Will we be strong, as we will be? But most
important, will America still have the
sense of vision, the sense of destiny, the
sense of character and drive and determi-
nation that brought us across the moun-
tains, across the prairies, and made us the
great and strong nation that we are? That
is the question.
And it is a question that is very im-
portant to Americans. But it is also im-
portant to all the people that live on this
Earth today.
Dr. Kamm was telling me that this
university proudly has in its graduating
class representatives from over 40 coun-
tries abroad as well as representatives
from 47 States. So, this is truly a university
in the true sense of universal, and there-
fore, as I lay before you the challenges
of the future, whether America has seen
its great period, or whether the next 200
years may be greater, as I lay those great
challenges out, you will see that they are
not just America's challenges but they are
those in which what America does will
contribute to the benefit of all the people
in the world.
I start with one that is very timely, and
that is the problem of energy. And on that
problem, those in this university have
special skills and knowledge far beyond
my own, but I do know this: that Amer-
ica consumes approximately 35 percent of
the energy in the world.
I know too, however, that America is
blessed with great natural resources and
great human and technological skills
which makes it possible for this Nation-
one of the few nations in the world, in-
cidently, of the industrial nations—to set
a goal which it can achieve, a goal of
being completely independent in terms of
its energy needs.
Let me tell you why we should have
that. In September and October and No-
vember of last year, we went through a
great crisis. It rebounded throughout our
entire economy. It hurt all sectors of it in
various ways. We are just recovering from
it.
We want good relations with all na-
tions in the world. But if the United
States has the resources to become inde-
pendent of any other nation for our en-
ergy, let's do it, and we can do it, and we
shall do it by the year 1980.
Now, what does that require? It re-
quires the development of our oil and gas
resources and some action by the Congress
that will allow their full development. It
requires the development of our coal re-
sources, in which we have two-thirds of
all the known coal resources in the free
world. We have not used them adequately
because of environmental problems and
other problems recently, but it is possible
not only to extract coal but to use coal and
to make it a clean fuel. And if we do so,
that can help make America self-sufficient
in energy, and that is why we should move
on that front.
And third, in areas little dreamed of
15, 20 years ago-nuclear power, which
can be the cleanest and the safest of all
power, solar energy, far out perhaps in
terms of what the science and art would
now seem to suggest, but certainly pos-
429
