Richard Nixon, 1974
May 15 [140]
subsequent studies and materials submit-
ted by concerned groups and individuals,
I intend to make further recommenda-
tions for State, and possibly Federal,
actions which seem appropriate.
There is clearly a need to take a long
look at the whole system of workers' com-
pensation. Fundamental questions have
been raised as to whether that system as
presently designed can achieve the goals
of equity and efficiency which were set
forth six decades ago.
One key question is whether the present
systems provide adequate incentives for
reducing hazards-both accidents and
diseases in the work environment. It is
raised by the continuing need to improve
workplace safety, which has resulted in
several major pieces of legislation during
this Administration, including the Coal
Mine Health and Safety Act (1969), the
Construction Safety Act (1969), and the
historic Occupational Safety and Health
Act (1970). Another question is whether
disabled workers are rehabilitated and re-
employed to the maximum extent possible.
There is some evidence that improved
programs might result in much smaller
proportions of permanently disabled
workers. Thirdly, it is open to question
whether benefits are delivered promptly,
efficiently, and equitably. There is evi-
dence that the delivery system may be too
expensive, may pay too much for small
claims and too little for large, and may
be too slow in delivery of benefits.
We do not know the answers to these
questions, but we must find them. The
answers are essential to the protection and
well-being of American workers. It would
be foolhardy to attempt to design an ideal
system to meet the goals of workers' com-
pensation without knowing what these
answers are.
Therefore, I have also directed that
the new task force, with the participation
of concerned Federal agencies, initiate a
major, carefully planned research pro-
gram that will focus on finding the an-
swers to these major questions. This re-
search program will also address the need
for a data system to provide relevant,
reliable, and comparable data with which
to assess and improve the management of
workers' compensation on a continuing
basis.
In summary, I am setting in motion an
accelerated process of improvement in
State workers' compensation systems, sup-
ported by Federal technical assistance and
carefully monitored and evaluated by the
interagency task force. Concurrently, a
major research effort will be undertaken
to analyze fundamental issues and to de-
velop policy options that come closer to
attaining the goals of workers' compensa-
tion. I hope this approach will begin an
intensive, cooperative, and continuing
effort by all levels of government to better
serve the welfare of all American workers.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the task force by Peter J. Brennan,
Secretary, and Richard F. Schubert, Under
Secretary, Department of Labor.
437
