Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 13 [109]
I have just met with 35 world leaders
in Paris, and I can tell you that America
is respected in the world. But the key to
peace in the world is here, here in Amer-
ica. It is here not just in the Presidency,
but it is here in the character of the
American people, in our strength, not only
our military strength but primarily our
strength and our faith in ourselves and in
our country.
I have seen it throughout this "Thumb"
area of Michigan where I have seen your
flags. I saw it yesterday in Xenia, Ohio,
where I saw a tornado had swept through
town, and people instead of leaving had
put up a flag on what was once their house
to show that they still had faith in their
town, in their country, and in their God.
And I can tell you that there isn't any
question that there is the best chance in
our lifetime, probably in this Nation's his-
tory, to build a world of peace and to also
have peace and to have it at a time when
we can have prosperity without inflation.
We have problems now, which, as you
know, are related to the energy crisis, but
there again is where your new Congress-
man is going to come in. We need to
break the bottleneck of the legislation that
will allow us to produce those products
that will provide the fuel that we need
that will build up the automobile produc-
tion, that will provide the fertilizer that
we need that will build up the farm pro-
duction. All of this we can and will have,
but we need a strong, full-time Congress-
109
man in Washington to do it from the
Eighth District.
We can't have a half-time, part-time
man in Washington, one who is there for
only half the votes, and I can tell you that
Jim Sparling-I have known him for 13
years-Jim Sparling, like Jim Harvey be-
fore him, he will be working for you 100
percent of the time. He will be working
for America 100 percent of the time. He
will be working for a strong America, for
a prosperous America. He believes in you,
and
you can believe in him.
And finally, I want to say to all of you,
this is the first time, they tell me, that a
President ever traveled through the
"Thumb" area of Michigan. I am mighty
proud to have been the first, and I hope
that others will have the same experience
that I have had. It has been a magnificent
day. In fact, the weather is warmer here
than it is in Washington, D.C., today. But
it has been a magnificent day primarily
in terms of the warm friendship that we
have found.
We have seen some that support the
other man. That is fine, but we have seen
the great majority supporting our can-
didate. That is better. We are for him,
and thank you very much for coming out
today.
NOTE: The special election was held on April
16, 1974, to fill the vacancy caused by Repre-
sentative Russell James Harvey's resignation, on
January 31, to become U.S. District Judge for
the Eastern District of Michigan.
Statement About Signing the Indian Financing Act
of 1974. April 13, 1974
I TAKE special pleasure today in signing
into law S. 1341, the Indian Financing
Act.
This bill is the second to be enacted of
seven measures which I proposed 4 years
ago, when I pledged to follow a new phi-
355
