[9] Jan. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
As we draw nearer to our Nation's 200th
birthday, I believe that the Legacy of
Parks program exemplifies the approach
that I believe should characterize our
Bicentennial activities-combining Fed-
eral resources and local initiative to pro-
vide a heritage which our descendants will
be able to enjoy long into the future.
I also consider the Legacy of Parks
program an outstanding example of the
New Federalism in action. I hope that
future generations will look upon this
program as a symbol of the 1970's, a
reminder of the major new effort we have
ΙΟ
launched to revitalize State and local gov-
ernments by concentrating resources and
decisionmaking authority in those levels
of government closest to the people.
All Americans can be proud that the
Legacy of Parks program is providing
great public benefits while strengthening
the bonds of our Federal system.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement providing additional infor-
mation on the program as well as a list and
description of the 34 parcels of land.
Letter to Heads of Government of Major Oil-Consuming
Nations Inviting Their Participation in a Meeting on
International Energy Problems. January 10, 1974
DEVELOPMENTS in the international
energy situation have brought consumer
and producer nations to an historic cross-
road. The world's nations face a funda-
mental choice that can profoundly affect
the structure of international political
and economic relations for the remainder
of this century.
Today the energy situation threatens to
unleash political and economic forces that
could cause severe and irreparable dam-
age to the prosperity and stability of the
world. Two roads lie before us. We can
go our own separate ways, with the pros-
pect of progressive division, the erosion of
vital interdependence, and increasing
political and economic conflict; or we can
work in concert, developing enlightened
unity and cooperation, for the benefit of
all mankind-producer and consumer
countries alike.
It was with these thoughts in mind that
I asked Secretary of State Kissinger in his
December speech to the Society of Pil-
grims in London to propose establishment
of an Energy Action Group and to urge
a concerted action program among con-
sumers and producers to meet the world's
energy needs in a manner which would
satisfy the legitimate interests of both the
consuming and producing countries.
As a first step to carry out this concept,
I invite (name of country) to a meeting
of major industrial consumer nations to
be held at the Foreign Minister level on
February 11, 1974, or any other con-
venient date that week. I would like to
take this opportunity to invite you to send
your representative to such a meeting here
in Washington. After I know your views,
I plan to send a Special Representative
to discuss with your Government the spe-
cifics of this meeting, including suggestions
on agenda and substance.
Our concept is that the Foreign Minis-
ters meeting would agree on an analysis of
8
