Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
that in 1976 what I am concerned about is
that whoever is the candidate on the Re-
publican ticket, that I want him to be able
to run on a good platform.
In 1968 when I ran, we had a war
where 300 Americans were being killed
every week. There were prisoners of war
who hadn't come back for over 5 to 6
years. We had riots in our cities, and burn-
ings. We had disturbances on our cam-
puses, the rate of crime was going up, and
we were moving into a highly inflationary
period. We hadn't had prosperity without
war for over 10 years.
In 1976, it is my belief that if we hold
to our course on the economy and if we
continue to move forward on the world
front, that this is what Senator Percy or
whoever gets the nomination will be able
to run on: One, a world at peace, with
the United States at peace with every
nation in the world, and with the United
States having played the role to move to-
ward negotiation with the Soviet Union,
rather than confrontation, which would
avoid what neither the Soviet Union or
the United States wants-nuclear self-
destruction.
That the United States had been re-
sponsible for starting communication with
the leaders of one-fourth of the people in
the world who live in the People's Re-
public of China, not a great military
power at the present time, but an enor-
mously potential power in the future, and
if we don't move now, moving later could
be disastrous and impossible.
And third, I want this candidate, who-
ever he is, to be able to run on a platform
where we have prosperity in this country,
without war and with inflation cut down,
with the rise in crime turned around, as it
has been over these past 5 years—it is
finally beginning to come down-with
the rise in use of drug addiction coming
down, as it has been in the past year after
going up for the past 12 years before that,
and with a program in the field of welfare
in which we finally make it more profit-
able to go to work than to go onto welfare
in this country, and a program in the field
of health, where every American will have
the opportunity to get the best health care
that is available in the world, but where
we do it through the private medical pro-
fession rather than setting up a huge Gov-
ernment program which would have the
doctors working for the Government
rather than for the patients.
Now, if we can accomplish some of
those goals as well as some of the others
I laid out in the State of the Union, who-
ever the candidate is in '76—and I wish
him well, whoever it is-we will have a
good chance to win. If we don't work out
those problems, it isn't going to make any
difference who gets the nomination. The
candidate from Mayor Daley's party will
win.
WATERGATE AND THE QUESTION OF
RESIGNATION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, forgetting all
other considerations of whether the
Watergate situation was or is as publi-
cized or not because it is still in the process
of being litigated, do you not think that
the entire incident has begun to affect
the quality of life in this country, partic-
ularly the great deal of uncertainties
that people have about it, and also has
begun to affect the concept of ethics, par-
ticularly in our young people? And for
these reasons alone, would it not be better
that you resign at this time and allow your-
self the public forum as a private citizen
to answer all accusations on all parts?
269
