[135] May 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
at a rate below the system's current bor-
rowing costs. Those thrift institutions
which are actively lending money for
home financing will be favored in receiv-
ing advances. The system already has ad-
vances outstanding of over $16 billion, a
record level of support to the thrift insti-
tutions.
4. ASSISTING THE MOBILE HOME MARKET
Under legislation effective earlier this
year, I am authorizing a new FHA Mobile
Home Loan Insurance Program which
should make purchase of mobile homes
easier than it has been in the past. The
new rules will provide for FHA-insured
loans for mobile homes on terms substan-
tially better than those presently available
in the market. The program will also make
more funds available to mobile home pur-
chasers through the use of GNMA's Mort-
gage-Backed Securities Program.
II. PENDING LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
None of the actions noted above re-
quires Congressional approval. But if the
Nation is to build the foundation for a
more stable housing industry, less sus-
ceptible to the market fluctuations which
now characterize the housing market, cer-
tain steps must be taken which require
Congressional action.
On September 19, 1973, I proposed a
number of measures to the Congress in
a special housing message. None of these
measures has been enacted. Together,
they will go far toward establishing an
orderly housing market. In particular, I
want to call attention to five of them:
-Extension of the authority to issue
FHA insurance and extension of the max-
imum size of mortgages which GNMA
can purchase. Without these steps, FHA
insurance and GNMA's activities would
be stopped in October at a time when
they are most needed.
-Increases in the size of mortgages
eligible for FHA insurance and reduction
of downpayment requirements. Such
changes would appropriately reflect the
higher prices of houses today.
-Authority for the FHA and VA inter-
est rates to adjust automatically to the
market. Trying to fix an interest rate ad-
ministratively results in market discrepan-
cies that act to divert funds from FHA
and VA mortgages and to increase dis-
count "points" in the sale of houses.
Neither is desirable. A free-floating FHA/
VA interest rate would eliminate both.
For example, the FHA and the VA today
are raising the maximum interest rate on
their insured mortgage loans to 834 per-
cent from the former rate of 82 percent.
This rate more closely corresponds with
the market interest rate and will reduce
the number of "points" which are now
being charged under VA and FHA loans.
This will be the fifth time in the last 12
months that the FHA rate has been
changed administratively in the effort to
adjust to market rates. A floating system
would allow these changes to be made
automatically to adjust to the market.
-Authority for FHA mortgage insur-
ance to be written on a coinsurance basis.
This provision would streamline FHA
processing, reduce the default rate, and
permit a lower FHA insurance premium.
-Authority for more flexible repay-
ment plans on FHA-insured mortgages.
This experimental measure would allow,
among other things, for somewhat lower
payments in early years, which will be of
particular benefit to young families whose
earnings are likely to rise in future years.
424
