Appendix B
March
1 Representatives of the Reserve Officers As-
sociation met with the President at the
White House.
I The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
dinner at the White House for 26 Mem-
bers of Congress and their wives.
4 Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment James T. Lynn met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss the
latest legislative developments concerning
the proposed better communities act.
During the meeting, they were joined by
Under Secretary Floyd H. Hyde whose
resignation the President had accepted with
deep regret.
4 Nello Teer and James Sprouse, president
and executive vice president, respectively,
of the Associated General Contractors of
America, called on the President at the
White House.
5 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with the chairmen and
ranking Republican members of the Sen-
ate and House Appropriations Committees
to discuss appropriations for the fiscal 1975
budget.
5 Vice President Ford met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
5 Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger met
with the President at the White House to
discuss his trip to the Middle East and his
recent discussions in Europe.
7 Richard F. Proud, speaker of the Nebraska
Legislature, met with the President at the
White House to discuss energy matters.
7 Winners of the Federal Woman's Award
for 1973 met with the President at the
White House.
7 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
dinner at the White House for Governors
and their wives attending the annual winter
meeting of the National Governors Confer-
ence in Washington.
March
8 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House for a discussion of Secretary
of State Kissinger's trip to the Middle East,
the energy situation, and the President's
message to the Congress on campaign re-
form.
8 The President participated in a swearing-in
ceremony at the White House for Dean
Burch as Counsellor to the President.
12 King Hussein of Jordan met with the
President at the White House.
13 The President met with a group of advisers
at the White House to discuss the economy
and energy. Participating in the meeting
were: George P. Shultz, Secretary of the
Treasury; Roy L. Ash, Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget; William
E. Simon, Administrator of the Federal
Energy Office; John T. Dunlop, Director
of the Cost of Living Council; and Herbert
Stein, Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers.
13 Mrs. Donald Spicer, president of the
Daughters of the American Revolution,
called on the President at the White House.
13 Miss Kathy Raskin, 1974 Maid of Cotton,
called on the President at the White House.
She was accompanied by Representative
Sam Steiger of Arizona.
13 The following Ambassadors presented their
credentials to the President in ceremonies
at the White House: Sir Patrick Shaw of
Australia, Constantine P. Panayotacos of
Greece, Gerard S. Bouchette of Haiti, Sir
Peter Ramsbotham of the United Kingdom,
and Joseph Nizeyimana of Rwanda.
21 The President met with the National Secu-
rity Council in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
22 The President met with Secretary of State
Henry A. Kissinger prior to the Secretary's
departure for the Soviet Union on March 24
for discussions with the Soviet leadership
in preparation for the President's visit later
in the year.
657
