Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 10 [74]
derway as we approach the Bicentennial-
from the little town of Dorset, Vermont,
where a population of 300 is planning
seven different programs, to the great
cities like Detroit, where an ethnic festival
is on the drawing boards. Each group,
each community is free to set and achieve
its own goals, ranging from the most seri-
ous and enduring to the most lighthearted
and temporary. Given the backing of the
people, these projects will succeed, and
they will make our 200th birthday as a
nation the most moving, most representa-
tive, and most enjoyable celebration in
American history.
The Bicentennial is an almost unparal-
leled opportunity to enlist the talents of
America-poets and planners, scholars
and steelworkers, performers and par-
ticipants—in a vast array of events and
activities that express and strengthen
America's sense of herself as a creative
and great national community.
One of our greatest Presidents was also
a keen historian. Long before he became
actively involved in politics, Woodrow
Wilson had thoroughly studied and had
taught American history, and he had built
a deep understanding of our origins as a
free people.
"The American Revolution," he wrote,
"was a beginning, not a consummation.'
That is exactly the way we should feel
about the Bicentennial. In looking back
with pride and, perhaps, a little nostalgia
on our first 200 years as a nation, we must
not lose sight of the future.
The Founding Fathers realized this.
They gave us a set of principles and a body
of laws that were designed to last-to
grow and adjust with time, but to remain
forever true to the basic values of free-
dom and individual dignity.
In celebrating our Bicentennial it is es-
sential that we, too, look ahead. We must
use the opportunity the Bicentennial of-
fers us to develop new institutions and
new ideas to help determine America's
course in the coming century.
We face great challenges, but in our
laws, in our ideals, and in the character
of the American people, we hold the keys
to all the problems that confront us.
Like the Founding Fathers, we are
bound to experience many problems along
the way. But like them, we will have our
share of disagreements and disappoint-
ments. That is the price that every free
society must pay, and history shows us that
it is a price worth paying for freedom.
But if we work together as men and
women of good will-as Americans always
have in difficult times-the best that is in
all of us and in the American system will
prevail.
We can build a future in which 100
years from now another generation of
Americans celebrating another anniver-
sary can look back with pride on a time
when our generation insured for them a
world at peace, a nation healthy and free,
and a national heritage which will be a
sound foundation for even greater
progress in the future.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:07 p.m. from
Key Biscayne, Fla. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio.
Following the address, the President met
with John W. Warner, Administrator-designate
of the American Revolution Bicentennial Ad-
ministration.
On the same day, the White House released
at Key Biscayne an advance text of the Presi-
dent's address and a fact sheet on the Ameri-
can Revolution Bicentennial. An announce-
ment containing biographical data on Mr.
Warner was also released and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 10, p. 313).
43-437 O-75-19
255
