Richard Nixon, 1974
May 10 [135]
ket in times of credit stringency. Under
this plan, the Government National Mort-
gage Association (GNMA) commits mort-
gage money to lenders making FHA-in-
sured or VA-guaranteed mortgage loans
on new homes. When the home is com-
pleted and sold, GNMA purchases the
mortgage from the lender. Mortgages pur-
chased under the Tandem Plan are resold
by GNMA at a price reflecting the
vailing market interest rate.
pre-
The advantage of the plan is that with
the GNMA commitment, the home buyer,
builder, and lender have an assured source
of financing at a known, favorable inter-
est rate. The cost to the Government is
limited to the loss which GNMA realizes
if its selling price for a mortgage is less
than its original purchase price.
In January of this year, I approved au-
thority for GNMA to make commitments
to purchase up to $6.6 billion of FHA/VA
mortgages covering new construction and
bearing a 734 percent interest rate. This
authority was enough to provide financ-
ing for at least 200,000 new housing units.
As should be expected, today's higher
market interest rates and the decreased
availability of mortgage money have
greatly accelerated general use of the plan
by lenders in the last few months. It is
clear that the original authority for $6.6
billion of commitments will be fully used
long before the end of the year.
I am today authorizing GNMA to ex-
tend Tandem Plan up to $3.3 billion of
mortgages, enough to finance at least
100,000 additional homes. The interest
rate on these mortgages will be 8 percent
which is even lower in relation to today's
market rates than the 734 percent was in
relation to the market in January.
2. INITIATING A NEW MORTGAGE
COMMITMENT PROGRAM
At my request, the Federal Home Loan
Bank System is initiating a new commit-
ment program which will cover mortgages
other than FHA or VA mortgages. This
new conventional mortgage program will
allow the Federal Home Loan Bank Sys-
tem to buy up to $3 billion worth of new
conventional mortgages from savings in-
stitutions during the remainder of 1974.
The program should finance more than
100,000 housing units. These commit-
ments will be made on conventional mort-
gages of $35,000 or less, covering new
construction. The interest rate will be 83/4
percent, which is substantially below the
market rate prevailing in many parts of
our country. In the event conditions in the
money market do not permit the Federal
Home Loan Bank System to obtain the
necessary funds in the private market, the
Treasury will provide financing under its
statutory standby loan authority.
my
The conventional mortgage market nor-
mally does not require this type of Govern-
ment support, but present circumstances
warrant these unusual measures. It is
hope and expectation that future market
conditions, together with the improve-
ments in the flow of mortgage money that
should result from legislation I have pro-
posed, would obviate any need to use such
Treasury authority again.
3. MAKING BELOW-MARKET ADVANCES TO
THRIFT INSTITUTIONS
At my request the Federal Home Loan
Bank System will make available up to
$4 billion of advances to thrift institutions
423
