Richard Nixon, 1974
July 19 [226]
As you were telling me just a few
moments ago in the office, the areas of
geology, of topography, predictions with
regard to the weather, and needless to
say, in communications, all of these have
received a tremendous input that they
would not have had unless we had had
the space program.
In addition, there is the fallout, tech-
nologically, which cannot be estimated in
terms of money, technologically, because
of the contribution of the space program.
The most important, I think, the greatest
contribution of this program is not explo-
ration and it is not the technology, where
we are getting benefits that are material,
but it is the spirit that you and your col-
leagues in the program have had the op-
portunity to demonstrate to the American
people and to people all over the world.
We are proud of the men who have
gone to space, we are very proud of all
of those who helped you make it possible
to go into space. Without a great chal-
lenge you can't be a great person, and we
have demonstrated through this program,
and we congratulate you again 5 years
later, you and your colleagues, for all that
you have done.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 12:25
p.m. at the Western White House in San
Clemente, Calif.
On July 13, 1974, the President signed Proc-
lamation 4303, designating the period July 16
through July 24 as United States Space Week,
1974-
226 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Herbert Stein as
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
July 19, 1974
Dear Herb:
I have your letter of July 1, and though
I have known of your plans for some time,
it is nevertheless with reluctance and the
deepest personal sense of regret that I ac-
cept your resignation as Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, effective
on a date to be determined.
With your departure, I am losing an
immensely valued economic adviser who
has served this Administration with un-
qualified dedication, and who for nearly
three years has guided the Council with
great distinction as its Chairman. It has
been a period of exceptional challenge but
also unusual opportunity for economic
policy, and I believe we have accom-
plished much in relation to the size of the
problems which have confronted us. Your
participation in the crucial decisions dur-
ing this time has clearly left its imprint on
our economic policies and, I am confi-
dent, it will leave a favorable mark on the
Nation's economic history.
Through your regular reports, I have
been kept well informed about the
economy, and the analyses you and the
Council have provided me have given
valuable insights into complex economic
issues. I have especially admired the skill,
clarity and substance with which you have
been able to carry out the difficult but es-
sential responsibility of explaining the
economy and our policies to the public. I
know your many friends and colleagues
throughout government join me in saying
599
