Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 6 [69]
The rollback would not only cut domes-
tic oil production, but would also retard
imports since in the present environment
oil companies are reluctant to import oil
and gasoline that would have to be sold
at prices far above the domestic prices.
Further, the effects of the price roll-
back would not be confined to the im-
mediate situation. The longer-run conse-
quences could be even more serious. If
we are to achieve energy independence,
hundreds of billions of private dollars will
have to be invested in the development of
energy from U.S. sources. This money
will not be invested if investors do not
have reasonable assurance of being able
to earn a return in the marketplace. To
make the price of oil a political football,
as this act does, would be a serious setback
for Project Independence.
As we call upon industry to provide
these supplies, I feel very strongly that we
must also insure that oil companies do
not benefit excessively from the energy
problem. I continue to believe that the
most effective remedy for unreasonably
high profits is the windfall profits tax
which I have proposed. That tax would
eliminate unjust profits for the oil com-
panies, but instead of reducing supplies,
it would encourage expanded research,
exploration and production of new energy
resources. The Congress is holding hear-
ings on this proposal, and I hope it will
move rapidly toward passage. I urge the
Congress to enact this windfall profits tax
as quickly as possible.
OBJECTIONABLE PROGRAM FOR
UNEMPLOYMENT
Beyond the rollback provision, the
Energy Emergency Act is also objection-
able because it would establish an un-
workable and inequitable program of
unemployment payments. Under it, the
Government would be saddled with the
impossible task of determining whether
the unemployment of each of the Na-
tion's jobless workers is "energy related."
In addition, eligibility for these benefits
would not take into account the avail-
ability of jobs in the area. There is no
excuse for shoveling out the taxpayer's
money under a standard so vague and in
a fashion so arbitrary.
The correct answer to the problem of
those who became temporarily unem-
ployed for any reason, energy or other-
wise, is to strengthen our regular unem-
ployment insurance program, extend it to
workers not now covered, and provide ad-
ditional benefits to those who lose jobs in
areas where high unemployment rates
show that other jobs will be hard to find.
I asked the Congress to strengthen and
extend the unemployment insurance sys-
tem last year. I recently expanded this re-
quest to provide additional benefits in
areas of high unemployment.
I urge the Congress to enact this latest,
expanded proposal.
LOW INTEREST LOANS
In addition, this legislation contains au-
thority for the Department of Housing
and Urban Development and the Small
Business Administration to make low in-
terest loans to homeowners and small
businesses to finance insulation, storm
windows and heating units. If every eli-
gible homeowner and small businessman
took advantage of this section, the result
could be an outlay for federally-guaran-
teed, low interest loans of many billions of
dollars. The actual energy savings pro-
duced by these vast expenditures would
227
