Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 18 [48]
And so, when any of you may have
your concerns about this setback or that,
remember that there have been men and
women in our history who have survived
great problems, and the more difficult
they are, the stronger they become. That
is what made America.
And then there is one final element of
the greatness of this country that I refer
to, and it is this: America has always been
driven forward by a sense of destiny.
Thomas Jefferson said when this country
was being founded, when the Declaration
of Independence, which is inscribed be-
hind us here at this park, when it was
written, he said we act not for ourselves
alone, but for the whole human race.
When you stop to think about it, that
was a rather presumptuous thing for a
man to say at that time, speaking of a
weak, poor country like America. But Jef-
ferson, and Washington before him, and
other Presidents after them, also had that
sense of vision, and today it is true. And I
want to say something again, particularly
to our young people and to all of us who
have responsibility for your children and
grandchildren in the years ahead: What
America does or fails to do will determine
the peace of the world for generations to
come. Maybe some of us would not want
it that way. I know that many, after the
difficult experiences of a war in Vietnam
and before that Korea and before that
World War II and before that World
War I, we say, let us put down the mantle
of leadership, let someone else have the
responsibilities to maintain the strength
that keeps freedom possible here and in
many nations throughout the world.
But I can say to you that unless Amer-
ica maintains its strength and meets the
responsibilities to defend freedom, which
we are doing throughout the world, it
means that freedom not only will be en-
dangered, but the peace of the world will
be no longer secure.
And on this occasion then, let us dedi-
cate ourselves to the kind of peace we
want. It is good that the peace of the
world is in our hands. I say that from the
standpoint of other nations, because we
seek not to enslave them, we seek not any
domination over them, we seek only for
themselves what we have, the right to in-
dependence, to freedom for all of our
people.
And it is also good for us, because when
a nation and a people seek great goals,
they are a great people, and when it re-
fuses to accept the challenge to seek great
goals, they no longer are a great people.
And I can say to you today, my friends
here in Alabama, that as we look toward
the end of this century and as I think of
the role America can and will play,
I am confident we can build a new world,
a new world in which nations will have
differences, but in which we can have
peace among peoples, a new world in
which America will benefit a great deal
from it, because we will have what we
want, that prosperity without war here in
the United States of America.
There is one final thought that I would
leave with this great audience today. It
also has been alluded to by the president
of the Sertoma Club, and it is this-When
we think of America and other civiliza-
tions, we must have a concern about this
nagging fact of history: Most civilizations
or nations run out their course in about
200 years, and the reason is not because
they became poor and not because they
became weak, but because they lost the
will to be great. They turned inward and
the divisions destroyed them. In other
words, a great nation sometimes cannot
173
