Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 10 [108]
are for a good environment. But also, we
are for jobs, and we have to have jobs
or we are not going to be able to enjoy
that clean air and that good environment.
And that is why the auto emission
standards that Bob Griffin has been trying
to get changed, that this Administration
supports, they have to be relaxed. And
if that happens, it means that automobile
producers will be able to produce more,
at less cost. And it means more jobs for
the people in this area.
But that legislation sits there. It is bot-
tlenecked in the Congress of the United
States, a Congress that has failed to act.
And then, of course, there are other pro-
visions that I could talk about. I don't
suppose that many people here who have
not studied the natural resources of this
country are aware of the fact that the
United States has over 60 percent of all
the coal resources in the free world. We
have got to use more of that coal. But
again, in order to do it, we have to have
legislation passed, a number of pieces of
legislation that are before the Congress,
that would allow that coal, first, to be
mined and, second, to be used.
Now, what does that mean to you? That
means that we have more gasoline, more
fuel, more products available which will
enable automobile production to go up
to where it ought to be, which means full
employment in the automobile industry
in all its related areas, particularly in this
area.
Now, let me tell you what we need in
order to get that. We need men in the
House, we need men in the Senate who
will not just complain, who will not just
be against something, but will be for
something for your jobs—and will vote
for these programs rather than keeping
that bottleneck there. And Jim Sparling is
that kind of a man.
The second problem that I know affects
everybody here is the problem with the
cost of living. And let me say there is one
important way to keep down the cost of
living, and that is to keep down the cost
of Government in Washington, D.C.
The other point that should be made is
that if our cost of living is going to come
down, we need to increase the production
of those items that go into the cost of liv-
ing, the production on our farms—which
I will address later in the day on this trip
I am going to take through the "Thumb”
area-and the production in other areas,
because only in that way, by producing
more, can we get down the cost of the
things that you buy at the supermarket or
the grocery store when you go out to do
your shopping.
And then there are some other points
that should be made-and I make them
only briefly on this occasion-as to what
we need in terms of representation in this
district and in this Congress for you.
First, a new health program. Every fam-
ily, I am sure, has known what it means
sometimes, either in your own family or
in a neighbor's family or relative's family,
when you have a catastrophic illness and
it isn't covered by insurance. Every family
knows what it means not to be able to
afford a doctor when you are sick. And
so, we have a program which is lying there
before the Congress, one that will provide
health insurance for all Americans, one
that will provide for catastrophic illnesses,
and that program ought to be acted upon.
And the main point is that it is a program
that will not require new taxes, and the
people of the United States want that kind
of a health program.
347
