Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 25 [61]
country, too. That is the notary date on
the deed that allowed you to give your
papers to the Government and pay just
token taxes for 2 years. On that same
date, you had a tax reform message in
which you said, and I quote: Special
preferences in the law permit far too
many Americans to pay less than their
fair share of taxes. Too many others bear
too much of the tax burden.
Now, Mr. President, do you think you
paid your fair share of taxes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would point
out that those who made deductions, such
as I made in this particular instance, in-
cluded John Kenneth Galbraith, Jerome
Wiesner, Vice President Humphrey,
President Johnson, a number of others.*
I did not write that law. When it was
brought to my attention, rather vigor-
ously by President Johnson when I saw
him shortly after my election, he thought
that it would be wise for me to give my
papers to the Government and take the
proper deduction.
I did that. Under the circumstances, as
At his news conference on February 26,
1974, Deputy Press Secretary Gerald L. Warren
stated: "The information that Mr. Wiesner had
donated certain papers was reported in De-
cember by wire services and others, and ap-
parently Mr. Wiesner did not take a deduction
of the value of those papers. . . . The President
certainly regrets the mention of Mr. Wiesner."
Mr. Wiesner was president of the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology and Mr. Gal-
braith was a professor of economics at Harvard
University.
you know now, that deduction is no longer
allowed. As far as I am concerned, I think
that was probably a proper decision.
OIL EMBARGO
[21.] Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chi-
cago Daily News] is next.
Q. In your State of the Union Address,
you mentioned that Arab leaders had as-
sured you that they were calling an ur-
gent meeting to discuss or consider the
lifting of the embargo. Were you misled
by the Arab leaders or what happened to
that meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor, we were
informed that they were calling an ur-
gent meeting. We expected that to take
place on the 14th of February, but the
Arab leaders, as you know, are not a
united group necessarily, and that is an
understatement. Under the circumstances,
while the Arab leaders who had given us
this assurance tried to go forward with
the meeting, they were unable to get the
cooperation of others.
I believe now, however, that they will
get that cooperation, that the meeting will
be held, and I believe that they will lift
the embargo.
MR. CORMIER. Thank
President.
you, Mr.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-sixth news con-
ference was held at 7:30 p.m. in the East Room
at the White House on Monday, February 25,
1974. It was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television.
209
