[101] Apr. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
eral members, at the request of the Gov-
ernors of the States within the proposed
commission area. Each commission is re-
sponsible for planning the best use of
water and related land resources in its
area and for recommending priorities for
implementation of such planning. The
commissions, through efforts to increase
public participation in the decisionmaking
process, can and do provide a forum for all
the people within the commission area to
voice their ideas, concerns, and sugges-
tions.
The commissions submitting reports
are New England, Great Lakes, Pacific
Northwest, Ohio River, Missouri River,
and the Upper Mississippi. The territory
these six commissions cover includes all
or part of 32 States.
The enclosed annual reports indicate
the activities and accomplishments of the
commissions during fiscal year 1973. A
brief description of current and potential
problems, studies, and approaches to solu-
tions are included in the reports.
The White House,
April 4, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The six reports are entitled:
New England River Basins Commission:
1973 Annual Report (36 pp.).
Great Lakes Basin Commission: Annual Re-
port-Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1973
(12 pp.).
Pacific Northwest River Basins Commission:
Annual Report-Fiscal Year 1973 (19
pp.).
Ohio River Basin Commission: 1973 Annual
Report (20 pp.).
Missouri River Basin Commission: 1973 An-
nual Report (20 pp.).
Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission,
annual report (12 pp.).
102 Remarks on Arrival at Paris To Attend Memorial
Services for President Georges Pompidou.
Mr. Foreign Minister, all of the distin-
guished ladies and gentlemen who are
present on this occasion:
I have come from Washington today
to Paris to bring from all of the American
people the heartfelt sympathy to the peo-
ple of France on the occasion of the loss
of a great leader. It was just 5 [3] years
ago that I stood in this place when I at-
tended the ceremonies on the occasion of
the death of General de Gaulle. And at
that time, I recall there were many in the
world who wondered if there was one who
could follow a man who was truly one of
the great statesmen of the 20th century.
France found such a man-President
Pompidou. I have had the privilege to
work with him, to know him for these
April 5, 1974
past 5 years. He was a man of extraor-
dinary intelligence, of superb devotion
and dedication to duty, and above all, of
indomitable courage. And never was that
courage displayed more than during the
last months of his life.
I met him in Iceland about 10 months
ago. I knew then, or felt then, although
he did not tell me, that he was nearing the
end of his life. But his last months were
a period of true greatness, because despite
the adversity, he rose above it and served
to the last with all of the courage and all
the distinction that had been the mark of
his life of service to his country.
President Pompidou came from the
heart of France, and I bring from the
hearts of all Americans our deepest sym-
336
