[137] May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
The fourth area is related to the third
in a very interesting way. You hear of the
great hostility—and there is hostility at
times in the philosophy of the United
States and that of the great super power,
the Soviet Union, and the super power of
the future, the People's Republic of
China and you wonder, what areas are
there where our interests do not collide?
What areas are there where our interests
are together? And there are many.
They do not receive the attention that
they should: the joint project, for ex-
ample, of the United States and the Soviet
Union exploring space peacefully; the
joint programs that we have developed
with the Soviet Union and some also with
the People's Republic of China, in the
field of the environment where we share
what we learn with them and they with
us; and the joint programs, for example,
that we have, and I mention this particu-
larly in the field of health.
I found that in my talks with Mr.
Brezhnev and with Mr. Chou En-lai and
Mr. Mao Tse-tung, each in individual
conversations emphasized the need, what-
ever differences in philosophies that we
have, that the scientists and the medical
technicians and doctors of the world
should have no disagreement about work-
ing together against the diseases which are
the scourges of mankind.
Just to recount to the younger members
of this graduating class how much has
happened in so few years, it is hard to
realize that the man who served longest
as President of the United States-12
years was crippled with polio, because
that was before the days of television and
we did not think about it. He served well.
But it is also well for us to realize that
today, he would not have had polio.
We all think of this in personal terms.
And I remember in our own family, 45
years ago, two brothers-one younger, one
older died of tuberculosis within 2 years
of each other. Today, that would not hap-
pen, not in my family or in yours, because
they have found the virus and they can
kill it.
And that is why we have mounted
within the Government of the United
States a great program to find the cure
or a number of cures, and it may be a
number, for different types of cancer.
That is why we have mounted programs,
also, in the field of heart disease and
many other areas. Oh, I do not mean to
suggest that we are looking forward to a
time when there will be no diseases and
when men and women live forever, but
I am saying this: that what we do here in
the United States will be great in these
years ahead because of the effort that we
are putting in, but I also know that in
the Soviet Union-and I have seen their
hospitals there-and in the People's Re-
public of China where one-fourth of the
ablest people in the world live, that there
are doctors, there are people-men and
women of genius. And if there is a way
that the genius that they have and the
genius that we have or that some other
people, whether they are in Europe or
Latin America or Southeast Asia, has,
where those two types of genius can rub
together, we may get that spark that
otherwise might not occur if we live in
isolation.
And that is why I say, what a great time
for a new generation-to think that you
live in an open world, that you live in a
world where we are not isolated from one-
fourth of all the people in the world, that
you live in a world where we still have
differences that we are attempting to
negotiate rather than to fight about, but
432
