Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 24 [119]
percent of the populace in developing
nations of the world. But the progress
which we have been able to help bring
about thus far demonstrates that this need
not be a permanent condition. Our devel-
opmental assistance continues to be
needed to maintain and expand this rec-
ord of progress.
To provide this needed assistance I am
asking the Congress to authorize for fiscal
year 1975 the appropriation of $255.3
million for functional development assist-
ance programs in addition to the $618
million already authorized by last year's
Foreign Assistance Act.
These additional funds will permit the
Agency for International Development to
assist developing nations in increasing
food production. The widespread hard-
ship caused by recent pressures on world
food supplies calls for greater efforts by all
to raise agricultural productivity. Popu-
lation growth combined with recent crop
failures in many parts of the world have
led to the lowest grain stock levels in
many years as well as high prices. In some
cases, famine is threatening entire popu-
lations, and the world shortage of food
makes it difficult to provide the assistance
needed to avert tragedy. But food aid
alone does not provide a solution. Devel-
oping nations must increase their own
agricultural productivity, and almost 60
percent of AID's development assistance
programs will be aimed at achieving this
goal.
We will continue to reorient our devel-
opment assistance programs, as jointly
endorsed by the Congress and the Ad-
ministration, to concentrate more directly
on acute human problems in poor coun-
tries. AID will thus focus on providing
family planning and basic health services,
strengthening education and other human
resource programs, increasing food pro-
duction, and improving nutrition.
A strong bilateral U.S. foreign aid pro-
gram can be fully effective, however, only
if it is complemented by continued, active
multilateral assistance efforts. Pending be-
fore the Congress is legislation to authorize
United States contributions of $1.5 billion
to the International Development Associ-
ation (IDA). Appropriations for those
contributions will be spread over a num-
ber of years beginning in 1976.
The International Development Asso-
ciation has a 14-year history of excellence
in providing development loans to the
poorest nations. We have negotiated a re-
duction in the United States share of the
total contributions to IDA from 40 percent
to 33 percent, thereby shifting additional
responsibility for international lending to
other nations. It is inconceivable that the
United States should abandon such a suc-
cessful international activity, and I urge
the House of Representatives to recon-
sider its recent vote denying the IDA au-
thorization. Such a step would constitute
a false economy in violation of the very
principles toward which we would hope to
move in providing foreign development
assistance.
Also pending is legislation to authorize
contributions of $362 million for the ordi-
nary capital and $50 million for the
special resources of the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ADB). The performance of
the IDA is being matched today by the
newer Asian Development Bank. The
African Development Fund of the African
Development Bank has excellent prospects
of playing an increasingly critical role in
a continent whose need has been most
recently highlighted by severe drought.
377
