[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
would provide a grant of up to $1,400
depending on need.
Supplementing this Basic Grant pro-
gram is a Guaranteed Student Loan pro-
gram designed to increase access to loans.
This program is both for needy students
receiving Basic Grants, and for students
who are not eligible for Basic Grants but
who need or wish to spread the costs of
postsecondary education over time.
Over the past year, some students who
have sought loans have found it difficult
or impossible to locate lenders willing to
make federally guaranteed loans.
To remedy this problem I have in-
structed the Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare and the Treasury
Department to contact the major lending
institutions and to request that they re-
affirm their commitment to our Nation's
educational needs by making adequate
funds available for student loans. If, as
the progress of this program is reviewed,
additional changes appear to be necessary,
I will propose them.
The Basic Grant and Guaranteed
Student Loan programs, supplemented
by the College Work Study program,
expand opportunities for postsecondary
education. My budget request for
these programs would provide more
such opportunities than ever before.
Building on Basic Grants, students can
rely on work, loans, and family re-
sources, plus State, local and private forms
of assistance to meet the remainder of
their financial needs.
DEVELOPING INSTITUTIONS
I will request funding of the full au-
thorization for the Developing Institutions
program-an authorization that is four
times the funding level when I took office.
This program helps to strengthen the
capabilities of colleges which are serving
Black, Spanish-American, and American
Indian students as well as students
from economically disadvantaged back-
grounds a special concern
of my
Administration.
V. INNOVATION AND REFORM
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
An essential element in our effort to
provide every American an equal and in-
creasing opportunity for education is the
development and dissemination of alter-
native educational approaches through
research. For too long we threw money at
educational problems, feeling that bigger
would mean better.
To strengthen support for education
research and development, the National
Institute of Education was created with
strong bipartisan support. The institute
is now beginning to provide the leadership
in educational research and development
that is needed.
In 1975 it will continue to concen-
trate on several major tasks:
-finding answers to the problems that
students have in learning essential skills
such as reading and mathematics;
-improving State and local capability
to solve the educational problems of their
youth;
-increasing the educational benefits to
students through improving the produc-
tivity of our schools;
-and assisting students to better un-
derstand the relationship between the
school and the world of work. Through
this latter activity, the National Institute
of Education has taken on the respon-
sibility to carry out the Career Educa-
38
