Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 8 [72]
another opportunity to review each of
these projects on their merits before
they become eligible for construction
appropriations.
I have also noted that the Congressional
debate on this bill indicates that the execu-
tive agencies will be free to use realistic
discount rates for benefit-cost determina-
tions in their processes of selecting projects
for authorization or construction even
though this bill prevents them from doing
so in the initial formulation of the projects.
The Congress in this bill has asked me to
present recommendations on such critical
policy issues in the water resources field as
cost-sharing and project evaluation cri-
teria, including discount rates. I am
gratified that the Congress now shares my
view of the importance of these problems,
and I will continue to work in a spirit of
receptiveness to update some of what I
consider to be anachronistic policies con-
cerning water projects.
I regret to note that despite these en-
couraging new policy directions, this bill
continues to present some of the problems
which were contained in S. 4018 which I
pocket-vetoed in October of 1972. It con-
tinues to authorize some projects that I
believe to be economically unjustified, and
it substitutes Federal payments for costs
that in some cases should be borne directly
by the benefiting communities. On bal-
ance, however, the bill represents a step
forward in our efforts to modernize water
resource development, and I look forward
to continuing a constructive dialog with
the Congress on these policies.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10203, which includes
the Water Resources Development Act of 1974
and the River Basin Monetary Authorization
Act of 1974, is Public Law 93-251 (88 Stat.
12).
72 Radio Address About a Special Message to the Congress
Proposing Campaign Reform Legislation. March 8, 1974
Good afternoon:
The centerpiece of American democ-
racy is our process of electing men and
women to public office. That process is
now the subject of a spirited national de-
bate. From the Congress, from election
analysts, and most importantly, from the
people themselves have come a steady
stream of proposals. They are varied in
nature, but unified in purpose; all of them
call for reform.
We need sensible reforms, reforms that
perform instead of preach, reforms that
will work because they are workable, and
reforms that will last because they make
good common sense to people.
Ten months ago, I spoke out on the
need for campaign reform. I asked the
Congress to create a commission to fashion
the remedies that we need. The Congress
has failed to act on that proposal. Con-
sequently, today I am sending to the Con-
gress a comprehensive set of proposals to
get the job done.
These proposals present reform that will
work, not reform that will sugar-coat our
problems with the appearance of change
or rob our people of their basic freedoms.
These proposals address four major areas:
campaign finances, campaign practices,
campaign duration, and encouragement of
candidate participation.
241
