Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 16 [81]
it comes from the heart of America, be-
cause this is the heart of America, out here
in Middle America. Second, it relates to
those experiences that mean so much to
America. It talks about family, it talks
about religion, the faith in God that is so
important to our country and particularly
to our family life. And as we all know,
country music radiates a love of this
Nation, patriotism.
Country music, therefore, has those
combinations which are so essential to
America's character at a time that Amer-
ica needs character, because today-one
serious note-let me tell you, the peace
of the world for generations, maybe cen-
turies to come, will depend not just on
America's military might, which is the
greatest in the world, or our wealth, which
is the greatest in the world, but it is going
to depend on our character, our belief in
ourselves, our love of our country, our
willingness to not only wear the flag but
to stand up for the flag. And country music
does that.
And so, I express appreciation to this
great audience, to all the performers
whose time I have taken-my apologies
to those who would have had the com-
mercial. However, I wanted to take this
opportunity on behalf of all the American
people to thank country music, those who
have created it, those who make it, those
who now will have it continue in the
future, for what it does to make America
a better country, because your music does
make America better. It is good for
Americans to hear it. We come away
better from having heard it.
Thank you very much.
MR. ACUFF [handing the President a
Yo-Yo]. Now let it come over this way.
Hold your hand like this. [Laughter] We
are not in any hurry. He don't need to get
back up there quick anyway. [Laughter]
We need him down here for a while.
Now, turn your hand over and let it
ride. Now jerk it back.
THE PRESIDENT. I will stay here and
try to learn how to use the Yo-Yo; you
go up and be President, Roy.
MR. ACUFF. That is just what it takes
to be a great President, is to come among
people and be among we working people,
we common people, and then be one of
us. That is what it takes to be a real
President.
This is the one he gave me. He didn't
know it worked that way. Would every-
body join me, and come on, Jerry Waters,
sit down at the piano there. I want all
the gang together, and let's everybody
sing, and from our very real hearts, let's
sing "Stay A Little Longer" to the Presi-
dent, will you.
[The audience sang "Stay A Little Longer."]
That a boy, thank you. Thank you very
much. It is such a wonderful program. We
will never see nothing like this in our State
again, never have before.
Mr. President, do you belong to the
union, the musicians union? You will get
some talk on this if you don't. Come on
up here. I want you to take the piano.
THE PRESIDENT. I am an honorary
member of the musicians union in New
York City.
MR. ACUFF. That is great. There will
be no argument.
THE PRESIDENT. No, but I don't pay
dues.
MR. ACUFF. He says he is an honorary
member of the union in New York City.
THE PRESIDENT. Roy, because of the
remarks that I made, it occurred to me
281
