[84] Mar. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
about the spirit of America, a spirit that
keeps us moving forward as the greatest
nation, we believe, in the world today, a
spirit that tries always to be the very best
but is never deterred by the fact that
sometimes we may not succeed.
And so today, we applaud those who
tried and did not make it. We applaud
those who tried to get on this crew and
weren't old enough. [Laughter] And we
pay respects to the great American scien-
tific, mechanical, clerical communities
that have made it possible for America to
be first in space. You have contributed to
a great technological breakthrough. But
most important, when history is written.
in perspective 20 years from now, you
have contributed to what is far more im-
portant: the spirit of a great country,
which means always look out toward the
unknown, go there, take any risk, make
any sacrifice, and never be discouraged
because, sometimes, you may fail.
Thank you.
[At this point, Lt. Col. Gerald P. Carr pre-
sented the President with a commemorative pen
and pencil set. The President then resumed
speaking.]
You know, when I spoke of these older
men, I watched his eyes; he doesn't wear
contacts.
I am very appreciative of this memento,
and it will, of course, go in the Presidential
Library along with other items that have
been brought back from our various space
ventures. And I am particularly grateful
that you had the ingenuity to bring me
a pen, and a ball point, and a pencil. That
shows there is no discrimination as far
as you are concerned.
My purpose is not to delay you longer,
except I would not want the occasion to
pass-you know, those people who came
out here, they had to learn "Hail to the
Chief" and all the rest, so to the Clear
Lake High School band, how about a
hand for them, too.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. out-
side the Visitor's Center of the Lyndon B. John-
son Space Center.
James C. Fletcher was Administrator of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, and Christopher Kraft was Director of
the Space Center.
Prior to his remarks, the President awarded
the NASA Distinguished Service Medal to
Skylab 3 astronauts Lt. Col. Gerald P. Carr,
USMC, Col. William R. Pogue, USAF, and
Dr. Edward G. Gibson.
Earlier in the day, the President attended a
breakfast reception of Texas business and Re-
publican leaders at the Hyatt Regency Hotel
in Houston.
85 Statement on the Death of Chet Huntley.
March 20, 1974
I HAVE LEARNED with sorrow of the
death of Chet Huntley. One of America's
earliest and finest television newsmen, he
will be remembered as a pioneer in elec-
tronic reporting and as a true professional
who tried to present the news fairly and
objectively.
Mrs. Nixon and I extend to Mrs. Hunt-
ley our heartfelt condolences.
NOTE: Chet Huntley, 62, died in Bozeman,
Mont. From 1956 to 1970, he co-anchored the
National Broadcasting Company's evening
news program, the "Huntley-Brinkley Report."
302
