[81] Mar. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
that what would be most appropriate at
this time on this opening evening-and
still can play in the key of G?
you
MR. ACUFF. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay, fine. You will
know this song when I start playing it—I
think they will know it when I start play-
ing it. [Laughter] But anyway, you re-
member on that prisoners-of-war affair,
that dinner, that one of the highlights
was when Irving Berlin, who had been
very ill, came down and brought the
original score of the great song that he
wrote that everybody sings since then-
MR. ACUFF. Yes, I remember.
THE PRESIDENT.
America."
"God Bless
MR. ACUFF. Yes, I remember.
THE PRESIDENT. I thought possibly we
would try that one.
MR. ACUFF. Oh, do, that would be
great. "God Bless America."
[The President played "God Bless America" on
the piano.]
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 7:40
p.m.
82 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of
the National Science Foundation. March 18, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Con-
gress the Twenty-Third Annual Report of
the National Science Foundation.
The Nation today is faced with scien-
tific and technological challenges and op-
portunities of unprecedented importance.
As this report shows, the National Science
Foundation is funding projects across a
broad spectrum of scientific inquiry, from
basic research to highly focused and so-
phisticated engineering techniques. Con-
currently, National Science Foundation
programs are encouraging the more rapid
transfer of technological knowledge from
the laboratories to the marketplace and
are increasing the scientific and technical
manpower base which the United States
must have in the future.
I believe the annual report of the Na-
tional Science Foundation merits the close
attention of the Congress. It is a record of
a very productive year.
The White House,
March 18, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science
Foundation Twenty-Third Annual Report for
Fiscal Year 1973" (Government Printing Of-
fice, 122 pp.).
83 Question-and-Answer Session at the Annual Convention
of the National Association of Broadcasters, Houston,
Texas. March 19, 1974
Mr. President,¹ and members and guests
of the National Association of Broad-
casters:
Vincent T. Wasilewski was president of the
National Association of Broadcasters.
[1] Before going to your questions,
ladies and gentlemen, I have an an-
nouncement with regard to decisions I
have made as a result of the lifting of the
oil embargo.
282
