Richard Nixon, 1974
June 10 [168]
to the Executive and Judicial branches,"
and that accordingly only Congress can
direct the disclosure of legislative records.
Equally, the Judicial branch has always
held sacrosanct the privacy of judicial
deliberations, and has always held that
neither of the other branches may invade
Judicial privacy or encroach on Judicial
independence. In 1953, in refusing to re-
spond to a subpoena from the House Un-
American Activities Committee, Justice
Tom C. Clark cited the fact that "the
independence of the three branches of our
Government is the cardinal principle on
which our Constitutional system is
founded. This complete independence of
the judiciary is necessary to the proper ad-
ministration of justice." In 1971, Chief
Justice Burger analogized the confiden-
tiality of the Court to that of the Execu-
tive, and said: "No statute gives this Court
express power to establish and enforce the
utmost security measures for the secrecy
of our deliberations and records. Yet I
have little doubt as to the inherent power
of the Court to protect the confidentiality
of its internal operations by whatever
judicial means may be required.”
These positions of the Courts and the
Congress are not lightly taken; they are
essential to maintaining the balances
among the three branches of Government.
Equal firmness by the Executive is no less
essential to maintaining that balance.
The general applicability of the basic
principle was summed up in 1962 by
Senator Stennis, in a ruling upholding
President Kennedy's refusal to provide in-
formation sought by a Senate subcommit-
tee. Senator Stennis held: "We are now
come face to face and are in direct con-
flict with the established doctrine of sepa-
ration of powers. . . . I know of no case
where the Court has ever made the Senate
or the House surrender records from its
files, or where the Executive has made the
Legislative Branch surrender records from
its files and I do not think either one of
them could. So the rule works three ways.
Each is supreme within its field, and each
is responsible within its field."
If the institution of an impeachment
inquiry against a President were per-
mitted to override all restraints of sep-
aration of power, this would spell the end
of the doctrine of separation of powers;
it would be an open invitation to future
Congresses to use an impeachment in-
quiry, however frivolously, as a device to
assert their own supremacy over the
Executive, and to reduce Executive con-
fidentiality to a nullity.
My refusal to comply with further sub-
poenas with respect to Watergate is based,
essentially, on two considerations.
First, preserving the principle of sep-
aration of powers-and of the Executive
as a co-equal branch-requires that the
Executive, no less than the Legislative or
Judicial branches, must be immune from
unlimited search and seizure by the other
co-equal branches.
Second, the voluminous body of mate-
rials that the Committee already has—and
which I have voluntarily provided, partly
in response to Committee requests and
partly in an effort to round out the rec-
ord does give the full story of Watergate,
insofar as it relates to Presidential knowl-
edge and Presidential actions. The way to
resolve whatever ambiguities the Commit-
tee may feel still exist is not to pursue the
chimera of additional evidence from ad-
ditional tapes, but rather to call live wit-
nesses who can place the existing evidence
in perspective, and subject them to cross-
examination under oath. Simply multi-
plying the tapes and transcripts would
43-437 - 75-33
479
