[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
All of our solutions in the area of cam-
paign reform must be grounded on the
solid experience of nearly 200 years, not
merely on the spirited rhetoric which so
frequently pervades this arena.
II. LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
On May 16, 1973, I urged the Congress
to establish a non-partisan commission on
Federal election reform. This blue-ribbon
commission would have been composed
of political party leaders, Members of
Congress and distinguished laymen. Only
one House of Congress, the Senate, has
focused on it. This lack of action has come
at the very time that many Members of
Congress and private leaders have been
speaking out about the need for vigorous
action against campaign abuses.
If it had been created in a timely man-
ner, this commission would have been
charged to file a public report no later
than December 1st of last year. By now
we would have had an authoritative, bi-
partisan report recommending carefully
weighed reforms for Federal campaigns,
and perhaps by now we could have been
well on the way toward new statutes ap-
plicable to the upcoming elections this
November.
It is because of this delay that I have
directed the Department of Justice to
work with my staff in preparing a com-
prehensive set of reforms for considera-
tion of the Congress in this session. I am
hopeful that these proposals, together
with other approaches being advanced in
Congress, will lead to vigorous debate and
solid, effective reform.
Of course, we should not be concerned
with Presidential campaigns alone. A
massive volume of campaign contribu-
tions goes into Senate and Congressional
campaigns as well. The problem faces us
all, and because we are all concerned,
I am anxious for the Congress and the
Executive to work together in a spirit of
full cooperation. For real progress to oc-
cur, we must all consider the paramount
interests of the electoral system rather
than parochial interests of any party or
candidate.
The proposals I urge the Congress to
consider as it continues to evolve its own
approach fall into four major areas: cam-
paign finances, campaign practices, cam-
paign duration, and encouragement of
candidate participation.
A. CAMPAIGN FINANCE
In recent years, political campaigns in
America have become increasingly expen-
sive. Because the need for more and more
money has become acute in many Federal
elections, I regard campaign financing as
the most important area for reform, and
the area in which reform is most urgently
required.
After extensive study of a wide range
of suggestions, including the many pro-
posals developed by Congressional sources,
I conclude that the single most important
action to reform campaign financing
should be broader public disclosure. Com-
plete financial disclosure will provide the
citizens of our country with the necessary
information to assess the philosophy, per-
sonal associations, and political and eco-
nomic allegiances of the candidates.
A number of statutes already exist
which require some disclosure, but we can
and should expand and improve the
process.
Specifically, I endorse the proposal that
each candidate in every Federal election
be required to designate one single politi-
246
