Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
the Constitution in this case defines an
impeachable defense [offense], as I indi-
cated earlier, as being treason, bribery, or
other high crimes or misdemeanors.
Now, this President is not guilty of any
of those crimes, and as far as the Con-
gress is concerned, it would seem to me
that, particularly, members of the Judi-
ciary Committee-all schooled in the
law-would want to follow the Constitu-
tion, rather than to broaden that defini-
tion to include something that the Con-
stitution-framers did not have in mind.
INFLATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I am very
tired of Watergate, too, and am far more
concerned with one of the worst problems
facing us today, inflation. And while we
have a much lower rate of inflation in
this country than the rest of the world,
what can the Government or the average
American person do to alleviate it?
THE PRESIDENT. The problem of infla-
tion is, as you say, one that plagues us but
plagues the rest of the world even more.
The British now have escalated enor-
mously because of the coal strike settle-
ment. The Japanese are in a very high
inflationary period, much higher than
ours. The Germans have had such a high
one that they now have begun moving on
an anti-inflationary policy.
We can take very little comfort, I think,
in the fact that inflation is lower here
than in most industrial countries of the
world. That doesn't help, for example,
the housewife or the man when sometimes
he goes to the supermarket, too, when
he goes there and finds the prices going
up and up and up.
These are the things that I would sug-
gest, however, in terms of dealing with
that problem: Approximately 60 percent
of the rise in prices which occurred over
the past 6 months was either energy-
related or related to food. Now, the in-
flationary tide has still not subsided. It
will probably continue through the bal-
ance of the second quarter. In the latter
part of the year, we believe it will go
down. It will go down provided we are
responsible in our Government spending
programs and that the Congress does not
go on a wild spending spree.
It will go down, second, because the
energy crisis, having been reduced to a
problem, will have less pressure upward
in that particular area. And it will go
down, too, because the prospects insofar as
food production appear to be very good
at the present time, although this is one
that is extremely difficult to project.
I would like to tell you that the number
will be 4 percent, 5 percent, 3 percent, 8
percent by the end of the year. I do not
know. My economic advisers don't even
know, and they used to know everything.
All that I can say is this: We are in this
fight with regard to inflation to win it,
and we believe that with proper fiscal
policies and with increasing production
in the energy field, increasing production
in the food front, that that is the way to
bring down the prices and to take the
pressure
off of the prices.
PRESIDENTIAL TESTIMONY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, intense two-
way loyalty has been a hallmark of your
public life and your Administration. If it
can be shown to you conclusively that your
in-person testimony on behalf of your
former colleagues is vital to their defense,
273
