[75] Mar. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
75 Remarks on Mrs. Nixon's Departure for Venezuela and
Brazil. March 11, 1974
Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Minister, and all
of our very good friends who have been so
kind to come out here to see Mrs. Nixon
off on her journey to Caracas and then to
Brasilia:
Let me say, first of all, that as she leaves
on this journey, that it will be not only in
an official capacity-she will extend, of
course, congratulations and best wishes to
President Pérez of Venezuela and Presi-
dent Geisel of Brazil-but she will do
something she has done on all of her
travels around the world-she has
traveled more than any First Lady in his-
tory-she will bring the best wishes of the
American people to the people of all the
countries she visits. And that is, of course,
what we want them to hear.
And we think it is particularly appro-
priate that she is taking off here from
Florida, because Florida is a State which
knows so well the tremendous contribu-
tion that has been made to this State and
this Nation by those of Latin background.
And going from Florida, first to Vene-
zuela and then to Brazil, she will be able
to see there those nations that are our
closest neighbors and our closest friends.
And I should emphasize that in these
times when so much emphasis has been
placed upon, as it should be, the new rela-
tions with the People's Republic of China
and the Soviet Union, with our relations
with the great countries of Europe, that
we must always remember that here in
this Western Hemisphere, our closest
friends and neighbors are the people in
Latin America and in the Western Hemi-
sphere, and that trip will bring that to the
attention, we think, of the whole world.
And so with that, I will now turn the
platform podium over to Mrs. Nixon. She
says she doesn't like to make speeches, but
I do know that the reporters who have ac-
companied her when she traveled alone to
Peru and also to Africa over the past 2
years have said that she is the best ambas-
sador the United States has. I proudly
present her to you.
MRS. NIXON. Thank you.
I am so pleased that you are here to
send me off in this manner. I enjoyed
the high school band, Killian High School
band, and all of these Scouts and school-
children who are out, and the oldsters who
could get away from their jobs today.
I do want to say that I shall certainly,
in just 3 hours and 40 minutes, be giving
your best wishes and your affection to
the people of Venezuela, my first stop,
and then later, on the 15th, to the people
of Brazil.
I look forward to seeing you, when I
can return home, and bringing you greet-
ings from our good friends.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. at
Homestead Air Force Base, Fla., where Mrs.
Nixon was leaving to serve as head of the
U.S. delegation to inaugural ceremonies for
President Carlos Andrés Pérez of Venezuela
and President Ernesto Geisel of Brazil.
In his opening words, the President referred
to Venezuelan Ambassador Andrés Aguilar and
Brazilian Minister-Counselor Celso Diniz.
256
