Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 20 [55]
-Require the labels of nonprescription
drugs to show the quantity of all active
ingredients.
-Authorize FDA to detain prod-
ucts suspected of being unsafe
contaminated.
or
FDA has also initiated a broad program
for licensing, registering and inspecting
blood banks. This extensive program
should significantly reduce the chances of
blood recipients contracting hepatitis.
IMPROVED CARE FOR THE AGED
In 1971 I launched a major new initia-
tive to improve the quality of care in our
nursing homes. Since then we have
worked with State governments to im-
prove their nursing home inspection ef-
forts, and we have barred substandard
facilities from participating in our Medi-
care and Medicaid programs. Yet many
long-term care facilities in this country
still do not meet accepted fire and safety
standards. This situation must be cor-
rected, and we are taking steps to improve
it.
Last month the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare issued new stand-
ards to improve the quality of medical
services in nursing homes caring for Medi-
care and Medicaid patients. Very soon,
the Department will issue additional regu-
lations to improve the medical services in
these homes. As a Nation we can no
longer tolerate the warehousing of our
older citizens in unsanitary and unsafe
facilities. They have given us much. In
return they deserve quality care in their
declining years that is second to none.
Our efforts to expand our biomedical
knowledge about diseases will, of course,
improve the care that can be rendered in
nursing homes.
MEDICAL RESEARCH
In addition to attacking problems of
the delivery system as a means of improv-
ing our health care, we must also continue
to support our basic scientific research. It
is this work that will tomorrow yield the
remedies to diseases that affect our people.
We will continue to give high priority
to research in cancer and heart disease
because these two diseases together ac-
count for more than half of all deaths
each year. At the same time, however, we
will not neglect research on aging,
arthritis, neurological diseases, dental
diseases, and other major health problems.
SEEKING A CURE FOR CANCER
Cancer, in its more than 100 forms,
still constitutes one of the most devastat-
ing health problems confronting man-
kind. This year, the National Cancer
Institute estimates that 655,000 Americans
will develop cancer, and 335,000 will lose
their lives from it. Three years ago in my
State of the Union message I announced
that the conquest of cancer was to be a
new national goal. In December of 1971 I
signed the National Cancer Act. Since
that time, the National Cancer Institute
and other institutes in the National In-
stitutes of Health have accelerated the
drive against cancer.
The intensified effort has two goals:
First, the main effort is to stimulate the
development of new knowledge by an
intensive and coordinated research effort
throughout all medical, biological, chemi-
cal and physical sciences. Secondly, we
are seeking the most effective methods of
disseminating across the Nation vital in-
formation on the prevention and treat-
ment of cancer.
189
