Richard Nixon, 1974
May 27 [156]
That is why the action taken in the House
of Representatives this past week and
further action to be taken by both the
House and the Senate in the near future
is of vital interest to every American in-
terested in the future of this country and
in the prospect of lasting peace in the
world.
Last Wednesday, I was gratified to note
that the House of Representatives de-
feated an amendment that would have
forced the withdrawal of 100,000 Ameri-
can troops serving overseas. This measure
would have struck a critical blow at the
confidence of both our allies in Europe
and the Pacific and at the credibility of
the United States in the continuing ne-
gotiations with the Soviet Union for the
mutual withdrawal of troops from
Europe.
In addition, the House also defeated
two other amendments which would have
seriously damaged our defense posture-
an amendment to slash $700 million across
the board from necessary defense spend-
ing and an amendment to halt the de-
velopment of two important strategic
weapons systems, the Trident submarine
and the B-1 bomber.
In all three cases, a bipartisan majority
of the House of Representatives stood
firmly for a strong national defense. In
so doing, that majority earned the thanks
of all Americans who recognize that a
strong America is indispensable if we are
to succeed in building lasting peace in the
world.
And finally, I would like to commend
the efforts of Chairman Edward Hébert
and the members of the House Armed
Services Committee for doing an out-
standing job in considering the overall de-
fense budget. At times we have had some
disagreements on the fine print, but on
the whole, the committee has taken a
strong and statesmanlike stand for a sound
national defense. Chairman Hébert is a
Democrat. He is a strong partisan in the
best sense of the word, and so is Chairman
Stennis, his counterpart in the Senate. But
when it comes to the strength of America,
the honor of America, and the future se-
curity of America, they are patriots first
and partisans second. I hope that a ma-
jority of their colleagues will continue to
profit by their example. For on the issue
of a strong America, the Congress should
not be separated by party labels, but
united as patriotic Americans.
The same should be true of all of us as
citizens, and especially so on a day like
this. Today, on this Memorial Day, 1974,
we can all be thankful that for the first
time in 12 years, there are no Americans
fighting anywhere in the world.
What we do with this peace-whether
we preserve it and defend it, or whether
we lose it and let it slip away-will be
the measure of our worthiness of the spirit
and sacrifice of the hundreds of thou-
sands who gave their lives in two World
Wars, Korea, and in Vietnam.
I believe that we can be worthy of that
challenge, because I believe that for the
first time in this century, thanks to the
sacrifices of the past and because of our
determination to stay strong now and in
the future, we can keep the peace they
gave their lives to win for us.
Peace is the real and right memorial
for those who have died in war. They
wanted and they deserve a world in
which their brothers and sisters and their
children and grandchildren will never
have to be called upon, as they were, to
fight for peace. Let that be the memorial
we seek to build for them, and let us work
together the President, the people, the
459
