[209] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the development of commercial and
economic ties between the two countries.
The two Sides agreed to encourage the
conclusion and implementation of appro-
priate agreements between American and
Soviet organizations and firms. Taking
into account the progress made in a num-
ber of specific projects, such as those con-
cerning truck manufacture, the trade cen-
ter, and chemical fertilizers, the Sides
noted the possibility of concluding ap-
propriate contracts in other areas of mu-
tual interest, such as pulp and paper, tim-
ber, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy,
natural gas, the engineering industry, and
the extraction and processing of high
energy-consuming minerals.
Both Sides noted further development
of productive contacts and ties between
business circles of the two countries in
which a positive role was played by the
decisions taken during the previous sum-
mit meeting on the opening of a United
States commercial office in Moscow and a
USSR trade representation in Washing-
ton as well as the establishment of a US-
Soviet Commercial and Economic Coun-
cil. They expressed their desire to con-
tinue to bring about favorable conditions
for the successful development of com-
mercial and economic relations between
the USA and the USSR.
Both Sides confirmed their interest in
bringing into force at the earliest pos-
sible time the US-Soviet trade agreement
of October 1972.
Desirous of promoting the further ex-
pansion of economic relations between
the two countries, the two Sides signed
a Long-Term Agreement to Facilitate
Economic, Industrial and Technical Co-
operation between the USA and the
USSR. They believe that a consistent im-
plementation of the cooperation embodied
in the Agreement over the ten-year pe-
riod will be an important factor in
strengthening bilateral relations in gen-
eral and will benefit the peoples of both
countries.
Having reviewed the progress in carry-
ing out the Agreement Regarding Certain
Maritime Matters concluded in October
1972 for a period of three years, and
based on the experience accumulated thus
far, the two Sides expressed themselves in
favor of concluding before its expiration
a new agreement in this field. Negotia-
tions concerning such an agreement will
commence this year.
V. PROGRESS IN OTHER FIELDS OF
BILATERAL RELATIONS
Having reviewed the progress in the
implementation of the cooperative agree-
ments concluded in 1972-1973, both
Sides noted the useful work done by joint
American-Soviet committees and work-
ing groups established under those
agreements in developing regular contacts
and cooperation between scientific and
technical organizations, scientists, special-
ists and cultural personnel of both coun-
tries.
The two Sides note with satisfaction
* The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 10, p. 741). On June 29, 1974, the
White House also released a fact sheet and
the transcript of a news briefing on the agree-
ment. Participants in the news briefing were
Ronald L. Ziegler, Press Secretary to the Presi-
dent, L. M. Zamyatin, Director General of
TASS, and Arthur A. Hartman, Assistant Sec-
retary of State for European Affairs.
574
