[65] Feb. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
those who might be our potential ad-
versaries—that is why today the chances
for a generation of peace and, for that
matter, a much longer period of peace
are better than they have been in this
century. We want to build on that chance.
You can be proud of what we have done
in the past, but let me say, over the next
3 years and the years after that, this is a
great goal.
And now I come to the part America
must play. Talking to my young friend,
he was telling me that many young people
today say, "Look, after going through
Vietnam, you took the trip to China, and
now we are negotiating with the Soviet
Union on limiting nuclear arms and in
other areas, we are working out a settle-
ment which we trust may be fair and
just and permanent in the Mideast. We
are going to work out, we hope, a mutual
reduction of forces in Europe. In view
of all this progress, hasn't the time now
come when the United States lays down
this great burden that we have carried
for so long in which we provide the shield
for other free nations in Asia and in Eu-
rope and in other parts of the world, where
the United States, for example, this year
increases its defense budget in order to
meet its responsibilities in the world?"
It is a very tempting proposition. Be-
lieve me, when I think of the needs in
this country, when I think of what we
want to do in the fields of education and
greater opportunity for every American—
housing, transit, and the rest-we are go-
ing to be spending a great deal, more than
some think we should spend. And we
could spend even more if we were to opt
out, bug out, as far as our responsibilities
in the world are concerned.
But to my young Republican friends
and to my young American friends who
are listening to me here today, let me say
this: It is your future, that those of us
who make decisions now, that we are
making these decisions about.
As far as the next year is concerned,
the next 2 years, the next 3 years, the next
4 years, a United States that becomes
weaker, a United States that becomes the
second strongest power in the world, isn't
probably going to make much difference
as to whether or not there will be war,
peace, or confrontation. But let me say
that unless the United States takes upon
itself the responsibilities of keeping the
peace in the world, there are others who
will assume that responsibility whose in-
terests are very different from ours.
Let's look back before World War I
and before World War II. The United
States then could, with justification, say,
"Why should we become involved?" Be-
cause there were other great free nations—
the British, the French, for example-
who could take up that burden. But today,
as we look around the great free world in
which we live, these great and proud na-
tions and they are great and they are
proud and some of them are strong-but
there is not one of them alone, and not
all of them collectively, who could pro-
vide the strength which would command
the respect which would deter potential
aggression or potential adventurism in
any part of the world.
In other words, if the peace is to be
kept, the United States must maintain
the strength that every nation in the world
will respect. Because peace or I should
put it in another sense-strength in our
hands is in good hands.
Consider for a moment that statement.
I know there are those who say power in
220
