Richard Nixon, 1974
May 20 [146]
a spirit of statesmanship and compromise,
can work together to resolve the problems
of providing health insurance legislation
which meets the needs of all Americans.
While Americans today enjoy the finest
health care and medical technology in our
history, the cost of that care is constantly
increasing. Our present system of health
care insurance does not meet the costs of
providing adequate care. It must be
improved.
Twenty-five million Americans have no
health care insurance at all, and millions
of others have inadequate protection.
Less than half of those under 65 years
of age have protection against catastrophic
health costs, and almost no one over 65
has such protection.
Preventive services, mental health
care, outpatient services, and medication
are often excluded from coverage. Many
other essential services are not adequately
covered.
And finally, to further burden our al-
ready inadequate health insurance system,
wage-price controls have expired, and
there is no brake on further increases in
health costs. The failure of the Congress
to adopt my legislative request to con-
tinue authority for mandatory cost con-
trols for the health industry has left the
country unprotected against the very real
possibility of an unbridled increase in
those costs.
A few facts and figures will give you an
idea of the scope of the problem.
In the past 23 years, the overall cost
of health care has risen by more than 20
percent.
The national average cost for a day of
hospital care now exceeds $110. It costs an
average of close to $1,000 to cover deliv-
ery of a baby and postnatal care. The
average cost of health care for terminal
cancer now exceeds $20,000 per person.
And now, in the absence of controls, the
country faces a possible annual increase
of 22 percent in physicians' fees alone.
To emphasize the Government's con-
cern over skyrocketing health costs, Sec-
retary Weinberger, of the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, met with
representatives of 20 of the Nation's major
health provider groups on May 3. He
urged them to take every action at their
disposal to prevent the rapid escalation of
costs and indicated that if cost increases
were not voluntarily controlled, it could
lead to drastic, congressionally imposed,
mandatory controls. I strongly share Sec-
retary Weinberger's concern on this mat-
ter, and I urge the health industry to do
everything it can voluntarily to keep the
brake on rising health care costs.
But voluntary restraints will not be
enough. We must have legislation to in-
sure that every American has financial
access to high quality health care.
Nineteen seventy-four can and should
be the year in which we move decisively
to protect every American against the
rising and often prohibitive costs of health
care.
Nineteen seventy-four can and should
be the year in which we create new in-
centives to make the health care system
of the United States even better and
more efficient than it is.
And 1974 can and should be the year
in which firm, fair steps are taken to hold
down the rate of inflation that has con-
tinually driven the cost of medical care
higher and higher during the past 20
years.
Never has the need been greater, or the
national climate more favorable, for the
443
