Richard Nixon, 1974
June 9 [167]
my friends, is not simply for a man, but
the cause you have worked for and are
working for is much bigger than one man
or one President. The cause you are work-
ing for is for this office, which is so im-
portant-actually which is indispensable
to what we want to build, we as Ameri-
cans: a peaceful world for our children
and our grandchildren and for those of
others who have been our friends, and
even those who have been our adversaries
and our enemies.
This, indeed, is a great goal. That is
what brings us together. That is what in-
spires you. And we want to be worthy of
your dedication, and we can assure you
that we will do everything we can to
deserve the respect, the hard work you
have given, each and every one of you
throughout this country, voluntarily, to
that cause.
I can assure you, my friends, looking
back over these past 5 years and looking
at the American Presidency for that mat-
ter over the past 27 years when I have
known it either as a Congressman, or
Senator, or as Vice President, or out of
office, or as President, that a strong Amer-
ican Presidency is essential if we are to
have peace in the world.
I can assure you that with your support
I shall do nothing that will weaken this
office while I am holding this office. I
make that statement not just for myself
alone but, far more important, for all
future Presidents, and far more important
even than that, for the cause to which
America is dedicated and which Presi-
dents of the United States for the balance
of this century are going to have to carry
on their shoulders. They must be strong.
They must be effective. They must have
support whenever they are engaged in the
great pursuits of peace and progress for
all peoples to which we, as the idealistic
people that we are, have always been dedi-
cated in my memory.
One final personal thought. One of the
stenographers in the Executive Office
Building has a letter framed on her wall
which was written to her from her boss
who has been working with the Adminis-
tration since we first came to Washington.
The letter, as I recall, reads something
like this. It says: We have been together
ever since we came to Washington in 1969
as part of this great adventure, on Janu-
ary 20 of that year, and we shall leave
together only when we have completed
our service, and we shall leave heads high
on January 20, 1977.
We have accomplished, we believe, a
great deal that is good for this country as
well as for the world over these past 5
years, but there remains much to be done.
And believe me, with your help we are
going to do the job.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in
the Regency Room of the Shoreham Americana
Hotel.
Rabbi Baruch Korff was president of the
National Citizens' Committee for Fairness to
the Presidency.
477
