Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [209]
that joint efforts by the USA and USSR
in such fields of cooperation as medi-
cal science and public health, protection
and improvement of man's environment,
science and technology, exploration of
outer space and the world ocean, peace-
ful uses of atomic energy, agriculture and
transportation create conditions for an
accelerated solution of some urgent and
complicated problems facing mankind.
Such cooperation makes a substantial
contribution to the development of the
structure of American-Soviet relations,
giving it a more concrete positive content.
Both Sides will strive to broaden and
deepen their cooperation in science and
technology as well as cultural exchanges
on the basis of agreements concluded be-
tween them.
On the basis of positive experience ac-
cumulated in their scientific and tech-
nological cooperation and guided by the
desire to ensure further progress in this
important sphere of their mutual rela-
tions, the two Sides decided to extend such
cooperation to the following new areas.
ENERGY
Taking into consideration the growing
energy needs of industry, transportation
and other branches of the economies of
both countries and the consequent need
to intensify scientific and technical co-
operation in the development of optimal
methods of utilizing traditional and new
sources of energy, and to improve the
understanding of the energy programs and
problems of both countries, the two Sides
concluded an agreement on cooperation
in the field of energy. Responsibility for
the implementation of the Agreement is
entrusted to a US-USSR Joint Commit-
tee on Cooperation in Energy, which will
be established for that purpose.
HOUSING AND OTHER CONSTRUCTION
5
The two Sides signed an agreement on
cooperation in the field of housing and
other construction. The aim of this
Agreement is to promote the solution by
joint effort of problems related to modern
techniques of housing and other con-
struction along such lines as the improve-
ment of the reliability and quality of
buildings and building materials, the plan-
ning and construction of new towns, con-
struction in seismic areas and areas of
extreme climatic conditions. For the im-
plementation of this Agreement there will
be established a Joint US-USSR Com-
mittee on Cooperation in Housing and
Other Construction which will determine
specific working programs.
For the purpose of enhancing the safety
of their peoples living in earthquake-prone
areas, the two Sides agreed to undertake
on a priority basis a joint research project
to increase the safety of buildings and
other structures in these areas and, in
particular, to study the behavior of pre-
5 The texts of the agreements are printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 10, pp. 737–740). On June 28,
1974, the White House also released fact sheets
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
agreements. Participants in the news briefing
were Ronald L. Ziegler, Press Secretary to the
President, and Arthur A. Hartman, Assistant
Secretary of State for European Affairs.
43-437 - 75 - 39
575
