Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
ministration and the Energy Research
and Development Administration to pro-
vide the appropriate organizational struc-
ture for administering the national energy
policy, as we work toward the establish-
ment of a Department of Energy and
Natural Resources.
The 13 other energy measures I re-
quested last week deal with longer-term
needs, extending beyond the present emer-
gency. But these also require expeditious
action if we are to achieve the goal of
Project Independence-a capacity for
energy self-sufficiency by 1980. The suc-
cess of Project Independence is essential to
the continued strength of our position in
world trade, and also to our independence
of action as a great power.
I hope that our joint efforts now to re-
solve the energy crisis and to move toward
a capacity for self-sufficiency in energy
will enable the President who addresses
the 98th Congress a decade from now to
look back and say we made it possible for
America to enjoy continued peace and
prosperity in the 1980s.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
THE WORLD ECONOMY
During the past three years the United
States has reached an unprecedented level
of material prosperity. Industrial output
has set new records. Trade has flourished.
Consumption has risen to the highest
levels in history. Even our inflation rate—
the most serious economic problem we
now face has been one of the lowest in
the industrialized free world.
The major policy decisions we took in
1971 contributed significantly to this
prosperity-both here and in other coun-
tries. It was clear, for example, as we
moved into the 1970s that the interna-
tional monetary system adopted after
World War II needed major adjustments.
Unsustainable imbalances had developed,
threatening a resurgence of protectionism
and a disruption of world trade. This is
why I decided to take some very strong
measures in August of 1971, measures that
have resulted in a major realignment of
world currency values, progress toward
new and more flexible international mone-
tary management, and negotiations
toward a more open and equitable trading
system.
These adjustments, while essential,
were not easy. But now we have finally
entered into a more flexible and realistic
international financial system. Much re-
mains to be done to complete the transi-
tion, but its beneficial results are already
clear.
The realignment of currency values
helped produce an increase of 80 per-
ent or more than $50 billion in the rate
of U.S. exports during the past two years,
along with a major improvement in our
trade balance. This improvement was
good not only for us, but also for the rest
of the world. In addition, the shocks to
the world economy arising from reduced
food supplies in 1972 and 1973, and in
recent months from the oil embargo and
the arbitrary increases in the price of oil,
all were managed without panic under
the new arrangements. Indeed, world
trade has continued to expand, despite
these temporary difficulties.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS
A vigorous international trade is vital
to the American economy. Jobs for Ameri-
can workers depend on our ability to
develop foreign markets. Moreover,
59
