Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 28 [65]
support to this essential organization,
which stands constantly ready to be of
service wherever it is needed.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Proclamation 4273, designating March as Red
Cross Month.
65 Remarks Opening the Young Republican Leadership
Conference. February 28, 1974
Chairman Bush, Chairman Smith, all of
the distinguished guests on the platform,
and all of the distinguished delegates to
this Young Republican Leadership
Conference:
Let me say first that when I was just
meeting George Bush before coming in, I
said, "What do you call Mr. Smith? Is he
a chairman or a president?" He said, "He
is a chairman, but he is trying to be a
president someday."
I want you to know that tomorrow
when David Eisenhower-because Julie
will be unable to be present-he will be
your host at the White House for the tour
of the White House, a special tour that
will be arranged for all of you, that one
of the reasons that I particularly wanted
you to see it was that I know there are
several in this audience who expect to be
President one day, and I thought you
should have a chance to look the place
over before you decided to make the
effort.
Also, you may have noted we had a lit-
tle mix-up as to which side of the plat-
form I should be on, and Charlene said,
"Not on the left, Mr. President, on the
right."
And from seeing the speakers that you
have, I see that all segments of our party
are represented, as they should be.
I know that you will be, of course, hear-
ing from Senators, from other distin-
guished leaders of the party, during the
course of your 4-day visit here to Wash-
ington. They will be going into the vari-
ous issues in which they are interested,
in which the Nation are interested, in
which you, of course, will be carrying the
message back
to your constituencies
throughout the 50 States of the Nation.
In my opening remarks to keynote this
convention or meeting, I therefore would
like to put it all in perspective, if I could,
in a very few moments, put it in perspec-
tive in terms of young people looking to
the future, rather than young people look-
ing to the past. Because one thing I have
found in talking to young people is that
you realize that the future is yours. It is
what you make it. And at this particular
time, it is very important that we under-
stand what young Republicans—and not
just young Republicans but young Ameri-
cans what we have as the challenge of
the future in this year 1974, where we are
going, what we can build, what the world
is going to look like in 1976 at the 200th
anniversary of our country. And perhaps
even further down the line, what is the
world going to be in the year 2000, when
one of you or perhaps another young per-
son in this country will be in the house in
which we now live.
In addressing that subject, let me begin
by saying that I was talking to a young
person the other day, a young man who
was very brilliant, one who has without
question, in my opinion, a fine political
215
