Richard Nixon, 1974
June 16 [183]
to stress the importance of this visit and to ex-
tend greetings to President Richard Nixon and
Mrs. Nixon and to wish them good health and
happiness. Let us also extend greetings to the
American people for whom we wish continued
success and progress.
183 Remarks About Resumption of Diplomatic Relations
Between the United States and Syria. June 16, 1974
President Asad, distinguished guests:
I join President Asad in expressing my
pleasure that our two Governments are
today reestablishing diplomatic relations.
The American and the Syrian peoples
have a long history of friendly relations,
and we in America are proud to count on
many persons of Syrian descent among
our citizens.
We look forward now to an expansion
in contacts and cooperation between the
United States and Syria. President Asad
and I have agreed that ambassadors will
be named within 2 weeks.
In the many contacts which have taken
place in recent weeks between the United
States and Syrian Governments in the
course of the negotiations on disengage-
ment, each side has made clear its respect
for the independence and for the sover-
eignty of the other. I want to reaffirm that
relations between our two countries shall
be based on this principle of international
law. I also want to take this opportunity
to express my admiration for the efforts
of President Asad and his colleagues, the
efforts they have undertaken in the inter-
ests of peace. The United States will work
closely with Syria for the achievement of a
just and lasting peace in implementation
of United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 338-a peace which will bring a
new era of growth and prosperity and
progress in the Middle East.
The renewed contacts between our
Governments and, especially, the inten-
sive discussions leading to the agreement
on the disengagement of Israeli and
Syrian military forces have contributed
markedly to a deeper understanding and
improvement in the overall relationship
between the United States and Syria and
between our two peoples. President Asad
and I consider this agreement a first step
towards a just and lasting peace in this
area.
President Asad and I have agreed our
Governments will review and develop
further concrete ways in which the United
States and Syria can work more closely
together for their mutual benefit. A sen-
ior Syrian official will visit Washington in
the near future to discuss specific plans to
achieve this goal. In the general context
of strengthening our bilateral relations,
I have affirmed that the United States is
prepared to resume educational and cul-
tural exchanges. President Asad extended
an invitation to the United States to par-
ticipate in the Damascus International
Trade Fair next month, and I have ac-
cepted this invitation with great pleasure
on behalf of the United States.
I have extended an invitation to Presi-
dent Asad to visit the United States at a
time to be agreed, and I am delighted to
announce that he has accepted this invita-
tion.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
12:45 p.m. at the Presidential Palace in
Damascus, in response to remarks by Presi-
dent Asad.
515
