[121] Apr. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
will stimulate that industry which is so
essential to a strong and prosperous
America.
So, that is why today I will say to you in
making the prognosis on the economy, we
have been through what I believe is the
lowest point in the downturn. We now
can look forward to the leveling off. To-
ward the last half of the year we will see
this economy moving forward again and
moving upward.
The major problem is inflation. That
we will all have to fight together. And we
shall fight it through more production,
we shall fight it by keeping down the
costs of Government where we can, and
we shall fight it also through responsible
policies in the dealings between labor and
management. And I see the year 1974,
at the end—and now it is very difficult for
us to look that far ahead-but at the end
that we will look back and say '74 was
not our best year, as were '72 and '73, but
it was a good year. I will say and I will
flatly predict that '75 will be a very good
year. And I say today that '76, the 200th
anniversary year for America, will be the
best year in America's history, the most
prosperous, the most free, not only in
terms of prosperity, however, and freedom
and opportunity for all of our people-a
great goal that you are working for here
in Mississippi and that we must all dedi-
cate ourselves to but it will be a year in
which America will not only be prosperous
but will have prosperity without the cost
of war, and that is a great goal. We can
achieve it by the year 1976.
Now, having referred to prosperity
without war, let us take an overview of
the world for a moment, see where we
have been, where we are, and where we
are going.
We have just ended the longest war in
America's history, 12 long, difficult years.
For the first time in 25 years, no young
American is being drafted for the armed
services, and everyone is indeed thankful
for that.
But let me say, I would hope that Missis-
sippians, who have been in the forefront
always in fighting the battles for this coun-
try as volunteers, will, many of them, make
the decision to serve as volunteers in our
Armed Forces, the peace forces. We need
you, and it is a proud service to be in,
whether it is the Army, the Navy, or the
Air Force of the United States of America.
And finally, with regard to the long and
difficult war through which we have been,
how we ended it was important. I know
that sometimes people say it didn't make
any difference, just get it over. But Amer-
ica had to end it in a way that we did not
lose the confidence of our allies, the re-
spect of those who were our adversaries,
and at least some feeling of respect from
those who were the neutrals. And that is
why ending it in a way that the people of
South Vietnam have an opportunity to
choose their own way without having a
Communist government imposed upon
them against their will-that was right.
We can be proud of it.
We can be proud of the young men who
served for that cause and achieved it, and
we can be proud, too, that for the first
time in 8 years, every American POW has
returned from abroad and is at home. And
as one of them said when he came home,
standing tall and erect-he said, "Thank
God we came home on our feet and not
on our knees." We can be proud of that
fact as well.
But ending a war is not enough. That
has been the American failure in this
century. We fight wars and fight them
well when we have to do so, although we
384
