Richard Nixon, 1974
[62]
Feb. 26
ple that live in the perimeter of Southeast
Asia, those nations would have a much
greater danger threatening them of ag-
gression sweeping over the entire penin-
sula of Southeast Asia.
People say the domino theory really is
not accurate. The difficulty is they have
never asked the dominoes, because when
we find in visiting those areas, as many of
us have, that they are watching what the
United States does in terms of its rela-
tions to a small country so far away in a
very difficult war, when they reach a con-
clusion that the United States is not a
dependable ally, that the United States
will be pushed over, when faced with
Communist aggression, then they lose con-
fidence in us, and they accept the in-
evitable that the tide of aggression will
engulf them also.
So, we are grateful to our men who
served, because as a result, 250 million
people and perhaps more in the South-
east Asian effort have a chance-not a
guarantee, but a chance-to choose their
own way, a chance to remain free from a
takeover by aggression from outside forces.
Our part will, in the future, be under
the Nixon Doctrine not to furnish troops,
but to furnish within our capacities and
depending upon their ability to use it, to
furnish the economic and military sup-
plies so that they can have what they need
to defend themselves.
But also, the way that this war ended
had a much greater significance. There
have been some foreign policy develop-
ments over the past 5 years, and parti-
cularly over the past 2 years, that in my
opinion would not have occurred, could
not have been accomplished, had not the
United States proved that it was a de-
pendable ally and also demonstrated in
Vietnam that it would not join an enemy
to overthrow an ally.
What I am referring to is very simply
that when a great power, in any of its rela-
tions with any countries large or small,
shows a lack of will, it loses respect not
only in that area but it loses respect all
over the world, and particularly among
those who might oppose it in the future
and who might be tempted to engage in
adventurism, proceeding on the assump-
tion that the United States having backed
down one place might do so somewhere
else.
So, in conclusion, I simply want to say
to the Members of the Congress present,
both Democrat and Republican, that we
do owe a great debt of honor to those
who served here, a great debt that is diffi-
cult to repay because this has been a mis-
understood war; this has been one in
which Americans have been honestly di-
vided, and we trust that that may never
come again.
But as we see what would have hap-
pened had these men not stood firm and
had we not backed them up, let me say
the chance now to go forward with great
initiatives for peace, with the United
States strong and respected, we would not
have.
So, the 22 million who served in Viet-
nam deserve our thanks. They deserve,
I would say to Mr. Johnson, as he may
have noted from the press conference last
night, special attention insofar as those
who have suffered from the wounds of
war. And I want, particularly, personal at-
tention given to any indications that our
laws are not being adequately carried out
in that respect, in providing the benefits
for them.
And finally, looking to the future, the
211
