[193] June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
saying to us and what we convey to you,
our fellow Americans all over this great
Nation, is that for millions and millions
of people in that part of the world, there
is trust for America, there is respect for
America and really some very strong
affection for America.
I would say, as we conclude this part
of
this very long journey, we must not let
these people down. We must help, because
America must play and will play the
crucial role in continuing the progress
toward peace and continuing also to build
on the foundations of these new relation-
ships with nations where those relation-
ships have been broken in times past.
Waging peace is, in fact, more difficult
than waging war because it is more com-
plex-the goal sometimes one loses sight
of as he becomes involved in the tactics
that are necessary to achieve that goal.
But while waging peace is more difficult
than waging war, I think, as all of us
realize, the rewards are infinitely greater.
And I think on this day that every Amer-
ican can be proud that his country, in that
part of the world and, I would say, in
most of the world, is trusted as a nation
which first has the responsibility to lead
toward achieving the great goal of prog-
ress and peace for all peoples, but also we
can be proud of the fact that we are not
backing away from that responsibility.
Let us be worthy of the hopes, of the
trust of millions of people that most of us
will never meet. This is a great goal.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
4:35 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White
House.
Vice President Gerald R. Ford had welcomed
the President as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
It is a great privilege and honor for me to
have the opportunity of welcoming both of
you back on a very successful peace mission,
which you have accomplished with great dignity
and distinction.
When you left a few days ago, there was some
apprehension in some quarters that this vitally
important mission might not achieve the ob-
jectives that we all hope for, but I think, as
we have followed your journeys in five coun-
tries, we have seen that the actions taken by
you have cemented the great accomplishments
of the Secretary of State during his negotia-
tions.
The welcome given to you and Mrs. Nixon
in five countries is a tribute to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, to Mrs. Nixon, and I think to the Ameri-
can people.
Over the years, it has been my privilege, Mr.
President, to welcome you back on a number
of peace missions that you undertook. I was in
the group that welcomed you when you came
back from the Soviet Union in 1972, when you
came back from that historic mission to the
People's Republic of China.
In each and every case, there have been solid
achievements leading us and the world down
the road of peace. Of course, it has been won-
derful to see, as we did, Mrs. Nixon, not only
on this trip but other trips, where she actually
charmed and captivated the people of all
countries.
Mr. President, I think it is fair to say that
Mrs. Nixon could now be called the First Lady
of the World.
Mr. President, about 10 days ago, I was
here with many others to wish you Godspeed.
Our prayers were with you at that time, and I
think it might be appropriate now to quote
from that Biblical injunction: Blessed is the
peacemaker.
Mr. President, the American people know
that the road to peace is long and very, very
difficult, but the American people historically
have stood tall and strong as they met the
conflicts on the battlefield. I am just as con-
fident, Mr. President, that the American people
will stand tall and strong as they now move
forward in the efforts to achieve the peace that
you have worked so strenuously to lay the
groundwork for, not only in the Middle East
but in Europe and in Southeast Asia..
The American people will be united. They
540
