[221] July 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
subordinate managers who are especially
effective. But awards for outstanding in-
dividual executive performance will also
continue. We must overcome traditional
reluctance to use these legislative authori-
ties to reward executive excellence.
BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE
Both the Congress and the President
must act responsibly to create an execu-
tive work force at the national level that
is second to none. There is no more de-
manding nor vital career than executive
management in the Federal service. We
should act now in order to achieve the
long term reforms that build and main-
tain an executive corps capable of
dealing with the policy and management
complexities of the future.
The new initiatives I am taking and the
legislation I am proposing are designed to
build upon the efforts made by this Ad-
222
ministration over the past five years to
reform the management of government
programs. Within the past year, signif-
icant progress has been made to make the
investments necessary to develop our finest
career managers and executives. We must
not imperil the future by failing in our
duty to prepare career executives to carry
out their responsibilities with skill and
wisdom.
What I am proposing is an essential part
of
my efforts to enable governments, at all
levels, to deliver what they promise. Not
everyone can manage the public's busi-
ness. The measures I am today proposing
will develop those who can.
The White House,
July 17, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message and a fact sheet
on Government executive development were
released at San Clemente, Calif.
Statement on the Death of Dizzy Dean.
July 17, 1974
TO MY generation of Americans, Dizzy
Dean will always be remembered as the
blazing young fastballer who led the Gas-
house Gang of St. Louis to the pinnacle
of baseball glory. To the young, Dizzy
will also be remembered as the sportscaster
who brought an extra touch of excite-
ment and color to every game he covered.
Dizzy Dean was indeed a man for all gen-
erations. And America is saddened today
by his death.
Mrs. Nixon and I join sports fans every-
where in mourning the loss of this legend-
ary figure.
NOTE: Mr. Dean, 63, died in Reno, Nevada.
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
594
