Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
fourth of the world's population outside
the framework of international coopera-
tion. The world could not afford another
generation of hostility between the
United States and the People's Republic
of China.
We needed to adjust our partnerships
with Western Europe and Japan, recog-
nizing their increasing political and eco-
nomic strength and self-reliance, and
emphasizing our important common goals.
We needed to alter the world monetary
system to reflect the new realities of the
international economic system and Amer-
ica's place in it.
During the past five years we have made
striking progress in meeting each of these
needs.
CONTINUING RESPONSIBILITY IN
VIETNAM
The United States is at peace for the
first time in more than a decade. But peace
must be something more than the absence
of the active engagement of American
forces in conflict.
We must guard against the tendency to
express relief at our military extrication
from Southeast Asia by "washing our
hands" of the whole affair. Men and
women are still dying there. We still
have a responsibility there. We must pro-
vide those ravaged lands with the eco-
nomic assistance needed to stabilize the
structures of their societies and make fu-
ture peace more likely. We must provide,
as well, the continued military aid grants
required to maintain strong, self-reliant
defense forces. And we will continue to
insist on full compliance with the terms
of the agreements reached in Paris, in-
cluding a full accounting of all of our men
missing in Southeast Asia.
BUILDING NEW RELATIONSHIPS
As we work through détente to reduce
conflict in areas of the world where both
we and the Soviet Union have important
interests, we must also continue to work
to reduce the potential causes of conflict
between us.
We must persevere in our negotiations
with the Soviet Union to place further
limits on strategic arms competition and in
our talks with the Warsaw Pact nations to
reduce forces in Europe in a way that will
increase security and stability for all.
We will pursue our relations with the
Soviet Union in the climate of détente
established two years ago in Moscow and
reaffirmed by General Secretary Brezh-
nev's visit to Washington last year. Dur-
ing the fateful weeks of the Middle East
war last October, the strength of our
détente was severely tested. Since then,
American diplomatic leadership and ini-
tiative have played a central role in the
search for a final settlement in the long-
troubled Middle East. This began with
the ceasefire of October 22, worked out
with the Soviet Union's assistance, and
was later strengthened by the Six-Point
Agreement in November to consolidate
the ceasefire, then by the Geneva Peace
Conference-under the co-sponsorship of
the United States and the Soviet Union-
and most recently by the agreement on the
disengagement of Egyptian and Israeli
military forces, which is being imple-
mented in cooperation with the United
Nations Emergency Force. These steps are
but the beginning of broadened efforts to
find a lasting settlement of the area's
problems.
The process of building a normal rela-
tionship with the People's Republic of
China continues. Liaison offices have been
97
