Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 20 [55]
1973. The 1973 rate was below the general
rate of inflation. But inflationary pres-
sures are still strong in the medical field,
so that we must maintain Federal controls
until other measures are adopted under
Comprehensive Health Insurance.
IMPROVING HEALTH SERVICE
DISTRIBUTION
Improved professional standards and
sensible cost controls should be comple-
mented by improvements in health
services.
Presently, much of our health care is
delivered in a hit-or-miss fashion. Too few
American communities know how to
balance their health services properly.
There are too many hospital beds in many
communities and not enough out-patient
services; few communities are capable of
delivering high-quality emergency medi-
cal care; and we do not have enough
physicians and other health professionals
delivering primary health care. These
problems could grow more serious. Re-
moval of financial barriers can be ex-
pected to create new demands on our
health care delivery system.
We must develop a better capacity to
forecast and anticipate health needs
rather than having to react hurriedly after
the fact. The delivery of health care must
be planned and guided in the States and
communities by those persons who best
understand the health problems of the
people and localities concerned.
There are many concrete steps to be
taken. For example, we must maintain
our efforts to demonstrate for local com-
munities the benefits of comprehensive
emergency medical care systems. We must
also maintain our newly enlarged capacity
to produce well trained health profes-
sionals, we should continue to provide in-
centives to train primary care physicians
and we should demonstrate ways of bring-
ing services of physicians into rural and
inner city areas where doctor shortages
exist. Further, we must improve our meth-
ods of quickly converting research findings
into physicians' practice. The Nation
should perfect a system where scarce life-
saving technology is available to serve all
those who need its benefits.
To accomplish these goals, we must
encourage State, local and private author-
ities to modify some of the existing orga-
nizations and laws relating to health
regulation, licensing, planning, produc-
tion and manpower allocation.
Existing planning agencies have faced
these issues to the best of their abilities.
Some have performed well, helping States
and communities plan for new and im-
proved health resources in a rational,
orderly and economical way. Others, how-
ever, have failed to bring about material
improvements in the health care system
and are not well suited to the demands
of the future.
HEALTH PLANNING
We will shortly be submitting legisla-
tion to the Congress that would authorize
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare to support local health plan-
ning boards composed of representatives
of the public, health care providers, in-
surers, health educators and elected offi-
cials. These boards would prepare com-
prehensive health plans for health care
delivery systems designed to meet the
needs of the people in their areas. States
would continue to have the primary role
185
