[146] May 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
development of a sound consensus on a
comprehensive program of health insur-
ance than that need is today.
In order to best serve the American peo-
ple, such a program must include three
basic principles:
-It must maintain the patient's free-
dom to choose his own physician.
-It must build on the capacity and di-
versity of our existing private system of
health care, rather than to tear it down.
and seek to erect a costly, federally domi-
nated structure in its place.
-And it must provide all parties-
consumers, providers, carriers, and State
governments-with a direct stake in mak-
ing the health care system work.
The comprehensive health insurance
plan which I have proposed meets these
criteria. It is the only one of the major
proposals now before Congress which does
SO.
It is the only major plan that offers
extensive, uniform health coverage with-
out raising your taxes, without severely
damaging the effective private health in-
surance industry that has helped to make
this generation of Americans the health-
iest, best cared-for in our history, and
without establishing an enormous new
Federal bureaucracy.
Most important of all, under the com-
prehensive health insurance plan, your
doctor would continue to work for you,
and not for the Federal Government.
These basic principles must not be sacri-
ficed or compromised.
While I believe the plan I have sub-
mitted is sound in its basic objectives, we
are not ruling out compromise where com-
promise does not violate the basic princi-
ples of our proposals which I have de-
scribed. I welcome the development of
the new plan sponsored by Senator Ken-
nedy and Congressman Mills which in-
cludes many of the same features as the
Administration proposal. I also believe
that the proposal sponsored by Senators
Long and Ribicoff focuses well deserved
attention on the problem of catastrophic
illnesses. Members of the House and Sen-
ate have made constructive proposals
which deserve consideration in other
areas. However, major differences remain.
The Kennedy-Mills proposal would be
administered almost totally by the Federal
Government, and it would be paid for
by increasing your Federal payroll taxes.
It would be a compulsory plan, forcing
the participation of those who do not need
or who do not want coverage, as well as
those who do.
The Long-Ribicoff alternative proposal
would also be directly administered by the
Federal Government, but in most cases,
it would only offer coverage for catastro-
phic illnesses and leave participants un-
protected against many other substantial
health costs which are covered by the
comprehensive health insurance plan
which I have proposed.
The Administration plan would offer
every American broad and balanced
health protection through one of three
major programs:
-The employee health insurance
would cover most Americans and be avail-
able through their jobs. The cost would
be shared by employers and employees
on a fair basis.
-An improved Medicare plan would
cover those 65 and over and would in-
clude additional medical costs and bene-
fits not included under the current Medi-
care system.
-The assisted health insurance plan
would cover low-income Americans and
persons who would be ineligible for the
444
