[213] July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
conducive to agreement on the terms of
any new coffee agreement containing
operative economic provisions. However,
it has been felt desirable to keep together
the experienced secretariat staff of the In-
ternational Coffee Organization to serve
as a competent authority for the collection
and dissemination of coffee statistics and
other information on world production,
trade and consumption while maintaining
a framework in which consultations on
coffee and negotiations for a new agree-
ment could take place.
In the absence of operative economic
provisions in the extended agreement and
with a view to effecting some control over
prices, a number of the producing nations
have been attempting to concert their
efforts to support coffee prices. We have
repeatedly emphasized, during the nego-
tiations for the modified extension of the
1968 International Coffee Agreement and
on other occasions, our strong view that
such unilateral producer actions are in-
compatible with the concept of interna-
tional producer-consumer cooperation on
coffee problems.
The White House,
July 10, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, entitled "1973 Annual Re-
port of the President to the Congress on the
International Coffee Agreement" (12 pp. plus
annexes), was published by the Department of
State.
214 Exchange of Remarks With the French Ambassador
About France's Gift for the American Bicentennial
Celebration. July 10, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. This is a splendid thing
that your government in France is doing.
AMBASSADOR [JACQUES] KOSCIUSKO-
MORIZET. Yes, Mr. President. In 1976, the
American people will be celebrating the
Bicentennial of the independence of their
Nation. Of course, the Bicentennial is an
American commemoration. That is also an
anniversary for France, the anniversary of
our relations between our two countries,
the anniversary of our participation in the
Independence War, and the celebration of
a friendship, devoted, which has never
failed for all of history and has been filled
with comments and advice and mutual
achievements.
And because the people of France are
committed to the Bicentennial of the inde-
pendence of the United States, President
Valéry Giscard d'Estaing asked me to
remit to you a letter presenting the Ameri-
can people with the sound and light
spectacle, which in '76 will take place at
Mount Vernon on the site of the historical
mansion of George Washington.
And we think it was a proper time to
make this announcement in the week be-
tween Independence Day and Bastille
Day.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Ambassador, I
want to express appreciation on behalf of
all of the American people for this splen-
did gesture on the part of the French peo-
ple and the French Government.
And would you express my personal ap-
preciation to your President, Valéry Gis-
card d'Estaing, for his interest in this?
I would say that any historian knows
584
