[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Representatives impeachment investiga-
tions, how can the House meet its con-
stitutional responsibilities while you, the
person under investigation, are allowed
to limit their access to potential evidence?
THE PRESIDENT. Which one of the
questions do you want me to answer?
[Laughter]
First, with regard to the first part of the
question, Mr. Rather, what I was referring
to with regard to cooperation was that Mr.
Jaworski, at the time he handed down the
indictments, said that he had the full
story on Watergate. You reported that on
CBS, I think, as did other reporters, quite
properly.
Now, as far as appearing before the
grand jury was concerned, I respectfully
declined to do so, and incidentally, I
would advise no President of the United
States to appear before any grand jury.
That would be not in the interest of the
Presidency of the United States.
Now, if you would repeat your second
question so that we can keep our train of
thought.
MR. RATHER. Well, the second question
had to do with the House impeachment
investigation. I pointed out that you have
sought to limit, to define the limits of that
investigation, what evidence they have
access to and what evidence they should
not have access to.
Now, given the constitutional assign-
ment to the House of Representatives of
an impeachment investigation without
qualification, how can the House commit-
tee do its job as long as you, the person
under investigation, is allowed to limit
their access to potential evidence?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Rather,
referring to the House of Representatives,
just like the President, it is bound by the
Constitution. The Constitution says spe-
cifically that a President shall be im-
peached for treason, bribery, or other
high crimes or misdemeanors.
It is the Constitution that defines what
the House should have access to and the
limits of its investigation, and I am sug-
gesting that the House follow the Con-
stitution. If they do, I will.
FARM PRICES AND PRODUCTION
[18.] Q. Mr. President, Grant Price,
the KWWL Station, Waterloo, Iowa. I
would like to go back to the question of
food production, if I may. Your Admin-
istration has asked our farmers to embark
on all-out production, I believe, as one of
your-as part of your program. In view of
some of the USDA miscalculations of the
past, notably with respect to the impact
of the feed grain exports last year on
domestic reserves, what assurance do the
farmers have that their super output will
not lead to a disastrous break in farm
prices, as in fact has already occurred in
the beef feeding industry?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, let me say
that despite what is called a disastrous
break in farm prices, the farmers have
never had it so good.
Second, we want them to have it good,
because the farmer is not going to produce
unless he gets a good price-and I know
Iowa well because, as you know, I was
stationed there during the war.
The second point that I would like to
make is this: That with regard to the
USDA, I don't think we can be too critical
of their predictions, because there is one
thing that the USDA, with all of their
expertise, cannot control and that is the
weather. The weather throws them off
sometimes.
This
year, however, Secretary Butz, for
296
