Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 2 [97]
eran. We trusted them with our country's
honor in Vietnam. They met the test. Now
we can trust them in our industries and
places of business here at home.
At the close of America's tragic Civil
War, Abraham Lincoln described the duty
which all of us share as citizens. In his
eloquent Second Inaugural Address, he
said:
"... let us strive on to finish the work
we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds;
to care for him who shall have borne the
battle, and for his widow, and [his]
orphan―to do all which may achieve and
cherish a just and lasting peace among
ourselves, and with all nations."
Today, a year after the end of another
long and bitter war-and only 27 months
before America's 200th anniversary-let
us rededicate ourselves to that goal by
paying respect to the men and women who
served America at a difficult time. Let us
make sure that a grateful Nation remem-
bers them in deeds as well as in words.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:06 p.m. from
his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. The address was
broadcast live on nationwide radio. On the
same day, the White House released an advance
text of the President's address.
On April 4, 1974, the President opened the
first meeting of the Domestic Council Commit-
tee on Veterans Services in the Cabinet Room at
the White House. Present at the meeting with
the President and Mr. Johnson were: Peter J.
Brennan, Secretary of Labor; Caspar W. Wein-
berger, Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare; Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of
Management and Budget; Kenneth R. Cole,
Jr., Assistant to the President for Domestic
Affairs and Executive Director of the Domestic
Council; Michael P. Balzano, Jr., Director of
ACTION; and William P. Clements, Jr., Dep-
uty Secretary of Defense (representing the
Secretary of Defense). Later the same day, the
White House released the transcript of a news
briefing by Mr. Johnson on the meeting.
97 Message to the Congress Transmitting the Cost of Living
Council's Quarterly Report on the Economic Stabilization
Program. April 2, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit to the Congress, in
accordance with section 216 of the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Act of 1970, as
amended, the most recent quarterly re-
port of the Economic Stabilization Pro-
gram, covering the period October 1,
1973 through December 31, 1973.
The fourth quarter of 1973 was a period
of continued although slower growth for
the American economy. Our gross na-
tional product grew to $1,338 billion, an
increase of $33 billion over the previous
quarter. Employment increased by ap-
proximately one million workers to 85.7
million. The American dollar continued
to regain strength abroad.
During the fourth quarter, inflation
remained our most serious economic prob-
lem. Prices here and abroad continued to
rise at an unacceptably rapid pace, due
in large part to the worldwide shortages
of many raw materials. The pattern of
price increases also began to reflect the
impact of the Arab oil embargo against
the United States and higher world prices
for oil.
By the beginning of the fourth quarter,
the fourth phase of the Economic Stabili-
zation Program had been fully underway.
331
