[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
supplies and we face sharply increased
prices for those supplies when they are
restored.
Irrespective of the possibility of restor-
ing the flow of Middle East oil, we must
act now to ensure that we are never again
dependent on foreign sources of supply
for our energy needs. We must continue
to slow the rise in our rate of consumption,
and we must sharply increase our domes-
tic production.
The effects of energy conservation can
be felt at once. Already the responsiveness
of the American people to the recent
crisis has proved to be the major factor
in helping to avoid the serious conse-
quences that the winter might have
brought. That conservation must con-
tinue.
The required increase in domestic sup-
plies cannot be achieved so rapidly. It
will involve the development of entirely
new sources of energy as well as the ex-
panded development of oil and coal re-
sources; it will require a significant expan-
sion of our research and development
efforts; it will require a shift from the use
of scarce fuels to those which are more
plentiful but also more expensive than the
cheap energy to which we have been ac-
customed: it will require that we encour-
age both exploration and production; it
will mean that as we act to prevent the
energy industry from making unconscion-
able windfall profits, we must also avoid
crippling that industry with punitive
legislation: and finally, it will require that
we make some difficult decisions as we sort
out our economic and environmental
priorities.
As we seek to act domestically to in-
crease fuel supplies, we will act inter-
nationally in an effort to obtain oil at
reasonable prices. Unreasonable increases
in the cost of so vital a commodity as oil
poses a threat to the entire structure of
international economic relations. Not only
U.S. jobs, prices and incomes are at stake,
but the general pattern of international
cooperation is at stake as well. It is our
hope that we can work out cooperative
efforts with our friends abroad so that we
can all meet our energy needs without dis-
rupting our economies and without dis-
rupting our economic relationships.
Last week I sent to the Congress a com-
prehensive special message setting forth
our energy situation, our energy prospects,
our energy needs, and the legislative meas-
ures I consider necessary for meeting those
needs. I shall not repeat that analysis nor
the full list of those recommendations
today.
I do want to urge, however, that the
critical energy measures which I have
proposed be made the first order of legis-
lative business in this session of the Con-
gress, and that work go forward expedi-
tiously on the others. Those measures
which I request be given the highest
priority are the following:
-A special energy act which would
permit additional restrictions on energy
consumption and would postpone tempo-
rarily certain Clean Air Act requirements
for power plants and automotive emis-
sions;
-A windfall profits tax which would
prevent private profiteering at the ex-
pense of public sacrifice;
Unemployment insurance for people
in areas impacted by serious economic
dislocation; and
-Mandatory reporting by major
energy companies on their inventories,
their production and their reserves.
I am also asking that the Congress
quickly establish the Federal Energy Ad-
58
