Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 31 [96]
of the camera and the pen of the jour-
nalist had focused so often on those who
had deserted America that those who
bravely served were sometimes forgotten.
In early 1971, thanks to the success of
our Vietnamization program, 1 million
G.I.'s came home to enter the civilian
labor force. However, more than 350,000
of these returning servicemen found them-
selves unemployed. To meet this chal-
lenge, I launched a six-point program in
June of 1971 to help returning veterans
find training and jobs. By January of
1973, the unemployment rate for Viet-
nam-era veterans had dropped from 8.1
percent to 5.4 percent, and at the end of
February 1974, it stood at 5 percent, which
is just below the national average.
Now, this progress is a credit to the
Federal agencies that have mobilized job
programs and, more especially, to two
private groups, the Jobs for Veterans
Committee and the National Alliance of
Businessmen. With the help of the Gov-
ernment and public-spirited businessmen,
more than 2.2 million veterans of the
Vietnam era have been placed in jobs in
the last 22 years.
There has also been progress on other
fronts. Nearly 3 million veterans of the
Vietnam era have financed their educa-
tions under the G.I. bill since 1969. Edu-
cation allowances have been increased by
70 percent during this same period. The
number of veterans assisted through guar-
anteed mortgage loans has increased by
46 percent. The Veterans Administration,
which operates the largest civilian medi-
cal care system in the world, is now under-
taking the biggest hospital construction
program in its history.
We have added over 25,000 medical
personnel to the staffs of the veterans hos-
pitals, and we are seeking to increase
spending for veterans benefits and serv-
ices to $13.6 billion during the coming
fiscal year. That is an increase of more
than 75 percent over the expenditures
when I took office.
And yet, we must all recognize that the
Vietnam-era veteran needs far more help
than we are providing. Despite the prog-
ress of the veterans in finding jobs, there
has been a slight upturn in their unem-
ployment over the last 3 months. There
no doubt several causes-among
them the problems relating to energy-
but the causes are not what matters. What
matters is this: The men who fought on
the battlelines in Vietnam must not come
back to job lines in America. We must
redouble our efforts to help these young
men and women find jobs.
Vietnam-era veterans are also faced
with staggering increases in the cost of
higher education. That is why I have pro-
posed that we increase their education
benefits by an additional 8 percent to help
them overcome the forces of inflation.
This would raise the payments to a single
veteran with no dependents to $240 a
month, tax-free.
While there are continuing improve-
ments in the quality of medical care in
our veterans hospitals, we must also con-
tinue our efforts to ensure that all patients
receive full treatment and that the most
efficient use is made of their excellent
facilities. We should spend whatever
money is necessary so that the quality of
care in these hospitals will be second to
none. To investigate the quality of that
care, I have directed the Administrator
of Veterans Affairs to conduct a thorough
investigation of the conditions of our vet-
erans hospitals and clinics, including a
329
