[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be completely independent of any
for-
eign source for our energy. We can ac-
complish that goal.
But we can accomplish that goal only
if the Congress quits dragging its feet on
the proposals that they now have before
them and have had before them for sev-
eral months. And I trust, with the co-
operation of the Congress and the support
of the American people, we will be able
to have action, and action soon, on these
measures that have been submitted.
QUESTIONS
SENATOR BUCKLEY AND THE QUESTION OF
RESIGNATION
[2] That is the only announcement
that I have, and I understand Mr. John-
son is entitled to the first question.
Q. Mr. President, Bos Johnson, WSAZ
Television, Huntington, West Virginia.
You have said repeatedly that you will not
resign, and yet today, Senator James
Buckley today called for you to perform
an extraordinary act of statesmanship and
courage, voluntary resignation as, as he
put it, the only way by which the Water-
gate crisis can be resolved.
Would you comment on the import of
this statement coming from a conservative
United States Senator, and whether it
might cause you to reassess your position?
THE PRESIDENT. Well first, it does not
cause me to reassess my position, although
I, of course, do respect the point of view
expressed by the Senator and by others,
perhaps some sitting here, who share that
view.
The point that I wish to make, however,
is that when we speak of courage, if I
could address that from a personal stand-
point first of all, it perhaps would be an
act of courage to resign. I should also
point out, however, that while it might be
an act of courage to run away from a job
that you were elected to do, it also takes
courage to stand and fight for what you
believe is right, and that is what I intend
to do.
Mr. Johnson, I would not want to leave
your question simply with a personal judg-
ment. I am thinking of the statesmanship
which Senator Buckley also addressed.
From the standpoint of statesmanship, for
a President of the United States, any Pres-
ident, to resign because of charges made
against him which he knew were false and
because he had fallen in the polls, I think,
would not be statesmanship. It might be
good politics, but it would be bad states-
manship. And it would mean that our sys-
tem of government would be changed for
all Presidents and all generations in the
future.
What I mean by that, very simply, is
this: The Constitution provides a method
by which a President can be removed from
office: impeachment-impeachment for
treason and other high crimes and misde-
meanors. Now, if a President is not guilty
of those crimes, if only charges have been
made which he knows are false, and if,
simply because as a result of those false
charges and as a result of his falling in the
polls, he decides to resign, it would mean
then that every future President would be
presiding over a very unstable Govern-
ment in the United States of America.
The United States and the free world,
the whole world, needs a strong American
President, not an American President
who, every time the polls go down, says,
"Well, maybe I'd better resign.”
Let me give you an example: I have
often said to members of the Washington
press corps that the most difficult deci-
284
