[106] Apr. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
then I saw right next to them places that
were knocked out. So, it demonstrated to
me that this was a town, prior to the
disaster, that people like to live in; other-
wise, those subdivisions wouldn't have
been selling.
It seems to me, therefore, that this is
going to be an enormous opportunity for
homebuilders, for people who have new
businesses, et cetera, to come in here.
They will have a good labor force. They
will have a town with a high spirit in terms
of local community pride, and it is that
kind of people that, of course, have made
this country what it is. It is that kind of
people that will bring this town back.
Xenia has suffered physically, but it
has not suffered spiritually. I think the
more it has suffered physically, the
stronger its spirit has become, and that
speaks a lot for the people of Xenia.
Q. Mr. President, can anything be done
to avoid the kind of redtape that the
ple in Wilkes-Barre had to go through?
peo-
THE PRESIDENT. That is one of the rea-
sons we are here. As a matter of fact, as
you know, we had our Secretary Lynn
from HUD in here. We have had also the
entire Federal Government when this
thing occurred, I got them all in the of-
fice, and I said we are to do everything
we possibly can to cut the redtape.
That is why we had this one-window
concept we set up as a result of the
Wilkes-Barre thing, where a person can
come in, where if it is a job, if it is a small
business loan, if it is a housing problem, if
it is an education problem, there has got
to be one place where he can come. That
is the way we cut the redtape.
There will be complaints because, as
you know, this is not just here, it is in six
States. We have signed [declarations for]
six disaster areas, so Tom Dunne 2 is
going to have to be flying all over. But he
has deputies in every one of these areas,
and Secretary Lynn will have major re-
sponsibility from Washington in addition,
and anything that requires Congressional
action, you can be sure your Congressmen
will be pushing it.
I am sure the Governor will be raising
questions with Ken Cole of the Domestic
Council, but the main point that should
be made is, as far as the White House is
concerned, the orders are out and every-
thing is to be done throughout these
disaster areas to deal with those four key
problems.
You have to provide for the schools,
you have to provide for the housing, you
have to provide for, primarily, I would
say, to the jobs; I mean, the rebuilding of
the industries, both small and large, the
farms and the rest, so that people can
have the jobs they need.
Q. Mr. President, what other disaster
areas have you seen?
THE PRESIDENT. None on this trip. I
decided to come to Xenia because it was-
I mean, it is hard to say that it is the
worst, but it is an area where you have it
all wrapped into one. You have the prob-
lem of both public and private schools
being destroyed. You have the problem
of housing. You have the problem, of
course, of food, as a result of what has
happened on the farms and the rest, and
you have also the problem of jobs.
So, under these circumstances it seemed
that coming here, I could get a view of
what the problem was in this particular
2 Thomas P. Dunne was Administrator of the
Federal Disaster Assistance Administration, De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development.
342
