[229] July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
contribution in the fight against higher
prices.
I recognize that some Americans can-
not cut their spending without real hard-
ship. And I recognize that some expendi-
tures by business cannot be cut without
cutting production now or in the future
and, thereby, increasing unemployment.
But most families could reduce or defer
some expenditures-building their sav-
ings instead without hardship. And
every business has some fat in it, just as
every Federal agency has. And State and
local governments, whose spending has
been rising rapidly, should follow the lead
of the Federal Government in cutting un-
necessary spending.
Now, there are cynics who will say that
such an appeal to the public spirit of the
American people is futile. Well, I don't
believe that. We saw how the American
people saved during World War II. And
just last winter, we saw how the American
people conserved gasoline and fuel oil and
avoided, as a result, gas rationing and all
the consequences that would have flowed.
In my recent meetings to discuss the econ-
omy and in my mail, I have had abundant
evidence of the willingness of the Ameri-
can people not only to cooperate but to
join actively in the battle against inflation.
Less spending means less pressure on
prices today. More saving means more in-
vestment in new housing and new produc-
tion and, therefore, lower prices tomor-
row. And the consumer-and that is
everybody-wins both ways.
I referred earlier to the significance of
a $12 billion difference in the Federal
budget. A cut of only 1/2 percent in per-
sonal consumption expenditures—that
would mean like putting away 15 cents for
every $10 spent-would make a similar
difference in the fight against inflation.
How rapidly we succeed in cutting in-
flation will also depend on business and
labor. If they continue pushing prices and
wages rapidly forward, this will continue
the inflationary pressures. But sales will
suffer, because consumers will resist pay-
ing higher prices, and employment will
also suffer, and no one in the end will be
better off.
And therefore, in their own interest as
well as in the Nation's, it is essential that
business and labor act responsibly in their
price and wage demands. As I have said,
we shall not return to price and wage con-
trols. But I intend to use every influence
of the Presidency and of the Federal Gov-
ernment to bring about helpful voluntary
restraint on the part of both business and
labor in this critical area.
In the short run, as I have said, we must
focus on measures to restrain demand.
But to achieve prosperity without inflation
in the long run, we must focus above all
on producing more so that we can have
more goods and services without higher
prices.
To assure a vigorous growth of supplies
in the longer run, a number of critical
measures are necessary.
A good example is agriculture, where
today less than 5 percent of our popula-
tion feed all of America and help feed
much of the rest of the world as well. We
must keep our agricultural programs
focused on a policy of abundance as they
now are, rather than on a policy of
scarcity.
We have seen vividly the importance
of energy supplies and energy prices in
the U.S. economy over these past few
months. We must now take all necessary
steps to assure ourselves of reliable sup-
plies of energy at the lowest possible cost.
That is the essence of Project Independ-
610
