Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 6 [70]
questions under oath in the White House
from the senior Democratic and Repub-
lican members of the House Judiciary
Committee. Would you consider, as an aid
to rebuilding public confidence in your
leadership and in speeding up the proce-
dure, in taking questions in a public
forum from the entire House Judiciary
Committee?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a matter which
I am leaving to Mr. St. Clair and Mr.
Doar to work out as to what proper pro-
cedure could be developed. What I want
is one that will get the facts, get them
quickly, and one that will not delay the
proceedings. But Mr. Doar and Mr. St.
Clair are discussing the matter, and I will
defer any response until they have com-
pleted their discussions.
ATTORNEY JOHN J. WILSON;
INTERPRETATION OF TAPES
[16.] Q. Mr. President, is Mr. Wilson,
the attorney for Messrs. Haldeman and
Ehrlichman, working with the White
House or with you in concert in any way?
And secondly, you have said that when
others hear the tape of the 21st, they
may well reach a different interpretation
than the one you have presented tonight.
Why is that?
THE PRESIDENT. First, Mr. Wilson, of
course, is not working with the White
House, and neither are the attorneys for
any of the other defendants. His only con-
tact with the White House is one that
would be perfectly proper in terms of in-
formation that a defendant or potential
defendant would be entitled to.
As far as interpretations of tapes, not
only this one but others, are concerned,
any individual who wants to can take any-
one's statement and interpret it any way
he wants.
What I say is that I know what I said,
I know what I meant, I know what I did,
and I think that any fairminded person
will reach the same conclusion that I have
repeated here several times tonight.
DEFENSE BUDGET
[17] Q. Mr. President, you met this
week with the leaders of the Appropria-
tions Committee partly in regard to the
defense budget. And later, Senator Mc-
Clellan said he would favor slashing $3 bil-
lion from that budget, which as you know
is nearly $90 billion, higher than in war-
time. Could you tell us if you think that
is a dangerous cut, and if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. Senator McClellan
told me that he wanted to cut the budget
by $3 billion, and he is a watchdog of the
treasury, and incidentally, so is Congress-
man Mahon. They both indicated they
wanted to cut the budget. However,
neither of them indicated that they
wanted to take the muscle out of defense.
I would say the primary part of our
discussion was with regard to the neces-
sity for having the defense budget where
it was. I also pointed out to them, because
Senator McClellan was particularly in-
terested in this, that we were negotiating
at this time for a mutual balanced re-
duction of forces in Europe. I said, in
order to accomplish that, we had to main-
tain our forces at the present level in
order to get a reduction on the other side,
rather than to do it unilaterally.
I believe, finally, that Senator McClel-
lan and Chairman Mahon will be respon-
43-437 O-75 - 18
239
