[55] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
of approving new facilities and would re-
ceive assistance in monitoring rate in-
creases in the health industry.
The boards would assume the present
planning activities of the Comprehensive
Health Planning Program, the Regional
Medical Programs Service, and the Hill-
Burton program, all of which now over-
lap at the local level. They would coordi-
nate the planning and activities of health
care providers, third-party financing or-
ganizations, health educational institu-
tions, and government within each area
in order to promote high quality care
for the public good. They would also ad-
vise on Federal health grants in the areas
served to ensure consistency of such ac-
tivities with regional plans.
DISTRIBUTION OF HEALTH MANPOWER
Our most important health care
resource is health manpower. It is this re-
source upon which all else depends. As-
suring that there are enough health pro-
fessionals of the right kind available in
the right place to provide the needed care
is one of our most challenging health de-
livery problems.
The number of U.S. medical and os-
teopathic schools has grown from 92 in
1963 to 121 in 1974. Total enrollment in-
creased 60 percent from 33,072 to 53,100
and graduates increased over 40 percent,
from 7,631 to 10,900. These increases in
health manpower encourage us to believe
that the Nation's total supply of health
professionals is becoming sufficient to meet
our needs during the next decade. In fact,
over-supply in the aggregate could pos-
sibly become a problem.
Without major alterations in either
present enrollments in domestic schools
or immigration patterns of foreign-trained
doctors, we estimate that the number of
physicians by 1985 will approximate 500,-
ooo. This is an increase of at least 50 per-
cent over 1970, and would be more than
three times the expected growth rate of
the U.S. population during the same pe-
riod. Accordingly, the number of phy-
sicians per 100,000 population should in-
crease from 159 in 1970 to as high as 217
in 1985.
Ironically, the increase in overall phy-
sician supply has not solved the problem
of maldistribution. Some rural and inner
city areas still lack a sufficient supply of
general practitioners, and many areas
lack certain medical specialists. We must
now shift our attention away from a con-
cern with aggregate numbers toward an
emphasis on solving specific health man-
power problems.
HEALTH MANPOWER INCENTIVES
We will soon submit legislation to the
Congress designed to maintain present
enrollments but also to gradually shift the
method of support for medical education
from general institutional operating sub-
sidies to direct assistance to medical
students through individual loans and
scholarships. Funds provided directly to
institutions will be targeted on special
projects such as the production of more
primary care physicians.
We shall also continue our ongoing
efforts to expand the training and the
effective use of physician assistants. Some
3,300 of these new health professionals are
now being trained as a result of Federal
initiatives. They are demonstrating that
they can enable physicians to practice
more efficiently and thereby extend their
186
