[23] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
as committed to the attack on cancer as I
was when I signed the original legislation
on December 23, 1971. Our joint efforts
with the Congress in this area have pro-
vided an excellent example of the ability
of the Executive and Legislative Branches
to work together in dealing with a major
problem.
I have followed progress on the attack
on cancer carefully. In addition, I have
met with Benno Schmidt and other mem-
bers of the President's Cancer Panel and
have reviewed their report and the report
of the National Cancer Advisory Board
with great interest. It is my feeling that
considerable progress has been made in
the attack on cancer in recent years and
that there is much hope for additional
knowledge that can be developed in the
future.
That is why I plan to ask for an addi-
tional $100 million above last year's re-
24
quest of $500 million for the expanded
attack on cancer in the budget that I will
be submitting to the Congress next Mon-
day. I realize that this will result in spend-
ing over $415 million more for this effort
next fiscal year than was available the year
I took office, but I think the dual goals
of an expanded research effort to find the
causes of cancer along with more inten-
sive demonstration and education pro-
grams to help prevent and control cancer
warrant this support.
I hope you will share my strong inter-
est in this program with the members of
the Committee and express my apprecia-
tion for their past efforts in enacting the
National Cancer Act of 1971.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington,
D.C.]
Statement on the Death of Murray M. Chotiner.
January 30, 1974
I AM profoundly saddened by the death
of Murray Chotiner. For more than a
quarter of a century, he was an ally in
political battles, a valued counselor, and a
trusted colleague. But above all, Murray
Chotiner was my friend. His friendship
never wavered; in periods of adversity it
grew stronger.
While some recoil from the label "pol-
itician," Murray was rightly proud of it
because he was a professional who had the
respect and admiration of those who
worked with him. In life he had my re-
spect and deep friendship; he will forever
have my gratitude. I shall miss him.
Mrs. Nixon joins me in extending to his
wife, Nancy, and their family, our heart-
felt sympathy.
NOTE: Mr. Chotiner, 64, died in Washington,
D.C. He was General Counsel for the Office
of the Special Representative for Trade Nego-
tiations from 1969-1970 and Special Counsel
to the President from 1970-1971.
On February 4, 1974, the President and Mrs.
Nixon and Rose Mary Woods, Executive As-
sistant and Personal Secretary to the Presi-
dent, attended funeral services for Mr. Choti-
ner at the Washington Hebrew Congregation
Temple in Washington, D.C.
46
