Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [209]
nection they noted once again the funda-
mental importance of the joint documents
adopted as a result of the summit meetings
in 1972 and 1973, especially of the Basic
Principles of Relations Between the USA
and the USSR, the Agreement on the
Prevention of Nuclear War, the Treaty on
the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile
Systems, and the Interim Agreement on
Certain Measures with Respect to the
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms.
Both Sides are deeply convinced of the
imperative necessity of making the proc-
ess of improving US-Soviet relations
irreversible. They believe that, as a result
of their efforts, a real possibility has been
created to achieve this goal. This will
open new vistas for broad mutually bene-
ficial cooperation, and for strengthening
friendship between the American and So-
viet peoples, and will thus contribute to
the solution of many urgent problems
facing the world.
Guided by these worthy goals, both
Sides decided to continue steadfastly to
apply their joint efforts-in cooperation
with other countries concerned, as appro-
priate-first of all in such important fields
as:
-removing the danger of war, includ-
ing particularly war involving nuclear and
other mass-destruction weapons;
-limiting and eventually ending the
arms race especially in strategic weapons,
having in mind as the ultimate objective
the achievement of general and complete
disarmament under appropriate interna-
tional control;
-contributing to the elimination of
sources of international tension and mili-
tary conflict;
-strengthening and extending the
process of relaxation of tensions through-
out the world;
-developing broad, mutually bene-
ficial cooperation in commercial and eco-
nomic, scientific-technical and cultural
fields on the basis of the principles of
sovereignty, equality and noninterference
in internal affairs with a view to promot-
ing increased understanding and con-
fidence between the peoples of both
countries.
Accordingly, in the course of this sum-
mit meeting both Sides considered it pos-
sible to take new constructive steps which,
they believe, will not only advance fur-
ther the development of US-Soviet rela-
tions but will also make a substantial con-
tribution to strengthening world peace
and expanding international cooperation.
II. FURTHER LIMITATION OF STRATEGIC
ARMS AND OTHER DISARMAMENT ISSUES
Both sides again carefully analyzed the
entire range of their mutual relations con-
nected with the prevention of nuclear war
and limitation of strategic armaments.
They arrived at the common view that
the fundamental agreements concluded
between them in this sphere continue to
be effective instruments of the general im-
provement of US-Soviet relations and the
international situation as a whole. The
USA and the USSR will continue strictly
to fulfill the obligations undertaken in
those agreements.
In the course of the talks, the two Sides
had a thorough review of all aspects of
the problem of limitation of strategic
arms. They concluded that the Interim
Agreement on offensive strategic weapons
should be followed by a new agreement
between the Soviet Union and the United
States on the limitation of strategic arms.
They agreed that such an agreement
should cover the period until 1985 and
569
