Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [25]
25 Address on the State of the Union Delivered Before a Joint
Session of the Congress. January 30, 1974
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, my colleagues
in the Congress, our distinguished guests,
my fellow Americans:
We meet here tonight at a time of great
challenge and great opportunities for
America. We meet at a time when we face
great problems at home and abroad that
will test the strength of our fiber as a
nation. But we also meet at a time when
that fiber has been tested, and it has
proved strong.
America is a great and good land, and
we are a great and good land because we
are a strong, free, creative people and be-
cause America is the single greatest force
for peace anywhere in the world. Today,
as always in our history, we can base our
confidence in what the American people
will achieve in the future on the record
of what the American people have
achieved in the past.
Tonight, for the first time in 12 years, a
President of the United States can report
to the Congress on the state of a Union
at peace with every nation of the world.
Because of this, in the 22,000-word mes-
sage on the state of the Union that I have
just handed to the Speaker of the House
and the President of the Senate, I have
been able to deal primarily with the prob-
lems of peace-with what we can do here
at home in America for the American
people rather than with the problems
of war.
The measures I have outlined in this
message set an agenda for truly significant
progress for this Nation and the world in
1974. Before we chart where we are go-
ing, let us see how far we have come.
It was 5 years ago on the steps of this
Capitol that I took the oath of office as
your President. In those 5 years, because
of the initiatives undertaken by this Ad-
ministration, the world has changed.
America has changed. As a result of those
changes, America is safer today, more
prosperous today, with greater opportu-
nity for more of its people than ever be-
fore in our history.
Five years ago, America was at war in
Southeast Asia. We were locked in con-
frontation with the Soviet Union. We
were in hostile isolation from a quarter of
the world's people who lived in Mainland
China.
Five
years ago, our cities were burning
and besieged.
Five years ago, our college campuses
were a battleground.
Five years ago, crime was increasing
at a rate that struck fear across the Nation.
Five years ago, the spiraling rise in drug
addiction was threatening human and
social tragedy of massive proportion, and
there was no program to deal with it.
Five years ago—as young Americans
had done for a generation before that—
America's youth still lived under the
shadow of the military draft.
Five years ago, there was no national
program to preserve our environment.
Day by day, our air was getting dirtier, our
water was getting more foul.
And 5 years ago, American agriculture
was practically a depressed industry with
100,000 farm families abandoning the
farm every year.
As we look at America today, we find
ourselves challenged by new problems.
But we also find a record of progress to
confound the professional criers of doom
and prophets of despair. We met the
43-437 - 75 - 6
47
