Richard Nixon, 1974
[43]
Feb. 11 II
that we all want to build, a structure that
will last, we trust, many generations after
all of us are here.
Tonight, of course, it is always the
custom to propose a toast to someone in
the audience. And my difficulty is that
here at this, what is supposed to be a head
table, are the ranking guests, all of whom
are foreign ministers.
And as I looked over the guest list, I
was trying to think which of the foreign
ministers should receive the toast. We have
at least two foreign ministers here who
have been former prime ministers, so they
might rate. However, we have one who is
especially distinguished. And I was think-
ing, as a matter of fact, before I found
that we could get the Army Chorus free,
that we might call on Mr. Scheel to per-
form, but having sold 400,000 records, his
price was simply too high-we could not
afford him tonight.² [Laughter]
But then as I looked over the list of
foreign ministers I found that, distin-
guished as their past careers were and as
their futures may be, there is only one of
the foreign ministers tonight here who is
also a president.
And so, in proposing a toast to all of
you, and that is what I intend to do, I pro-
pose that we raise our glasses to President
Scheel.
President Scheel.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:17 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Mitchell Sharp who was Canadian Secretary
of State for External Affairs.
Foreign Minister Scheel, in his capacity as
President of the Council of Ministers of the
"In December of 1973, Walter Scheel, For-
eign Minister of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, recorded a folk song for the benefit of
several charitable organizations in Germany.
European Communities, responded to the Presi-
dent's remarks as follows:
Mr. President:
When I left the office last Saturday to come
here, the doorman at our Foreign Office asked
me, "Where are you going this time?"
I said, "To Washington. We will be discuss-
ing energy."
The doorman replied, "Oh, preventing the
world from being blown into pieces."
Apparently the man had heard something
about atomic energy and thought our confer-
ence would be dealing with a bomb. He was
not entirely wrong. [Laughter]
So, our subject is not the bomb, but who
would deny that there was some explosive force
in our conference, too. Energy is a challenge
to all of us, but at the same time, it offers an
opportunity. Who would say that our govern-
ments and our societies had foreseen all the
difficulties, had initiated the necessary steps in
good time, had not been taken by surprise?
Energy is the driving force of our lives, and
yet, haven't we behaved for years as if we got
it for practically nothing? Did we not all think
that substitutes would have been found by the
time the oil resources were completely ex-
hausted and that until then, until the turn of
the century, there would be ample time?
We all live in a society of affluence with all
its waste and extravagance. Only when we were
confronted with sudden political developments
did we become alive to the real situation. These
events make us aware of the implications of
problems with which we had been living all
along without realizing them.
We should indeed be grateful for this, since
without that experience we might have been
aroused too late. By that time, the energy
sources would have been largely exhausted.
But now it is still possible for us to cope
with the problem by means of prices, the mar-
ket, and cooperation among governments. Now
we can still make arrangements to strengthen
the basic elements of world trade and to avoid
its disruption and a relapse into a sacro
egoismo.
This is our opportunity. If the conference
initiates joint efforts on the part of the indus-
trialized, the oil-producing, and the developing
countries, we will have taken a first step in the
right direction, but only a first step, no more.
155
