[87] Mar. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
agriculture gets its fair share and its fair
treatment whenever these negotiations
take place.
It doesn't make sense for us to buy from
other nations abroad and then to have
our agriculture products shut out from
markets abroad, whether they are in
Europe or whether they are in Japan.
This involves some diplomatic diffi-
culties. It involves some very hard bar-
gaining. As a matter of fact, when one
looks at the problems of the new Europe,
"The Nine," agriculture is probably the
most vigorously discussed and vigorously
debated of all, even among "The Nine."
But again looking at the United States and
its relationship to the rest of the free
world, not to mention the Communist
world, it is essential that in our trade re-
lations that American agriculture be
strongly represented at the bargaining
table. And Mr. Eberle 1 and others who
have responsibility in this field have the
signal, and they will carry out those
instructions.
That should be, in the long run, good
news for America's farmers, good news
because it will mean, in addition to the
feed grains, of course, for which there is
an enormous demand already, that in cer-
tain other areas as well-citrus, for ex-
ample that we can open up markets that
have not hitherto been available to us.
Another item that I think we have to
have in mind is the problem of controls.
We have gone through some experiment
in this respect. We tried a ceiling, as you
recall, on beef prices. It did not work. All
it did, of course, was to cut back on the
production, and eventually when the
ceiling was removed, it had the effect of
1 William D. Eberle was Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations.
seeing that prices were even higher as
far as the consumer was concerned, be-
cause the farmer, of course, like any busi-
nessman, had every incentive not to pro-
duce at a time that he was confronted
with a ceiling.
It is now the policy of this Administra-
tion-and will continue to be that we
will not again go down the road to
controls.
I should also, however, make this
point: When we speak of farm income,
we have to remember that consumers have
an enormous interest in what they pay for
products when they go to the market. And
while other items clothing, for example,
prices that are paid for automobiles and
so forth, other items are all part of the
family budget, and a much bigger part of
the family budget, the most sensitive part
of the family budget, is food, because that
is the one that the housewife has responsi-
bility for, that is the one that she becomes
most concerned about. And consequently
in this whole area, what we have to be
concerned about is to continue to em-
phasize higher production and not simply
higher prices, higher production because
if we continue down a road or should go
down a road in which the consumers again
get the feeling—as they had at the time
the ceilings on beef were imposed, and at
the time price controls were imposed, on
two different occasions-if they get the
idea that that is the only answer, then that
will be detrimental certainly to the Na-
tion's farmers where controls have never
worked they will not work now-it is
also detrimental to the economy generally.
So, I can tell you with assurance today
that with the assistance, we trust, of the
Congress in this area, we are going to
avoid going down that road, because the
way to lower prices-and the way is not
310
