Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 12 [76]
76 Remarks at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Congressional
Banquet. March 12, 1974
Commander Soden, Congressman
Mahon, all of the distinguished guests
here at the two head tables and all of the
distinguished guests in the audience:
I am very grateful to you, Commander,
for being spoken of so eloquently and so
generously and also grateful to receive
this medallion which commemorates this
organization's 75th anniversary, and I
think that this is an occasion to perhaps
pay a tribute to the VFW.
I have done it before, but I would like
to do it especially because this is not only
the Diamond Jubilee year for the VFW
as an organization, this is the Silver An-
niversary of this annual dinner for the
Members of the Congress, the House and
the Senate.
As you have already noted, I am a life-
time member of the VFW. I have been
a member for 27 years, so I know the
organization well. And I believe I can
safely say that I have addressed more din-
ners, conventions-State and national-
of the VFW than perhaps any public fig-
ure in America today, and I am proud to
have had that opportunity.
I know this organization in public life
as Vice President for 8 years and also as
President for 5 years. I also have known
it in private life. But there is one thing I
particularly want to emphasize in terms
of what this organization means to anyone
who serves in the highest office of this
land. It is very simply this: The VFW is
an organization that when the hard deci-
sions are made by a President of the
United States, you can always count on
this organization to stand above partisan
interest and for the national interest. That
is the VFW.
And in that long and difficult war to
which you have referred, when at times
there were even hundreds of thousands of
people who were marching around and on
the White House as I have often re-
called, I didn't have to call the com-
mander of the VFW, the national com-
mander to ask for his support, he called
me, and that is the way the VFW is when
this country needs support.
It seems to me very appropriate, there-
fore, that the award, your annual award
to the Member of Congress, should go to
George Mahon of Texas. I would like to
refer to him tonight in tandem with the
man who was to receive it last year, who
did receive it, but who could not be here
for reasons that we are aware, and let us
say that we are all thankful that John
Stennis is back in the job as chairman of
the Armed Services Committee.
I have had the privilege of knowing
both of these statesmen for 27 years.
George Mahon has served for 40 years at
the end of this year in the House of Rep-
resentatives. As you can see, he married a
woman much younger than himself.
But one thing that George Mahon and
John Stennis have in common is this:
They are both very loyal members of their
party, but I can assure you that when the
strength of America is involved, when the
honor of America is involved, when re-
spect for America is involved and a Presi-
dent of the United States, be he Republi-
can or Democrat, has to make a decision
involving the strength or the honor or
respect for America, these men always put
America first and party second. That is
the kind of men we have in your two
honorees.
257
