[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
campaign ethics, but as in the area of
campaign finance, these laws are unclear
and have been unevenly and sometimes
unfairly enforced through selective
prosecution.
I have reviewed several recommenda-
tions in this area and conclude it is time
for Federal statutes to spell out specific-
ally the prohibition of certain campaign
and election day practices. I propose that
we prohibit three types of campaign
practices:
-Activities which unreasonably dis-
rupt the opposing candidate's campaign,
such as the dissemination of false instruc-
tions to campaign workers and related dis-
ruptive activities, or which constitute a
fraud upon the voters, such as rigging
opinion polls, placing misleading adver-
tisements in the media, misrepresenting a
Congressman's voting record, or organiz-
ing slander campaigns.
-Activities which involve the use of
force, such as the organized use of de-
monstrators to impede or deny entry at
a campaign rally, or individual criminal
actions which take on a special signif-
icance when they are done intentionally
to disrupt the Federal election process.
-Those election day practices, such as
stuffing ballot boxes, rigging voting ma-
chines, forging or altering ballots, or fail-
ing to count certain votes, all of which
directly affect the electoral process in a
most pernicious manner.
I realize that attempting to outlaw cer-
tain improper campaign activities requires
particular attention to the First Amend-
ment guarantees of free speech and as-
sembly. With this in mind, I have asked
the Department of Justice to draft a
criminal statute designed to prohibit
wrongful practices and to make them
Federal offenses if the conduct is engaged
in with the specific intent of interfering
with the Federal election procedure. I in-
vite especially thorough debate by the
Congress in this difficult area.
C. CAMPAIGN DURATION
In the campaigns of 1972, there were
no less than 23 separate State primaries
for the Presidential contestants. The ex-
tent and duration of these proliferating
primary contests have not only extended
the length of campaigning but have also
materially added to its expense.
I believe deeply in the statewide Presi-
dential primary system. It affords the
public a true measure of candidates who
have to take their cause to different parts
of the country and face the voters with
their positions on crucial issues. Because
I believe in the primaries but wish to bring
some sense of order to the system we now
have, I agree with the proposal not to
hold any State Presidential primaries or
nominating conventions before May 1st
of an election year, and I urge that this
be done.
Even though moving primary dates
later in the election year is the only specific
legislative action I offer to shorten cam-
paigns, other helpful measures can be
taken without Federal legislation. One
way to cut down on the cost and duration
of Presidential campaigns is to delay the
national nominating conventions until the
month of September. I urge the leaders
of both national political parties to plan
now for the scheduling of their 1976 con-
ventions at this later time.
I know that delaying the nominating
conventions may conflict with certain
State requirements that a nominee's elec-
tors must be selected earlier than Septem-
ber. Therefore, I encourage the States
250
