Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 24 [19]
On January 22, 1974, the President met
separately with Senator Bob Dole of Kansas
to discuss energy legislation and with Peter J.
Brennan, Secretary of Labor, and Frank E.
Fitzsimmons, general president of the Interna-
tional Brotherhood of Teamsters, to discuss the
effects of the energy crisis on the trucking in-
dustry. The White House released, on the same
day, the transcript of a news briefing on their
meeting with the President by Secretary Bren-
nan and Mr. Fitzsimmons.
19 Special Message to the Congress on Education Priorities.
January 24, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
The Congress returns to Washington
this week at a time when America faces
many difficult challenges. Each of them
will spark honest differences of opinion
and generate spirited debates during the
coming year.
But one goal which unites all of our
people is to provide each of our children
with a sound basic education. No matter
what race, faith or family circumstance,
each child should have equal access to a
good education.
We have made substantial progress to-
ward this goal, but we can maintain that
momentum only if we commit ourselves
to improve our educational system.
tional process. During the coming legis-
lative year, there are many proposals
which I believe the Congress should enact
to improve our educational system.
Among the highest priorities which I
would urge upon the 93rd Congress are
these:
-Consolidating major grant pro-
grams for elementary and secondary, vo-
cational and adult education and increas-
ing decision-making authority for State
and local education agencies.
-Providing advanced funding so that
State and local school authorities can
plan their programs with greater cer-
tainty a new and important concept in
the financing of education.
-Targeting Federal funds so that stu-
dents who have the greatest need-the
truly disadvantaged-are the major re-
cipients of funds.
-Expanding the grant and loan pro-
grams for students faced with the rapidly
increasing costs of postsecondary educa-
tion.
-And increasing support for organiza-
tions such as the National Institute of Ed-
ucation, which are searching for better
ways to educate more than 60 million
students in the United States.
I. A RECORD OF PROGRESS
This Administration has worked hard
to expand educational opportunity for
every child and we have made substan-
tial progress:
-We have established a new program
of Basic Educational Opportunity Grants
to further our goal that no qualified stu-
dent be denied access to postsecondary
education for lack of money.
-We have provided special aid for
local school districts to help them deal
with the problems of desegregation.
-We have created a National Institute
of Education to marshall our research skill
systematically so that we can better un-
derstand how students learn and how they
can be taught more effectively.
-We have provided support to develop
33
