Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 23 [59]
mechanical, impersonal robots that de-
prive us of our essential liberties.
Here is the heart of the matter: What a
person earns, what he owes, what he gives
to his church or to his charity is his own
personal business and should not be spread
around without his consent. When per-
sonal information is given or obtained
for one purpose, such as a loan or credit
at a store, it should not be secretly used
by anyone for any
other purpose.
To use James Madison's terms, in pur-
suing the overall public good, we must
make sure that we also protect the indi-
vidual's private rights. There is ample
evidence that at the present time this is
not being adequately done. In too many
cases, unrestricted or improper use of
personal information is being made.
In some instances, the information itself
is inaccurate and has resulted in the with-
holding of credit or jobs from deserving
individuals. In other cases, obsolete infor-
mation has been used, such as arrest
records which have not been updated to
show that the charges made against an
individual were subsequently dropped or
the person found innocent. In many cases,
the citizen is not even aware of what in-
formation is held on record, and if he
wants to find out, he either has nowhere
to turn or else he does not know where
to turn.
Whether such information is provided
and used by the government or the pri-
vate sector, the injury to the individual is
the same. His right to privacy has been se-
riously damaged. So we find that this hap-
pens sometimes beyond the point of re-
pair. Frequently, the side effect is finan-
cial damage, but it sometimes goes fur-
ther. Careers have been ruined, marriages
have been wrecked, reputations built up
over a lifetime have been destroyed by
the misuse or abuse of data technology in
both private and public hands.
It is clear, as one Government study has
concluded, that "it is becoming much eas-
ier for recordkeeping systems to affect
people than for people to affect record-
keeping systems." Fortunately, more and
more people are becoming aware of this
growing threat.
The Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970,
which I signed into law, took a major first
step toward protecting the victims of
erroneous or outdated information. It re-
quires that an individual be notified when
any adverse action, such as denial of cred-
it, insurance, or employment, is taken on
the basis of a report from consumer-
reporting agencies. It also provides citizens
with a method of correcting these reports
when they do contain erroneous informa-
tion.
Many public and private statistical or-
ganizations which collect personal data
have shown an awareness of their own
responsibility to prevent unfair disclosure
and to eliminate inaccurate or obsolete
information.
Earlier this month, Attorney General
Saxbe proposed legislation to the Con-
gress which would establish rules govern-
ing the collection and use of criminal jus-
tice information, and the Congress itself
has conducted extensive hearings into the
uses and the abuses of data banks, credit
bureaus, and personal records.
All of this is action in the right direc-
tion, but we must go further and we must
move quickly.
What was once a minor problem affect-
ing only a small number of people has
now become a national problem that
could potentially affect every American
197
