[61] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
lines, the fact, too, that in the Eastern
States generally we do have a problem of
shortage of gasoline, which has been, of
course, very difficult for many people go-
ing to work, going to school, or what have
you.
Mr. Simon last week, as you know, at
my direction allocated additional gasoline
for these particular areas, and he is pre-
pared to take more action in the future
to deal with this problem.
As far as the entire situation is con-
cerned, I am able to report tonight that
as a result of the cooperation of the
American people, as a result, too, of our
own energy conservation program within
the Government, that I now believe con-
fidently that there is much better than an
even chance that there will be no need for
gas rationing in the United States.
As far as that is concerned, however, I
should point out that while the crisis has
passed, the problem still remains, and it is
a very serious one.
And having reported somewhat posi-
tively up to this point, let me point out
some of the negative situations that we
confront.
One has to do with the Congress. The
Congress, of course, is working hard on
this problem, but I regret to say that the
bill presently before the Congress is one
that if it reaches my desk in its present
form, I will have to veto it.
I will have to veto it, because what it
does is simply to manage the shortage
rather than to deal with the real problem
and what should be our real goal, and
that is to get rid of the shortage.
For example, there is a provision in the
bill, the present bill, that provides for a
rollback of prices. Now this, of course,
would be immediately popular, but it
would mean, if we did have such a roll-
back, that we would not only have more
and longer gas lines, but a rollback of
prices would lead to shortages which
would require, without question, ration-
ing all over the country.
That would mean 17,000 to 20,000
more Federal bureaucrats to run the sys-
tem at a cost of $12 billion a year. And
this we should avoid. This we can avoid.
And that is why I again urge the Con-
gress to act responsibly on the measures
that we have presented to the Congress
to deal with the problem of price and
profits through the windfall profits meas-
ure that we have submitted and to deal
with the problem of gas shortage overall
by getting more supplies, and that means
the deregulation of natural gas so that it
is competitive as far as price is concerned;
the amendment of some of our environ-
mental actions so that we can use more
coal and thereby take some of the pressure
off of the demands for gasoline and other
fuels; the deepwater ports; and the other
measures that I have mentioned on many
occasions to the Nation and also before
members of the press.
Looking to the future, I believe, we can
say now that while the crisis has been
passed, the problem remains. It is a seri-
ous problem, but it is one that can be dealt
with. And our goal of becoming com-
pletely independent in energy, independ-
ent of any foreign source, is one that we
can achieve, but it will require the con-
tinued cooperation of the American
people, which I am sure we will get, and
responsible action by the Congress, action
directed not simply toward distributing a
shortage and making it worse, but action
which will increase supplies and thereby
get rid of the shortage.
200
