Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
The measures of allocation and con-
servation are, in the very short-run, the
only actions which will have an effect
in lessening the crisis. However, in the
slightly longer term, we can and we are
making efforts to increase domestic sup-
plies of petroleum very rapidly.
Increases in supplies of domestic crude
oil are necessary not only to assure sup-
plies, but to keep the prices for consumers
at a reasonable level. The prices charged
by a foreign cartel for crude oil have
risen so dramatically that U.S. oil prices
are now greatly below the world market
price.
To ensure that domestic oil exploration
continues and grows, the price of oil from
new exploration and development has
been removed from Economic Stabiliza-
tion Act controls. Also, to compensate for
increased production costs and to stimu-
late advanced techniques for recovering
oil, we have permitted a $1 per barrel
increase in the cost of petroleum under
existing oil contracts.
As a result, domestic oil wells that had
been abandoned because they were no
longer profitable are being put back into
production, and new American oil is now
beginning to come into the market. We
anticipate additional increases in the oil
in the future.
As a greater domestic production fills
more of our oil needs, we will be demand-
ing less foreign oil, and the price for
foreign oil will not be driven upwards by
our demands. Our own domestic produc-
tion will tend to put a cap on the prices
foreign suppliers may charge.
To deal further with the world short-
age of oil and its increasingly unrealistic
price levels, I have invited major consum-
ing nations to a conference in Washington
on February 11. The conference will, I
hope, eventually lead to greater interna-
tional cooperation in the areas of energy
conservation, research, pricing policy, oil
exploration, and monetary policy.
II. LEGISLATION TO MEET THE CURRENT
EMERGENCY
Although we have made significant
progress over the last three months in re-
ducing consumer demands for energy and
in allocating fuel supplies, additional
legislative measures must be enacted if
we are to maintain our momentum. I am
therefore asking that the Congress give
its highest priority to five proposals which
I have previously recommended for deal-
ing with the short-term emergency:
1. SPECIAL ENERGY ACT
The principal purposes of this legisla-
tion are to grant the executive branch
authority to restrict the public and private
consumption of energy and to modify cer-
tain Clean Air Act requirements.
During the closing weeks of December,
both Houses of Congress labored long and
hard on this emergency bill. As presently
drafted in the House-Senate conference,
the bill is laden with so many extraneous
provisions that I would have difficulty
signing it. I urge the Congress to pass
a basic bill dealing with mandatory con-
servation, fuel conversion, rationing, and
changes to the Clean Air Act. I would also
urge that the extraneous provisions be
placed in separate legislation where they
belong.
2. WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
The solution to the energy crisis must
ultimately depend in large measure upon
21
