Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
proved or expanded in the past decade,
others-notably the railroads-have fallen
into serious difficulties. It is also apparent
that our public transit system must be
greatly improved within our urban cen-
ters. The measures already taken and
others which I shall propose this session
are particularly important in helping to
deal with the energy crisis by encouraging
a more sensible utilization of our trans-
portation resources.
During the past four years, several key
measures have helped lay the basis for a
greatly improved transportation system.
Under the Urban Mass Transportation
Act of 1970, we increased annual Federal
aid to urban public transportation to $1
billion by 1973-8 times the level of
1968-and in 1973 another $3 billion was
made available for the years immediately
ahead. For the first time since World War
II the downward trend in transit rider-
ship has been reversed, and is now moving
upwards. And for the first time, under the
provisions of the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1973, States and localities can now
use a portion of their Federal highway
funds for public transit purposes.
There has also been improvement of
rail passenger service under AMTRAK,
a public corporation created by the Rail
Passenger Service Act of 1970. After years
of steady decline in rail passenger service,
the past year saw a 14 percent increase
in the number of passengers carried on
AMTRAK.
Just this past year, we also went to work
to avoid a major rail crisis through pas-
sage of the Regional Rail Reorganization
Act of 1973, which provides for the re-
structuring of the bankrupt railroads of
the Northeast and Midwest region into a
streamlined system. By 1976, we hope
that the affected railroads will be able to
operate profitably and can survive as pro-
ducers, not consumers, of tax revenues.
Significant new initiatives have also
been taken in airport and airway develop-
ment, making vitally needed improve-
ments in the merchant marine, and in
promoting transportation safety, espe-
cially on our Nation's highways.
Clearly, however, there is still much to
be done. It is my hope that 1974 will be
the year when we make major advances
by enacting two critical transportation
bills.
One of these proposals, which I will
send to the Congress in the near future,
would give our communities not only more
money but also more freedom to balance
their own transportation needs—and it
will mark the largest Federal commit-
ment ever to the improvement of public
transportation. This bill would increase
Federal assistance for metropolitan areas
by nearly 50 percent over the level of
fiscal year 1974. More than two-thirds of
those funds would be allocated by formula
to State and local governments and those
governments could better determine their
own transportation priorities, choosing
between construction of highways or pub-
lic transit systems, or the purchase of
buses or rail cars. Additional transit aid
would also be made available to rural
communities for the first time.
Under this bill resources would also be
available for the first time to augment
the operating funds for public transporta-
tion systems in both urban and rural areas.
By permitting Federal resources to be
used for operating purposes, this pro-
posal should make it unnecessary to estab-
lish a new categorical grant program for
transit operating subsidies, as is now con-
templated in bills before the Congress.
As a second major transportation initia-
87
