Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 18 [48]
place in the world. Oh, these things we
always hear and sometimes take for
granted, and I would not, in mentioning
them, suggest that we did not also have
problems.
But let us be thankful that the prob-
lems we have today are the problems of
peace and not the problems of war. For
example, people are concerned, as they
should be, about the high cost of living-
prices are too high-but what we are try-
ing to build in America is something that
we haven't had for the last 12 years, and
that is a new prosperity without war,
without inflation. What we are trying to
do is to stop the rise in prices without a
recession and without the domination of
big government on top of all of the Ameri-
can economy. I think we can do it. And I
believe we can achieve that goal.
many Ameri-
And then I know too that
cans here are concerned, as I am, as Gov-
ernor Wallace and our other colleagues
are, about the energy crisis. Let me put it
in another sense, if I may. The other
evening at the White House there was a
very distinguished group of visitors. The
foreign ministers from all of the major
industrial countries of the world were
there the British, the French, the
Italians, the Germans, the Japanese—and
as I thought of the countries that they rep-
resented and I thought of America, I
realized that of the major industrial coun-
tries of the world, the United States, inso-
far as the free world is concerned, is the
only free world country of those major
countries that has the resources to become
totally independent of any other nation
as far as their energy is concerned.
Let me point out why: We have coal
resources, we have untapped resources in
natural gas, we have the genius of those
who develop peaceful uses for our nuclear
power, and we have other areas in which
we can develop that independence from
any other nation. And I say that as we get
prepared to celebrate America's 200th an-
niversary of its independence, just 3 years
from now, let us also set as our goal-
which we can reach by the year 1980-
that the United States will be completely
independent of any other nation for the
energy we need to provide our jobs and
to move our cars and to heat our homes.
So
you see, while we do have problems,
they are problems that are challenges,
they are the problems of peace,
and they
are problems that we can solve.
And now I would like to turn, if I
could, to what I believe is terribly im-
portant for us to think of on a day like
this, and that is, why is America a great
country? Sometimes the quick answer to
that, "Why, we are great because we are
the strongest country in the world." We
are. And others say we are great because
we are the richest country in the world,
and that is true, too. But the secret of
America's greatness goes far beyond its
wealth and far beyond its strength.
Think back a moment two centuries
ago, think back to the days of George
Washington whose birthday we will cele-
brate in just a few days and that we are
symbolically celebrating today. Two hun-
dred years ago, America had 3 million
people, there were 13 colonies, it was a
weak country, and it was a poor country.
But some way that weak America and that
poor America caught the imagination of
the world. Why? Because America stood
for something more than wealth, some-
thing more than strength.
There are these elements that I think
we should all bear in mind that America
has stood for from the time of its begin-
ning, which has meant that we had an
171
