Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
veterans. Unemployment reached low
levels, especially for skilled workers.
Second, the purchasing power of the
American people reached new highs last
year. Even after allowing for price in-
creases, people are now consuming more
goods and services than they did a year
ago, or in any other year in the entire
history of the United States.
Not everyone's purchasing power went
up, of course. Inflation took its toll on
many families whose income did not rise
as fast as that of the average American.
It is for this reason that we continue to
regard inflation as a very serious enemy.
At the same time, however, we should not
ignore the substantial economic gains that
have been made.
PERSPECTIVE ON 1974
We have known for some time that a
slowdown in economic growth is inevita-
ble in 1974. It has been clear that our
economy has simply been growing at an
unsustainable rate. Shortages of skilled
workers, full utilization of plant and
equipment in key industries, and short
supplies of a number of essential raw ma-
terials have all provided clear indications
that our rate of growth would have to
taper off. Unfortunately, the very mild
slowdown which we anticipated for 1974
now threatens to be somewhat more pro-
nounced because of the oil embargo, the
resulting shortages, and the oil price
increase.
We expect, therefore, that during the
early part of this year output will rise little
if at all, unemployment will rise somewhat
and inflation will be high. Our objective,
however, is to turn this situation around
so that later in the year output will be ris-
ing more rapidly, while unemployment
will stop rising and will then decline, and
the rate of inflation will slow.
ROLE OF THE FEDERAL BUDGET
The budget that I will recommend to
the Congress next week will help us
achieve our goals for this period. It will
support the economy, resisting a major
slowdown, but it will not provide a degree
of stimulation that could accelerate infla-
tion. If future events suggest that a change
in fiscal policy is desirable, I will promptly
recommend the appropriate changes. In
particular, I will not hesitate to use the
stimulus of fiscal policy if it becomes neces-
sary to preserve jobs in the face of
an unexpected slackening in economic
activity.
For fiscal year 1975, my budget recom-
mends total spending of $304.4 billion, an
increase of $29.7 billion over the current
year. The increase is being held to the
minimum level necessary-nearly 90 per-
cent of the increase is unavoidable under
existing law. The budgeted increase in
relatively controllable outlays is only 4.2
percent.
Federal receipts should reach $295 bil-
lion during fiscal year 1975, an increase
of $25 billion. The projected budget
deficit is $9.4 billion. Under conditions of
full employment, however, Federal re-
ceipts would be substantially higher and
there would instead be a moderate budget
surplus.
The Federal budget remains an essen-
tial tool in the fight against inflation. With
the energy supply limitations we are ex-
periencing and the price pressures they
create, budget discipline is still required.
I have noted with satisfaction that most
Members of the Congress have also recog-
nized the need for budgetary discipline,
43-437 O 75-7
63
