Richard Nixon, 1974
June 13 [177]
We thought yesterday, after the mag-
nificent reception in Cairo, that it would
be impossible to see more people in one
day again in our lives, but I remember
you told me, "Wait until we get to
Alexandria." And you were right, because
on the journey that we took by train
through the rich delta country and then
through the streets of Alexandria, going
clear out by the sea as well as through the
downtown area, we again had the privi-
lege, as we did yesterday, of seeing literally
millions of people who were there to greet
us and to welcome us.
And there is an old saying that you can
turn people out, but you can't turn them
on. They will only be turned on if they
want to be. And we felt, as you said to us
so often, that there was no question about
the people that we saw yesterday and to-
day-they were from their hearts giving
us a warm welcome-and I can assure
you, Mr. President, they touched our
hearts and, I am sure, the hearts of mil-
lions of Americans who saw that welcome
on television, with what they did.
Let me say, too, that we are grateful
that on this visit, brief though it is, that
you, in arranging our itinerary, saw to it
that we were not only in Cairo, the capi-
tal of the nation, but that we should see
another part of the country as well.
We in Washington often say as we
think of our Nation's Capital, of which we
are very proud because it is a beautiful
city, that Washington is not all of Amer-
ica and that one must travel to other cities
as well. And you gave us a double pleasure
today because we saw the countryside,
the farmers, the peasants tilling the rich
lands with three crops a year growing
there, some with the equipment that goes
back many centuries and others with the
most modern equipment. And we saw,
also, one of the great cities of the world,
Alexandria, which we would otherwise
not have seen had you not planned our
schedule in such a way that we could
extend it to include other parts of Egypt
than just the capital.
And here in Alexandria, I would like
to add that we feel certainly in the pres-
ence of—and I have no other, better word
to describe it than this-in the presence
of the whole heritage of learning which
our civilization has benefited from. We
think of the great library that was here.
We think of, for example, those who
landed on the Moon and that the abilities
that developed those high techniques were
based on the great scholars of the past,
many of whom centered here in Alex-
andria-the mathematicians, the astron-
omers, and the like. And as we think of
that heritage of learning which Alexandria
signifies to the whole world today, it re-
minds us of how much both Egypt and
America will gain from this new relation-
ship which we have established.
I say a new relationship—it is the re-
establishment of a relationship that was
always there, but one which we now have
formalized to an extent, as our statement
tomorrow will indicate, and one on which
we will build, because there are perhaps
some things that we have learned in the
new world in America that you will find
useful in the development of your coun-
try. But you can be very sure that we who
have learned so much from the civiliza-
tion which is represented in this land,
that we also will profit from this mutual
exchange of ideas and that the wisdom
that is here, the wisdom not only of the
past but the wisdom which is now being
developed to meet the challenge of the
497
