Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
terprises-one of the cornerstones of the
Administration's effort to open new eco-
nomic horizons for minority group mem-
bers has nearly tripled since 1970.
-Civil rights enforcement activities
have continued at a vigorous level, with
their funding substantially increased.
-Since 1969, combined Federal ex-
penditures on civil rights activities and
minority economic development programs
have grown from less than $1 billion to
$3.5 billion.
-Five years ago 68 percent of all black
children in the South were still attending
all-black schools. Now that figure has been
reduced to 8 percent, and the dual school
system has been virtually eliminated.
-The Government has also sought to
expand job opportunities through legal
actions of its own against those who may
be engaged in discriminatory practices.
During 1972 and 1973 the Department
of Justice initiated 34 pattern and prac-
tice lawsuits against approximately 207
defendants. These suits directly covered
more than 248,803 employees. During the
same period of time, approximately 37
cases were fully resolved by entry of de-
crees and an additional six were partially
resolved by the entry of decrees. The
decrees entered in those two years alone
covered more than 217,000 employees and
provide specific goals for the hiring of
more than 21,800 minorities and women
in traditionally white and male jobs. In
addition, those decrees provide new trans-
fer of seniority rights for approximately
12,700 minorities and women and provide
for back pay awards which are estimated
to amount to well over $6,000,000.
The real story lies not in these figures
themselves, but in the facts and the atti-
tudes they represent. They do not repre-
sent a flamboyant promise, but rather a
quiet determination to work not only
toward the symbols but also toward the
substance of equal opportunity. They
represent an effort to build foundations
that will last—in particular, the founda-
tion of economic independence, and of a
basic faith in the equal dignity of
mankind.
JUSTICE FOR AMERICAN INDIANS
For too many years the American In-
dians-the first Americans-have been the
last Americans to receive the rights and
opportunities to which they are entitled.
This Administration has taken the intia-
tive to change this picture.
For its part, the Federal Government
must put behind it the role of autocratic
manager of Indian reservations. We shall
continue to encourage Indians and their
tribal governments to play an increasing
role in determining their own future. We
are also particularly determined to defend
the natural resources rights of Indian
people.
The last five years have been historic
steps in Federal Indian policy. In 1971, we
worked closely with Indian leaders to
achieve a settlement of Alaska Native
claims, a settlement consistent with Amer-
ica's sense of fairness and also indispensa-
ble to the growth and development of all
of Alaska.
We also returned lands taken away
long ago from the Taos Pueblo at Blue
Lake. We returned lands wrongfully
taken from the Yakima people. Because
the Menominee people have seen their
tribal states involuntarily terminated but
had nevertheless kept their land and their
tribal structure together, the Congress en-
acted and I signed the bill which restored
the Menominee tribe to trust status. In
75
