Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 5 [68]
68 Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Labor and Public
Welfare Committee About Pending Education
Legislation. March 5, 1974
Dear Senator Williams:
The need for constructive, cooperative
action to reform the present system of
Federal support for elementary and sec-
ondary, vocational and adult education is
an urgent priority. It is clear that the
Administration and the Congress share
this sense of urgency, and, I appreciate
the work that you and members of your
Committee have devoted to the Nation's
education programs. However, the action
taken by your Committee on S. 1539 in-
dicates that there are major areas of sub-
stantive difference that remain to be
resolved.
S. 1539 is a bill that differs so greatly
from what I consider to be desirable that,
in its present form, I would be forced to
veto it.
S. 1539 does not provide the program
consolidation needed to simplify the Fed-
eral funding process for elementary and
secondary education. As you know, the
Federal Government has for years funded
categorical programs that limit the abil-
ity of States and individual communities
to set their own priorities. While S. 1539
would move in the direction of returning
control to States and communities, I
believe bolder action is required in the
area of program consolidation and I urge
that such action be taken.
Reform of the present system for allo-
cating and distributing funds for the
education of disadvantaged children is
long overdue. The Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare has testified on
a formula that would go far toward
readjusting and equalizing the distribu-
tion of funds for this program. I believe
it is a formula that provides the needed
reforms in this program and I urge that
it be carefully considered by the Senate.
Certain provisions of the bill which you
have under consideration would create a
bureaucratic nightmare, entwined in its
own red tape, making it impossible for
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare to carry out its responsibil-
ities. These provisions are not germane
to the bill and would stifle rather than im-
prove our efforts to streamline Federal aid
for education. I urge that these provisions
be dropped.
I consider reform of the Impact Aid
program to be essential. The modest steps
taken by the Committee to accomplish this
reform are overwhelmed by the forced
funding of a new category. I urge the
Committee to reopen this question and to
endorse the phaseout strategy contained
in the FY 1975 Budget request. We can-
not permit the Federal Government to
continue subsidizing the education of the
children of its employees where there is
no need for this support.
I know we share the same deep con-
cern to insure that Federal support to ele-
mentary, secondary, vocational, and
adult education in America is both ade-
225
