Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
a period of steady growth at a sustainable
level.
-Fourth, we establish a new system of
comprehensive health insurance that
makes high quality health care available
to every American in a dignified manner
and at a price he or she can afford.
-Fifth, we continue to build a new era
of achievement and responsiveness in
State and local government, by cutting
the strings of too tight Federal control
that have bound the hands of State and
local officials in community and economic
development programs.
-Sixth, we make a crucial break-
through toward better transportation by
strengthening the ability of local commu-
nities to deal with their transportation
problems.
-Seventh, we reform our system of
Federal aid to education to provide it
when it is needed, where it is needed, and
so that it will do the most for those who
need it most.
-Eighth, we make an historic begin-
ning on the task of defining and protecting
the right of personal privacy.
-Ninth, we start on a new road toward
reform of a welfare system that bleeds the
taxpayer, corrodes the community and de-
means those it is meant to assist.
-And tenth, together with the other
nations of the world, we establish the eco-
nomic framework within which Ameri-
cans will share more fully in an expand-
ing world trade and prosperity in the
years ahead, with more open access to
both markets and supplies.
MEETING OUR ENERGY NEEDS
At the start of this Congressional ses-
sion, the number one legislative concern
must be the energy crisis.
The cooperative efforts of the American
people, together with measures already
taken by the Administration, have signifi-
cantly reduced the immediate impact of
the energy crisis. There has been some
economic dislocation and some individual
hardships, but these have been minimized
by our policy of encouraging broad con-
servation measures and allocating scarce
energy resources so as to do the least pos-
sible harm to jobs and the economy. The
object has been to keep our farms and fac-
tories producing, to keep our workers on
the job, and to keep our goods and serv-
ices flowing, even if this means that we
must live and work in somewhat less com-
fortable surroundings and drive fewer
miles at slower speeds.
Even with the full cooperation of most
Americans, however, we will still face real
challenges and genuine shortages—in
the months and years immediately ahead.
To meet these challenges, we must change
our patterns of energy consumption and
production, we must press forward with
the development of reliable new energy
sources, and we must adjust to the fact
that the age of unlimited supplies of cheap
energy is ended.
The immediate energy crisis began with
the oil embargo imposed in the Middle
East last fall. But the embargo only has-
tened a shortage that was already antici-
pated. For a number of years our fuel con-
sumption had been climbing while our
production of domestic energy supplies
declined. We became more and more
heavily dependent on oil imports and,
consequently, more vulnerable to any in-
terruption or reduction in those imports,
as well as to sudden increases in foreign
prices. Today, we have an interruption in
57
