Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
for national security or competitive pur-
poses, confidentiality of the information
will be protected. Most of this data, how-
ever, can and will be made available to
the public.
To provide a focus for the collection
and analysis of this data, I have directed
the Federal Energy Office to establish an
Energy Information Center. This center
will coordinate energy data within the
Government and provide the information
to the public, the Congress and other Fed-
eral agencies.
5. FEDERAL ENERGY ADMINISTRATION
FEA would bring together and signifi-
cantly expand programs to deal with the
current energy emergency. It would also
carry out major new activities in energy
resource development, energy information
and energy conservation. Included within
this agency would be the functions of the
Offices of Petroleum Allocation, Energy
Data and Analysis, Oil and Gas, and
Energy Conservation from the Depart-
ment of the Interior and the Energy Divi-
sion of the Cost of Living Council.
III. OUR PROGRAM FOR THE FUTURE:
PROJECT INDEPENDENCE
Energy demand in the United States
will certainly continue to rise. Were do-
mestic oil production to continue to de-
cline and demand continue to grow at
over 4 percent annually, as it did before
the embargo, imports would increase from
35 percent of U.S. consumption in 1973 to
roughly half of U.S. consumption by 1980.
We must also face the fact that when
and if the oil embargo ends, the United
States will be faced with a different but
no less difficult problem. Foreign oil prices
have risen dramatically in recent months.
If we were to continue to increase our
purchase of foreign oil, there would be a
chronic balance of payments outflow
which, over time, would create a severe
problem in international monetary
relations.
Without alternative and competitive
sources of energy here at home, we would
thus continue to be vulnerable to inter-
ruptions of foreign imports and prices
could remain at these cripplingly high
levels. Clearly, these conditions are
unacceptable.
To overcome this challenge, I an-
nounced last November 7 that the United
States must embark upon a major effort
to achieve self-sufficiency in energy, an
effort I called Project Independence. If
successful, Project Independence would by
1980 take us to a point where we are no
longer dependent to any significant ex-
tent upon potentially insecure foreign
supplies of energy.
Project Independence entails three es-
sential concurrent tasks.
The first task is to rapidly increase en-
ergy supplies—maximizing the production
of our oil, gas, coal and shale reserves by
using existing technologies and accelerat-
ing the introduction of nuclear power.
These important efforts should begin to
pay
off in the next 2 to 3 years. They will
provide the major fraction of the in-
creased supplies needed to achieve energy
self-sufficiency.
The second task is to conserve energy.
We must reduce demand by eliminating
non-essential energy use and improving
the efficiency of energy utilization. This
must be a continuing commitment in the
years ahead.
The third task is to develop new tech-
nologies through a massive new energy
23
