[93] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
strengthened. On this occasion then, the
highest tribute we can pay to those who
served, and particularly to those who
died, is to go forward in building a world
of peace for ourselves and for all people.
And in order for that to be accomplished,
it is essential that America be strong. That
means, first, strong militarily.
The cost is high. But as President Eisen-
hower once said in thinking of that cost,
"While the cost of peace may be high,
the cost of war is far higher and it is paid
in a different coin, the lives of our young
men and the destruction of our cities."
And so, we need to maintain a militarily
strong America, an economically strong
America, but most important, we need to
maintain an America that is strong in its
character and in its spirit and its sense of
destiny and its sense of purpose in this
great period in our history and in the
world's history.
And that is the most significant con-
tribution that has been made by those who
served in Vietnam, because when it was
not easy, when there seemed to be so little
support at home, they saw it through. And
because they saw it through, because they
did not quit, we were able to negotiate
an honorable end to the war at the con-
ference table, which would not have been
possible had they not served with distinc-
tion and courage to the end on the
battlefield.
So today, we look forward to the future,
thinking of how we can repay the debt to
these men who have served and those who
have given their lives, and the way we
repay that debt is to go forward in build-
ing a structure of peace in the world.
We are doing that, negotiating with
those who have been our adversaries in the
past, building a new structure of peace in
areas like the Mideast, strengthening our
ties with our allies all over the world.
But none of this could be accomplished,
none of it, unless America were respected.
And America is respected, respected be-
cause we kept our commitment to a small
nation far away when it would have been
so easy not to do so.
And so, on this occasion I would say
to my fellow Americans as we pay tribute
to those who served in Vietnam, let us
look to the future with confidence, with
hope, and with determination and dedica-
tion that we, this generation of Ameri-
cans, will be remembered because we not
only ended a war and ended it honorably
and fought it honorably but because we
went on from there to build a structure
of peace in the world that will last.
We can do that, and we will do it. We
will do it by being strong militarily and
strong economically. But we will do it,
even more importantly, because we will
demonstrate the spirit that the men who
served in Vietnam demonstrated so cou-
rageously over those 12 long, difficult
years. And with that spirit, America will
meet the great destiny that is ours to build
for the whole world: not only a genera-
tion of peace for us but for all people, not
only a generation of peace but perhaps, we
would hope, peace for many more genera-
tions to come.
Let our goal be, the sons of those who
fought in Vietnam can look back with
pride to what their fathers did and that
they will not have to be engaged in a war
in the future. That is our goal, and that is
why, here at this historic Fort McNair, I
pay tribute with all Americans, not just
to what we call the Armed Forces but to
what are truly the peace forces of the
world.
326
