Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
provide time for the development of a
more effective system of controls with
tighter standards and compliance proce-
dures than those which characterized
Phase III. This fourth phase of the
Economic Stabilization Program was
launched in July. Its introduction was
staggered so that any price increases which
followed the freeze would be spread over
several months.
Phase IV was designed to provide a
tough program of controls that would
enable this country to return to the free
market system as soon as possible. Since
its introduction, Phase IV has made ad-
mirable progress toward reducing the
dangers of inflation, demonstrating that
the public and private sectors of our
economy can work cooperatively and ef-
fectively together to enhance our Nation's
economic future.
Unprecedented developments in all
parts of the world have created extraor-
dinary pressures on our economy. We
can be proud, however, of the way in
which we have responded to these prob-
lems. We are proving that a dynamic and
resilient people can meet the challenge of
inflation without sacrificing the ideal of
a free market system. If we continue our
recent progress—and if we respond to new
challenges, including the current energy
shortage, with this same sense of poise and
flexibility—then we can look forward with
assurance to a prosperous New Year.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 22, 1974.
NOTE: The report, covering the period July I
through September 30, 1973, is entitled "Eco-
nomic Stabilization Program Quarterly Re-
port-Cost of Living Council" (Government
Printing Office, 94 pp.).
17 Special Message to the Congress on the Energy Crisis.
January 23, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
As the 93rd Congress reconvenes this
week, it returns to an agenda that is piled
high with vital legislative questions.
America is undergoing a period of rapid
change and growth when decisions made
in Washington could affect the patterns
of our national life for the rest of this
century. These decisions demand not only
the collective wisdom of our national lead-
ership but also a continuing spirit of co-
operation between the executive and leg-
islative branches of our Government. In
this first legislative message of 1974, I
want to renew my pledge that I stand
ready and eager to work with the Mem-
bers of the Congress in shaping the solu-
tions that are best for America.
In the next few weeks, I will send to the
Congress a series of messages requesting
swift legislative action in the areas where
I feel that progress is most keenly needed.
In each of these areas-health, education,
transportation, natural resources, and
others these proposals reflect the best
efforts of my Administration to solve a
wide range of difficult domestic problems.
No single legislative area is more critical
or more challenging to us as a people,
however, than the subject of this first
message to the Congress: The energy
crisis. It is because of its importance and
because of the urgent need for action that
I have chosen to break tradition, outlining
17
