[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
tive this year, I shall propose that we
modernize the regulatory system govern-
ing railroad operations. This legislation
would make it easier for railroads to con-
solidate service on a sustainable basis. It
would make changes in the system of rate
regulation to allow rail carriers to compete
more effectively with one another and
with alternative modes of freight trans-
portation. Discriminatory State and local
taxation of interstate carriers would be
barred. It would also provide $2 billion
in Federal loan guarantee authority to
finance improvements in rights-of-way,
terminal and rail plant facilities, and
rolling stock, where necessary, which
would be a major step in our effort to im-
prove the Nation's railroad system.
Additional transportation measures I
shall soon propose will include:
-Improvements in highway safety
through the earmarking of approximately
$250 million of the 1975 Federal highway
program for the elimination of death
traps from the highways-by, for ex-
ample, improving high-hazard intersec-
tions and replacing dangerous bridges.
New bonus grants to the States will also
be initiated to encourage the adoption of
improved safety legislation and to reward
States for outstanding safety accomplish-
ments.
-A restructuring of the airport and
airway financing system to allocate costs
more equitably among the users of our
airways and to provide more flexibility
in the use of funds.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Last Christmas Eve, when I signed the
new home rule bill into law, the Nation's
Capital reached a significant milestone.
If the voters of the District accept the
proposal in the forthcoming referendum,
the city will soon have its first elected
mayor and city council in 100 years. In
addition to giving the citizens of our Na-
tion's Capital the right to elect their own
officials and a greater role in decisions
affecting local affairs, the act also trans-
fers to the District functions now carried
out in Federal agencies which should
rightfully be under local control.
In order to accomplish this transfer
of responsibilities to the local government,
much work will have to be done. This Ad-
ministration will make every effort to
assist in that transfer and to ensure that
it is both timely and effective.
While our attention to the affairs of the
District of Columbia has been captured
by the transition to home rule, we must
not ignore another important task before
us. As the city moves into a new era of
self-government, it must also prepare for
the Nation's celebration of the Bicen-
tennial.
A Federal Bicentennial Task Force has
been working to ensure that the Federal
Government meets its financial and pro-
gram commitments in the Nation's
Capital. Under the leadership of the Bi-
centennial Coordination Center, which I
established over two years ago, a number
of projects are moving forward. The Na-
tional Visitors' Center, Constitution Gar-
dens, the Eisenhower Civic Center, the
Fort Circle Parks, the National Air and
Space Museum and other projects will
contribute enormously to the celebration
which takes place here in 1976. In addi-
tion, the Pennsylvania Avenue Develop-
ment Corporation will soon present its
plan to restore and improve this central,
historically important thoroughfare.
During the coming year, I also urge
the Congress to take action on pending
88
