Richard Nixon, 1974
July 18 [223]
223 Remarks to Members of the National Citizens'
Committee for Fairness to the Presidency. July 18, 1974
THE PRESIDENT. Rabbi Korff.
RABBI BARUCH KORFF [president of the
committee]. Mr. President, good evening,
sir.
THE PRESIDENT. It is good to hear
voice.
your
RABBI KORFF. Thank you so much,
Mr. President.
If I may, just for a moment before you
proceed, read to you the sentiments of this
assembly.
Dear Mr. President, those who have
admired you since your political youth
can now only paraphrase Robert Frost:
We do not find you changed from him we
knew, only more sure of all you thought
was true. Sure that your country has both
the will and the resources to sustain its
freedom at home and share its bounty
abroad. Sure that any government of the
people must be close to their supervision,
bound by their frugality, and limited to
their purpose. Sure that the people's rights
can be protected only by a Constitution
plainly read and strictly interpreted. Cer-
tain, despite your detractors, that history
is shaped by the stalwart and vindicates
the brave. Indeed, in your case, history's
verdict is already clear.
Now, Mr. President, we are all ready
to listen to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first I want to
extend to you, Rabbi Korff, and all of our
very distinguished friends tonight, our ap-
preciation not only for your warm words
but also to each of you for attending this
dinner.
I regret that Mrs. Nixon and I were un-
able to attend the Second Citizens' Con-
gress, but I can assure you that the Nixon
family will be well represented, because I
talked to Julie a little earlier in Indianap-
olis, and she is flying in from her job
there and will be there to represent the
family.
And I think you will agree, all of you,
after you hear Julie, that no President
could have a better personal representa-
tive than Julie.
Your efforts to build a grassroots or-
ganization, Rabbi Korff, with 2 million
members reminds me of something that
General de Gaulle once said—it is one of
my favorite quotations. He said that
France is never her true self unless she is
engaged in a great enterprise. That was
true of France, of any great nation.
Here in America, we have all been
guided by that same sense of national pur-
pose, and what has made America the
great nation it is today is that our people
have always devoted themselves to great
enterprise, enterprises greater than
themselves.
In these difficult times, when world
peace depends so fundamentally upon the
strength and the unity of America, you
have joined together, Democrats and
Republicans, to support an office which is
bigger than any party, the Office of the
Presidency of the United States.
And I know that each one of you has
made a personal sacrifice to further that
great enterprise. I realize, from having
595
