[119] Apr. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is imperative that these authoriza-
tions as well as those for our bilateral pro-
grams be enacted. It is equally imperative
that appropriations be enacted in the
full amount necessary to fulfill our respon-
sibilities in these institutions and in the
Inter-American Development Bank, for
which authorizing legislation has been
enacted.
The United States is currently engaged
in negotiations relating to international
monetary and trade reform. It should be
recognized that less developed nations will
play an important role in the success of
these important initiatives. These nations
will look to the United States to continue
our leadership in the development assist-
ance field as well as in trade and mone-
tary reform.
SECURITY ASSISTANCE
The security of our allies and of
nations friendly to us is an essential con-
sideration in the foreign and national
security policies of the United States. Not
all are capable of providing for their
security, and our assistance enables those
countries to assume primary responsibil-
ity for their own defense. It gives them
the confidence to negotiate with potential
adversaries from a position of strength
and to resist subversion and intimidation.
The effectiveness and wisdom of these
policies is being proven today in the Mid-
dle East and Southeast Asia.
There can be no real peace in the world
so long as some governments believe that
they can successfully obtain by force or
threat of force what they cannot obtain
by peaceful competition or negotiation.
Our security assistance programs reduce
the likelihood that such calculations will
be made and thereby increase the incen-
tives to resolve international disputes by
peaceful means.
Just as security assistance can ease the
impact of large and unexpected defense
burdens on the economies of friendly na-
tions, it can also strengthen their econ-
omies and thereby allow a greater use of
military sales credits as opposed to grants.
We need a flexible military credit sales
program to encourage and facilitate the
self-reliance of friendly states and to help
gradually reduce the cost to the United
States of providing security assistance.
I am asking the Congress to authorize
the appropriations for fiscal year 1975
of $985 million for grant military assist-
ance, $555 million for foreign military
sales credits to finance an $872.5 million
program, and $385.5 million for security
supporting assistance.
CONCLUSION
The United States has only recently
emerged from more than a decade of
direct involvement in a long, bitter, and
costly war. It is not remarkable that we
should see a strong sentiment in the land
for giving up the difficult duties of world
leadership. But temporary sentiment must
not obscure the long-range interest of our
Nation.
The percentage of America's gross na-
tional product dedicated to foreign assist-
ance is small. It is less, indeed, than that
of some other nations. But it is a wise in-
vestment, undertaken with bipartisan sup-
port in the interest of our own Nation,
in the interests of our historical role as a
generous and courageous defender of free-
dom and human rights, and in the inter-
ests of world peace.
378
