[69] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
not justify such an enormous loan pro-
gram.
FACING UP TO OUR NEEDS
The energy shortage has been a press-
ing problem for the American people for
several months now. We have made every
effort to soften the impact of this prob-
lem. We have come through this winter
without serious hardship due to heating
oil shortages. We have tried to distribute
gasoline shortages equally. Many are con-
cerned about rising costs of such energy
supplies as propane, and we have taken
action to reduce these prices while con-
tinuing to increase supplies. Above all, we
have tried to insure that basic industries
would not be severely affected and that
unemployment due to the energy shortage
would be kept to a minimum. We have
been largely successful in these endeavors.
But we must be able to approach this
situation in a systematic fashion that aims
not at symptoms, but at solutions to the
problem itself.
The time has passed for political debate
and posturing that raise false hopes. It's
time for all of us to face up to this prob-
lem with a greater sense of realism and
responsibility.
Unfortunately, there are some who
have chosen to capitalize on the Nation's
energy problems in an effort to obtain
purely political benefits. Regrettably, the
few who are so motivated have managed
to produce the delays, confusion, and
finally the tangled and ineffective result
which is before me today. The amend-
ments, counteramendments, and parlia-
mentary puzzles which have marked the
stumbling route of this bill through the
Congress must well make Americans won-
der what has been going on in Washing-
ton while they confront their own very
real problems. We must now join together
to show the country what good govern-
ment means.
We need the authority to require energy
conservation measures. We need the
direct authority to ration gasoline if, and
only if, rationing becomes necessary,
which it has not. We need the authority
to require conversion of power plants,
where possible, to permit the use of our
abundant coal reserves. We need a well-
conceived Federal Energy Administration
capable of managing national energy pro-
grams and not the woefully inadequate
Federal Energy Emergency Administra-
tion mandated in S. 2589.
We must, above all else, act to increase
our supplies of energy. To meet this im-
portant goal, I have submitted to the
Congress a comprehensive package of leg-
islative initiatives which I have repeatedly
urged the Congress to pass. I have offered
every possible kind of cooperation with
the Congress in shaping this vital legisla-
tion.
In addition to my requests for a wind-
fall profits tax and unemployment insur-
ance plan, the Congress has many other
Administration proposals before it,
including:
-Mandatory reporting of energy in-
formation, a proposal which requires
energy companies to report on inventories,
production, cost, and reserves with infor-
mation to be made public in most cases.
-The Natural Gas Supply Act to allow
competitive pricing of new gas supplies
and encourage exploration.
-A resolution permitting limited pro-
duction of oil from Naval Petroleum Re-
serve #1 (Elk Hills) and providing funds
228
