[187] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
plex area than that. But there is a new
relationship and a good and positive one
that has developed with Egypt and with
Syria that was not there before.
And finally, and above all, to a man
who has had the vision from the time he
was a very young king, a man who has
kept that vision-even when in the year
1970 it seemed that his whole world and
his whole nation was coming down
around him a man who had the vision of
a permanent and just peace in the Mid-
east. I know that we would want to raise
our glasses and drink to the health of His
Majesty, the King, and to the Queen.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
10:20 p.m. at Basman Palace in response to a
toast proposed by King Hussein.
King Hussein's remarks were as follows:
Mr. President:
I am sure you know, sir, how happy I am
personally to welcome you and Mrs. Nixon to
Jordan and to return, if only briefly and inade-
quately, the hospitality that you and the
American people have extended to me over
the last 15 years.
As you may remember, we met for the first
time in 1959, when my friend and your very
great and good friend, the late President Eisen-
hower, first invited me to the United States. It
was an experience of his kind, person-to-per-
son relationship that I shall never forget and
will always cherish. And each succeeding visit
to the United States has not only intensified
my affection for the American people but has
strengthened, I believe, the friendship between
our two countries.
I hope, Mr. President, that you have also
been aware of the obvious warmth of feeling
the Jordanian people want to express to you
and, through you, to the American people. It is
a feeling borne, in part, of gratitude for the
support you have given us and for the inspira-
tion you have been to us. The support helped
us to surmount enormous difficulties, and the
inspiration helped us and many small nations
to survive in a free world.
Mr. President, we join with you in all the
hopes and expectations you must have for this
memorable "Journey for Peace" that you are
undertaking, and we in the Arab world are
grateful that you have made it. Although you
know better than anyone else, perhaps, that a
journey for peace seems to have no ending,
your coming to us at this time has been per-
fectly timed to preserve the momentum that
American initiative had begun under your in-
spired and inspiring leadership.
The dispatch of your Secretary of State, the
world now knows, ranks with the most cele-
brated diplomatic missions of all time, and your
insistence that he pursue his course to the end
has undoubtedly led to a turning point in Mid-
dle East history that will long be remembered.
Dr. Kissinger's skill, patience, and deter-
mination in negotiation has brought us closer
to peace in the Middle East than we have been
in a quarter of a century. At no time has the
will to peace been stronger or the opportunity
greater. But this opportunity will be lost, per-
haps forever, if we do not take courageous ad-
vantage of the chance for peace that lies before
us.
The separation of forces agreements between
Egypt and Israel, and between Syria and Israel,
were major milestones on the road to peace.
Another lies ahead. But we must not lose sight
of, we must keep within our vision, the final
goal that it is still many milestones away. The
next one, of course, is the separation of forces
between Jordan and Israel. That is an essen-
tial prerequisite to any discussion of a perma-
nent settlement if Jordan is to contribute its full
share in the efforts leading towards a just and
lasting peace. Once that has been accomplished,
with again the strong and friendly hand of
America, we must then press forward with rea-
son and firm determination toward the final
goal.
If the initiative launched by the United
States under your leadership, Mr. President,
is lost and the momentum slowed down, the
days of "no peace, no war," will be with us
again in a potentially more dangerous and ex-
plosive situation.
I am grateful, Mr. President, that this is the
last stop on your current "Journey for Peace."
I am sure there will be others. But your visit
here, before returning home, gives me the op-
portunity to express to you, before your de-
parture tomorrow, four thoughts which we
hope you will take home with you and which,
532
