[72] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
To shorten Presidential campaigns, I
have recommended moving primary elec-
tions later into the election year, and I
have urged both national parties to sched-
ule their 1976 nominating conventions in
September instead of in July or August.
Now, that would still provide for a
national campaign of approximately 2
months. When you consider, for example,
that in Great Britain a campaign is sched-
uled for no longer than 3 weeks, it would
seem that a 2-month campaign in the
United States would be adequate for the
purpose of having each candidate get his
views across to the people.
Finally, we must take steps to encourage
more good people to run for public office.
While closely observing constitutional re-
quirements, I believe that we can reaffirm
a public figure's private rights so that peo-
ple interested in running for public office
can have greater assurance of recourse
against slanderous attacks on them or their
families. Good and decent men and
women should not have to flinch from
political participation because of their fear
of such attacks.
We have here, incidentally, a constitu-
tional problem, which must eventually,
probably, be decided by the courts. But
unfortunately, some libel lawyers have in-
terpreted recent Supreme Court decisions,
particularly the decision in Sullivan v. The
New York Times, as being virtually a
license to lie where a political candidate,
a member of his family, or one of his
supporters or friends is involved.
This is wrong. It is necessary that a
change be made so that a candidate who
uns for public office knows that he has
recourse in case of such an attack which
is totally untrue and would otherwise give
him a right to sue for libel.
Other measures which would encourage
a wider choice for the voters by reducing
the cost of campaigning include the repeal
of the equal time provision of the Com-
munications Act, allowing for more free
broadcast coverage of candidates.
I have also urged the Congress to exam-
ine its own benefits of incumbency which
have mounted over the years, so com-
petent challengers have a more even
chance in House and Senate campaigns.
I am aware of the great interests and
expertise that the Congress possesses in
the election process, and I am grateful for
the counsel, the recommendations which
have been contributed to me by several
Members of Congress in preparing my
remarks on this occasion and the legis-
lation that will be presented. It is fully
my intention to work closely with the
Congress, with leaders of both parties, to
achieve progress in improving the conduct
of our campaigns. Because we all share the
same interests and the same goal, we will
work together to achieve that goal.
If our campaigns, like the communica-
tions of ideas in every arena of public life,
are to remain free and spirited, they will
frequently be caustic and hard-hitting.
That is the case in all free countries. Some
excesses and abuses will inevitably occur,
but if we are guided by a sense of realism,
we can go far to improve the process.
More than anything else, it is my de-
sire to open up the election process, elimi-
nate the abuses which cross boundaries of
fair play, and to let the American people
know as much as possible about their can-
didates. No instrument of force is as
mighty as the power of the ballot in the
hand of a free citizen. This is the proud
and remarkable record of our election
tradition. The American people have
244
