Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
be undermined by their basic structural
flaws.
In the development of my proposal, I
will be guided by five principles:
(1) All Americans who are able to
work should find it more rewarding to
work than to go on welfare. Americans
would strongly prefer to have good jobs
rather than a Federal handout. While we
should provide cash assistance to those in
need, we must always encourage complete
self-support for those who are capable
of it.
(2) Cash assistance is what low-in-
come people need most from the Federal
Government. The people themselves, not
the Federal Government, know their own
needs best.
(3) We need to focus Federal help on
those who need it most. People in need
should receive equal treatment from the
Federal Government regardless of their
place of residence.
(4) The new system should be as sim-
ple as possible to administer with rules
that are clear and understandable. It
should be based on objective criteria
rather than the personal judgment of ad-
ministering officials. And it should be
efficient.
(5) This new approach should not re-
quire an increased tax burden for any of
us. Too much of the income of all of us
now goes to support Government. We
help no one-certainly not those in pov-
erty by weakening our free enterprise
system by even higher taxation.
Starting from these basic principles, I
believe we can develop a new system
which would ensure that those who can
help themselves do help themselves, and
which would allow those who cannot help
themselves to live with dignity and
self-respect.
IMPROVING OUR PEOPLE'S HEALTH
In February of 1971, I outlined to the
Congress a new national health strategy
to assure that no American would be de-
nied access to high quality medical care
because of an inability to pay. Much has
already been accomplished toward meet-
ing that objective.
A little over two years ago, I took spe-
cial satisfaction in signing into law the
National Cancer Act, which enabled us
to launch an accelerated effort to conquer
this dread disease. Considerable progress
has been made in our attack on cancer and
there is much hope that additional knowl-
edge can be developed in the future. In
the budget that I will submit to the Con-
gress next Monday I plan to ask for an
additional $100 million above last year's
request of $500 million for the expanded
attack on cancer. In addition, biomedical
research in other areas, including heart
disease, has been intensified and the
total 1975 budget for biomedical research
will exceed $2 billion, more than double
the total in fiscal year 1969.
We are also making headway toward
increasing the Nation's supply of health
manpower. During the last ten years, first
year medical school enrollments have
grown by more than 55 percent. The num-
ber of other health professionals also can
be expected to grow dramatically. Just
last month, I approved legislation along
the lines I requested in 1971 to permit
the Federal Government to support the
demonstration of health maintenance or-
ganizations across the Nation. During
both 1974 and 1975, $125 million will be
provided through health maintenance or-
ganizations to demonstrate the benefits of
prepaid health care to our citizens.
Federal programs to finance health
69
