[206] July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
and their children's children can be spared
the tragedy of Khatyn and can know, in-
stead, the security of a human brother-
hood that reaches across the boundaries of
all nations.
When we first met at the summit 2 years
ago, both sides were venturing into the un-
tried waters of something new. And we
were, perhaps, a bit uncertain, even ap-
prehensive, about where it would lead.
But now, we and the leaders of the So-
viet Union have come to know one
another. Each of us has a much fuller un-
derstanding of the policies of the other
country, even where those policies differ.
Thus, we have been able to meet this
year, as we will meet again next year in
the United States, not in an atmosphere
of crisis, but rather in an atmosphere of
confidence-confidence that the work we
have embarked on is going forward.
In fact, it might be said that the most
remarkable thing about this summit meet-
ing is that it is taking place so routinely,
so familiarly as a part of a continuing
pattern that would have seemed incon-
ceivable just a few years ago.
Peace is not only a condition; if it is to
last, it must also be a continuing process.
And these meetings are an example of
that process in action.
As allies in World War II, we fought
side by side in the most terrible war in all
human history. And together with our
allies we won the victory. In winning that
victory, the people of the Soviet Union
and the people of the United States
shared a common hope that we also had
won a lasting peace. That hope was
frustrated, but now we have a new
opportunity.
Winning victory in war is difficult. It
requires extraordinary courage, stamina,
and dedication from every individual citi-
zen in the nation. But in some ways, the
building of a lasting peace is even more
difficult than waging war, because it is
more complex. We must bring to the task
of building that peace the same kind of
courage, of stamina, of dedication that
inspired us in our struggle for victory in
war.
And the fact that our task of building
peace is more complex does not mean that
we cannot succeed.
Let me give a striking example which
demonstrates that point. In the whole field
of modern technology, no mission is more
complex than the mission of sending men
into space. The joint Soviet-American
space mission planned for next year-the
joint Soyuz-Apollo mission-is in many
ways symbolic of the new relationship we
are building between our two nations.
It is symbolic for several reasons-rea-
sons which carry important lessons about
that new relationship:
For one thing, the rocket technology
developed for war is being used for peace.
And for another, Soviet and American
spacemen, starting from their separate
countries, will find their way toward one
another and join with one another—just
as we are doing and must continue to do
across the whole range of our relationship.
By standardizing their docking tech-
niques, they will make international rescue
missions possible in case future space mis-
sions encounter trouble in space. Thus
they will make space safer for the astro-
nauts and the cosmonauts of both of our
countries just as our new relationship
can make life on Earth safer for the people
of both of our countries.
Finally, and perhaps more important,
this joint mission-for which our astro-
nauts are now here in the Soviet Union
training alongside your cosmonauts-is
562
