Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 3 [99]
99 Remarks on Signing a Proclamation Designating April as
Cancer Control Month. April 3, 1974
Ladies and gentlemen:
We have here in this room today the
members of the President's committee
on cancer control. We also have some
very distinguished guests from the Soviet
Union, five doctors who are here working
with us on cooperative activities under the
program that was set up at the first sum-
mit in Moscow 2 years ago.
For purposes of the signing ceremony,
the signing of this annual proclamation
designating April as Cancer Control
Month, I am going to use an extra num-
ber of pens-I am using five-because I
thought each of our Soviet guests might
like one of the pens. As far as our Ameri-
can guests are concerned, you will get
duplicate pens, and if somebody asks you,
you might say, "Well, I think he used it,
too."
I will now sign the proclamation and
then have another word to say.
[At this point, the President signed Proclama-
tion 4281 and then resumed speaking.]
Mr. Schmidt will brief the press, and
the panel of experts will answer any ques-
tions that
you have.
One of the most important develop-
ments that has occurred has been that
while the Federal Government's activ-
ities here, as you know, have gone up sub-
stantially from approximately $200 mil-
lion 4 or 5 years ago to $600 million this
year, the fears that some had that as the
Government interest in and Government
appropriations for cancer research in-
creased, the great voluntary effort that we
have known for so many years in this
country would decrease. Those fears have
proved unfounded.
I was delighted to learn, for example,
that the American Cancer Society last
year raised $93 million in their drive,
which is taking place during the month of
April. Incidentally, my daughter Julie is
in Indianapolis, speaking at their dinner
of the American Cancer Society, which
is part of this drive today indicating the
interest that so many of us have in this
particular project. But the American
Cancer Society has set as its goal this year
over $100 million-may raise as much as
$150 million—so it shows that even
though the Federal Government is taking
a lead role, and a very big role, in provid-
ing funds, that we have going parallel with
that an enormous private, voluntary effort
which is characteristic of the American
approach to a problem which concerns so
many of our people.
I have been encouraged by the report
that I have received. I am not going to
give it to you myself, because there are
some technical features that I would not
be able to answer questions on. But prog-
ress has been made.
I have often said that from my own
discussions with these experts from time
to time, I have concluded that there is
probably never going to be found a cure
to cancer as such, as there was for polio,
a vaccine, or as there was for tuberculosis,
where it was found there could be a cure,
because there are many different kinds of
cancer, and what will work in one case will
not work in another. And all of the experts
agree that that is why we need a many-
pronged offensive, in the research area,
in the medical field, and so on around.
Also, I would conclude simply by saying
333
