Richard Nixon, 1974
June 14 [179]
179 Text of the "Principles of Relations and Cooperation
Between Egypt and the United States." June 14, 1974
THE PRESIDENT of the Arab Repub-
lic of Egypt, Muhammed Anwar el-Sadat,
and the President of the United States of
America, Richard Nixon,
-Having held wide-ranging discus-
sions on matters of mutual interest
to their two countries,
-Being acutely aware of the continu-
ing need to build a structure of peace
in the world and to that end and to
promote a just and durable peace in
the Middle East, and,
-Being guided by a desire to seize the
historic opportunity before them to
strengthen relations between their
countries on the broadest basis in
ways that will contribute to the well-
being of the area as a whole and will
not be directed against any of its
states or peoples or against any other
state.
Have agreed that the following prin-
ciples should govern relations between
Egypt and the United States.
I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF BILATERAL
RELATIONS
Relations between nations, whatever
their economic or political systems, should
be based on the purposes and principles
of the United Nations Charter, including
the right of each state to existence, in-
dependence and sovereignty; the right of
each state freely to choose and develop
its political, social economic and cultural
systems; non-intervention in each other's
internal affairs; and respect for territorial
integrity and political independence.
Nations should approach each other in
the spirit of equality respecting their na-
tional life and the pursuit of happiness.
The United States and Egypt consider
that their relationship reflects these
convictions.
Peace and progress in the Middle East
are essential if global peace is to be as-
sured. A just and durable peace based on
full implementation of U.N. Security
Council Resolution 242 of November 22,
1967, should take into due account the
legitimate interest of all the peoples in the
Mid East, including the Palestinian peo-
ple, and the right to existence of all states
in the area. Peace can be achieved only
through a process of continuing negotia-
tion as called for by United Nations Secu-
rity Council Resolution 338 of October 22,
1973, within the framework of the
Geneva Middle East Peace Conference.
In recognition of these principles, the
Governments of the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the United States of America
set themselves to these tasks:
They will intensify consultations at all
levels, including further consultations be-
tween their Presidents, and they will
strengthen their bilateral cooperation
whenever a common or parallel effort will
enhance the cause of peace in the world.
They will continue their active coopera-
tion and their energetic pursuit of peace
in the Middle East.
They will encourage increased contacts
between members of all branches of their
two governments-executive, legislative
and judicial—for the purpose of promot-
ing better mutual understanding of each
503
