[220] July 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing wiretapping, of certain specific in-
dividuals.
I am familiar with the testimony given
by Secretary Kissinger before your Com-
mittee to the effect that he performed the
function, at my request, of furnishing in-
formation about individuals within in-
vestigative categories that I established so
that an appropriate and effective investi-
gation could be conducted in each case.
This testimony is entirely correct; and
I wish to affirm categorically that Secre-
tary Kissinger and others involved in vari-
ous aspects of this investigation were op-
erating under my specific authority and
were carrying out my express orders.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated July 12,
1974, was issued at San Clemente, Calif., on
July 15.
221 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Programs for
Development of Government Executive Selection
and Training. July 17, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Over the past four decades as the Fed-
eral Government has grown larger and
more powerful, the people it serves have
expressed widespread dissatisfaction that
the Government has also grown increas-
ingly unresponsive to their needs.
One of the foremost objectives of this
Administration has been to reverse that
trend, restoring the original vitality of the
federal system and returning the tradi-
tional power of the people over their
governing bodies.
At the centerpiece of our efforts has
been the concept of New Federalism and
the many programs such as General Reve-
nue Sharing which help to carry out its
principles.
Through revenue sharing programs, we
are seeking to channel funds, authority
and responsibility to those governments
that are best able and willing to serve the
needs of the people. General Revenue
Sharing is already providing States and
localities with a predictable amount of
Federal funds with a minimum number of
restrictions and controls. In a similar vein,
State influence has been increased through
our grant program for law enforcement
assistance, and we have sought to replace
a score of categorical grants for man-
power programs with a block grant ap-
proach. The next steps along this road
should be the establishment of block
grants for community development, en-
actment of the Unified Transportation
Act, and enactment of the Responsive
Governments Act.
Supporting these New Federalism ini-
tiatives has been a concurrent effort to ra-
tionalize and streamline the organization
of Government departments and agencies.
We have created an independent United
States Postal Service, and we have es-
tablished the Environmental Protection
Agency, the Special Action Office for
Drug Abuse Prevention, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
the Federal Energy Administration as well
as other new organizations. I have also
proposed to the Congress and continue to
support a fundamental realignment of
the executive departments.
In addition, we have established re-
590
