Richard Nixon, 1974
June 24 [196]
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 12165) is Public
Law 93-320 (88 Stat. 266).
In his remarks, the President referred to
José Juan de Olloqui, Mexican Ambassador to
the United States, and Herbert Brownell, the
President's Special Representative for the
Resolution of the Colorado River Salinity Prob-
lem With Mexico.
196 Statement About the Colorado River Basin Salinity
Control Act. June 24, 1974
THE COLORADO River Basin Salinity
Control Act represents an important mile-
stone in the cordial and continuing inter-
national relationship between this Nation
and our neighbor to the south, Mexico.
Enactment of this legislation will enable
the Federal Government to implement
measures that will provide Mexico with
water of a higher quality than it presently
receives from the Colorado River.
The quality of Mexico's Colorado River
water has been recognized as a serious
problem by both governments since the
early 1960's, when water resources devel-
opment within the U.S. portion of the
Colorado River basin resulted in signif-
icant increases in water salinity levels at
the international boundary. A number of
measures were undertaken to ameliorate
this portion but did not result in a perma-
nent solution.
In June 1972, during his visit to this
country, I gave President Echeverría my
personal commitment that every effort
would be made to find a mutually satis-
factory solution to this problem. I ap-
pointed Ambassador Herbert Brownell as
my special representative to study alterna-
tive ways of resolving the problem. The
plan recommended by
by Ambassador
Brownell and approved by me formed the
basis of an agreement with the Mexican
Government and would be implemented
through those measures included in this
bill. This permanent and definitive solu-
tion to the salinity problem was accepted
over others because it represents an equi-
table arrangement for the water users in
the Mexicali Valley, while not creating
adverse effects on current and planned
use of the resources of the Colorado River
by the seven basin States within the
United States.
The Colorado River Basin Salinity
Control Act demonstrates that difficult
problems between nations can be satis-
factorily solved if those nations are willing
to negotiate in good faith. This has been
a key concept in our foreign policy. I con-
gratulate the Congress of the United
States for its expeditious action in passing
this legislation and look forward to co-
operation with the Congress in imple-
menting this agreement.
In addition to those measures necessary
to carry out the international agreement
with Mexico, the Congress has authorized
several domestic salinity control projects
for the Colorado River basin. While I
share the desire of the Congress to im-
prove the water quality conditions of the
Nation's rivers and waterways, I am con-
cerned that authorization of the four U.S.
desalting projects may be premature at
this time.
As called for by current Federal water
pollution control legislation, the States
are now assessing water pollution prob-
lems arising from natural or diffuse
sources of pollutants. These State studies
43-437 O-75-37
543
