[32] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
els. The New Federalism is a crucial ele-
ment of this broad endeavor. A second,
complementary element consists of im-
proving the efficiency and effectiveness of
Federal programs in carrying out Federal
responsibilities.
Concern for meeting problems must
extend beyond the well-intended com-
mitment of public funds. What really mat-
ters are the tangible results produced
through the effective use of these funds-
results measured in terms of better lives
for all Americans.
Since I assumed office as President, I
have encouraged extensive efforts to
streamline and revitalize the organization
and management of the Federal Govern-
ment. These efforts are helping to en-
sure that the taxpayers get their money's
worth from the Government.
To enable the Federal Government to
meet emerging challenges more effec-
tively, several new organizations have been
created during my Administration, and
existing ones have been improved. Among
these new offices are Action, the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, the Council on
Environmental Quality, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, the Domestic Council, the Office of
Management and Budget, the Drug En-
forcement Administration, the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, the Council
on International Economic Policy, and
the Federal Energy Office.
In 1971 I proposed creation of four new
departments, including a department to
be responsible for energy and natural re-
sources. I continue to urge congressional
approval of this proposal as revised in leg-
islation submitted last year. In addition,
I ask the Congress to join me in renewing
consideration of other departmental re-
organization legislation that will permit
more effective management of the
Government.
During the past 25 years, Presidents
have been able to make many improve-
ments in Government organization under
Presidential Reorganization Plan Author-
ity. This legislation has now expired. I
urge the Congress to restore this authority
as soon as possible in order to facilitate
continued modernization of our govern-
mental structure.
Good organization is only a first step
toward improving governmental perform-
ance. Government can be effective only if
the public service can develop and retain
capable leadership. In response to this
need, this Administration has placed high
priority on the identification and develop-
ment of the most able career managers.
We intend to intensify this effort.
Increasing the effectiveness of individ-
ual programs is another essential step in
improving overall governmental perform-
ance. During the past year I have
launched an intensive effort to strengthen
the management of major Federal activ-
ities. The emphasis in this management
initiative is not on producing a great dis-
play of activity, nor on merely rearranging
work processes; the emphasis is on
producing significant results. To help
keep a constant focus on program results,
I have asked each major department and
agency to work with me in developing a
set of specific objectives to be achieved
during fiscal year 1974. As we approach
1975, we will identify further objectives.
Currently, we are working toward more
than 200 such objectives, ranging from in-
ternational monetary reform to improve-
ment of opportunities for minorities and
women.
These objectives will not simply be
identified and then filed away and for-
124
