[172] June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
172 Statement About Signing an Appropriations Bill
Including Funds for Summer Jobs Programs
for Youth. June 11, 1974
THE Second Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act for 1974, which I signed into
law last Saturday, makes available funds
for summer job opportunities for needy
youth. Together with the $91 million we
have already obligated, the new appro-
priation under the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act brings total
program funding for summer youth op-
portunities to $397 million. These funds,
together with the Administration sup-
ported adjustments for increases in the
minimum wage law and for recreation
and transportation assistance, provide the
program level which was requested of
Congress in my budget submission in Feb-
ruary of this year. As a result of this ap-
propriation, States and localities will be
able to generate over 700,000 job oppor-
tunities this summer.
It is important to note that this sum-
mer, for the first time, these activities will
be carried out under the direction of
States and localities in their role as prime
sponsors under the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act (CETA).
This means that although this year we
still have separately identified program
funding for summer job opportunities, in
succeeding years the States and localities
will plan the summer program as part of
their regular activity under CETA. This
marks a major step forward in the direc-
tion of decentralization and decategoriza-
tion which is so essential for effective
social programs.
I urge all responsible elected officials
to take the necessary steps as rapidly as
possible to insure that their program plans
are in order so that all those who should
benefit from these funds are able to do so.
In addition to the appropriation of
these funds, the following programs to
expand opportunities for youth are also
underway:
FEDERAL SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAM
The Federal Government will create
70,700 jobs in Federal agencies for dis-
advantaged youth. Administration of the
program is the responsibility of the Civil
Service Commission.
YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS
Up to 10,000 summer jobs will be pro-
vided to youth for conservation work in
Federal and State forests and parks. The
work will include trail building, stream
clearing, and timber trimming under the
auspices of the Departments of Agricul-
ture and Interior.
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE YOUTH
PLACEMENT
State employment service agencies esti-
mate their youth placements at 210,000
for 1974.
NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESSMEN
SUMMER HIRES
For 1974 the National Alliance of Busi-
nessmen has set a goal of developing
484
