[105] Apr. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
transmitted data which will enhance our
knowledge of Jupiter, the solar system,
and ultimately our own planet. The space-
craft took almost two years to make the
trip. It has traveled over 94,000 miles per
hour-faster than any other man-made
object--and will become the first man-
made object to leave our solar system and
enter the distant reaches of space.
Advances in military aircraft tech-
nology contribute to our ability to defend
our Nation. In civil aeronautics, the prin-
cipal research efforts have been aimed at
reducing congestion and producing
quieter, safer, more economical and effi-
cient aircraft which will conserve energy
and have a minimum impact on our
environment.
It is with considerable satisfaction that
I submit this report of our ongoing efforts
in space and aeronautics, efforts which
help not only our own country but other
nations and peoples as well. We are now
beginning to harvest the benefits of our
past hard work and investments, and we
can anticipate new operational services
based on aerospace technology to be made
available for the public good in the years
ahead on a routine basis.
The White House,
April 8, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's message is printed in
the report entitled "Aeronautics and Space Re-
port of the President, 1973 Activities" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 131 pp.).
106 Remarks During an Inspection Tour of Tornado Damage
in Ohio. April 9, 1974
[1] XENIA (Greene County Courthouse,
approximately 1 p.m.)
As I was saying to some people a little
earlier, there are four basic problems here
when you look at these disaster areas. One
is housing, the second is schools, the third
is food, and the fourth area, of course,
involves the jobs which, we have seen,
have been drastically affected by the fact
that many of the industries here have been
knocked out. But we are concentrating in
all parts.
Q. What about the schools?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as the schools
are concerned, we have got to help in two
different ways. It takes time to rebuild
the schools, so in the meantime, we have
got to work with the States in providing
methods of using the existing schools. It is
going to cause some crowding, a lot of
other things, but they will be rebuilt and
the funds will be provided.
We are also going to provide funds for
the private schools. As you know, that
has been one of the problems in previous
disasters. While public education has
been taken care of by the Federal Gov-
ernment and State government, there
hasn't been any help for the private
schools. But as you know, two private
universities are damaged or partially dam-
aged, and I have requested from the Con-
gress authority to help them so they will
be rebuilt as well.
Q. Have you seen anything like this
before?
THE PRESIDENT. Something similar.
As I look back over the disasters-I saw
the earthquake in Anchorage in 1964; I
saw the hurricanes, Hurricane Camille in
1969, down in Mississippi, and I saw Hur-
340
