[185]
Public Papers of the Presidents
June 16
Both our lands are built upon immigration.
Our founding fathers, yours and ours, had a
vision of a haven for the homeless and the
helpless. At the entrance to your major harbor
stands the Statue of Liberty and at the en-
trance to ours, a refugee immigrant barge.
Both are symbols of the concept of countries
built by those who entered destitute, by the
oppressed and the persecuted. The American
people can surely grasp the meaning of our in-
gathering of exiles and the intensity of our
compulsion to create here, in the land of our
heritage, a small place under the sun where
we may live our own lives in freedom, accord-
ing to our own needs, our own will, and our
own choice.
We share, too, a common heritage of pioneer-
ing of the arduous fight against nature, of push-
ing back deserts and marsh, of sacrificing in
order to build and sow and reap. Our geog-
raphies differ vastly, but not the spirit of
our pioneering tradition rooted in the imagery
of the Hebrew prophecy of men who "went
into the wilderness, in the land that was not
sown."
The edifice in which we are here assembled
this evening the Knesset-symbolizes what is
most significant in our common traditions: our
democracies. Their paths lead back to these
ancient hills and city-holy to three great
faiths where man first proclaimed the dignity
of man created in the image of God, where
human life was declared a sacred absolute,
where nations were urged to beat swords into
plowshares, where man was enjoined to work
to earn his bread but should not live by bread
alone, and where the rights of all men were
respected. How consciously did the American
fathers of the Revolution dedicate themselves
to this moral system to which the land of our
ancestors gave birth. American democracy and
Israeli democracy are alive and vibrant because
they cling tenaciously to these eternal truths
of social and international justice.
Central to our common vision is a doctrine
of universal peace. You, Mr. President, have
left no stone unturned in your pursuit of it.
Under your leadership, the United States of
America has written an impressive new chapter
in the diplomatic chronicles of our times. Your
very visit to our region-which is so unprece-
dented and which we in Israel so greatly wel-
come dramatically illustrates your deter-
mination to advance the cause of reconciliation.
Peace, Mr. President, was and remains our
cherished goal. We are not a martial people.
Our legendary heroes are prophets and
scholars. We are the authors of mankind's old-
est pacific tradition. Make peace and pursue
it, declared the psalmist. I can, therefore, assure
you, on behalf of the government and the peo-
ple of Israel, that we are eager to pursue the
path of dialog and negotiations which you are
endeavoring to bring about between ourselves
and our neighbors.
May your effort prove to be a new and shin-
ing chapter in the history of our relations which
stretches back to the earliest days of our strug-
gle for freedom, of our self-defense, and of our
striving to build in peace. The name of the
great American people is written large in the
drama of this nation's rebirth. I here must
make mention of the Jewish community of the
United States with whom we share profound
ties of faith and spiritual attachment, a com-
munity that has generously assisted us in meet-
ing the welfare needs of our homecoming
people.
Mr. President, we have had to do so much.
in so little time. And while we have been build-
ing, we have had to sacrifice much to safe-
guard our freedom. Certainly in this we shall
never falter. At the same time, in our quest for
peace with security, we shall always remember
the moral and material support we received
from the greatest democracy in the world, the
United States of America. Therefore, Mr.
President, Israel salutes you. It does so in
gratitude and appreciation. It does so because
of your special, historic role in giving strength
to an historic people. True friendship is tested
in times of trial, and you, Mr. President, have
demonstrated this magnificently. Your under-
standing, your concern, your deeds in support
of our defense and our freedom have con-
tributed greatly to the strength of Israel to
defend herself through her own efforts. And
a strong Israel is in itself a component of the
peace and stability in our area to which your
mission is dedicated.
May God grant you ultimate success in this,
your great mission of peace for the sake of all
the people of our region and the world as a
whole.
524
