Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 4 [101]
100
White House Statement About the President's Income
Tax Returns. April 3, 1974
WE HAVE LEARNED of the decision by
the Joint Committee on Internal Reve-
nue Taxation to release a staff analysis
of the President's taxes before the commit-
tee itself has had opportunity to evaluate
the staff views, and before the President's
tax counsel could advise the committee of
their views on the many legal matters in
dispute in that report.
Yesterday, the President received a
statement from the Internal Revenue
Service indicating its view, also, that he
should pay an additional tax.
The President's tax counsel have ad-
vised him that the positions they have
sought to present to the committee, as
outlined in their brief, are valid and com-
pelling. His intent to give the papers was
clear. Their delivery was accomplished
in March 1969, 4 months before the July
deadline. His intent as to the amount of
the gift was stated to his counsel. Because
of these facts, the President's tax counsel
strongly affirm that those various issues
could be sharply and properly contested
in court proceedings such as are open to
an ordinary taxpayer to review the de-
cisions of the Internal Revenue Service.
The President believes that his tax
counsel can make a very strong case
against the major conclusions set forth in
the committee's staff report. However, at
the time the President voluntarily re-
quested the committee to conduct its
examination of his tax returns, he stated
that he would abide by the committee's
judgment. In view of the fact that the
staff report indicates that the proper
amount to be paid must be determined
by the Internal Revenue Service, he has
today instructed payment of the $432,-
787.13 set forth by the Internal Revenue
Service, plus interest.
It should be noted that the report by
the Internal Revenue Service rebuts any
suggestion of fraud on the part of the
President. The committee's staff report
offers no facts which would support any
such charge.
Any errors which may have been made
in the preparation of the President's re-
turns were made by those to whom he
delegated the responsibility for preparing
his returns and were made without his
knowledge and without his approval.
NOTE: On April 15, 1974, the White House
released an announcement which surveyed
public response to the President's position re-
garding his income tax returns. The announce-
ment, released at Key Biscayne, Fla., is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 10, p. 411).
IOI Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Reports
of Six River Basin Commissions. April 4, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am happy to transmit herewith the
annual reports of the six river basin com-
missions, as required under section 204
(2) of the Water Resources Planning Act
of 1965.
The act states that commissions may be
established, comprised of State and Fed-
43-437 - 75-24
335
