Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
the energy supplies, our Nation must move
swiftly and steadily on a course to self-
sufficiency. The private sector clearly must
provide most of the money and the work
for this effort. We must also guard against
Government expenditures which merely
replace private sector investments. But
the Federal Government does have a role
to play in supplementing and accelerating
private development and in filling major
technological gaps where market incen-
tives are lacking. The Federal expendi-
tures which I am announcing today are
designed to serve those
purposes.
In pursuing our energy R&D program,
we must maintain balance. We cannot
afford to direct all our efforts to finding
long-term solutions while ignoring our
immediate problems, nor can we con-
centrate too strongly on finding short-
range solutions. Our program must be
structured to provide us with payoffs in
the near, middle, and far term.
For the near term-the period before
1985-we must develop advanced tech-
nologies in mining and environmental
control that will permit greater direct use
of our coal reserves. We must speed the
widespread introduction of nuclear power.
And we must direct work to develop more
efficient, energy-consuming devices, for
use in both home and industry.
Beyond 1985, we can expect consider-
able payoffs from our programs in nuclear
breeder reactors and in advanced tech-
nologies for the production of clean syn-
thetic fuels from coal. By this time, we
should also have explored the potential
of other resources such as solar and geo-
thermal energy.
For the far term, our programs in
nuclear fusion, advanced breeder reactors,
hydrogen generation and solar electric
power appear to be the ultimate keys to
our energy future.
V. CONCLUSION
Although shortages were long in ap-
pearing, the energy crisis itself came sud-
denly, borne by a tragic war in the Middle
East. It was a blow to American pride and
prosperity, but it may well turn out to be
a fortunate turning point in our history.
We learned, at a stage short of the
truly critical, that we had allowed our-
selves to become overly dependent upon
foreign supplies of a vital good. We saw
that the acts of foreign rulers, even far
short of military action, could plunge us
into an authentic crisis. The Arab oil em-
bargo will temporarily close some gasoline
stations, but it has opened our eyes to the
short-sighted policy we had been pursuing.
The energy emergency has shown us
that we must never again be caught so
dependent upon uncertain supplies. It is a
lesson the American people must and will
take to heart. By 1980, if we move for-
ward with the proposals I have outlined
today, I believe we can place ourselves in
a position where we can be essentially in-
dependent of foreign energy producers.
America has half the world's reserves
of coal. It has billions of barrels of oil in
the ground, as well as convertible oil shale.
It has vast natural gas reserves. We have
the world's largest installed nuclear capac-
ity and half the world's hydroelectric
plants. This represents a truly enormous
store of energy.
The United States also has the largest
pool of highly trained scientific talent in
the world. Our managerial skills in the
private sector are enormous. And our or-
ganized facilities for solving technical
43-437 - 75-5
31
