[68] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
quate and qualitatively sound. I know
that Secretary Weinberger will continue
to provide his fullest cooperation in the
preparation of a bill that will assist State
and local educational agencies in provid-
ing a better education for all of our
children.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Harrison A. Williams, Jr.,
United States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
69 Veto of the Energy Emergency Bill.
March 6, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
It is with a deep sense of disappoint-
ment that I return the Energy Emergency
Act to the Congress without my approval.
For almost four months the Congress
has considered urgently needed legislation
to deal with the Nation's energy problem.
After all the hearings and speeches, all the
investigations, accusations and recrimina-
tions, the Congress has succeeded only in
producing legislation which solves none
of the problems, threatens to undo the
progress we have already made, and
creates a host of new problems.
I share the sense of frustration and dis-
couragement which must be felt by the
many conscientious legislators who spent
so many laborious hours trying to draft a
responsible bill, only to see their efforts
wasted.
ROLLING BACK GAS SUPPLIES
The Energy Emergency Act would set
domestic crude oil prices at such low levels
that the oil industry would be unable to
sustain its present production of petro-
leum products, including gasoline. It
would result in reduced energy supplies,
longer lines at the gas pump, minimal, if
any, reduction in gasoline prices, and
worst of all, serious damage to jobs in
America. Unemployment would go up,
and incomes would go down.
Certainly everyone shares the goal of
increasing energy supplies, and our pres-
ent policies are directed toward this end.
We now have a system for controlling
crude oil prices at a level consistent with
maintaining and increasing production.
To do this, we are permitting higher prices
for "new" crude oil in order to encourage
greater domestic production.
Our experience in administering the
crude oil allocation program passed by the
Congress last fall has shown how difficult
it can be if enough flexibility is not pro-
vided by statute. It is our hope that we
can work with the Congress in the coming
weeks to develop a more flexible alloca-
tion program.
The net effect of the price provision of
the Energy Emergency Act would be to
cut the supply of gasoline and other oil
products, and make compulsory rationing
of gasoline much more likely. I am sure
the vast majority of Americans want to
avoid an expensive gasoline rationing pro-
gram which would do nothing to increase
the supply, would cost $1.5 billion a year
to manage, would require a bureaucracy
of as many as 17,000 people, and would
create problems of fairness and enforce-
ment.
226
