Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 29 [93]
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Proclamation 4279, modifying trade agree-
ment concessions and adjustment of duty on
certain ball bearings.
93 Remarks at Ceremonies Commemorating Vietnam
Veterans Day. March 29,
Admiral Bayne, Secretary Schlesinger,
Mr. Ambassador, and all of our distin-
guished guests:
Just one year ago, the last American
combat serviceman returned to the United
States from Vietnam, and America's
longest war came to an end. It is very
appropriate on this day, then, that we
honor those 22 million men who served
in Vietnam, that we pay tribute to those
who sacrificed their lives, and that we
renew our commitment to obtain a full
accounting for all of those who are still
missing in action.
To those who have served, I can imag-
ine that sometimes they are discouraged
as they read and hear the postmortems
on this very long and very difficult war.
But the verdict of history, I am sure, will
be quite different from the instant analysis
that we presently see and sometimes hear.
Those who served may be discouraged
because it seems sometimes that more
attention is directed to those who deserted
America than those who chose to serve
America. They may be discouraged be-
cause they read and hear that America
becoming involved in Vietnam was wrong,
that America's conduct in Vietnam was
wrong, that the way we ended the war
was wrong.
I would say to all of those who served
and to all of my fellow Americans that
not only was it not wrong but I think it is
well for us to put in perspective on this
day why we went there, what we accom-
plished, and what would have happened
1974
had these men not served their country
as bravely and as courageously as they
did in these difficult times.
We see one result in the fact that 17
million people in South Vietnam, the Re-
public of Vietnam, are now governing
themselves and able to defend themselves.
We went to Vietnam not to destroy free-
dom, but to defend it. We went to Viet-
nam not as an aggressor, but to stop ag-
gression. And history will record that the
American effort in Vietnam was a good
cause, honorably undertaken and hon-
orably ended.
We can see what that means if we
evaluate what would have happened had
we followed the advice of those who said,
"Bug out, regardless of what happens to
the people of Vietnam and what happens
to America's standing in the world." Be-
cause if we failed in our commitment, our
allies would have lost confidence in us
throughout the world, not just in Asia,
the neutrals would have lost respect for
America, and those who might be tempted
to engage in aggression would have been
encouraged to embark on that aggression
not only in Asia but in other parts of the
world.
But because we saw this long and dif-
ficult conflict through to an honorable
conclusion, respect for America was main-
tained, and the possibility that America
can meet its great destiny, the destiny
that is seldom given to a people, to build
a peace not only for itself but for the
whole world that possibility has been
325
