Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 28 [21]
service has earned them. Accordingly I
will request $13.6 billion in spending for
veterans' benefits and services in my new
budget, an increase of $5.9 billion over the
comparable 1969 request.
THE AMERICAN VETERAN TODAY
On the whole, the situation of the
American veteran today is a good one.
The average veteran has a higher in-
come, more education, and better health
than non-veterans of the same age. He or
she is a vital, productive member of the
civilian community—a national asset in
peace as well as in war.
The years since 1969 have marked im-
portant progress for the American veteran.
Between 1969 and 1975, outlays for
veteran pension programs will have in-
creased from $2.2 billion to $2.9 billion,
covering 2.4 million beneficiaries, while
compensation for service-connected dis-
abilities or death will have increased from
$2.7 billion to $3.9 billion. The benefits
we pay to our veterans should continue to
reflect the generous appreciation of the
American people.
Since 1969, 4.1 million veterans have
financed their educations under the GI
bill. Of those, 2.7 million are Vietnam-
era veterans. The rate at which Vietnam-
era veterans have participated in the GI
bill training exceeds that of any previous
GI bill. At the same time, the number of
veterans assisted through guaranteed
mortgage loans has increased by 46
percent.
In the last year alone, it was my pleasure
to sign into law two major measures bene-
fitting veterans and their dependents. The
final form of both pieces of legislation was
the result of close cooperation between
the legislative and executive branches,
and I wish to take this opportunity to
repeat my thanks to the Congressional
leaders and committee members who
helped us arrive at the desired results.
The Veterans Health Care Expansion
Act of 1973 was a landmark measure. It
provides major improvements in and ex-
pansion of medical and nursing care for
veterans and extends treatment benefits
to certain dependents of veterans.
The National Cemeteries Act of 1973
consolidated the bulk of veterans ceme-
teries and set up a National Cemetery
System within the Veterans Administra-
tion and improved related benefits and
services. Based on a study authorized by
the act, I intend to submit further pro-
posals for improving the cemetery system.
Improved veteran health care has also
taken the form of greater flexibility in
treatment and more numerous treatment
facilities as evidenced by:
-16 new outpatient clinics and 663
new specialized medical services;
-Strengthened affiliation of 106 VA
hospitals with 89 medical schools; and
Consolidation of medical regions and
the strengthening of regional manage-
ment to provide faster responses to prob-
lems at individual hospitals.
A vigorous program of modernization
and construction has also played an im-
portant part in improving veterans health
care. Ten new or replacement hospitals
have already been established and five
more replacement hospitals are being de-
signed or are under construction. In the
period 1970-75 the ratio of staff to
patients in VA hospitals will have been
increased by over 30 percent. We have
added over 25,000 full time personnel to
the medical departments of the veterans
41
