Richard Nixon, 1974
June 27 [202]
those that we will have in the future will
lead to our meeting the challenge of his-
tory for a strong nation to be remembered
as a peacemaking nation rather than as a
warmaking nation.
Let this be our legacy for the genera-
tions ahead. And that is why I say that we
should raise our glasses to our host, the
General Secretary and his colleagues, to
peace between the Soviet Union and the
United States of America, and to peace
for all peoples in the world, the peace to
which the relations between our nations
can make such an enormous contribution.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8:45 p.m. in Granovit Hall at the Grand Krem-
lin Palace, in response to a toast proposed by
General Secretary Brezhnev.
Earlier in the day, the President and Mrs.
Nixon arrived in Moscow at Vnukovo II Air-
port and were greeted by General Secretary
Brezhnev, President N. V. Podgorny, Premier
A. N. Kosygin, Foreign Minister A. A. Gro-
myko, and Soviet Ambassador to the United
States A. F. Dobrynin.
General Secretary Brezhnev proposed the
toast in Russian. His remarks were translated
by an interpreter as follows:
Esteemed Mr. President, esteemed Mrs. Nixon,
ladies and gentlemen, comrades:
We are glad once again to greet here in the
Kremlin as guests of the Soviet Union, the
President of the United States of America and
Mrs. Nixon, as well as the American states-
men accompanying the President.
This is already the third meeting between
the leaders of our countries in just a little over
2 years since a cardinal turn became evident in
Soviet-American relations towards normaliza-
tion and the development of peaceful coopera-
tion.
On the firm basis of the fundamental agree-
ments which were signed in 1972 and 1973 and
are known all over the world, we have made
tangible progress. Probably never before have
ties and contacts between the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United States in
different areas of political, economic, and cul-
tural activity been as lively as they are today.
Nowadays, thousands of people annually
travel from America to the Soviet Union and
from the Soviet Union to America. Mutual
visits of ministers, contacts among businessmen,
meetings between scientists and public figures,
concert tours, various exhibitions, and tourist
trips have become customary events. Parlia-
mentary ties are beginning to develop.
We have been glad to welcome in the
U.S.S.R. Senators and Congressmen belonging
to the two biggest parties of the United States,
and a delegation of the U.S.S.R. Supreme So-
viet recently visited America.
The material foundation of our good rela-
tions is becoming stronger as well. The volume
of trade has increased several times over during
the last 2 years, and several important long-
term contracts have been signed.
At the same time, we all know that much
remains to be done here, both in the sense of
making economic ties more balanced and stable
and in the sense of clearly establishing the
principles of equality and respect for each
other's interests in this area of relations. Credit
is certainly due to those farsighted members of
the business community of the United States
who correctly understood the mutually advan-
tageous nature of the development of economic
ties between our countries and their importance
for both our peoples and who actively support
their government's line in this matter.
The biggest contribution, however, which
we Soviet and U.S. statesmen of the seventies
of the twentieth century can make to the cause
of greater well-being and happiness for our
peoples and for all mankind is undoubtedly
the reduction and subsequently the complete
removal of the possibility of war between our
two states.
To insure stable peace between the U.S.S.R.
and the U.S.A. is the chief task in the develop-
ment of Soviet-American relations, and the
leaders of both countries are continuing to
devote unflagging attention to its solution. For
all the useful things that we can achieve in this
direction, future generations will remember us
with kind words.
If we fail to solve this task, however, all other
achievements in the development of mutual
relations may lose their significance.
The new Soviet-American summit meeting,
as it is usually called, is a new step in the
great endeavor which we jointly initiated with
555
