[25] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Regardless of the outcome of this meet-
ing, the cooperation of the American peo-
ple in our energy conservation program
has already gone a long way towards
achieving a goal to which I am deeply
dedicated. Let us do everything we can
to avoid gasoline rationing in the United
States of America.
Last week, I sent to the Congress a
comprehensive special message setting
forth our energy situation, recommending
the legislative measures which are neces-
sary to a program for meeting our needs.
If the embargo is lifted, this will ease the
crisis, but it will not mean an end to the
energy shortage in America. Voluntary
conservation will continue to be necessary.
And let me take this occasion to pay trib-
ute once again to the splendid spirit of
cooperation the American people have
shown which has made possible our suc-
cess in meeting this emergency up to this
time.
The new legislation I have requested
will also remain necessary. Therefore, I
urge again that the energy measures that I
have proposed be made the first priority
of this session of the Congress. These
measures will require the oil companies
and other energy producers to provide the
public with the necessary information on
their supplies. They will prevent the in-
justice of windfall profits for a few as a
result of the sacrifices of the millions of
Americans. And they will give us the or-
ganization, the incentives, the authorities
needed to deal with the short-term emer-
gency and to move toward meeting our
long-term needs.
Just as 1970 was the year in which we
began a full-scale effort to protect the
environment, 1974 must be the year in
which we organize a full-scale effort to
provide for our energy needs, not only in
this decade but through the 21st century.
As we move toward the celebration 2
years from now of the 200th anniversary
of this Nation's independence, let us press
vigorously on toward the goal I announced
last November for Project Independence.
Let this be our national goal: At the end
of this decade, in the year 1980, the
United States will not be dependent on
any other country for the energy we need
to provide our jobs, to heat our homes,
and to keep our transportation moving.
To indicate the size of the Government
commitment, to spur energy research and
development, we plan to spend $10 bil-
lion in Federal funds over the next 5 years.
That is an enormous amount. But during
the same 5 years, private enterprise will
be investing as much as $200 billion-
and in 10 years, $500 billion—to develop
the new resources, the new technology,
the new capacity America will require for
its energy needs in the 1980's. That is
just a measure of the magnitude of the
project we are undertaking.
But America performs best when called
to its biggest tasks. It can truly be said
that only in America could a task so tre-
mendous be achieved so quickly, and
achieved not by regimentation, but
through the effort and ingenuity of a free
people, working in a free system.
Turning now to the rest of the agenda
for 1974, the time is at hand this year to
bring comprehensive, high quality health
care within the reach of every American.
I shall propose a sweeping new program
that will assure comprehensive health
insurance protection to millions of Amer-
icans who cannot now obtain it or afford
it, with vastly improved protection against
catastrophic illnesses. This will be a plan
50
