[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
the months ahead to ensure that executive
compensation, career development and
training all attract and hold the best pos-
sible personnel in the public service.
The compensation we provide our top
officials is integral to these efforts to recruit
and retain the best men and women for
Government service. Salaries of Federal
judges, Members of the Congress, and
heads and assistant heads of executive
agencies have not been adjusted for 5
years, during which time comparable pay
rates in the private sector increased 30
percent and pay for other Federal em-
ployees has increased significantly. The
report of the Commission on Executive,
Legislative and Judicial Salaries notes
that this lag in compensation also pro-
duces serious salary compression among
the top ranks of career employees. I am
therefore recommending a three-stage in-
crease in executive, legislative and judicial
salaries in the budget, at the rate of 72
percent annually for each of the next three
years. This will make salaries within the
top levels of the Federal Government
more competitive with industry. And it
will help us to make Government work
better.
CAMPAIGN REFORM
For several years it has been clear that
reforms were needed in the way we elect
public officials. The intense public focus
placed on the campaign abuses of 1972
has now generated sufficient support for
this issue that we now have an opportunity
to make a genuine breakthrough.
In a national radio address on May 16
of last year, I announced my proposal for
a non-partisan commission on campaign
reform. This commission would have re-
examined the entire Federal election proc-
ess to come up with a comprehensive set
of legislative recommendations. The Com-
mission would have filed a public report
no later than December 1, 1973.
Eight months have now passed since
that proposal was submitted to the Con-
gress and the Commission is not even close
to being created. If it had been created
expeditiously, we would now have its re-
port recommending meaningful reforms
for Federal campaigns and as I had
originally hoped, those reforms might be
in place prior to the 1974 elections.
In light of the delay, I have now de-
cided to submit a comprehensive set of
Administration proposals on campaign
reform for consideration by the Congress
during this session. While I do not believe
mine will be the only workable proposals,
I do hope they will lead to meaningful
debate and reform in this critical area. To
that end, I look forward to working with
the Congress in a long-overdue effort to
clean up the Federal election process.
AMERICA AND THE WORLD
When this Administration took office,
it was apparent that the world had
changed in fundamental ways, and that
America's foreign policy had to change in
equally fundamental ways.
We needed to end our military involve-
ment in the Vietnam war in a manner
consistent with our responsibilities and
commitments as a major world power.
We needed to adjust to the changes in
the strategic situation between the Soviet
Union and the United States which pre-
sented a unique opportunity to build a
solid foundation for peace but which also
threatened our own security if that foun-
dation could not be built.
We needed to end a quarter century of
hostile isolation which had kept one-
96
