Richard Nixon, 1974
July 25 [229]
here, and what we are going to do about
it.
Let me begin by touching briefly on the
nature and causes of the inflation we have
been experiencing.
Basically, we and the other industrial-
ized nations have had a generation of in-
flation, because governments all over the
world, for a long period of time, have
permitted and encouraged the demand
for goods and services to outrun the ca-
pacity to meet that demand with rising
production.
Governments have repeatedly increased
their own spending more than taxation.
They have added to the demand without
making a balancing cut in private spend-
ing. They have created new money to
finance more borrowing and investment
than people were willing to finance out of
their savings. Now, all of this has added
to the upward pressure on prices.
The great worldwide surge of inflation
in the past year and a half was caused by
three exceptional circumstances coming
at once.
One was a decline in world grain pro-
duction as a result of bad weather in many
areas of the world. Another was the oil
embargo, together with the action of the
oil-exporting countries in suddenly quad-
rupling oil prices. And the third was a
simultaneous economic boom in the in-
dustrialized nations, which increased de-
mand for goods far beyond the capacity to
produce them in those nations.
Now fortunately, although other infla-
tionary pressures continue, food produc-
tion now has increased. The oil embargo
has ended. World oil prices have leveled
off. The worldwide economic boom has
slackened.
And so, these particular inflationary
forces are no longer propelling the infla-
tionary spiral upward to the same extent
that they were. We must recognize, how-
ever, that the higher price levels that have
been reached by oil and other raw mate-
rials will continue to exert strong up-
ward pressures for a time as they work
their way through the economy.
We are also now feeling the effect of last
year's surge of prices in the form of an un-
derstandably strong drive for large wage
increases, as workers try to catch up with
earlier cost of living increases.
Confronted with an unacceptable level
of inflation on the one hand and with a
temporary slackening of economic activity
on the other, many voices have lately been
raised in America demanding some swift,
spectacular action. Some ask for reim-
posing wage and price controls. Others
recommend that we wring out the eco-
nomy with higher taxes or sharply restric-
tive monetary policies, even at the cost
of a severe recession. And then, on the
other hand, there are those who urge that
we should lower taxes in order to pump
up the economy more rapidly. And still
others suggest that we should simply give
up—that we should accept a rampant in-
flation as a mysterious and incurable dis-
ease and concentrate on learning to live
with it.
Well, we are not going to do any of
these things. Let me tell you why not, and
let me tell you what we will do instead.
If experience teaches anything, it is
that economic policies aimed exclusively
at short-term relief too often bring long-
term grief.
We must learn to think less in terms of
programs and more in terms of policies,
policies of respect for the basic laws and
forces of the marketplace and of recogni-
tion that in those policies lie the keys to
our economic future.
43-437 O-75-41
607
