Richard Nixon, 1974
Aug. 9 [245]
:
Staff. As I pointed out last night, sure, we
have done some things wrong in this Ad-
ministration, and the top man always takes
the responsibility, and I have never ducked
it. But I want to say one thing: We can be
proud of it-52 years. No man or no
woman came into this Administration and
left it with more of this world's goods than
when he came in. No man or no woman
ever profited at the public expense or the
public till. That tells something about you.
Mistakes, yes. But for personal gain,
never. You did what you believed in.
Sometimes right, sometimes wrong. And
I only wish that I were a wealthy man—
at the present time, I have got to find a
way to pay my taxes-[laughter]—and if
I were, I would like to recompense you for
the sacrifices that all of you have made to
serve in government.
But you are getting something in gov-
ernment-and I want you to tell this to
your children, and I hope the Nation's
children will hear it, too-something in
government service that is far more im-
portant than money. It is a cause bigger
than yourself. It is the cause of making
this the greatest nation in the world, the
leader of the world, because without our
leadership, the world will know nothing
but war, possibly starvation or worse, in
the
years ahead. With our leadership it
will know peace, it will know plenty.
We have been generous, and we will be
more generous in the future as we are
able to. But most important, we must be
strong here, strong in our hearts, strong
in our souls, strong in our belief, and
strong in our willingness to sacrifice, as
you have been willing to sacrifice, in a
pecuniary way, to serve in government.
There is something else I would like
for
you to tell your young people. You
know, people often come in and say,
"What will I tell my kids?" They look at
government and say, sort of a rugged life,
and they see the mistakes that are made.
They get the impression that everybody is
here for the purpose of feathering his
nest. That is why I made this earlier
point-not in this Administration, not
one single man or woman.
And I say to them, there are many fine
careers. This country needs good farmers,
good businessmen, good plumbers, good
carpenters.
I remember my old man. I think that
they would have called him sort of a lit-
tle
man, common man. He didn't consider
himself that way. You know what he was?
He was a streetcar motorman first, and
then he was a farmer, and then he had a
lemon ranch. It was the poorest lemon
ranch in California, I can assure you. He
sold it before they found oil on it.
[Laughter] And then he was a grocer. But
he was a great man, because he did his
job, and every job counts up to the hilt,
regardless of what happens.
Nobody will ever write a book, prob-
ably, about my mother. Well, I guess all
of you would say this about your mother—
my mother was a saint. And I think of her,
two boys dying of tuberculosis, nursing
four others in order that she could take
care of my older brother for 3 years in
Arizona, and seeing each of them die,
and when they died, it was like one of
her own.
Yes, she will have no books written
about her. But she was a saint.
Now, however, we look to the future.
I had a little quote in the speech last
night from T.R. As you know, I kind of
like to read books. I am not educated,
but I do read books-[laughter]—and
the T.R. quote was a pretty good one.
Here is another one I found as I was
631
