[141] May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have only one regret as I conclude
my
remarks that I do not address you in
Spanish. But to show you the tradition
that we have, at least in our State of
California, both of my daughters' second
language is Spanish-both speak Span-
ish-and that is true of almost one-third
of all of the students in the United States
of America today.
And I will simply close with one of the
few Spanish phrases that my friend, Mr.
Barnes, says I pronounce correctly. Es-
tan ustedes en su casa [You are in your
own house].
Senator Olivares will respond on behalf
of the Mexican delegation. And we are
very honored to have you, Senator, on
this very special occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:11 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield
was chairman of the 12-member U.S. Senate
delegation to the conference, and Representa-
tive James C. Wright, Jr., was acting chair-
man of the 12-member House delegation.
Enrique Olivares Santana, President of the
Mexican Senate, addressed the delegates in
Spanish. His remarks were translated by
Donald S. Barnes, a State Department inter-
preter, and are printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 10,
P. 523).
142 Letter to Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel About
Arab Terrorist Attack at Ma'alot, Israel.
Dear Madame Prime Minister:
Our sorrow for the tragic loss of so
many of Israel's children at Ma'alot can-
not be expressed in words. Mrs. Nixon
and I, along with all Americans, grieve
with you and with the parents and school-
mates of those who died. This senseless
act of terrorism has underscored once
again the need for true peace in the Mid-
dle East. I can assure you that our efforts
May 16, 1974
toward this goal will not waver. Please ex-
tend, Madame Prime Minister, my per-
sonal condolences to the Israeli people in
this time of mourning.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated May 15,
1974, was issued to the press the following
day.
143 Message to the Congress Reporting on the Balance of
Payments Deficit Incurred Under the North Atlantic
Treaty. May 16, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 812(d) of
the Department of Defense Appropria-
tion Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law
93-155), I am pleased to submit the
following report to the Congress on the
progress made since my last report on
February 20, 1974 in implementing the
provisions of Section 812 of the Act cited
above.
On April 25, representatives of the
United States and the Federal Republic
440
