[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
established in our respective capitals and
there continues to be fruitful contact be-
tween our governments at very high levels.
STRENGTHENING OUR FREE WORLD
PARTNERSHIPS
As our relationships with old adver-
saries are changing, so are our relation-
ships with old friends. Western Europe
and Japan have put behind them the post-
war struggle to rebuild their economies,
re-order their societies and re-establish
their political force. Their success in these
endeavors is something we helped to foster
and in which we can take pride. But now
times have changed and our past role in
their success cannot be the sole basis for a
continuing relationship. We must instead
adjust our relationships to recognize their
new economic capacities and their inter-
national political objectives. We must
accommodate all of these within the
framework of the friendship and goodwill
of our allies and our whole past history
of cooperation in the pursuit of our com-
mon goals. This is a cornerstone of the
structure of peace we are seeking to build.
With our closest neighbors, here in the
Western Hemisphere, we shall continue
to seek additional ways of working co-
operatively to solve the problems which
face the Americas. Secretary of State Kiss-
inger will be meeting in a few weeks with
the foreign ministers of Latin America to
begin a new and constructive dialogue in
the family of American states.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND COMMERCE
As we turn from an era of confronta-
tion to one of cooperation, trade and com-
merce become more important. We have
moved from a position of virtual economic
hegemony in the world to a new role in
a more interdependent world economy.
We must create an equitable and efficient
system of integrating our own economy
with that of the rest of the world.
Much has already been accomplished
on this front. The markets of the USSR
and China are now accessible, thereby
providing jobs for American workers. Our
major trading partners in Western Europe
and Japan share our interest in further
reducing international trade barriers and
increasing world trade. The rigid and out-
moded international monetary system
which over-valued the dollar and impeded
our foreign trade has been decisively al-
tered. After two years of trade deficits,
America achieved a trade surplus in 1973.
But we must persevere in our interna-
tional monetary, investment and trade ne-
gotiations. The greatest tasks still lie ahead
and the stakes are high. Avoiding the eco-
nomic and political disruptions associated
with international monetary turmoil and
restrictive trade and investment practices
increases in importance as international
interdependence grows.
As I noted earlier in this message,
prompt passage of the pending Trade Re-
form Act is essential to achieving the goal
of a less restrictive and more equitable
international economic system. In addi-
tion, we must move forward with the cur-
rent negotiations to reform the interna-
tional payments system under the auspices
of the International Monetary Fund, re-
forms which will markedly increase the
opportunities for nations to trade and in-
vest profitably.
We must also strengthen our resolve as
the world's most prosperous nation to help
less fortunate countries. In the world of
today, no nation will be fully secure or
prosperous until all nations are. As in the
98
