Richard Nixon, 1974
May 3 [125]
adapt, free of controls or the threat of
controls.
Nevertheless, we believe that the infla-
tionary forces which still exist in the med-
ical and construction sectors justify the
temporary continuation of controls in
these two special areas. These forces are
powerful, and without some means of
maintaining a tight lid, medical and con-
struction prices are very likely to jump to
much higher levels. It is thus a matter of
disappointment and regret that the legal
authority for the Economic Stabilization
Act has now expired without the enact-
ment of our proposals by the Congress.
The Administration will also continue
to do everything within its power to press
the struggle against inflation. We will
strongly resist all unnecessary increases in
Federal expenditures. We will resist pro-
posals to cut taxes, or more accurately, to
substitute the hidden and unfair tax of
inflation for public taxes which are at least
open and imposed by the people's repre-
sentatives. We will count on the Federal
Reserve to conduct a firmly anti-infla-
tionary policy. And we will direct Federal
policies to expansion of the supplies of
goods and services, especially the supplies
of food.
I am also today issuing an Executive
order [11781] to provide for the orderly
termination of the Cost of Living Council
on June 30, 1974, and authorizing the
Council to continue nonmandatory moni-
toring functions during this 2-month
period.
This overall course of action, if it has
the support of the Congress and the peo-
ple, will reduce the rate of inflation. If
we fail to follow this course, nothing else
we might do will succeed.
125 Remarks at a State Republican Rally in Phoenix, Arizona.
May 3, 1974
Governor Williams, all of the distin-
guished guests on the platform, and all of
the distinguished people here in this au-
dience:
I want you to know that I am very
honored to be here in Arizona, a State
where, 45 years ago, for 3 years was my
summer home, a second home. And I am
very honored to be here, too, on this occa-
sion to receive such a wonderfully warm
welcome here in this hall.
Let me say, in the great American tra-
dition we have some here who are against
us; we have more who are for us. And all
of you are welcome. We all believe in the
great American right of free speech, and
we all know that right of free speech for
one individual carries with it the respon-
sibility to keep quiet when someone else
is trying to exercise his right of free speech.
I also am very grateful for the oppor-
tunity here in Arizona to pay tribute to
some of the Nation's top leaders. I refer
to them probably in order of seniority, if
not in age.
First, to Governor Jack Williams. I
have known many Governors, but of the
chief executives of this land, he has been
and is one of the very best. You can be
very proud of him.
Ten years ago when a man lost running
for the Presidency, it was written and
spoken by many, "Well, we won't be hear-
ing from Barry any more." They wrote
and spoke too soon. He came back, and
today, Barry Goldwater's voice is heard
403
