Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
panded, and we have also pressed an in-
tensive effort to provide this aid more
equitably and expeditiously.
Since more than 90 percent of all prop-
erty damage resulting from natural disas-
ters is caused by floods, I was especially
pleased by the Congress approval last
year of our proposed Flood Disaster Pro-
tection Act, which significantly expands
and improves the national flood insurance
program.
More remains to be done, however, if
we are to meet our basic humanitarian
responsibility to those who fall helpless
and innocent victims to nature on the
rampage. Therefore, I have also proposed
a Disaster Preparedness and Assistance
Act, which places new emphasis on the
essential element of preparedness, while
also increasing the role of State and local
officials in allocating Federal disaster
funds and cutting the tangle of red tape.
It also provides for the automatic use of
Federal resources when major disasters
strike, and it includes generous grant fea-
tures for those individual disaster victims
unable to repay Government loans, as well
as for communities faced with the task of
restoring damaged public facilities.
That natural disasters will continue to
strike is certain; the only uncertainty is
how well prepared we will be. As a gen-
erous and compassionate Nation, we
should be prepared to give the victims of
these disasters the prompt and effective
help they so desperately need.
BETTER HOUSING FOR ALL
As I have stated many times, this Ad-
ministration will not waver from the
Federal commitment first outlined in the
Housing Act of 1949: "a decent home
and a suitable living environment for
every American family."
The state of America's housing will
continue to depend on the state of
America's economy more than on any
other factor. The forces of the market-
place are the forces that count the most—
families with sufficient real income and
sufficient confidence to create an effective
demand for better housing on the one
hand, and builders and credit institutions
able to respond to that demand on the
other.
The Federal Government must play a
major supporting role through its actions
in the mortgage credit market and its
help for low income families who need
assistance in obtaining adequate housing.
Last September, as credit for housing
was becoming increasingly scarce, the Ad-
ministration acted to make more credit
available to home buyers. Recently,
mortgage market conditions have begun
to improve. However, to assure contin-
uing improvement, I recently authorized
a reduction in the maximum allowable
interest rate for mortgages insured by the
FHA, the Farmer's Home Administra-
tion and VA-a more than $6 billion
mortgage insurance program that will
assist in financing the construction of up
to 200,000 housing units.
These actions should have a favorable
impact on housing production. If the
anticipated results are not fully achieved
I will recommend further action to en-
sure a reasonable level of production.
In the last five years a substantial effort
has been made to address the country's
housing problems:
-Largely because of a general upswing
in the economy, housing production has
occurred at record levels.
85
