[99] Apr. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
that whatever the United States learns
in this massive program, we are very happy
to transmit, not only to our own people,
that information, but to all the people of
the world. And that is why we think this
fact that our Soviet friends are here
today, their experts in the field, is indeed
a very hopeful development, because the
genius that may find one or several of the
cures for cancer-we do not know where
it is. It may be in the United States, it may
be in the Soviet Union, it may be in an
African or Asian or Latin American or
European country, but wherever it is, we
must discover it. And here we see an ex-
ample of the best people that we can find
in the United States working with out-
standing leaders in the Soviet Union,
working together toward finding a cure to
a disease that afflicts all mankind in, as
we know, a very disastrous way.
So with that, we have been pleased
with the progress that has been made. We
have a good prognosis with regard to
progress that may be made in the future,
and the experts will brief you on some of
the items that have been made.
One last point that I should make, and
that is this: This annual proclamation
generally serves to stimulate contributions
by people to the American Cancer So-
ciety and other groups, and I hope that
this proclamation will do that. I hope
also it will stimulate among the American
people, all the American people, a deter-
mination to have an examination each
year, because all of the experts tell me that
there is no single step that we could take
that could be more effective in arresting
cancer-because it can be cured in many
cases when it is discovered early-there
is no single step that could be taken than
to see to it that examinations are taken
by people each year and that early treat-
ment is then provided for them and the
best treatment possible.
Thank you very much.
I have had my examination. How many
of you have?
I wish you all very well.
N. N. TRAPEZNIKOV [Deputy Director,
Institute of Experimental and Clinical
Oncology]. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I am looking forward
to seeing your leadership when I go to
Moscow this summer.
PROFESSOR TRAPEZNIKOV. You are wel-
come in Moscow.
THE PRESIDENT. Right. I remember
when Mr. Brezhnev and I had a long
talk about this, both there and in San
Clemente, and he, as well as all of your
leadership, has a great interest in this
problem. We think that working together,
we will be as successful as allies in the
war against cancer as we were successful
as allies in a war many years ago. That is
what we want.
PROFESSOR TRAPEZNIKOV. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:16 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Prior to the signing ceremony, Chairman
Benno C. Schmidt and members of the Presi-
dent's Cancer Panel met with the President to
discuss progress achieved in the national cancer
program. Later the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the cancer program by Mr.
Schmidt.
334
