[122] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
mail threat, which to me was not a Water-
gate problem, but one which I regarded,
rightly or wrongly, as a potential national
security problem of very serious propor-
tions. I considered long and hard whether
it might in fact be better to let the pay-
ment go forward, at least temporarily, in
the hope that this national security matter
would not be exposed in the course of
uncovering the Watergate coverup.
I believed then, and I believe today,
that I had a responsibility as President to
consider every option, including this one,
where production of sensitive national se-
curity matters was at issue-protection of
such matters. In the course of considering
it and of "just thinking out loud," as I
put it at one point, I several times sug-
gested that meeting Hunt's demands
might be necessary.
But then I also traced through where
that would lead. The money could be
raised. But money demands would lead
inescapably to clemency demands, and
clemency could not be granted. I said,
and I quote directly from the tape: "It is
wrong, that's for sure." I pointed out, and
I quote again from the tape: "But in the
end we are going to be bled to death. And
in the end it is all going to come out any-
way. Then you get the worst of both
worlds. We are going to lose, and people
are going to "
And Mr. Haldeman interrupts me and
says: "And look like dopes!"
And I responded, "And in effect look
like a coverup. So that we cannot do.”
Now, I recognize that this tape of
March 21 is one which different meanings
could be read in by different people. But
by the end of the meeting, as the tape
shows, my decision was to convene a new
grand jury and to send everyone before
the grand jury with instructions to testify.
Whatever the potential for misinterpre-
tation there may be as a result of the
different options that were discussed at
different times during the meeting, my
conclusion at the end of the meeting was
clear. And my actions and reactions as
demonstrated on the tapes that follow
that date show clearly that I did not in-
tend the further payment to Hunt or any-
one else be made. These are some of the
actions that I took in the weeks that
followed in my effort to find the truth,
to carry out my responsibilities to enforce
the law:
As a tape of our meeting on March 22,
the next day, indicates, I directed Mr.
Dean to go to Camp David with instruc-
tions to put together a written report. I
learned 5 days later, on March 26, that
he was unable to complete it. And so on
March 27, I assigned John Ehrlichman
to try to find out what had happened,
who was at fault, and in what ways and
to what degree.
One of the transcripts I am making
public is a call that Mr. Ehrlichman made
to the Attorney General on March 28,
in which he asked the Attorney General
to report to me, the President, directly,
any information he might find indicating
possible involvement of John Mitchell or
by anyone in the White House. I had Mr.
Haldeman separately pursue other, inde-
pendent lines of inquiry.
Throughout, I was trying to reach de-
terminations on matters of both substance
and procedure on what the facts were
and what was the best way to move the
case forward. I concluded that I wanted
everyone to go before the grand jury and
testify freely and fully. This decision, as
you will recall, was publicly announced
on March 30, 1973. I waived executive
privilege in order to permit everybody to
394
