Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 13 [45]
oped varied systems for moving people.
Recently, however, the energy crisis has
underscored an important lesson: our sys-
tem of national transportation is not work-
ing at maximum efficiency.
It is time to take another hard look
at the overall structure of our national
transportation system. It is time to im-
prove on existing systems and to develop
new ones designed to serve individual
needs in individual communities. It is
time for innovation and diversity.
As our society grows and our economy
continues to expand, we must ensure that
the efficiency of this system keeps stride
with the changing demands placed on it.
Our efforts must center on achieving the
goals of flexibility in the use of our trans-
portation system, economy in the use of
our energy resources, and balance in
the availability of diverse forms of
transportation.
-Let us develop an outstanding system
of public transportation within and be-
tween our cities and towns and rural areas,
a system sufficiently flexible to serve the
needs of diverse individuals in diverse
communities.
-Let us revitalize our railroads so that
once again they will be a healthy alter-
native form of transportation, moving
people and freight efficiently and
competitively.
-Let us complete the magnificent In-
terstate Highway System that provides a
model for the world.
-Let us maintain our worldwide
supremacy in air commerce.
-Let us continue to rejuvenate our
maritime fleet so that it once again com-
petes effectively on the world's seas.
-Let us press ahead with our safety
programs in the air and on the highways,
so that every American can travel free
from fear of the drunk driver and the
hijacker.
-In short, let us ensure that in the third
century of our Nation's existence, our
total system of transportation fulfills the
promise of our first two centuries.
I. RECENT PROGRESS
Over the past five years, the Federal
Government has laid considerable ground-
work for a transportation network which
can meet the challenges of America's third
century. In addition to moving ahead ef-
fectively with programs already in exist-
ence, we have proposed, and the Congress
has enacted, landmark legislation to ex-
pand capacity, to ensure safety, and to
minimize the adverse impact on the en-
vironment of our transportation systems.
One of our highest priorities has been
to help our cities reduce transportation
pollution, energy consumption and con-
gestion. Under the Urban Mass Trans-
portation Assistance Act of 1970, Federal
financial assistance to urban public trans-
portation has grown from $125 million in
1968 to $1 billion this year. And for the
first time, under the provisions of the
Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973, States
and localities can now use a portion of
their Federal highway funds for public
transit purposes.
This assistance has already saved or im-
proved public transportation in more than
150 cities. The annual decline in total
transit ridership in the United States has
stopped, and for the first time since World
War II, the trend is moving upwards.
Five
years ago, the steady decline of rail
passenger service throughout the country
threatened the Nation with the possibility
43-437 75 - 13
159
