[90] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
issue of peace, that this Administration
and the candidates who support this Ad-
ministration's policies are going to have a
very strong case to present to the Ameri-
can people this fall.
And on the economic side, while we
have been going through, as we know,
some rather troubled times economi-
cally-many of them energy-related-the
prospects are that as we come into the
second half of the third quarter and into
the fourth quarter, in that critical area of
September and October, this economy is
going to be on the upturn. Unemployment
will be coming down again. And so, what
we are going to have in the fall of this
year for our candidates to point to is peace
abroad and prosperity at home, and
give me a good candidate and he can win,
running on that kind of platform. That is
why I say they can win.
you
But now let me try to answer a much
more profound question. It isn't very pro-
found in horseracing. Is it worth it? There
it is worth it if you have the money to lose.
It is worth it if the odds are big enough
or whatever the case may be.
I don't happen to bet horses and know
much about it, but I understand that is
one of the things that enters into it. But in
the field of politics, the question of an
individual who contributes to a campaign
or a candidate, the question that he must
ask or she must ask is this: Is it worth
contributing to this candidate, is it worth
working for this candidate, is it worth
fighting for this candidate because he
stands for something that is worthwhile?
In other words, is the cause, the cause
that our candidates stand for, one that is
worth your contributing to, not just what
you have contributed tonight but more
in the future? Is it one worth working for,
because we need your work as well as your
dollars? And I say to you, it is. Of course,
I am a little prejudiced with regard to the
past record. I will discuss that only briefly,
but I want to point out to you what our
candidates will be for.
This is a year in which our candidates
are not going to be running just against,
they are going to be for some very great
causes, causes that I outlined in the State
of the Union Message and that I will out-
line for you very briefly tonight so that you
can see in perspective what I mean when
I say, yes, not only do we have good can-
didates, not only can they win, but it is
worth it, worth it to you, worth it to your
children, worth it to your country.
First, when you see whether or not it is
worth it and I know most of you who
contributed tonight have been contribut-
ing to this Administration's candidates
over the past 5 years-and as you look
over that record, I think you will have to
agree it was worth it.
Because what has happened? Well, the
litany is one that has always been re-
peated, and you have heard it over and
over again. But summarizing it briefly,
when could an Administration point to,
as our candidates will be able to point this
summer and fall, to the fact that we have
ended the longest war in America's his-
tory.
We can point also to the fact that we
have ended the draft. Somebody was
pointing out the other day that in 1968
our young people were burning draft
cards. Why aren't they burning them to-
day? Because there is no draft, and we
can be very proud of that.
And we can also point out the fact that
they are not burning up the campuses,
and that is another point of change.
Our prisoners of war-I know that
sometimes people may tire of hearing of
318
