Richard Nixon, 1974
May 3 [125]
I can refer only to the past in these
terms: You knew the situation when I
came into office. America was then in its
longest war. There was no plan to bring
it to an end. Casualties were 300 a week;
14,000 were being drafted into the armed
services every month. And that war which
did not begin when we were in power, we
ended, and we can be proud that we
brought that war to an end.
We can be proud that America's long-
est war has been brought to an end, and
we can be proud that it was ended in the
right way and that our prisoners of war
came home on their feet and not on their
knees.
And we can be proud that for the first
time in 25 years, no young Americans,
including some of those who may be here
against us, are being drafted into the
armed services today. Now, for some, that
might appear to be a record to run on, but
it is not enough. It is not enough because
we have ended wars before. But you know
the old story of this century. We fought
World War I, came the armistice and we
thought, "No more."
But then, the sons of those that fought
in World War I were fighting in World
War II. And then, when that ended and
the United Nations came along, we
thought, "There will not be another war."
And then the younger brothers of those
who fought in World War II, and even
some of their sons, were fighting in Korea.
And after that war was brought to an end
by President Eisenhower, after that war
was brought to an end, we thought,
"There will not be another one." And the
younger brothers of those who had fought
in Korea and the sons of those who
fought in World War II were fighting in
Vietnam.
So, that is why our goal is not simply to
say we rest on our laurels, we brought
peace. Our goal is to bring a new gen-
eration, a new period, in which the whole
world—not just America—can enjoy the
blessings of peace. And we have that as
a goal and one that we can achieve.
It is not an easy goal to achieve, be-
cause it has never been achieved before.
But it is a goal that can be achieved,
because America is going to be in the
leadership in working toward that goal.
Running over some of the critical areas
of the world: The Mideast now com-
mands our attention. Four wars in a gen-
eration, thousands of years of hatred, and
yet we are making progress, progress
steadily toward a goal of peace in the
Middle East in which every nation in that
area will have security, independence, and
progress without war. That is a great goal,
and Americans are going to bring that
goal about or help to achieve it.
Now, moving from that potential pow-
der keg, we look at the whole world. I
know that some of my friends have often
asked, "How is it that President Nixon, of
all people, would be talking to the Com-
munist leaders of Russia, to the Commu-
nist leaders of the People's Republic of
China?"
I will tell you why: because the alter-
native to talking to them is a war, not like
World War I or World War II, but one
that would destroy civilization as we know
it. And that is why we negotiate now
rather than have war later. That is the
reason for it.
And so, we are making steady progress
toward the next summit which will occur
in June, a summit in which we will move
again toward the limitation of nuclear
arms and in other areas with regard to the
Soviet Union.
That is why we are continuing our
405
