[178] June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
support that we have had, and the talks
that have gone forward have been ones
that have laid the foundation for not only
a continuation of a direct contact be-
tween you, President Sadat, and me,
through channels that we have established
but also direct contacts at the foreign
minister level and at all levels of govern-
ment to put meaning and also substance
into the papers that we sign, the speeches
that we may make, the declarations that
may be forthcoming.
Also, on this occasion, before leaving
Cairo, could I express again our grateful
appreciation on behalf of not only Mrs.
Nixon and myself but all of ours who are
in the American party, for the overwhelm-
ing hospitality that you have extended
to us on this visit. We are most grateful,
grateful for that hospitality, and we shall
always remember it. And we look forward
to the opportunity later this year to have
Mrs. Sadat, who stands so strongly and
loyally and effectively by your side, as well
as you, Mr. President, visit the United
States again and get to know our coun-
try and our people better, not only at the
official level but, as I have had the op-
portunity, across the Nation among all
people from all walks of life.
We have today signed a statement
which has as its title, "Principles of Rela-
tions and Cooperation Between Egypt and
the United States."
I think, Mr. President, as I sign this
statement, as you must think, of the many
statements and treaties and executive
agreements and others that I have signed
since I have been in this office. Some have
meant a great deal more than others, but
there is one important rule which governs
statements or agreements or treaties or
whatever documents are signed by heads
of government, and that is this: that the
statement, the treaty, the agreement, is
only as good as the will and the determina-
tion of the parties concerned to keep that
agreement.
Now, what we have established in this
visit, brief though it is: first, that that will
and determination to keep the agreement
and not to be satisfied just with it, but to
build on it. We have certainly established
that that will and determination exists
between the two heads of state and heads
of government, President Sadat and my-
self. We have established that it also ex-
ists at official levels in other areas of gov
ernment.
But I think, also, we have something else
which is worthy of note. As we saw in the
3 days that we have been in your coun-
try, these "Principles of Relations and Co-
operation Between Egypt and the United
States" have the support of the Egyptian
people. We sensed that as we saw your
people in such great numbers, and I can
assure you, Mr. President, they also have
the support of the American people.
And so, not only officially, not only at
the head of state and head of government
level but also among our people, there is
support for this document that we have
signed and support not only for the spe-
cific agreements, declarations that are con-
tained therein but support for the spirit
which we have discussed, in which we will
go on from this agreement to others in the
future that will build on them.
For example, in our discussions we have
explored ways and means that in the
future we could build on the understand-
ings set forth in this agreement. It is also
very significant to note that the relations
and principles described herein are rela-
tions and cooperation which are dedicated
500
