Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
March 13, 1974.
NOTE: The message is printed in the report en-
titled, "Arms Control Report, 13th Annual
Report to the Congress" (32 pp. plus
appendixes).
78 St. Patrick's Day Message.
March 14, 1974
OF ALL the ethnic and cultural strands
that make up the rich fabric of American
culture, none is more distinctive and at
the same time more harmonious than the
rich emerald green of Ireland.
Irish wit and warmth, grace and charm,
have enriched our literature, our music,
and of course, our politics, and by so do-
ing have added immeasurably to the tex-
ture of American life.
On this St. Patrick's Day, Patricia Ryan
Nixon and I join with all Americans in
celebrating that sparkling joyfulness and
love of life that represent one of the very
finest features of the American national
character, a feature that in large part
has been bequeathed to us by the sons
and daughters of the Emerald Isle.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On March 17, 1974, Ambassador John
G. Molloy of Ireland called on the President
at the White House to present a St. Patrick's
Day gift of shamrocks in a Waterford crystal
vase.
79 Question-and-Answer Session at the Executives' Club of
Chicago. March 15, 1974
President Clark,ยน Mayor Daley, all of the
distinguished guests on the platform, and
all of the distinguished members and
guests of the Executives' Club of Chi-
cago:
I appreciated the introduction. How-
ever, as I told President Clark, I not only
spoke when I was in office as Senator and
also as Vice President, but this club was
good enough to invite me when I was out
of office, and that I appreciated very
much.
Also, I was told this was the first time
that a President of the United States has
ever addressed this club while in office.
ยน William N. Clark was president of the
Executives' Club of Chicago.
I appreciate that honor, and in reciproca-
tion, let me say that after I have com-
pleted my term of office, which I expect
to do 3 years from now, I will be back.
Now, because I have appeared before
this organization on three different occa-
sions, I have heard from your members
what you like in the way of speeches and
questions and answers. And usually you
have said that the speeches are too long
and the time for questions is too short.
So, consequently, following that very
good advice, and speaking from that ex-
perience, I shall not make an opening
statement today. I figure that most of the
questions will be long enough.
So, under the circumstances, I shall
261
