Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
since the time of Washington has followed,
and that is of defending the confidentiality
of Presidential conversations and com-
munications.
Now, I realize that many think, and I
understand that, that this is simply a way
of hiding information that they should
be entitled to, but that isn't the real rea-
son. The reason goes far deeper than that.
In order to make the decisions that a
President must make, he must have free,
uninhibited conversation with his ad-
visers and with others. And if the time
comes when those who come to advise the
President assume that anything they say,
even though it is very unpopular at the
moment, is going to be turned over later
and made public, all he is going to find is
a bunch of yes-men around him or ones
that are going to play it so safe that he
isn't going to get the variety of views he
needs to make the right kind of decision.
So, as far as the House committee is
concerned, we will cooperate. I have
agreed, also, as you know, to answer any
questions that are submitted in writing.
I have agreed to meet with the chairman
of the committee and the ranking mem-
ber of the committee to answer orally any
other questions that they have, and Mr.
St. Clair, White House Counsel, is dis-
cussing with Mr. Doar what other meth-
ods might be found whereby we can
cooperate.2
* On April 9, 1974, the White House issued
the text of a letter from James D. St. Clair,
Special Counsel to the President, to John M.
Doar, special counsel to the House Judiciary
Committee, on the progress of discussions to
date. The letter is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 10,
p. 397).
But of one thing I am sure: To provide
this huge amount of documents and all of
the tapes would only have the effect of
prolonging an investigation that has al-
ready gone on too long because, believe
me, dragging out Watergate drags down
America, and I want to bring it to a con-
clusion as quickly as we can.
RELATIONS WITH THE PRESS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, Carl Conner-
ton, KWBA Radio at Baytown. In the
early portion of 1960, you made a state-
ment at what you called your last press
conference, stating that the press wouldn't
have Nixon to kick around anymore. Here
it is mid-1970. Do you feel that the press
is kicking Nixon around again?
THE PRESIDENT. Before this audience,
I answer that? [Laughter] No, I realize
that perhaps—incidentally, the year was
1962-after I lost for President I probably
didn't feel I should have any difficulties
with the press, I had had enough already.
So, after 1962, with no political future,
I said that I didn't intend to be participat-
ing in politics-and thoroughly expected
that that would be the case-and that,
therefore, the press would enjoy kicking
somebody else around rather than me.
But to come to the heart of your ques-
tion, there is always-as my friend, now
retired, of the Washington Star, Jack
[Garnett D.] Horner, senior White House
correspondent for many years, said there
is always an adversary relationship be-
tween the President and the press. That
is healthy, that is good.
I think the press has a right to criticize
the President, and I think the President
has the right of self-defense. I would sug-
289
