[87] Mar. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
because we produce more on the farm.
We have more. We find that in terms of
our foreign policy, for example, that the
fact that the United States is able to pro-
duce not only enough for itself but enough
to export as well, gives us an enormous
bargaining leverage which has effect on
all other elements of our foreign policy.
And so, it can truly be said that the Amer-
ican farmer, as he produces more and as
he produces more efficiently, not only
contributes to his own welfare, not only
does he contribute to the welfare of the
American people but he contributes to a
cause which he is dedicated to and which
we, as all Americans, are dedicated to, of
building a more peaceful and eventually,
we trust, a more prosperous world.
Another point which I think should be
made to this audience that I have often
made in my appearances in many of the
States which you represent or write for, is
that our agricultural community, the
great, what we call, heartland of America,
makes another contribution that cannot
be measured in dollars and income or
anything else, but one that is absolutely
essential, and I am referring to the fact
that from this heartland of America comes
strength for America's backbone, comes
the character that America needs in this
period when only America's leadership,
and I repeat, only America's leadership,
can save the cause of peace and freedom
for all the world.
I make that point simply because I
have had considerable experience, as you
are quite aware, in not only going through
the great difficulties of ending America's
longest war but also in attempting to go
beyond that and to build a world of peace
in meeting with our adversaries, those who
might become our enemies if we did not
talk to them now, of attempting to reduce
the burden of nuclear arms and other arms
upon all the peoples of the world and
particularly upon ourselves. And in order
for America to meet this need for our
leadership, in order for us to meet it, it
is going to take strength, it is going to take
character, it is going to take great dedi-
cation, and it is going to take a long view
of the historical destiny of this country.
I feel strongly about America's destiny
at this point, because as I look back over
this century, I see that before World War
I, we could look back and say, well, there
were the French and there were the Brit-
ish and there were others who could stop
the tide, then, of Nazi totalitarianism, and
then in World War II, even then we
waited, even after the defeat of France
and Britain, and Churchill stood almost
alone against those forces at that time.
I should have said, in World War I it
was not Nazi totalitarianism; it was a
different kind of aggression. World War
II, of course, we were speaking about the
Nazi totalitarianism.
But at the present time, as we look
around the world, as a result of what hap-
pened in World War I, as a result of what
happened in World War II, there is no
other nation in the free world that has the
military strength, that has the wealth,
that has the productivity to lead the free
world and to provide the kind of states-
manship in world affairs which is essential
if we are to build a peace that will last,
not only between the super powers but a
peace that will perhaps come to the
troubled area of the Mideast for the first
time in many, many years, and which will
avoid those conflicts which have plagued
us four times in this century, that have
cost us so much, not only in money but,
even more importantly and more tragi-
cally, in the lives of our young men.
312
