[117] Apr. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
117 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Endowment for the Arts and National
Council on the Arts. April 22, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
It is my great pleasure to transmit to
the Congress the Annual Report of the
National Council on the Arts and the
National Endowment for the Arts for fis
cal year 1973.
The cultural heritage of this Nation-
enormously rich and diverse is a strength
to millions of Americans who turn to the
arts for inspiration, communication, and
creative self-expression.
This annual report reflects the vital role
which the Government performs in mak-
ing the arts more available to all our
people, by encouraging original fresh ex-
pression and sustaining the great tradi-
tions of our past artistic accomplishments.
The National Endowment for the Arts
has an exceptional record of achievement
in advancing the broad artistic develop-
ment of this Nation, reaching into every
State and special jurisdiction. Its funding
at $38,200,000 in fiscal year 1973 was
nearly a third more than the previous
year, and with these additional monies
the Endowment was able to continue and
expand critically important support for
our orchestras, operas, theatres, dance
118 Message to the Congress
Report of the President.
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by section 107 of the Man-
power Development and Training Act
of 1962, as amended, and by section 605
of the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act of 1973, I am sending to
companies, and museums as well as en-
courage our artists, and open new oppor-
tunities for talented young actors and
performers.
With the Bicentennial near at hand, the
creative gifts of our artists and the produc-
tion and presentation skills of our great
institutions will be indispensable compo-
nents of the national celebration. Through
the arts we will be able to express most
fully the ideals of this Nation.
I hope that every Member of the Con-
gress will share my enthusiasm about the
many meaningful achievements of the Na-
tional Council on the Arts and the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts and will
continue to support the Endowment with
the resources needed to sustain the cultu-
ral heritage of the Nation, and give it
abundant opportunity for growth.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 22, 1974.
NOTE: The report is entitled "National En-
dowment for the Arts and National Council on
the Arts-Annual Report, Fiscal Year 1973"
(Government Printing Office, 122 pp.).
Transmitting Annual Manpower
April 22, 1974
Congress the twelfth annual Manpower
Report of the President.
When I signed the CETA into law on
December 28, 1973, I expressed consid-
erable gratification with the new legisla-
tion, noting that it represented "a signifi-
372
