Richard Nixon, 1974
June 18 [189]
tive support of the United States for
agreement between Jordan and Israel on
concrete steps toward the just and dur-
able peace called for in United Nations
Security Council Resolution 338 of Octo-
ber 22, 1973.
The President has invited His Majesty
to pay a visit to Washington at an early
date. The purpose of the visit will be to
hold further talks on the strategy of future
efforts to achieve peace in accord with
the objectives of United Nations Secu-
rity Council Resolution 338. Further dis-
cussions of the details of the establish-
ment of the joint commission will also be
held. His Majesty has accepted the invi-
tation and the date of the visit will be an-
nounced shortly.
The President expressed his gratitude
and that of Mrs. Nixon for the warm hos-
pitality extended by His Majesty, by Her
Majesty Queen Alia and by the Jor-
danian people.
NOTE: The text of the statement was released
at Amman, Jordan.
189 Remarks on Departure From Jordan.
June 18, 1974
Your Majesty:
Over the past 27 years, Mrs. Nixon and
I have had the opportunity of visiting
most of the countries of the world, and I
want you to know that in no country in
the world have we received what we be-
lieve is a warmer reception, a more
friendly reception than we have received
in Jordan.
We can also say that as we have
traveled through the countries of the
Mideast, we have been enormously im-
pressed by the respect and affection for
the country we represent, the United
States of America. And the reason that
that respect and affection exists, I believe,
is because the people that we saw, both
the leaders and people, recognize that we
represented a nation that was dedicated to
peace. They recognized that the journey
we were taking to their countries was in
the interest of peace. And if there is one
fact that stands out after traveling
through these countries that we have
visited, it is this: The leaders of the na-
tions that we visited, like yourself, Your
Majesty, are dedicated to finding a way
to peace, and just as important, the peo-
ple that we saw-and we saw literally
millions of people in five nations—are
dedicated to peace.
They are dedicated to peace because
they have seen that war solves no prob-
lems. Four wars in 30 years have brought
nothing but hatred, distrust, and then
more war. And now it is time to try a dif-
ferent way, a way that is sometimes more
difficult difficult from the standpoint
of the statesmen to wage-than to wage
war. And that is to try the way of peace,
and we are embarked on that path.
As far as the United States is concerned,
we will play an active role to the extent
that the nations in this area want us to
play an active role, and we have found in
our visit that each of them welcomes a
U.S. role in attempting to find a solution
to these basic problems that exist and
which could be the causes for more con-
flict. More important, I believe, that as
535
