[240] Aug. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
can be reflected in the committee's report
and included in the record to be consid-
ered by the House and Senate.
In a formal written statement on
May 22 of last year, I said that shortly
after the Watergate break-in, I became
concerned about the possibility that the
FBI investigation might lead to the expo-
sure either of unrelated covert activities
of the CIA or of sensitive national security
matters that the so-called "plumbers"
unit at the White House had been work-
ing on, because of the CIA and plumbers
connections of some of those involved. I
said that I therefore gave instructions
that the FBI should be alerted to coordi-
nate with the CIA and to ensure that the
investigation not expose these sensitive
national security matters.
That statement was based on my rec-
ollection at the time-some 11 months
later-plus documentary materials and
relevant public testimony of
of those
involved.
The June 23 tapes clearly show, how-
ever, that at the time I gave those instruc-
tions I also discussed the political aspects
of the situation and that I was aware of
the advantages this course of action would
have with respect to limiting possible pub-
lic exposure of involvement by persons
connected with the reelection committee.
My review of the additional tapes has,
so far, shown no other major inconsist-
encies with what I have previously sub-
mitted. While I have no way at this stage
of being certain that there will not be
others, I have no reason to believe that
there will be. In any case, the tapes in
their entirety are now in the process of
being furnished to Judge Sirica. He has
begun what may be a rather lengthy proc-
ess of reviewing the tapes, passing on
specific claims of executive privilege on
portions of them, and forwarding to the
Special Prosecutor those tapes or those
portions that are relevant to the Water-
gate investigation.
1
It is highly unlikely that this review will
be completed in time for the House de-
bate. It appears at this stage, however,
that a House vote of impeachment is, as
a practical matter, virtually a foregone
conclusion ยน and that the issue will there-
fore go to trial in the Senate. In order to
ensure that no other significant relevant
materials are withheld, I shall voluntarily
furnish to the Senate everything from
these tapes that Judge Sirica rules should
go to the Special Prosecutor.
I recognize that this additional mate-
rial I am now furnishing may further
damage my case, especially because atten-
tion will be drawn separately to it rather
than to the evidence in its entirety. In con-
sidering its implications, therefore, I urge
that two points be borne in mind.
The first of these points is to remember
what actually happened as a result of the
instructions I gave on June 23. Acting
Director Gray of the FBI did coordinate
with Director Helms and Deputy Director
Walters of the CIA. The CIA did under-
take an extensive check to see whether any
of its covert activities would be compro-
mised by a full FBI investigation of Water-
gate. Deputy Director Walters then
reported back to Mr. Gray that they
would not be compromised. On July 6,
On July 27, 1974, the House Judiciary
Committee recommended that the House of
Representatives consider the impeachment of
the President by adopting a proposed article
of impeachment. Two additional articles were
adopted on July 29 and 30 and were added to
the bill of impeachment.
622
