Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 23 [86]
86 Radio Address About American Education.
March 23, 1974
Good afternoon:
The Congress is rapidly approaching
the time when it must make decisions
that will significantly affect the future of
American education.
Today I want to share with you my
thoughts on those decisions and urge your
support for the choices that I believe
would be best for our schools and for our
children. During the last several decades,
as we all know too well, there has been a
tendency to concentrate more and more
power in Washington in many areas, in-
cluding education.
Today we have come to realize that this
trend does not make good sense.
Bureaucrats in Washington cannot
educate your children. Your children can
only be educated by you in your homes
and by their teachers in their schools. You
understand their needs, and you under-
stand their special problems and desires.
Above all, you understand better than any
Federal official what is best for your
children.
For example, parents know that the
education of their children can most effec-
tively be carried out in neighborhood
schools. They are naturally concerned
when the courts, acting on the basis of
complicated plans drawn up by faraway
officials in Washington, D.C., order chil-
dren bused out of their neighborhoods.
In 1972, I proposed legislation designed
to limit forced busing. Today I urge
favorable consideration of antibusing
amendments, such as the amendment cur-
rently being sponsored by Representative
Marvin Esch of Michigan.
During the past 5 years, dual school
systems have been dismantled in much of
the Nation with minimal forced busing.
Parents, students, and school officials are
entitled to a major share of the credit for
this accomplishment, an accomplishment
which demonstrates that excessive forced
busing is neither necessary nor desirable.
A belief in the wisdom of the local com-
munities and the parents of our school-
children has been the guiding educational
philosophy of this Administration since
we took office. That is why I have also
proposed legislation which would stream-
line our tangled programs of Federal aid
to elementary and secondary education
and return control over those programs to
the States and to the local communities.
With the cooperation of the Congress,
I believe we can turn our hopes for more
local control over education into reality
within a matter of weeks.
The House of Representatives is now
considering a bill that represents a step
in the right direction toward more com-
munity and State control over their ele-
mentary and secondary schools. The
House committee has favorably reported
on this bill, and a vote is scheduled next
week. This bill, H.R. 69, does not incor-
porate all the revisions I have suggested,
but it is an important first step. I urge
its passage.
I
regret that the Senate, on the other
hand, is giving serious consideration to a
bill that will move us in precisely the
wrong direction. Instead of simplifying
the Federal process for funding, many
provisions of the proposed Senate bill
would complicate it immeasurably. The
result would be a bureaucratic nightmare,
43-437 - 75 - 22
303
