[86] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world has seen. In large part because
of that system of education, in terms of
prosperity, progress and opportunity,
America has become the envy of the
world.
Our educational system is not perfect.
But I am confident that by working to-
gether, we will insure that the future of
our system of education, which is so closely
bound up with the future of our Nation,
amply fulfills the promise of its past.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. from
Camp David, Md. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio.
On March 21, 1974, the President met with
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Caspar W. Weinberger to discuss the education
bills pending in Congress.
87 Remarks to Members of the American Agricultural
March 26, 1974
Editors' Association.
Ladies and gentlemen:
I know you have already had a very
full day with a breakfast meeting with
Members of Congress and also other
meetings during the morning; luncheon,
where Earl Butz, the real expert in this
field, and other officials in our Admin-
istration addressed you; and you are going
to have quite a full afternoon with some
of our experts who deal with some of the
problems which you are interested in as
agricultural editors and ones who, I think,
can carry this message back across the
country to those who are interested in the
problems of agriculture. You will have the
opportunity to hear from them, Mr.
Simon and others.
I think perhaps of greatest value to you
as far as any presentation by me is con-
cerned would be an overview, an over-
view as to where we have been, where
we are, and what the prospects are for
the future.
Projecting the future, of course, is al-
ways rather hazardous, but I think we
have some rather sound bases for making
a very positive estimate of what the future
holds, not only for the American economy
generally but for American agriculture.
I go back 5 years, of course, to the time
when I came into office, and you may
recall that at that time, there was a sense
of a very strong economy; unemployment
was low. However, it was an economy that
had some very healthy aspects, but also
some very unhealthy ones—the un-
healthy one being the fact that it was
highly inflated by war production, a cost
in many ways which we all understand,
but which is particularly understood when
we realize that at that time, we were suf-
fering casualties of about 300 a week in
Vietnam.
In those past 5 years, we have seen
changes on the international front. Peace
has come, and consequently, we can look
at our economy in terms of what the pros-
pects are in peacetime, rather than in
wartime.
Insofar as agriculture is concerned,
while the rest of the economy in January
of 1969 appeared to be strong, while un-
employment was low, while industry was
producing at high levels, we find that as
far as agriculture is concerned, agriculture
was not getting its fair share of the na-
tional income. I said that during the
campaign of 1968, and when I came into
office, I found that what I had said in
the campaign was true.
306
