[83] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
want to say this: It is difficult to find a
proper way to meet the demands of the
Congress. I am trying to do so and trying
to be as forthcoming as possible. But I
also have another responsibility. I must
think not of myself but I must think also
of future Presidents of this country, and
I am not going to do anything, and I am
not going to give up to any demand that
I believe would weaken the Presidency
of the United States. I will not participate
in the destruction of the Office of the
President of the United States while I
am in this office.
MR. JOHNSON. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 7 p.m. in Jesse Jones Hall. It was broadcast
live on nationwide radio and television.
84 Remarks Following a Tour of the Lyndon B. Johnson
Space Center, Houston, Texas. March 20, 1974
Dr. Fletcher, Dr. Kraft, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I first want to pay my respects to those
who have been in the Skylab program. I
want to do so, particularly, right here in
Houston, but I want the whole Nation to
hear this, I would trust, as well.
When man first landed on the Moon,
of course it was an enormous event—and
the second time and the third time. Even
the first orbital flight, as we all recall-
those names are legendary. But then,
sometimes here in America we become ac-
customed to extraordinary feats, and
sometimes we tend to take for granted
bravery, intelligence, courage, all of these
wonderful attributes that those men have
displayed on this 84-day mission in space.
But let me say, while we sometimes take
it for granted, that does not mean that we
do not recognize not only their ability, but
that we also recognize the contribution
they are making to America and to science
and to better relations between nations.
In that respect, I simply want to say
that I wish there were more we could do
for them than simply present these medals,
which I hope they will never have to hock.
I think we pay well enough, don't we,
Dr. Fletcher?
As a matter of fact, I invited them and
their wives, too, as has been my custom,
to spend a weekend at Camp David,
which is the Presidential retreat. And after
those many days in space, I think they will
enjoy the lonely solitude of that beautiful
place, which Franklin D. Roosevelt called
Shangri-La, and when they are there will
understand why it is called that.
Sometimes when the clouds-it is some-
times right above the clouds, and the
clouds are right around you-when it is
like that, you might think you were in
space. Not having been in space, I am not
sure they will think that, but whatever the
case might be, that is the situation.
The other point that I would like to
make, and Dr. Fletcher, if you would con-
sider this it will have to be after, I un-
derstand, perhaps around 1980 or so-but
I understand that you will make it possi-
ble for people that are not trained in space
to be passengers, and I would like to vol-
unteer. My blood pressure is 120 over 72.
I don't know whether I could pass all
those other tests, for dizziness, et cetera,
298
