[109] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
losophy of self-determination for Indians.
The first, enacted in 1970, returned the
Blue Lake lands to the Taos Pueblo Indi-
ans. It continues to be my hope that, with
the support and encouragement of the
Federal Government, we can create a new
era in which the future of Indian people
is determined primarily by Indian acts
and Indian decisions.
The Indian Financing Act contains
three mechanisms to foster economic de-
velopment for the betterment of the
Indian people. One is the consolidation
of three existing revolving loan funds now
administered by the Secretary of the In-
terior, and the authorization of an addi-
tional appropriation of $50 million for
the fund. The second establishes a pro-
gram whereby the Interior Secretary can
guarantee private loans made to Indian
organizations and individuals or, in the
alternative, insure such loans in the aggre-
gate. The third establishes an Indian
Business Development program in the
Department of the Interior which would
aid small Indian businesses through grants
of up to $50,000 per business. Further,
this bill would authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to cooperate with the Small
Business Administration, ACTION, and
other Federal agencies and private organi-
zations in providing management and
ΙΙΟ
technical assistance to an Indian enter-
prise which qualifies for loan or grant
assistance.
The loan guarantee provisions of this
bill are especially significant. The Bureau
of Indian Affairs, which has been in the
business of making loans to Indians for
decades, can cite solid evidence showing
that Indians are good loan risks. Unfortu-
nately, the business community has not
been fully aware of this fact. The loan
guarantee program is the Administration's
way of backing up our conviction with
Federal money. I hope that enactment of
this bill will greatly enhance the financial
attractiveness of Indian borrowers in the
private sector.
It is also my hope that the enactment
of this bill will mark the beginning of a
period in which the Congress will prompt-
ly send to my desk the remaining propos-
als I made in 1970 to enable American
Indians to become more prosperous and
more independent.
I commend the bipartisan work which
has made this bill possible and want to see
that effort continue for the rest of our
Indian legislative program.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1341, approved April 12,
1974, is Public Law 93-262 (88 Stat. 77).
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
Statement About the Death of Arthur Krock.
April 13, 1974
ARTHUR KROCK's "Sixty Years on
the Firing Line" marked him as a journal-
ist of surpassing judgment and integrity.
As both a correspondent and commenta-
tor he brought a sense of perspective and
understanding to public affairs that was
valued by all who knew him and won for
him the highest awards of his profession.
One of his awards was the Medal of Free-
dom, the Nation's highest civilian honor,
which I had the privilege of presenting
to him in 1970.
Mrs. Nixon and I join the Nation in
mourning the death of one of America's
356
