Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 7 [37]
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
The ceremony was attended by staff members
of the Council on International Economic
Policy.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and transcripts of two news brief-
ings on the report. The briefings were held on
February 6 and 7 by Peter M. Flanigan, Assist-
ant to the President and Executive Director of
the Council on International Economic Policy.
37 Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the
House Transmitting Proposed Appropriation Legislation
for the United States Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency. February 7, 1974
I AM transmitting herewith proposed leg-
islation to extend the appropriation au-
thorization for the Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency, along with a letter
from the Director of that Agency in sup-
port of this legislation.
Major progress has been made toward
this Administration's high priority foreign
policy and national security objective of
establishing effective arms control ar-
rangements. Most importantly, the Strate-
gic Arms Limitation Talks with the Soviet
Union have resulted in definitive treaty
limitations on strategic defensive systems
and an agreement for interim limitations
on strategic offensive systems. The con-
tinuing Strategic Arms Limitation Talks,
accelerated by agreements reached at the
June, 1973, Summit Conference, now are
focused on achieving definitive treaty
limitations on strategic offensive systems.
Also of major importance was the initia-
tion last year of negotiations to reduce the
military confrontation in Central Europe.
The objective of this Administration to
replace the dangers of a continuing un-
checked arms race with the greater secu-
rity afforded by the establishment of
reliable controls over armaments has been
well served by the Arms Control and Dis-
armament Agency. This has been demon-
strated especially by the Agency's key role
in the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
and the talks on mutual and balanced
force reductions in Central Europe. The
work of the Agency in these and other
forums is vital to future progress in the
difficult area of arms control and
disarmament.
The draft legislation I am transmitting
today would authorize appropriations for
the Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency for fiscal years 1975 and 1976. It
also amends the Agency's authority to
procure the services of experts and con-
sultants so as to make this authority com-
parable to that prevailing elsewhere in the
Executive Branch. This change is neces-
sary for the Agency to continue to attract
highly qualified consultants to assist it in
its tasks.
I urge the Congress to give this bill
prompt and favorable consideration.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Gerald R. Ford,
President of the Senate, and the Honorable
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
43-437 - 75 - 12
143
