Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 18 [113]
from
So, now we come to today, 2 years
the 200th anniversary.
America has just finished a very diffi-
cult war, the longest in our history, one
which divided Americans at home, one
which, however, we can be proud we saw
through to the end and, as a result, that
millions who would otherwise be under
a government imposed upon them against
their will are now choosing their own way.
And I would only suggest at a time
when so much attention is directed to
those who deserted America, let's give
honor to the 22 million who served
America in Vietnam, because at this time,
the future of America's own security and
the future of peace in the world is going
to depend upon a number of factors, and
one of them is the strength of America
militarily.
Should we allow those voices to prevail
who want America to reduce its strength
so that we become the second strongest
nation in the world, then America no
longer can play the great role of peace-
maker in the world, which is our destiny.
So, as far as that strength is concerned,
let us also remember it is not simply in
ships and in guns and in tanks and all the
instruments of warfare that we hear and
read so much about, but it is in the men
and the women who serve in the Armed
Forces. It is a volunteer Armed Forces,
and I say, honor them, respect them, be-
cause that is why they will go in.
And Mrs. Spicer, who has in her fam-
ily—I just can't understand why she
discriminated against the Army, but the
Marines and the Navy are all there—let's
honor them all for their volunteer service.
It would be easy to stop there, but that
wouldn't be enough because that comes
back to the original theme. When America
was poor and when it was weak, it never-
theless captured the imagination of the
world, because it stood for something
other than material strength and wealth.
And when America is strong and when it
is rich, it will not have meaning for the
world unless it stands for something else
than material strength and wealth. And
that is where this great celebration can
serve this Nation with your help.
We must maintain our strength mili-
tarily. We must continue our revolution
which will increase the opportunity, the
freedom, the progress for all of the people
within this country.
These are great goals, but we must also
be reminded of the fact that whenever
a nation—as is the case with an individ-
ual-but whenever a nation ceases to
have a goal greater than itself, it ceases
to be a great nation.
I often recall what President de Gaulle
said to me in 1963. He said France is
never her true self unless she is engaged
in a great enterprise.
Now, great enterprises can mean things
that are bad-conquest, for example—but
great enterprises can also mean things
that are very good, peace for all people
and the opportunity for all people to
choose their own way. That is what
America's great enterprise is.
Why did we come into the world? Oh,
there are many answers to that. We came
into the world because we were a haven
for those who were oppressed from the
nations of Europe and other nations, per-
haps, in the world. We came into the
world because here was a land where
people could get a new start and build a
new nation with new ideals.
But I believe, as Jefferson believed and
as Lincoln believed and as Wilson be-
43-437 O-75-26
367
