Richard Nixon, 1974
June 5 [165]
164 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on Coastal Zone Management. June 4, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting the first annual re-
port on the management and conserva-
tion of our coastal resources, as required
by the Coastal Zone Management Act of
1972. This report covers fiscal year 1973,
a year of study and organization prepara-
tory to the financial implementation of
the act in fiscal year 1974.
In the spirit of the New Federalism, this
program constitutes a partnership be-
tween the States and the Federal govern-
ment. It will seek to solve what some have
described as the dilemma of conservation
versus development in the ecologically
fragile coastal zone area of our country.
Together with the Congress we recognize
this dilemma, but neither branch of Gov-
ernment believes conservation and devel-
opment are mutually exclusive. We must
permit neither development nor conserva-
tion to become completely dominant. By
systematically weighing the benefits and
the costs of proposed actions, we can pro-
vide for both conservation and progress.
Together with the land use legislation
now pending in the Congress, the Coastal
Zone Act would provide our Nation with
complete geographic coverage for this im-
portant State-Federal planning partner-
ship. We look to land use and coastal zone
plans to assist us in preserving our natural
heritage and in permitting orderly devel-
opment of our resources for the common
good. This is especially important in the
coastal areas where most of our popula-
tion is concentrated, where many of our
recreational and employment opportu-
nities are centered, and where many forces
compete for our resources.
Significant groundwork has been laid
in planning for implementation of the
Coastal Zone Act. As a result, I believe we
are able to look forward to rapid progress
as the Federal government begins this im-
portant task in partnership with State
governments.
The White House,
June 4, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "Coastal Zone
Management, Annual Report for Fiscal Year
1973" (Government Printing Office, 6 pp.).
165 Remarks at Commencement Ceremonies at the
United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland.
June 5, 1974
Admiral Mack, members of the graduat-
ing class of 1974, and all of our very dis-
tinguished guests:
As one who served in World War II
with great pride in the United States
Navy, it is a special honor and privilege
for me to participate in this 124th com-
mencement ceremony of the United States
Naval Academy. The class of 1974 will
face challenges as unique and demanding
as any in the long and proud history of
the Academy.
467
