[19] Jan. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
process. Only with individual commit-
ment, with the commitment of State and
local school administrators and teachers,
with the commitment of parents and stu-
dents, and with the commitment of the
Federal Government, can we obtain a
20
revitalized and rewarding American edu-
cational system.
The White House,
January 24, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
Remarks About the Special Message to the Congress
on Education Priorities. January 24, 1974
THERE IS one goal that unites all Amer-
icans. Each of us wants our children to
have the very best education that this
great Nation can provide. To achieve that
goal, I have today asked the Congress to
enact a number of significant education
initiatives during 1974.
One would provide advanced or for-
ward funding so that school authorities
can know a year in advance how much
Federal money they will have to spend.
No longer would school boards have to
gamble on how they would balance their
budgets.
Another initiative would target Fed-
eral funds so that students with the great-
est needs, the truly disadvantaged stu-
dents, are the major recipients of funds.
21
A third initiative would expand the
grant and loan programs for students
faced with rapidly increasing costs of edu-
cation after high school.
These proposals, along with others that
I have sent to the Congress, will ensure
the successful development of our great-
est natural resource, the children of Amer-
ica.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. His re-
marks were filmed for later broadcast on radio
and television.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the message by Caspar W. Weinberger,
Secretary, and Frank C. Carlucci, Under Sec-
retary, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare.
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Veterans
Legislation. January 28, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Yesterday, January 27, 1974, marked
the first anniversary of the date on which
the United States troops ended hostile
action against the enemy in Vietnam and
began the long-sought disengagement
from the longest war in our Nation's
history.
It is particularly fitting that today, a
year later, we should focus our attention
on what has been done and what re-
mains to be done to repay the debt
America owes to those who served.
There are twenty-nine million living
American veterans today-men and wom-
en who have given military service to
their country. Nearly 7 million of them
are Vietnam-era veterans. We owe these
men and women our best effort in provid-
ing them with the benefits that their
40
