Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 4 [32]
-development of fast breeder nuclear
reactors, which will greatly increase
the amount of energy recoverable
from our nuclear fuel resources;
-more timely approval of sites for en-
ergy facilities and accelerated con-
struction of nuclear powerplants;
and
-increased research on advanced en-
ergy sources, including fusion power,
and geothermal and solar energy.
The budget provides for $1.5 billion in
outlays for direct energy research and de-
velopment programs in 1975, compared
to $942 million in 1974. An additional
$128 million in outlays is provided in 1975
for complementary basic research and for
environmental and health effects re-
search. I will submit additional details
on this accelerated effort to the Congress
shortly.
The Federal Government alone can-
not overcome the energy crisis. Project
Independence will require a maximum ef-
fort by private industry as well. The meas-
ures proposed in this budget provide the
essential governmental leadership to get
this joint public and private program un-
derway. In addition, every American
household and every American business
must economize on energy usage if we
are to share temporary shortages equi-
tably, as we must, and reestablish our
energy independence in the long run.
The energy crisis has brought to the
fore the need for a realistic balancing of
the demands of economic growth and the
demands of environmental protection.
Shortages of "clean" fuels will mean that
some temporary variances from air qual-
ity plans will be necessary to meet high
priority energy needs. The progress we
have made in pollution control in recent
years, however, along with reductions in
energy consumption, should insure that
overall air quality will continue to
improve.
The adverse impact of energy short-
ages on the economy could be aggravated
by shortages of other raw materials. A
comprehensive study on supplies of metal
ores and other basic resources and our
needs for them is now underway. This
study will help insure that our policies
properly anticipate potential problems.
We must also do everything we can to
avoid a shortage of agricultural commodi-
ties such as we experienced last year. For
many years this country enjoyed abun-
dant agricultural production. This abun-
dance not only met domestic needs, but
aided greatly in alleviating hunger and
malnutrition abroad. In 1972, however,
adverse conditions throughout much of
the world created widespread agricultural
shortages. Food costs began to spiral, both
here and abroad.
My Administration made a number of
important program changes in 1973 to
bring more farm land into production and
to increase farm output. These steps, com-
bined with favorable weather conditions,
made 1973 a record crop year; farm in-
come reached an all-time high level. Ag-
ricultural income now depends more upon
the private market, and less upon the
Government, than has been the case for
over 3 decades. In 1973, direct Govern-
ment payments to farmers experienced
their largest dollar decline in history.
HELPING PEOPLE THROUGH STATE AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Ours is a federal system of government.
Our Constitution, now nearly two cen-
turies old, provides for a logical division
of responsibilities among:
119
