Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 6 [34]
T
ing care through prepaid arrangements
offered by Health Maintenance Organi-
zations so the system at large does not
benefit from the free choice and creative
competition this would offer;
-Very few private policies cover pre-
ventive services;
-Most health plans do not contain
built-in incentives to reduce waste and
inefficiency. The extra costs of wasteful
practices are passed on, of course, to con-
sumers; and
-Fewer than half of our citizens under
65—and almost none over 65-have ma-
jor medical coverage which pays for the
cost of catastrophic illness.
These gaps in health protection can
have tragic consequences. They can cause
people to delay seeking medical atten-
tion until it is too late. Then a medical
crisis ensues, followed by huge medical
bills or worse. Delays in treatment can
end in death or lifelong disability.
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH INSURANCE
PLAN (CHIP)
Early last year, I directed the Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare to pre-
pare a new and improved plan for com-
prehensive health insurance. That plan,
as I indicated in my State of the Union
message, has been developed and I am
presenting it to the Congress today. I urge
its enactment as soon as possible.
The plan is organized around seven
principles:
First, it offers every American an op-
portunity to obtain a balanced, compre-
hensive range of health insurance
benefits;
Second, it will cost no American more
than he can afford to pay;
Third, it builds on the strength and
diversity of our existing public and
private systems of health financing and
harmonizes them into an overall system;
Fourth, it uses public funds only where
needed and requires no new Federal
taxes;
Fifth, it would maintain freedom of
choice by patients and ensure that doctors
work for their patient, not for the Federal
Government.
Sixth, it encourages more effective use
of our health care resources;
And finally, it is organized so that all
parties would have a direct stake in mak-
ing the system work-consumer, provider,
insurer, State governments and the Fed-
eral Government.
BROAD AND BALANCED PROTECTION FOR
ALL AMERICANS
Upon adoption of appropriate Federal
and State legislation, the Comprehensive
Health Insurance Plan would offer to
every American the same broad and
balanced health protection through one
of three major programs:
-Employee Health Insurance, cover-
ing most Americans and offered at their
place of employment, with the cost to be
shared by the employer and employee on
a basis which would prevent excessive
burdens on either;
-Assisted Health Insurance, covering
low-income persons, and persons who
would be ineligible for the other two pro-
grams, with Federal and State govern-
ment paying those costs beyond the means
of the individual who is insured; and,
-An improved Medicare Plan, cover-
ing those 65 and over and offered through
a Medicare system that is modified to in-
clude additional, needed benefits.
One of these three plans would be avail-
133
