Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 1 [29]
At the beginning of 1974 the three
problems which have dominated economic
policy for many years-inflation, unem-
ployment, and the balance of payments—
have been joined by a fourth-the
energy
problem. Or rather, the other three prob-
lems have been pervaded by the energy
problem. The present oil situation means
that we are paying much higher prices for
imported oil than formerly and that the
volume of imports at the present time is
less than we would freely buy even at
those prices. But the prices and volumes
are both highly uncertain and add uncer-
tainties to the economic picture for the
year.
The current and prospective oil situa-
tion will at the same time raise prices,
limit production in some industries, and
reduce demand in others. It will be the
objective of the Administration's policy
to do three things in this circumstance:
1. To keep the moderate slowdown of
the economic boom from becoming ex-
cessive because of the energy shortage;
2. To keep the rise of fuel prices from
spilling over unnecessarily into more infla-
tion in other parts of the economy; and
3. To set the stage for stronger eco-
nomic expansion with greater price stabil-
ity after the initial price and output dis-
ruptions caused by the energy shortage
have been absorbed.
Achieving these goals in this unpredict-
able economic environment will require
alertness and adaptability. We cannot set
a policy at the beginning of the year and
let it run without further consideration.
But we can describe the main elements of
our present strategy.
1. We will maintain a budget of moder-
ate economic restraint. Even though the
combination of urgent requirements and
inescapable commitments generates pres-
sures for huge expenditure increases, the
budget I will propose will keep the ex-
penditures within the revenues that the
tax system would yield at full employment.
2. We will be prepared to support eco-
nomic activity and employment by addi-
tional budgetary measures, if necessary.
3. We urge the Congress to enact the
legislation I proposed last year for im-
proving the unemployment compensation
system, with further strengthening amend-
ments I will submit. This would provide
better protection for workers who may lose
their jobs, whether because of the energy
shortage or for other reasons, and also
help to protect the economy better against
the secondary effects of their unemploy-
ment.
4. Working together with other con-
suming countries, including the devel-
oping countries, and with the oil-export-
ing countries, we will try to arrive at an
understanding on mutually beneficial con-
ditions of exchange.
5. We will try to manage the energy
shortage in such a way as to keep the loss
of jobs and production to a minimum, al-
though some loss is inevitable in the short
run. The allocation system is designed to
assure an adequate flow of oil to those in-
dustries where lack of it would limit em-
ployment the most. We shall also have
to provide or permit incentives—includ-
ing higher prices—for maximum imports,
for maximum domestic exploration and
production, and for efficient use of our
scarce supplies. To prevent higher prices
from causing excess profits, I have pro-
posed an Emergency Windfall Profits Tax,
which I urge the Congress to enact
promptly.
6. We will work with other oil-import-
ing countries to prevent the higher prices
of oil and its limited supply from gener-
107
