Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 8 [73]
never failed us when presented fully with
the actions and thoughts of political
aspirants.
The reforms I have put forward today
may not provide the panacea that some
seek for all the abuses, but they do pro-
vide the basis for the workable progress
that we do all seek.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. from
a room adjoining the Oval Office at the White
House. The address was broadcast live on na-
tionwide radio.
73 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Campaign
Reform Legislation. March 8, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
I. INTRODUCTION
The American people wield a mighty
instrument of free choice as they enter
the voting booth. Indispensable to the
health and integrity of that process is the
accountability of candidates for public
office.
Campaign abuses recently publicized
and of years gone by, samplings of Con-
gressional and public opinion, expert ob-
servation, the experiences of all of us in
elective office-all proclaim that the
electoral process needs reform and that
the accountability of candidates must
be more uniformly enforced. I commend
the Congress for its own recognition of
this need as evidenced by recent Senate
passage of two important reform meas-
ures, by the introduction of scores of re-
form bills, and by detailed analyses of
this entire area by many Members of
Congress in both Houses.
The Executive and the Congress have,
therefore, a common goal: reform that
works, reform that deals with the very real
concerns we have in a way which im-
proves the electoral system instead of
simply coating it with the appearance of
change.
I feel strongly that the reform we seek
must be realistic. For example, I continue
my interest in the possibilities of a six-
year, one-term Presidency and four-year
terms for Members of the House of Repre-
sentatives. Yet, the advantages of these
proposals are not so compelling as to merit
driving now for a constitutional amend-
ment. I do, however, urge further con-
sideration of these subjects both by the
Congress and the public.
Another such proposal, appealing but
in my view impracticable, is the so-called
Post Card Registration plan. Its goals are
laudatory, but not its practical results.
Testimony before the House Election
Subcommittee has already indicated that
the proposal's stated objective would not
be reached and the target groups not
registered. In addition to being an unwar-
ranted Federal intrusion in an area re-
served by the Constitution to the States,
post card registration would be an ad-
ministrative nightmare and would cause
chaos in existing registration systems. Of
even greater importance is the open invi-
tation to election fraud that would be in-
herent in so haphazard a system. I would
add that periodic in-person registration by
a citizen involves a personal and political
commitment that I would regret very
much to see us lose.
245
