Richard Nixon, 1974
June 15 [182]
I would like to assure you, Mr. President,
that for our part, we will pursue, realize, and
carry out every item that we have agreed upon,
both sides, between Dr. Kissinger and His Royal
Highness Prince Fahd, between the American
side and the Saudi side in the fields of coopera-
tion.
And I would like to reiterate my thanks and
gratification at your having taken the trouble
to grace us with this very kind and most wel-
come visit and certainly beseech Almighty God
to grant you continued success in your noble
endeavors.
Thank you.
182
Remarks of the President and President Hasez al Asad of
Syria at a State Dinner in Damascus. June 15, 1974
Mr. President, Mrs. Asad, Your Excellen-
cies, and distinguished guests:
Mr. President, on behalf of all your
guests tonight and particularly your
American guests, I express appreciation
for this magnificent dinner and for the en-
tertainment which accompanied it.
I was somewhat prepared for this eve-
ning by our Secretary of State, Henry Kis-
singer. He told me of his great respect
for
your quick intelligence, for your tough
negotiating ability, and also for your
statesmanship. And you, Mr. President,
have told me that there is a Syrian saying
to the effect that the guest's respect and
admiration for his host is directly meas-
ured by the amount of food the guest con-
sumes at the host's dinner.
I can now see why Henry Kissinger
gained 7 pounds in his 13 trips to Damas-
cus over the past 30 days. And whenever
we wear him out on his other travels
throughout the world, we will send him
back here to build him up.
And tonight, in addition to compli-
menting those who prepared this magni-
ficent dinner, all of them and those who
served it so beautifully, may I pay respects
on behalf of all our guests and your guests
tonight to the cultural groups who enter-
tained us so beautifully.
And it is my hope, Mr. President, that
with the cultural exchange program be-
tween our two countries being reestab-
lished, that a group like this—maybe this
one-you will choose to send to the United
States so that people in Washington and
other cities may be able to see it and hear
it, as we did tonight.
Mr. President, I am sure you must know
how I feel in my position standing here in
what is generally agreed to be the oldest
continually inhabited city in the world,
Damascus, and to realize that this city in
6,000 years has seen more of history than
any other continually inhabited city on the
whole globe.
And tonight, as you have indicated, this
ancient city with its honorable traditions,
its great history, sees another event which
will mark a new direction in the rela-
tions not only between two nations but, we
trust, between and among many nations
in this part of the world.
That new direction is symbolized by
what you have referred to, that this is
the first time a President of the United
States has ever visited Damascus, has ever
stood on Syrian soil. But it symbolizes far
more than that.
You have indicated the fact that a first
step has been taken toward the just and
equitable peace that we want for this area
of the world. And you have indicated very
eloquently, very directly, very candidly,
as you have always done, your concern
43-437 - 75 - 35
511
