[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
turn immediately to your questions, and
you shall have the entire period of ap-
proximately 50 minutes for questions.
I understand that they have asked me
to turn left. It is very hard for me to do so,
but I will for the first question.
QUESTIONS
YOUNG PEOPLE IN POLITICS
[1.] Q. Mr. President, would you en-
courage young people to get into politics
and, if so, how?
THE PRESIDENT. I know there is a
tendency these days for some young peo-
ple, because of the situation that politics
appears to be a profession-and I use the
word "profession" very advisedly and very
directly a profession where there are
those shares of mistakes which become
highly publicized and where the political
man or woman is subject sometimes to
unfair criticism and, in any event, to a
standard of conduct that is even higher
than that of most people, there is a ten-
dency of young people to throw up their
hands and say, "Let somebody else do it,
we are going to do something which suits
us more," or, you know, the common say-
ing is, "We want to do our own thing."
I would urge young people to get into
politics in America for several reasons.
First, if they don't like the way the polit-
ical system works, the way to do some-
thing about it is not to stay out and whine
about it, but to get in it and change it;
second, because this is a great time to
be in politics in America. I realize there
are those who would question that, ques-
tion it because of the problems we con-
front at home and those that we confront
abroad.
But today, what America does in meet-
ing its own problems at home and what
America does or fails to do in providing
leadership which, having now won a
peace, will keep the peace for a generation
and longer abroad, what America does is
absolutely indispensable.
This is a great challenge, and if I were
a young person and had the opportunity to
get into politics, I would want to be in
there working in politics rather than on
the outside.
Now, that doesn't mean everybody
should get in and run for office. There isn't
room for everybody to run for office. But
it does mean that every young person
should participate, either by actively being
in politics, or by supporting the candidate
of the party of his choice. And while he
will have his disappointments—he will
win some; he will lose some; I am an ex-
pert on both-I can assure you that get-
ting in and participating can be a moun-
taintop experience and particularly in
America at this time when what we do in
America will determine the future for 200
million Americans, but the future for 3
billion people on this Earth.
COOPERATION WITH SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
AND HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
[2] Q. Mr. President, you have said
on many occasions that you are willing to
cooperate with the Special Prosecutor and
Congress in this Watergate situation, but
going beyond a certain point might tend
to weaken the future constitutional rela-
tionship between the Presidency and Con-
gress. Now, I agree, but I think there is a
great deal of confusion among the public
and maybe not enough of a point made.
And I wonder if you would care to make
262
