Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 5 [33]
that we would not have to have any new
Federal taxes. The additional costs could
be paid for out of revenue that would be
already available. More importantly, our
entire health care system would not be
placed under the heavy hand of the Fed-
eral Government.
We would preserve and strengthen our
present health care system, rather than
destroy it. We would continue to rely on
partnership, not paternalism. And, as I
said in my State of the Union Message,
most importantly the great majority of
doctors in this Nation would be working
for their patients rather than be working
for the Government, and that is the key
element of this plan.
Now, without dotting all the "i's" or
crossing all the "t's," I believe that com-
prehensive health insurance is an idea
whose time has come. I believe that some
kind of program will be enacted in the
year 1974. There has long been a need to
assure that no American is denied high-
quality health care because he can't afford
it.
As costs go up, that need grows more
pressing, and all of you know how the
costs do go up. Now for the first time, we
have not just the need but the will to get
the job done, because there is widespread
support in the Congress for some kind of
action, even though there is disagreement
as to what the action should be.
If we have the will, 1974 should also
be the year that we find the way. The plan
that I am proposing this week is, I believe,
the best way. Improvements, undoubtedly,
can be made in it. We will welcome your
recommendations and suggestions, as well
as those of Members of Congress, the
medical professions, and others who are
expert in this field.
But above all, let us not fail to act in a
responsible way so that we end up acting
in an irresponsible way by just turning
everything over to the Federal Govern-
ment and providing for a plan that would
cost $80 to $100 billion in new taxes to
finance.
Just let me say this: I have seen most
of the nations of the world, along with
Mrs. Nixon. I admire all of the people
of the world, and while I disagree, as you
will disagree, with many of their systems
of government, we respect them as people.
But looking at health care, I have seen
nation after nation that has what is called
free medical care-nation after nation
that has totally controlled, government
subsidized medical care. Now, as far as
those countries are concerned, they went
that way, they have chosen that-if they
had an opportunity to choose-and that is
their right.
But we have a better way in the United
States. What they have tried abroad, in
my opinion, is not the best way for Amer-
ica. Let's profit from their mistakes and
not make the mistake of destroying what
I believe is the best medical care system
in the world. That we already have in the
United States.
Before I conclude, let me speak very
pragmatically to you now as one who has
observed the political scene for many
years.
Action is going to be taken of some
kind because there is a need. And when
there is a need, the Congress responds to
that need. And if a constructive plan to
meet the need is not presented to the Con-
gress, it will mean inevitably that a less
responsible plan, even, for example, one
that would appeal to the demagogs, would
be the inevitable result-not that I am
129
