Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 10 [108]
that I think is very important to have in
mind. One of the things I like about your
candidate is that he is not just against,
he is for, not only for you, but he is for
those things that will continue to make
America a great country, for doing those
things in the Congress, breaking the
bottleneck on energy legislation that will
provide what we need in the field of
energy and that will see that our auto-
mobile industry, that our agriculture has
the energy that it needs.
He will do those things in the field of
health and in the field of education that
will see to it that the Federal Govern-
ment's role is one that will provide the
best health and the best education. But
the decisions will be made by the people in
the cities and the towns across this coun-
try, rather than by bureaucrats in Wash-
ington.
And let me tell you, when I see the kind
of people that you have here in this dis-
trict, this is where the decisions ought
to be made and not in Washington, D.C.
And finally, I would like to give you, if
I could, just one hopeful sign about the
future of this country, as I see it, and its
place in the world. First, in terms of our
economy, because of the energy crisis
through which we have now passed, it now
has become simply a problem that we can
certainly deal with. Here is what I see in
the future if we get the kind of represen-
tation in the Congress that will fight for
you and for these programs that are for
America:
First, I see us having what we have not
had for 12 years in this country, pros-
perity without war and without inflation.
And let us be very thankful today, as we
see so many young people here, let us be
thankful that for the first time in 12 years,
America is at peace with all nations; for
the first time in 25 years, not one Ameri-
can is being drafted for the armed serv-
ices; for the first time in 8 years, all of our
POW's are at home and that we have the
best chance in our whole 200-year history
to build permanent peace in the world.
You ask how can I speak so confidently
on that? I can tell you that I have just
met with the leaders of the Soviet Union,
of England, France, Germany, and Italy,
the great European powers, representa-
tives, also, of the People's Republic of
China, where one-fourth of the world's
people live, representatives of Africa and
Asia, the heads of state and heads of gov-
ernment, when I was in Paris for a 2-day
visit. And I can tell you, they believe, as
I believe, that we now have the best
chance in world history to build a per-
manent peace.
It is going to require, however, that
America be strong, and your candidate,
Jim Sparling, stands for a strong America.
It is going to require that America lead,
and your candidate stands for leadership
for America. And it is going to require,
too, that America have the character and
the strength that I see up in this "Thumb"
area of Michigan.
I was interested to see, for example, a
few signs saying "thumbs up," and as I
complete my remarks to you, let me tell
you, I see for this younger generation a
period of peace, a period of prosperity
without war and without inflation, and
above all, the greatest opportunity that
any young generation has ever had in the
history of the world.
That is what we want for you. That is
what we are working for, and that is what
Jim Sparling will work for full-time. He
is not going to be a part-time Congress-
man; he has always worked full-time at
everything that he has done. He isn't go-
353
