[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
American consumers deserve access to
foreign-made products that might be less
expensive, or more interesting, or unavail-
able in the United States. But if trade is
to be advantageous over the long run, it
must be conducted on a basis which is fair
to all participants.
There are still many unnecessary bar-
riers to trade which need to be lowered
or removed. While improvements have
been made in this situation during the
last 10 years, we need now to build on
this progress and to negotiate for more
open access both to markets and supplies.
This is why I call upon the Congress with
special urgency to complete action on my
proposed Trade Reform Act, in order to
provide the authority we will need to
negotiate effectively for reductions in bar-
riers to trade, to improve the trading sys-
tem, and to manage trade problems at
home more effectively.
As the Senate considers this legislation,
I would draw its attention particularly to
provisions added in the House which
would seriously impede our efforts to
achieve more harmonious international
relationships. These provisions would ef-
fectively prevent both the extension of
nondiscriminatory tariff treatment and of
credits to certain Communist countries
unless they followed a policy which al-
lowed unrestricted emigration. I am con-
vinced that such a prohibition would only
make more difficult the kind of coopera-
tive effort between the United States and
other governments which is necessary if
we are to work together for peace in the
Middle East and throughout the world.
I am confident that by working with the
Congress we can find a solution to this
problem that will avoid a major setback
in our peacemaking efforts.
At the same time, we must move for-
ward with current negotiations to reform
the international payments system under
the auspices of the International Mone-
tary Fund. These negotiations are de-
signed to increase the opportunities for all
nations to trade and invest profitably. The
U.S. has already presented proposals for
deterring the growth of significant im-
balances in international monetary affairs
while preserving for each nation a wide
freedom in choosing how necessary adjust-
ments can best be accomplished. In addi-
tion, the system will also have to accom-
modate the increased payments flow and
prospective reserve accumulations occa-
sioned by higher oil prices. If, however,
other nations share with us the will to pre-
serve a healthy and growing world econ-
omy, I am confident that a mutually
acceptable solution to this problem will be
achieved.
In practice, this means that our markets
must increasingly be open to imports from
developing countries-a condition that
would be significantly facilitated by en-
actment of the Trade Reform Act. It also
means that the Congress must continue to
authorize and appropriate our fair share
of both bilateral and multilateral eco-
nomic assistance, including a substantial
contribution to the International Devel-
opment Association which helps the poor-
est countries. In 1973 we successfully
negotiated a reduction of the United
States share from 40 percent to one-third
of IDA funds. We cannot let the action
of the House in voting against IDA stand
as our final answer. We will work hard
with the Congress to ensure that this
country continues to play a leadership
role, consistent with our own economic
situation, so that long-term economic de-
velopment can continue to be planned in
an orderly manner.
60
