Richard Nixon, 1974
June 13 [175]
Q. What new pledges would you like,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I particularly enjoyed
the opportunity to see not only the offi-
cials, and for me to know people like Presi-
dent Sadat who will provide great leader-
ship for this part of the world, not only his
own country, but also to get a sense and
feeling about the people themselves, what
their problems are, what their hopes are,
what their feelings are toward America,
and how we can play a part in helping
them to a better way of life on a coopera-
tive basis.
Q. Do you think we ought to have a
railroad car like this in the United States,
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I must say that
I like the car, but what I like better is
the roadbed, because as I told President
Sadat, the roadbed between Cairo and
Alexandria is infinitely better than the
roadbed between Washington and New
York. As we know, that is almost an
obsolete roadbed, and when I go back,
I am going to tell some of our people that
railroads, instead of just concentrating on
building fancy new air-conditioned cars,
they ought to pick up the roadbed. This
is a smooth ride all the way.
I think too, I would only add to what
President Sadat has said, that he recog-
nizes as a mature leader of this part of
the world-he recognizes and feels very
deeply about the goals he wants to
achieve, and therefore, nobody can con-
demn him as being one who is not dedi-
cated to the goals that people in the sur-
rounding nations want to achieve.
On the other hand, he is a man who is
aware of the intricacies of international
diplomacy and realizes, as we do, that
where you have a number of nations with
different interests and different viewpoints
and different approaches, that rather than
a huge public forum as being the place to
put it all out on the table and solve it at
once and immediately and then have it
blowup, rather than having that ap-
proach, what is needed is the step-by-step
approach, not because we want to go
slow, but because we want to get there.
And so, nation by nation, first with
Egypt, then with Syria, taking up each
problem as it is timely to take it up in a
quiet, confidential way-like President
Sadat and I have talked to each other in
complete confidence—and we find that
we have a general agreement on a great
number of things, but particularly we un-
derstand the necessity in the field of di-
plomacy to handle each one of these
problems in a case-by-case, very consid-
erate basis, and not in a melodramatic
grandstand play where everybody cheers
and then all of a sudden it falls down.
I don't know whether the President
agrees or not.
Q. Mr. President, are you suggesting,
sir, that perhaps there should be more
bilateral talks before a Geneva confer-
ence?
THE PRESIDENT. We do not want in our
first stop to indicate that we are going to
say what ought to happen, because these
are decisions that must be made by each
of the leaders that we talk to. However,
I would say that before ever going to a
summit conference where a number of
leaders representing different viewpoints
sit down around a table, it is essential that
the way be prepared by bilateral discus-
sions in which you iron out those differ-
ences which can be ironed out before you
get to the summit. That is President
Sadat's recommendation, too.
493
