[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
dentiality that Presidents have fought for,
that Jefferson fought for, and other Presi-
dents through the years.
As far as I am concerned, I have co-
operated with the Special Prosecutor.
I will cooperate with the Rodino commit-
tee, not only by this turnover of docu-
ments that I have just referred to but
also with regard to agreeing to answer any
written interrogatories that they have un-
der oath, agreeing to answer any questions
that the chairman and the ranking mem-
ber might have after they have looked
over everything that we have turned over.
But when you come to the point of simply
saying to a committee of Congress with-
out regard to relevancy, before they deter-
mine what they say is an impeachable
offense, "Just come in and paw through
the documents," it would lead to two
things. One, it would delay the resolution
of this matter for months, and for that
matter perhaps years, in my opinion, be-
fore they would get through it all. And as
I said in my State of the Union Address, I
think one year of Watergate is enough.
But even more important than the delay
is that if you erode the principle of con-
fidentiality to the point that any adviser
to a President or anybody who talks to a
President does (has) no assurance what-
ever that what he says will be kept in con-
fidence, he isn't going to get the kind of
advice, the kind of criticism-and we get a
lot of that when people come into the of-
fice as well-that he needs to make the
right decision. And as far as I am con-
cerned, I will cooperate as fully as I
possibly can to get a prompt and just
resolution of this matter.
And second, however, I will do nothing
to weaken the Office of the Presidency,
because we need a strong President at this
time rather than a weak one.
VOTE OF CONFIDENCE PROVISION
[3] Q. Mr. President, do you see any
possible future merit in the United States
adopting some form of vote of confidence
provision within its Presidential selection
laws?
THE PRESIDENT. A vote of confi-
dence-I couldn't quite hear the question.
Q. A provision for a popular vote of
confidence within its laws, that
perhaps-
THE PRESIDENT. You mean a national
vote of confidence?
Q. -between elections a vote of con-
fidence might be held at some future time,
for the future?
THE PRESIDENT. There are those who
have suggested that. As a matter of fact,
you remember when President Truman
was rather low in the polls and, I think the
year was around 1947 or '48-Senator
Fulbright, a member of his party, sug-
gested that he should resign and set up
some sort of a coalition.
Senator Fulbright, of course, having
been educated in England, was thinking
of the British system and thought that we
ought to have it here. Well now, I think
the Founding Fathers made a very good
decision when they rejected that and
when they indicated that a President was
elected for 4 years and that he would be
removed from office only as defined by the
Constitution when found guilty by the
Senate of the United States of high crimes,
including, to be quite specific, the crime
of treason, bribery, or other high crimes
and misdemeanors.
Now, the reason that they rejected that
was that they felt that there was a need
for stability in the Chief Executive. They
did not want the instability that would
happen insofar as the so-called vote of
264
