Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
a few additional comments on that point.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first with regard
to cooperation, as you probably are aware,
we have cooperated with the Rodino.com-
mittee, the Judiciary Committee of the
House of Representatives, by my directing
that all of the materials that were fur-
nished to the Special Prosecutor have
been turned over to the Judiciary Com-
mittee. That includes 19 tapes of con-
fidential Presidential conversations-an
unprecedented turnover of confidential
materials-over 700 documents, and in
addition to that at the request of the com-
mittee, we have turned over from five
different executive departments and two
agencies several caseloads of documents
covering items of everything from Cost of
Living Council decisions with regard to
the price of hamburger to oil and import
quotas.
The question now, of course, arises, is
why not more? Because the committee, or
at least the staff members of the commit-
tee and the chairman of the committee
have indicated that they would like 42
more tapes, they would like more docu-
ments, and in addition to that, that they
would like an index of every document
in the White House over the past 5 years
so that their staff can determine what
other documents or other information
they need in order to find out whether
there is an impeachable offense.
Now first, being reasonable, it seems to
me, would be that the committee should
first examine what it has, because Mr.
Jaworski, the Special Prosecutor, said that
he had what he considered to be the full
story of Watergate, and we want the full
story out.
It has been before the Special Prose-
cutor; it is now before the committee.
Second, with regard to additional re-
quests, there are those who, I think, very
logically would raise the question: Well,
why not just give the members of the
Judiciary Committee the right to come in
and have all the tapes of every Presiden-
tial conversation, a fishing license or a
complete right to go in and go through all
the Presidential files in order to find out
whether or not there is a possibility that
some action had been taken which might
be and might result in an impeachable
offense.
The reason why we cannot go that far,
the reason why we have gone probably as
far as we have and even in going that far
have weakened the Office of the Presi-
dency is very simply this: It isn't a ques-
tion that the President has something to
hide; it is the fact that every President-
Democrat and Republican-from the
founding of this Republic, has recognized
the necessity of protecting the confiden-
tiality of Presidential conversations with
his associates, with those who come to see
him, be they Congressmen or Senators or
people from various parts of the country to
give advice. And if that confidentiality
principle is completely destroyed, future
Presidents will not have the benefit of
the kind of advice that an executive needs
to make the right decision. He will be
surrounded by a group of eunuchs insofar
as their advice is concerned, always fearful
that sometime in the future if they hap-
pen to have given an opinion which
turned out to be wrong that then they
would be held responsible for it-wrong,
I am not referring to being illegal, but
wrong in terms of whether or not it
worked.
In order to make the right decision,
you have to have opinions expressed very
freely, discussed very freely from a com-
pletely wide range. And it is that confi-
263
