Richard Nixon, 1974
[29]
Feb. 1 I
and the progress was less than we had
hoped. But the areas of our solid achieve-
ments were more important than the areas
of our disappointments. We and the world
around us have difficult tasks ahead-
primarily to deal with an old problem,
inflation, and to deal with one that has
just become acute, energy. But the
United States confronts these difficulties
with a strong and adaptable economy,
which means an economy of capable and
enterprising people.
In the middle of 1971, when the New
Economic Policy was launched, the coun-
try had three economic objectives: to
promote the expansion of output and re-
duce unemployment, to correct the per-
sistent deficit in the U.S. balance of pay-
ments, and to check the inflation which
had been going on for 5½ years. To
achieve these objectives a comprehensive
program of action was initiated. Taxes
were reduced. Price and wage controls
were instituted. The exchange rate of the
dollar was set free to adjust to market
conditions, and steps were initiated to im-
prove the international monetary system.
There has been great progress toward
two of these three objectives. Production
and employment have risen rapidly. To-
tal civilian employment was 6.8 million
higher in December 1973 than in June
1971. The unemployment rate had fallen
from 6 percent to a little under 5 percent.
In 1973 a larger percentage of the civil-
ian population over the age of 16 was
employed than ever before.
With vigorously rising employment, and
rising productivity as well, there was a big
increase in output of goods and services,
the essential ingredients of higher living
standards. In the 22 years of the New
Economic Policy, total output increased
by 14 percent, which is about 35 percent
above our average for a period of this
length. The real income of American con-
sumers per capita, after taxes, rose by 8/2
percent, also well above our long-term
rate. Both real output and real income,
of course, reached record highs.
The second goal of the New Economic
Policy, to strengthen the international fi-
nancial position of the United States and
of the world, was also largely achieved.
The significance of this goal is commonly
neglected in America. But a country
whose currency is weak, whose currency
others don't want to hold, is greatly limit-
ed in what its government and citizens can
do-in buying goods abroad, in traveling
freely, in investing freely, in maintain-
ing forces abroad if necessary. And
if a country goes on spending more
abroad than it earns abroad, its free-
dom of action is going to be curtailed.
There has been a dramatic change in our
balance of trade, from a deficit of $917
million in the second quarter of 1971 to
a surplus of $714 million in the third quar-
ter of 1973. We have not only improved
our own position but we have also taken
the lead in strengthening the international
system. The more flexible system we have
promoted withstood numerous shocks dur-
ing 1973, and at the same time the world
economy and international trade and in-
vestment continued to expand.
It is the third of the three objectives
of the New Economic Policy-the control
of inflation—that has been our great diffi-
culty. Until the end of 1972 the New Eco-
nomic Policy, drawing on the results of
earlier fiscal and monetary restraints,
worked well in getting the rate of inflation
down, even though worrisome rises in
food prices appeared. But in 1973 infla-
105
