[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
full speed ahead with our plans for a
joint space venture with the Soviets in
1975.
THE NEW FEDERALISM
Just as the rapidly changing and in-
creasing demands placed upon Govern-
ment have made it necessary to reorganize
the Federal structure, they have made it
even more imperative to make State and
local government stronger and more
effective.
During the last four decades, almost
every major attempt by the Government
to meet a major social need has resulted
in a new national program administered
in Washington by a new bureaucracy.
Forty years ago there were more than
600,000 Federal employees; today there
are more than 2.7 million. In the last
decade, this problem has grown acute. In
1960 there were some 200 Federal grant-
in-aid programs with outlays of $8 bil-
lion, but by 1970 there were nearly 1,000
and the total outlays had risen to $22 bil-
lion. And in the next fiscal year we expect
outlays for grant-in-aid programs to reach
$52 billion, even after our substantial
efforts to cut their number. This growth
in size, power and complexity has made
the Federal Government increasingly in-
accessible to the individual citizen it seeks
to help.
Many of our new national social pro-
grams have actually impeded the develop-
ment of effective local government. By
creating a Federal categorical grant sys-
tem of staggering complexity and diversity
we have fostered at the State and local
level:
-Overlapping and wasteful programs;
-Distorted budgets and priorities;
-Additional administrative expense;
-Delay and uncertainty; and
-A diminution in the authority and
responsibilities of State and local elected
officials, as Federal grants have become
the special province of competing
bureaucracies.
In one of the basic new directions of
my Administration, I proposed in 1969
that we create a new and fundamentally
different relationship between State and
local government, on the one hand, and
the Federal Government on the other.
This new relationship has come to be
known as the New Federalism. As I said
in 1969, its purposes are:
-To restore to the States proper rights
and roles in the Federal system with a new
emphasis on local responsiveness;
-To provide both the encouragement
and necessary resources for local and State
officials to exercise leadership in solving
their own problems;
-To narrow the distance between peo-
ple and the Government agencies dealing
with their problems;
-To restore strength and vigor to State
and local governments where elected offi-
cials know best the needs and priorities of
their own constituents; and
-To shift the balance of political power
away from Washington and back to the
country and the people.
With the help of both the Congress and
the Administration, this new relationship
among local, State and Federal govern-
ments has begun to take shape:
-In 1972, the Congress enacted our
General Revenue Sharing program, and
already more than $11 billion of new
money has been put to work in over 38,-
000 units of State and local government.
-Funding through the Law Enforce-
ment Assistance program has demon-
92
