Richard Nixon, 1974
[181]
June 15
United States of America and wish to cooperate
with her for the benefit of the Arab world in
general and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in
particular.
We also hope that the visit which our brother,
His Royal Highness Prince Fahd, has just paid
to the United States of America will be the
beginning of a constructive and fruitful co-
operation between the two friendly nations.
181
Mr. President, may you convey to our friends
in the United States and to the friendly Ameri-
can people our deepest thanks and great
appreciation.
Once more, Mr. President, I welcome Your
Excellency and the distinguished members of
your party in our country, wishing you all a
happy stay.
Thank you.
Remarks at the Conclusion of Discussions With
King Faisal of Saudi Arabia. June 15, 1974
Your Majesty, Your Royal Highnesses,
Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
Once again, it has been my great privi-
lege and pleasure to meet with Your
Majesty, as well as with Crown Prince
Khalid and other members of the Saudi
Arabian Government.
Our talks have been constructive and
far-reaching, covering problems on the
whole world. We have particularly di-
rected our attention to, and have reviewed
in detail, the momentous changes that are
occurring in this area of the world, the
Middle East.
While we both recognize that impor-
tant steps have already been taken on the
long road to permanent peace in this area,
there is much that remains to be done in
reaching our goal.
And the United States intends to per-
severe in its active efforts to achieve this
difficult but great goal of a permanent
and equitable and just peace in this area,
and essential elements in the search for
peace are the fundamental developments
we are witnessing in American relations
with Saudi Arabia and with other nations
in the Arab world.
The American and Arab nations are
rapidly moving into an era of close co-
operation and interdependence, an era
unprecedented in the long history of our
relationships. It is entirely fitting that one
of the first manifestations of this new era
should come in the relationships between
Saudi Arabia and the United States, the
two nations that have been closely bound
by ties of friendship for more than three
decades.
In exploring avenues of cooperation,
His Majesty and I have focused, in par-
ticular, on the work of the joint commis-
sions which were agreed to a week ago
during the visit of His Royal Highness
Prince Fahd and other senior Saudi minis-
ters to Washington. These commissions
and the goals they represent hold rich
promise for the future of Saudi Arabia
and for the future of the entire Mideast.
And, Your Majesty, the United States
intends to be Saudi Arabia's active and
constructive partner in insuring the suc-
cess of these goals.
His Majesty and I have also reviewed
the efforts by the United States to assist
Saudi Arabia in maintaining its defense
forces. Our two nations are totally dedi-
cated to peace. But to achieve that goal in
this area, Saudi Arabia must have a level
of security that is consistent with its role
as a leader in this part of the world. If
Saudi Arabia is strong and secure, as it
509
