[211] July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
plex subject, but we did bring such an
accord significantly closer, and we com-
mitted both sides firmly to the resolution
of our remaining differences.
The second important arms control
agreement that we reached deals with the
antiballistic missile systems. You will re-
call that 2 years ago we agreed that each
country should be limited to two ABM
sites. The agreement we signed earlier
today in Moscow strengthens and extends
the scope of that earlier measure by re-
stricting each country to one ABM site.
And then the third arms limitation
agreement deals with underground testing
of nuclear weapons. It extends signifi-
cantly the earlier steps toward limiting
tests that began with the 1963 test-ban
treaty. That original treaty barred the
signatories from conducting tests in the
atmosphere, in outer space, and under-
water. Today, we concluded a new treaty
that for the first time will also cover tests
underground. It will bar both the Soviet
Union and the United States, after
March 31, 1976, from conducting any
underground test of weapons above a cer-
tain explosive power, and it will also re-
quire both countries to keep tests of
weapons below that power to the very
minimum number.
This is not only another major step
toward bringing the arms race under
control, it is also a significant additional
step toward reducing the number of nu-
clear and thermonuclear explosions in the
world.
Now, arms limitations, of course, are
enormously and crucially important, but
the work of these summit meetings is much
broader, just as the nature of the new
United States-Soviet relationship is much
broader. This year, the important new
agreements we reached in the area of
peaceful progress included new programs
for cooperation between our two countries
in energy, in housing, in health, and also
an agreement on long-term economic co-
operation designed to facilitate increasing
mutually beneficial trade between our two
countries.
The significance of these agreements
goes beyond the advances each will bring
to its particular field, just as the signifi-
cance of our summit meetings goes beyond
the individual agreements themselves.
With this growing network of agreements,
we are creating new habits of cooperation
and new patterns of consultation, and we
are also giving the people of the Soviet
Union, as well as our own people in the
United States, not just a negative, but a
positive stake in peace.
We are creating a stable new base on
which to build peace, not just through the
fear of war but through sharing the bene-
fits of peace, of working together for a
better life for the people of both of our
countries.
The United States-Soviet agreements
at the summit contribute importantly to
the structure of peace we are trying to
build between our two countries and in the
world. The continued strength of the
Western Alliance is also an essential and
major element of that structure and so,
too, is the development of a new pattern
of relationships and a new attitude toward
peace in areas of tension such as the Mid-
dle East.
The fact that the NATO meeting in
Brussels came midway between the trip
to the Middle East and the one to the
Soviet Union is symbolic of the central
role that the Western Alliance must play
in building the new structure of peace.
580
