Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 10 [108]
because the morale of the people of Xenia
couldn't be higher. I am telling you, in any
kind of competition I want them, cer-
tainly I will bet on them.
Q. Thank you very much.
NOTE: On April 13, 1974, the President re-
ceived a report on Federal assistance to disaster
victims in the 10-State area hit by tornadoes.
The report was submitted by James T. Lynn,
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
and Thomas P. Dunne, Federal Disaster Assist-
ance Administrator.
107 Remarks on Departure
Air Force Base, Ohio.
WELL, as you know, I have come here
for the purpose of inspecting the tornado
damage in the Xenia area. But I didn't
want this opportunity to pass without
again expressing appreciation to those who
are stationed here at Wright-Patterson for
your service to the Nation in the various
capacities, both civilian and military, in
which you are occupied.
I have just talked to Congressman
[Clarence J.] Brown and asked him
whether he thought this facility should be
moved to Florida. [Laughter] He said we
decided that a year and a half ago.
I can assure you that we have the great-
est of confidence not only in this facility
but also in its location, and when we
think that aviation really began here, this
must always be, as it is now, one of the
great Air Force installations for the
United States of America.
You have helped to make it great, and
From Wright-Patterson
April 9, 1974
we appreciate your service in this particu-
lar area.
I have often said, too, that in this period
now when we are at peace with all na-
tions in the world, in order to maintain
that peace, we have to maintain the
strength of America. And having just re-
turned from Europe, where I met with
the leaders of most of the nations of the
world, I can tell you that America's
strength militarily is respected—and we
will maintain that strength-but also
America's character is respected.
We are the leaders of the free world,
and each of you, in your individual capac-
ity in your service either on the military
or the civilian side, you help to make
America the nation that it is, able to play
the great role of peacemaker in the world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:13 p.m. at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.
108 Remarks During a Campaign Tour of Michigan's
Eighth Congressional District.
[1.] SAGINAW COUNTY (Tri-City Airport,
11:11a.m.)
Governor Milliken, Senator Griffin,
Congressman Cederberg, and Congress-
man-to-be Jim Sparling:
April 10, 1974
I am very delighted to be here in Cougar
country. And having mentioned the [Bay
City All-Saints High School] Cougars, I
do want to thank all of those bands that
are here from the MacArthur High
School, the Eisenhower High School, the
345
