[97] Apr. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
The increases anticipated after the sum-
mer freeze on prices were spread out over
time with the help of the Phase IV regu-
latory mechanism.
Phase IV was also designed to provide
an effective system of tight standards and
compliance procedures that would lead to
a gradual return of industry and labor to
the free market. Throughout the fourth
quarter, decontrol proceedings demon-
strated that the public and private sectors
of our economy can work cooperatively
and effectively to meet common goals of
price restraint. As part of the commit-
ments under which they were removed
from mandatory controls, many firms have
pledged voluntary price control. More
importantly for the future, many have
stepped-up their capital expenditure plans
to enlarge supplies-the only really effec-
tive way to halt inflation.
We are firm in our commitment to
meet the challenge of inflation. The
energy shortage and the problems result-
ing from it have significantly added to
this challenge. We can, however, look
with satisfaction to the efforts and sac-
rifices our Nation has made in response to
these problems.
The Congress is presently debating the
Administration's recommendation for
continued stabilization authority and this
Administration stands ready to work with
the Congress to develop effective ma-
chinery for economic stabilization.
The White House,
April 2, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, covering the period from
October 1 through December 31, 1973, is en-
titled "Economic Stabilization Program Quar-
terly Report" (Government Printing Office,
173 pp.).
98 Statement on the Death of President Georges Pompidou
of France. April 2, 1974
IN THE death of President Georges
Pompidou, France has lost one of her
great leaders, and the world has lost a
great statesman.
My profound personal regret is deep-
ened by the fact that President Pompi-
dou's first official visit upon acceding to
office was to the United States. On that
occasion and in my other meetings with
him, I found him to be a man of vision,
constraint, consistency, and enormous
strength of character. He came from the
Auvergne, the heart of France, and he
reflected all the spirit and strength of
the French people.
It was characteristic of his courage that
despite his illness, he did not falter in his
service to his people, nor to the purposes
of world peace.
The people of America join me in ex-
tending our deepest sympathy to the peo-
ple of France.
NOTE: President Pompidou, 62, was President
of France from 1969 until his death in Paris.
On April 3, 1974, the White House an-
nounced that the President had sent messages
of condolence to Madam Pompidou and Alain
Poher, President of the French Senate.
332
