Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 6 [70]
Congressional district in Cincinnati yes-
terday. What is your opinion of that?
THE PRESIDENT. It might have. In fact,
it was said also it may have had an effect
on the election in Michigan.2
But reflecting for a moment on off-year
elections—and I know you are somewhat
of an expert on this; of course, all of you
are experts on off-year elections—a first
point is that we have had six since the
1972 elections. The Republicans have
won three and we have lost three. In
fact, yesterday we won in California, as
you know, and when one Republican can
beat eight Democrats in one race, that is
a pretty good showing.3
The other point is that as far as off-
year elections, as distinguished from the
British system where they seem to point as
to what will happen in the general elec-
tion, they seem to have exactly the reverse
effect in this country.
For example, I found that between 1964
and 1966 the Republicans won 5 and the
Democrats won 7 Congressional seats, and
yet the Republicans won 47 seats in 1966.
Also, reflecting to the past, after Gen-
eral Eisenhower's landslide victory in
1956, we lost 47 seats in the House just 2
years later in 1958 because of a recession.
And after President Johnson's landslide
victory in 1964, his party lost 47 seats in
the House, just 2 years later, because of a
war.
This year, we are not going to have a
In two special elections, Thomas A. Luken
was elected to the First Congressional District
of Ohio on March 5, 1974, and Richard F.
Vander Veen, a Democrat, was elected to the
Fifth Congressional District of Michigan on
February 18.
3 Robert Lagomarsino was elected to the 13th
Congressional District of California on
March 5, 1974.
war. We are going to be making further
progress toward peace-at least that is our
goal, and I think we will achieve it—
and we are not going to have a recession.
So, I believe that the dire predictions
that are made as to what is going to hap-
pen in November, because of what has
been happening this spring, will be proved
to be wrong.
MATERIALS FOR IMPEACHMENT
INVESTIGATION
[9.] Mr. Kempster [Norman Kemp-
ster, Washington Star-News].
Q. Mr. President, in your answer to
Mr. Cormier's question, you spoke of an
expeditious conclusion of the impeach-
ment hearings in the House. Would it not
serve the purpose of a speedy conclusion
of these hearings for you to give the com-
mittee whatever materials, tapes, and
documents they consider pertinent to their
investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. It would not lead to a
speedy conclusion; it would delay it in my
opinion. Because if all that is really in-
volved in this instance is to cart every-
thing that is in the White House down to
a committee and to have them paw
through it on a fishing expedition, it will
take them not a matter of months, so that
they can complete their investigation and,
we trust, their decision by the first of
May-which I understand is Mr. Rodino's
object-but it would take them months
and perhaps even as long as a year.
We will furnish the information we fur-
nished Mr. Jaworski, the Special Prosecu-
tor, all of which he considered to be
relevant. We will furnish, as I have in-
dicated, written interrogatories on any
other relevant material. And we will also
235
