[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
MAKING GOVERNMENT WORK BETTER
On taking office five years ago, one
of the first needs I sought to address was
the organization of the executive branch
of Government-for the plain fact is that
the only way Government gets anything
done is through its organizational struc-
ture, and how well it can perform de-
pends in large measure on how well it is
organized.
Because the needs of the Nation con-
tinue to change, and because the activities
of Government must respond to those
changes, the patterns of Government or-
ganization that might have been fine in
the 1930s or even in the 1960s, may be
hopelessly out of date in the 1970s.
Therefore, early in my first term I estab-
lished an expert commission to survey
the organization of the executive branch
and to recommend improvements to meet
present-day needs. The reports of this
commission contributed significantly to
the reorganizations that I ordered and
that I recommended, including the pro-
posal I put forward three years ago for
a sweeping reorganization of the execu-
tive branch, consolidating seven of the
present Cabinet departments into four
new units.
Although this basic restructuring has
not been enacted by the Congress, other
progress of a substantial nature has been
made in modernizing the Government.
For example, we have established:
-The United States Postal Service,
taking the post office out of politics;
-The Office of Management and
Budget, providing a strong management
arm to assist in coordinating the func-
tions of the executive branch;
-A restructured National Security
Council;
-The Domestic Council to coordinate
domestic policy formulation;
-The Council on Environmental
Quality, the Environmental Protection
Agency, and the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, all to pro-
vide leadership in meeting our vital en-
vironmental needs;
-The Special Action Office for Drug
Abuse Prevention and the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration;
-The Council on Economic Policy, to
facilitate the formation and execution of
overall economic policy;
-The Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy, to focus on an area increas-
ingly important both to our foreign rela-
tions and to our domestic economy;
-ACTION, to provide stronger co-
ordination and incentives for volunteer
activities;
-The Cost of Living Council, to help
stabilize prices; and,
-The Federal Disaster Assistance Ad-
ministration, to help individuals and com-
munities struck by natural disasters.
Each of these reorganization steps was
designed to meet a specific need more ef-
fectively, or to respond to newly urgent
needs. Several were accomplished under
the reorganization plan authority which
has been available to every President in
the last 25 years, but which expired last
March. This authority-which is utilized
only with the concurrence of the Con-
gress-continues to be necessary in order
to keep abreast of changing needs, and I
urge that it be reinstituted.
Of special concern today is the reorga-
nization of the Government to meet the
energy crisis. I have by Executive Order
already established the Federal Energy
Office to serve as a focal point for energy
actions taken by the Government.
94
