Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 24 [19]
to State and local governments to help
pay
educational costs, I see no reason for
all American taxpayers to continue subsi-
dizing this special group of school dis-
tricts. However, a transition period is
needed for districts which have depended
heavily on these Federal funds. I will
therefore propose that no local school dis-
trict whose subsidy is being terminated
will lose more than 5 percent of its total
operating budget in the first year that we
phase out the program. It is only fair to
give school districts as much notice as
possible to plan and conform their budgets
to Federal financing policies.
TARGETING AID FOR DESEGREGATION
In coming weeks, I will send to the
Congress a proposal for a new project
grant program to aid school districts un-
dergoing voluntary or court-ordered de-
segregation. This program should replace
the current Emergency School Aid Act
when the act expires this June.
A national formula program is no
longer needed to handle this problem.
What is needed is a targeted approach to
solve specific problems.
As opposed to the national formula now
employed under the Emergency School
Aid Act, the new project grant program
would target desegregation aid to solve
specific programs. In addition, we will
continue to provide technical assistance
to local districts, helping them to meet
problems relating to desegregation.
PROVIDING FOR INDIAN CHILDREN
A targeted approach is also needed to
deal more effectively with the needs of
Indian children. There is a special Fed-
eral responsibility to provide educational
services to Indian tribes and communities,
and we propose to place emphasis on proj-
ect grants for this purpose.
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
Because of the great diversity of our
Nation, we must also provide special as-
sistance to children of families whose na-
tive language is other than English. I ask
the Congress to continue support for dem-
onstration projects which help develop
better ways to provide bilingual education.
IV. POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION
This Administration is committed to
the goal that no qualified student should
be denied a college education because of
a lack of funds. Today we are in a posi-
tion to accomplish a major expansion of
student opportunities and choice.
An education beyond high school is a
major goal of many young Americans to-
day. In recent years, however, the cost of
college or other training has threatened
to price this dream beyond the means of
many families.
Since 1970 I have been urging the
Congress to enact and fund student aid
programs that would reduce to manage-
able size the problem of financing higher
education for all families.
EXPANDING AID TO NEEDY STUDENTS
In 1972 the Congress responded by en-
acting the Basic Educational Opportunity
Grant program, the primary vehicle for
reaching the neediest students. The cur-
rent program provides for an average
grant of only $260 and limits eligibility to
entering freshmen. The program I pro-
pose for FY 1975-totaling $1.3 billion—
37
