[178] June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
and because of the drastic steps which it is
taking now in order to try and bring a settle-
ment to a painful situation that has existed for
over a quarter of a century in the Middle East.
Your visit, Mr. President, has actually come
in the wake of concentrated efforts that have
been exerted and which were crowned by the
disengagement agreements that were signed
on both the Egyptian and Syrian fronts.
And you personally, Mr. President, have had
great efforts which we are indeed thankful for.
And at the same time, your Secretary of State,
Mr. Kissinger, who knows no rest at all and
no respite in his efforts, he also has a role that
will always remain known and recognized.
And once again, I find that I have to formu-
late the situation as we conceive it before you.
And this position, we feel, has three main fac-
tors: We find that the disengagement agree-
ment, although it has contributed immensely in
breeding the right climate, we believe that it
still remains to be a military issue that had
only to do with the implementation of the
Security Council resolutions dealing with the
cease-fire.
We find that the disengagement agreements
have actually opened the door before an issue
that needs a lot of efforts, and we believe that
we cannot possibly belittle the dimensions of
those great efforts.
And this, in fact, is the only alternative
against the painful recurrence of war.
The second factor is that we have to admit
that the crux of the whole problem in the Mid-
dle East are the legitimate rights of the Pales-
tine people, and unless this is implemented, we
feel that the prospects of peace in the Middle
East will be dwindling.
The third factor is that from the bottom of
our hearts, we do welcome the change that
has occurred in the American position, and we
actually welcome and feel satisfied with this
new spirit and this positive policy.
We all, and I personally, have been very
frank from the very beginning, and I have
actually submitted and expressed initiatives
to our victorious troops on the front and to
the whole world and with full determination to
pursue that policy.
But I feel that these efforts cannot possibly
implement everything on their own, but I feel
that in order to implement this drive of ours,
all the parties have to admit that the 6th of
October has brought a change, and it has dis-
sipated forever the fantasy that there could be
anything that can be achieved by the force of
arms or to try and impose a certain will.
And it is upon such conviction by all the
parties of such principles that peace can pos-
sibly be established. And it is indeed with satis-
faction that I have to say that all the bilateral
talks that have taken place between President
Nixon and myself, or whether President Nixon
and United States Secretary Dr. Kissinger and
myself, and Minister Ismail Fahmy, that is on
the official plane, or whether the meetings that
have taken place unofficially during that visit,
I believe that this all enhances our feeling that
a great deal is being done for the establishment
of peace.
We shall do our very best actually to pursue
this line of conduct so that the cooperation be-
tween our two countries should be based on
mutual respect and for a broader sphere of
cooperation.
Allow me that personally I would say that
this visit has been an excellent opportunity for
me and for Mrs. Sadat to get to welcome a great
statesman and the head of a very great state,
President Nixon and Mrs. Nixon, and a tribute
to a great lady that stands by her husband in
the assumption of a great role.
In the name of the people of Egypt, I would
like to express once again our happiness that we
have been able to welcome President Nixon and
Mrs. Nixon and were to welcome him on that
visit, a visit which we feel has been of para-
mount importance and most fruitful, and we do
hope that the practical effect of that visit would
appear in the very near future. Thank you.
Earlier the same day, President and Mrs.
Nixon, accompanied by President and Mrs.
Sadat, had visited the Pyramids.
502
