Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 10 [74]
needed. To provide that leadership, I will
tomorrow nominate Mr. John Warner to
serve as Administrator of the Bicentennial
Administration. Mr. Warner has given dis-
tinguished service to the Nation for the
past 2 years as Secretary of the Navy, and
I know he will bring those same
skills and energies to the Bicentennial
Administration.
As his first order of business, I have di-
rected Mr. Warner to prepare for me a
summary and projection of all Bicenten-
nial planning in the public and private
sectors and to present them at an early
meeting of the full Cabinet.
Because the Bicentennial belongs to the
entire Nation, it must be a completely
nonpartisan effort. In the appointments
I shall be making to the Bicentennial Ad-
visory Council and the Board of Direc-
tors, I shall insist on this principle, and I
know that everyone involved will share
this nonpartisan spirit.
Mr. Warner and his staff will call upon
groups and communities all over America
to prepare a truly national celebration.
The Federal Government will help in
this effort, but above all, it will be a citi-
zen celebration. It will be successful be-
cause the people, not the Government,
will make it successful, just as America's
unprecedented progress over the past 200
years has been due primarily to what peo-
ple have done rather than what govern-
ment has done.
The Bicentennial is not going to be in-
vented in Washington, printed in tripli-
cate by the Government Printing Office,
mailed to you by the U.S. Postal Service,
and filed away in your public library.
Instead, we shall seek to trigger a chain
reaction of tens of thousands of individual
celebrations-large and small-planned
and carried out by citizens in every part
of America. We have already made sub-
stantial progress toward that goal.
Hundreds of cities, towns, counties, and
other organizations have joined the Bi-
centennial Communities program since it
was inaugurated last summer. Thousands
more have been invited, based upon their
plans and projects. As of today, 482 com-
munities have drawn up plans for partic-
ipation and have been designated as Bi-
centennial Communities. Each of these
plans includes a project to improve the
life of the community in fields like art,
recreation, education, and housing, not
just in 1976 but for years to come.
Naturally, the urban centers that played
a major role during America's early his-
tory will play a major role in the Bicen-
tennial.
Philadelphia, which housed the Con-
tinental Congress that drew up the Decla-
ration of Independence, has over 300 dif-
ferent Bicentennial projects underway,
many of them located near Independence
Hall.
New York City, among other projects,
plans to redevelop the South Street Sea-
port, one of the Nation's oldest ports, and
to restore several historic ships. Tentative
plans have also been made for the city, in
July of 1976, to play host to "Operation
Sail '76," a fleet of tall, full-rigged sailing
vessels arriving from around the world to
honor the United States on our 200th
anniversary.
Boston is restoring such historic struc-
tures as Faneuil Hall, Quincy Market,
and the Old State House.
Washington, D.C., is preparing for an
estimated 45 million foreign and domestic
visitors with projects such as the new Na-
tional Visitor Center, the Eisenhower
Civic Center, Constitution Gardens, and
the National Air and Space Museum of
253
