[79] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, the progress in developing decla-
rations on the security front has gone
forward on schedule. However, I regret
to report, as I have written to Chancellor
Brandt, the present Chairman of "The
Nine," I regret to report that on the eco-
nomic and political front the progress has
not gone forward, and we face the situa-
tion that, therefore, if the heads of govern-
ment were to meet at this time, for ex-
ample in the month of April, we would
simply be papering over difficulties and
not resolving them.
But to just conclude the question with
an observation for our European friends
and for us, let me say, first: The Euro-
pean-American alliance is important to
the peace of the world as well as to our-
selves. The second point is, as far as secu-
rity is concerned the United States is in-
dispensable to the security of Europe, not
only our presence in Europe but also the
fact of our nuclear strength.
Now, the Europeans cannot have it
both ways. They cannot have the United
States participation and cooperation on
the security front and then proceed to
have confrontation and even hostility on
the economic and political front. And un-
til the Europeans are willing to sit down
and cooperate on the economic and politi-
cal front as well as on the security front,
no meeting of heads of government should
be scheduled.
I believe we will work out the coopera-
tion, but I think it is very well for all na-
tions in the world to understand that the
day of the one-way street is gone. The
United States has been very generous to
its allies and friends and to its former ene-
mies. We will continue to be as generous
as we can. But whether it is in the field
of trade or whether it is in any other field,
it is essential that we get what, I would
say, a fair break for our producers, just as
we try to give a fair break to their pro-
ducers.
And we cannot have in Europe, for ex-
ample, confrontation on the economic and
political front and cooperation on the se-
curity front.
I do not mean to leave this question
with the impression that the European
and American alliance is shattered. It is
not. I do indicate, however, that it is a
time when the Europeans as well as we
must sit down and determine that we are
either going to go along together on both
the security and the economic and politi-
cal fronts or we will go separately.
Because I can say one thing: I have had
great difficulty in getting the Congress to
continue to support American forces in
Europe at the level that we need to keep
them there. In the event that the Congress
gets the idea that we are going to be faced
with economic confrontation and hostility
from "The Nine," you will find it almost
impossible to get Congressional support
for continued American presence at pres-
ent levels on the security front.
Now, we do not want this to happen.
That is why I have urged my friends in
Europe, our friends in Europe, to consider
this proposition. It does not mean that we
are not going to have competition, but it
does mean that we are not going to be
faced with a situation where the nine
countries of Europe gang up against the
United States-the United States which
is their guarantee for their security. That
we cannot have.
MR. CLARK. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Ladies and gentlemen,
I only asked the mayor to come up here
because I just wanted to assure this au-
276
