Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 12 [76]
the peace; we will only use it if it was in
order to help deter war and keep the
peace.
But the key to the United States to be
able to play the role of peacemaker in the
world lies in strength. Military strength is
part of it, the strength of our will is part of
it. The respect that we have as a nation is
part of it, respect for ourselves and respect
of other nations that we gain by how we
conduct ourselves in the world.
But in terms of peace in the years
ahead, we must remember that as dis-
tinguished before World War I, when we
could look across the ocean and look at
other nations, then the British and the
French, who were powerful and could
carry the burden until we came in, and in
the World War II when we could look to
other nations, then again the British and
the French before they were taken over,
and let them hold until we came in today
the world has changed. And whether we
like it or not—and many Americans per-
haps do not like it-we do not like the
burden, because we would like to get it
lifted from us. But this is the fact of inter-
national life.
There is no other nation in the free
world that has the strength, that has the
respect to help keep the peace and play
the great role, an honored role of peace-
maker in the world, whether it is in the
Mideast or any other part of the world.
Let me put it quite directly: When we
talk about budgets, on which Chairman
Mahon is one of the premier experts, not
only in the United States and the world,
I am not suggesting that they are sacro-
sanct. But I do know this: that in terms of
the defense budget of the United States,
it is essential that at this particular time
when we finally have achieved peace, that
the United States keep the strength that
we need to keep the peace.
It is particularly essential that we not
listen to those who say that we should uni-
laterally reduce our forces when others
who are equally strong do not reduce
theirs. Only when others mutually agree
to reduce theirs do we reduce ours. Put-
ting it quite bluntly, let us be sure that the
United States never in this time becomes
the second strongest nation in the world.
And in using that term, it is not said in
any sense of jingoism, but only because
that is the key to peace, the strength of
America properly used, as it has been used
in this century, for that great cause.
Could I now say a word to these 53 win-
ners. I know there was only one tonight,
Mr. Russo from California,¹ but let me say
that I consider all 53 to be winners. You
won in your own States or territories, as
the case might be. You have come here to
Washington, and although you may not
have been first today, remember, you can
lose one time and win the next. I know;
I'm an expert on that.
So, keep trying, keep working, and we
all know that we need each and every one
of you, each of the young men and young
women here. We need you in American
public life, and the fact that you are start-
ing so young, with so much idealism at this
period, speaks well for the future of our
country.
Sometimes you may hear it said that
this is rather a poor time for someone to be
young in America because of all the bur-
dens that we have, some of which I have
referred to, at home and abroad. But
don't you believe it. The fact that America
does have this burden-the fact that
1 Steven B. Russo, of Santa Clara, Calif., was
first-place winner in the VFW's "Voice of
Democracy" oratorical contest on the theme,
"My Responsibility as a Citizen."
259
