[123] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
the time of Hurricane Agnes as I went
around and talked to the people who had
suffered so much.
And it was true just a few weeks ago
when I was in Xenia, Ohio, where a tor-
nado had torn through a city and left
destruction such as I had never seen be-
fore, except possibly of an earthquake in
Anchorage, Alaska. And as I drove along
I saw a very moving sight. In place after
place, there were modest homes that had
been there. They were gone. Nothing was
left but the rubble. But standing there,
planted there, was an American flag.
When you have people who go through
that kind of tragedy and who are still
proud of their country, proud of their city,
proud of their State, then let me tell you,
there is nothing wrong with the heart of
America. This country is going to provide
the leadership that is needed.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:34 p.m. in the
International Ballroom of the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel, where the Chamber of Commerce
was holding its 62d annual meeting.
Edward B. Rust was past president and in-
coming chairman of the organization's executive
committee, and Arch N. Booth was incoming
president of the organization.
124 Statement About the Termination of the Economic
Stabilization Program. May 2, 1974
FOR MANY years, inflation has been the
major economic problem facing the
United States. It continues to be our num-
ber one economic challenge today, and it
must be fought vigorously and on many
fronts.
More than 2 months ago, the Adminis-
tration proposed legislation which would
provide for the temporary continuation of
mandatory economic controls in two im-
portant areas of the economy: medical
care and construction.
In addition, our proposals would have
assigned the Cost of Living Council a con-
tinued role in a number of nonmandatory
activities. The Council would have been
responsible for working on problems of
increasing supplies, especially in areas
where governmental policies have a sig-
nificant impact such as agriculture, trans-
portation, and construction; it would work
with the private sector to increase capacity
and productivity; and it would seek to
improve the structure and performance of
collective bargaining without mandatory
controls.
These proposals, which were based on
our experience in combating inflation
since the first overall freeze was imposed
in 1971, were to serve a vital but limited
purpose. They were not intended to place
the entire economy under continuing con-
trols or under the shadow of standby con-
trols. As I said on August 15, 1971, when
the first freeze was begun, we must not
commit the American economy to a strait-
jacket of controls. The record since has
affirmed the wisdom of that philosophy.
Mandatory wage and price controls of the
last 3 years have served a useful func-
tion, especially in their early stages, but
increasingly they have become obstacles
to the effective performance of the econ-
omy. We have therefore been reducing
the coverage of direct controls, gradually
at first and rapidly in the last few months.
Our continuing goal is to liberate the en-
tire economy so that it will grow and
402
