[130] May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Do you want to say something, Chet?
We will recognize the House first, because
you have been here a little longer than
Abe has.
REPRESENTATIVE CHET HOLIFIELD.
Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to
say that as chairman of the committee, we
want to express our appreciation for the
help that the Administration gave us―
Mr. Simon and the other witnesses that
came up and also some of their staff that
helped us to work out the problems in the
bill.
We think we have a good bill here, and
we are proud of it, and we hope that it
will serve the purpose.
THE PRESIDENT. Abe.
SENATOR ABRAHAM A. RIBICOFF. Mr.
President, I think this is the best example
of the executive and legislative branches
working together. I predict we will be giv-
ing you ERDA [Energy Research and
Development Administration] within a
month, and you will have two keystones
to make the United States independent in
the entire field of all sources of energy.
And I hope we can continue this coopera-
tion in the entire energy field in the future.
THE PRESIDENT. Will the ERDA bill
be a good one?
SENATOR RIBICOFF. Yes, the ERDA bill
is going to be a very good one, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Would you recom-
mend that I sign it?
SENATOR RIBICOFF. I certainly do.
THE PRESIDENT. Gentlemen, thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 11793) is Public
Law 93-275 (88 Stat. 96).
Congressman Holifield was chairman of the
House Committee on Government Operations,
and Senator Ribicoff was a member of the
Senate Committee on Government Operations.
131 Statement About the Federal Energy Administration
Act of 1974. May 7, 1974
TODAY MARKS another important
step in our journey toward independence
in energy.
Five months ago, when the Nation was
still in the grips of the energy crisis, I set
up the Federal Energy Office on a tem-
porary basis to deal with our most imme-
diate problems. I also proposed legislation
to create an agency to carry on the ac-
tivities of the FEO on a continuing basis.
The FEO, under the leadership of Wil-
liam Simon and John Sawhill, has been
highly effective in allocating scarce fuel
supplies, in encouraging consumer con-
servation, and in initiating a new look at
our energy demands in the future.
It has become increasingly apparent
during the short lifespan of the Federal
Energy Office that its activities should be
placed on firmer footing. I therefore take
special pleasure today in signing into law
the Federal Energy Administration Act of
1974, creating a new, independent agency,
the Federal Energy Administration, which
will replace the Federal Energy Office. I
congratulate the Congress on the passage
of this measure and particularly the lead-
ers who were responsible for managing the
bill.
The new energy agency-FEA, as it
will be called-will provide a more firmly
based organization to carry out the re-
416
