Richard Nixon, 1974
July 2 [206]
ure of greatness of a nation. Let our meas-
ure of greatness be not by the way we use
our strength for war and destruction, but
how we work together for peace and for
progress for ourselves and for all mankind.
is
Let us recognize that to be great, a
strong nation need not impose its will on
weaker nations. A great nation will estab-
lish its place in history by the example it
sets, by the purposes for which its power
used, by the respect that it shows for the
rights of others, by the contribution it
makes toward building a new world in
which the weak will be as safe as the
strong.
In these meetings, we have been seek-
ing to ensure that the power of both of
our nations will be used not for war and
destruction, but rather for peace and for
progress.
Our two nations will continue to have
differences. We have different systems.
And in many respects, we have different
values. Inevitably, our interests will not
always be in accord.
But the important thing is that we are
learning to negotiate where we have dif-
ferences, to narrow them where possible,
and to move ahead together in an ex-
panding field of mutual interests.
One of the most important aspects of
our developing new relationship might be
stated this way: Just as a cloth is stronger
than the threads from which it is made,
so the network of agreements we have
been weaving is greater than the sum of
its parts. With these agreements, we have
been creating a pattern of interrelation-
ships, of habits of cooperation and ar-
rangements for consultation-all of which
interact with one another to strengthen
the fabric of the new relationship. Thus
each new agreement is important not only
for itself but also for the added strength
and stability it brings to our relations
overall.
We have been weaving this fabric of
cooperation not just because we are ideal-
istic about peace and we are—but be-
cause we are practical about peace. The
words of the agreements we sign are im-
portant; even more important is how we
carry them out in practice-how we trans-
late the ideal of peaceful cooperation into
the practice of peaceful cooperation. In
this growing network of agreements, of ex-
changes, of patterns of cooperation, we
are demonstrating not just the ideal of
peace but the practice of peace.
In the course of many years, I have
visited memorials to the dead of many
wars, in many
countries. Yesterday, I laid
a wreath at one of the most moving memo-
rials I have ever seen the Khatyn Memo-
rial, outside Minsk. A huge bronze statue
of Joseph Kaminsky, the village black-
smith, carrying his 15-year-old dead son
in his arms, stands today above the graves
of what was the village of Khatyn.
Chimneys stand where the houses were,
with a memorial bell in each chimney toll-
ing for the dead, not only for Khatyn but
also for the hundreds of other villages that
were destroyed and the millions of others
who died a stark reminder to all na-
tions and for all time of the terrible cost
of war.
As I laid the wreath, I thought of the
people of Khatyn, and I thought especially
of the children of Khatyn. I reflected on
the fact that our efforts now must be di-
rected not against any one nation or
group of nations, but against the evil of
war itself.
And I also thought of the living memo-
rial that we today must build-the living
memorial of a lasting peace, so that the
children of those who sacrificed in war
561
