Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 25 [121]
this Nation has gone through five reces-
sions-not depressions, but recessions-in
which the economy did not produce at full
production.
And in this period of time, particularly
in the years of the sixties, this Nation has
gone through a period of unrest-social
unrest, racial unrest-in which, at times,
there were explosions on our college cam-
puses and our university campuses and in
our cities. And over and over again in
those 25 years, if you read the newspapers
and the magazines and listened to tele-
vision, you would hear those who said,
"America has seen its greatest days. Amer-
ica cannot see itself through this crisis.
We cannot go on to be a great nation. We
are tearing ourselves apart."
Those were the pessimists, but they
were wrong. They were wrong then, and
they are wrong today. America's greatest
days are ahead of us, because it is not
the easy times that test either an individ-
ual or a nation, it is the hard times. And
America has withstood the hard times
and has come through even stronger each
time.
And so today, I want to address this
great audience on two subjects—one of
which is particularly of interest to you
because of the nature of your organiza-
tion-where our economy is and where it
is going. And the other, which should be
of interest to all of you because of our
concern about the future of our young
people and of the next generation, and
that is, what are the chances to keep
the peace that we now have after so many
years of war.
Let me look at the economy a minute
with you. And I am sure out here in this
audience we have lots of experts who may
have differing views about it. I can only
give you the best judgment that I have
from the economic advisers, not only from
the Administration but from outside, who
look at the American economy today,
analyze it, and wonder where we are
going. Let me put it in perspective by
saying this:
When we talk about the difficulties
America has been passing through, the
energy crisis, the inflation that we have
had, due primarily two-thirds of it in
1973 was as a result of higher food prices
and higher energy costs-when we look at
those difficulties, we think we are the
nation that has the most difficult time,
and they are difficult times in that respect.
But when I was in Paris just a couple
of weeks ago, I had the opportunity to
meet the leaders of great nations and
small nations, the Prime Minister of Great
Britain, the President and Prime Minister
of Italy, the Chancellor of Germany, the
President then of France, who succeeded
temporarily, until the new election is
held, President Pompidou, and of course,
the President of the Soviet Union, Mr.
Podgorny, and in addition 35 other heads
of government and heads of state. And
as I talked to each of them, I want to tell
you I learned one thing: We have prob-
lems, but there is not one of them who
would not trade his problems for what-
ever problems we have.
America today has more opportunity,
more prosperity, more freedom than any
nation in the world.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, that does
not mean that we look at the problems of
inflation, the problems of energy, the
others which confront our Nation and
say, "Well, whatever they are, there are
other nations that have it worse than we
have."
That isn't enough. That isn't the Amer-
ican way, because when we have prob-
381
