Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 17 [112]
entire world today. In fact, initiatives un-
dertaken by the United States have helped
those winds along their
way.
There is one great lesson that all of us,
large and small whatever our nations may
be, must learn. The nations of the world
can no longer ignore each other, whether
we like it or not. A decision by an oil pro-
ducer in the Middle East has a direct im-
pact upon the supplies of gasoline and
fertilizer in the West.
A decision by a wheatgrower in the
great northern plains of North America
can make the difference between full and
empty stomachs, not only in the south of
the world but also in the east and west.
Independence, a proud concept, has
given away to interdependence. The past
has given away to a new way of life. And
the critical question now is whether we
return to the past-it is too late for that—
but how we shape the future.
Now, there are some that argue that
every nation must now fend for itself in
a narrow struggle for survival, setting man
against man, nation against nation, bloc
against bloc. That, in my opinion, would
lead to the eventual collapse of Western
civilization as we have known it.
We propose instead that we meet the
reality of interdependence by following
a different path—a higher road of coop-
eration and of collaboration. It will be
more strenuous, it will require more pa-
tience, it may even be more expensive in
the short run, but eventually we believe it
will lead to a better life for all of our peo-
ple in every nation.
Now, this, in essence, is the meaning of
the "new dialog" we are calling for. It is
more than a slogan, it is more than just
more talk; it signifies a new attitude, a new
desire to join with you in seeking out that
high road of cooperation and growth for
all of the nations in the Americas.
And going now from words to actions,
let me be more concrete about what you
may expect from the United States in this
new endeavor.
Speaking personally, and speaking also
about the world in which we live, the
greatest gift I hope to leave to my coun-
trymen and to the world is a legacy of
peace. It is our desire for peace that has
been the foundation for our new relation-
ships with the Soviet Union and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, and which shapes
our relationships with other nations.
And our relationships with Latin Amer-
ica are a central pillar in the structure of
peace we are trying to build for the whole
world. And it would be our hope that we
could work more closely with you in main-
taining peace beyond our hemisphere and
that we could continue to work with you
in keeping the peace in our hemisphere.
On the political side, you can expect
that the United States will not seek to im-
pose its political preferences on your
countries; that is your decision. We will
not intervene in the domestic affairs of
others in this hemisphere.
And finally, and of keen interest to-
night, we have a mutual interest in eco-
nomic growth and prosperity for all the
nations in this hemisphere. There is just
as much at stake for the United States as
for the nations of Latin America and the
Caribbean, and I reaffirm my pledge to
work directly with you in the areas of
greatest concern. Let me enumerate
them:
We will continue to seek trade legisla-
tion which will permit generalized trade
preferences, a concept that I have sup-
ported for years.
359
