Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 20 [54]
54 Message to the Congress Reporting on the Balance of
Payments Deficit Incurred Under the North Atlantic Treaty.
February 20, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 812(d) of
the Department of Defense Appropria-
tion Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law
93-155), I am pleased to submit the fol-
lowing report to the Congress on the
progress made in implementing the pro-
visions of Section 812 of the Act cited
above.
Several months prior to the enactment
of Section 812, this Administration took
the initiative to seek Allied cooperation in
developing a solution to the financial
problems arising from the stationing of
U.S. forces in NATO Europe. We initi-
ated discussions with the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany in May 1973 with a view
toward negotiating another bilateral off-
set agreement covering fiscal years 1974
and 1975. Then at the June 1973 meeting
of NATO Defense Ministers, Defense Sec-
retary Schlesinger proposed to the Allies
that they develop a program to relieve
the U.S. balance of payments burden we
bear as a result of stationing forces in
NATO Europe. He also asked that the
U.S. be relieved of the additional budget-
ary costs involved in stationing forces in
NATO Europe rather than in the U.S.
A NATO study group was established to
examine the problem. This group sub-
mitted a report on October 20 to the
North Atlantic Council, giving an analy-
sis of the financial problems arising from
the stationing of U.S. forces in the terri-
tory of other NATO countries and devel-
oped options for Allied action to deal with
these problems.
On November 29, 1973, following the
enactment of the Department of Defense
Appropriation Authorization Act, 1974,
Ambassador Rumsfeld, the U.S. Perma-
nent Representative to the North Atlantic
Council, tabled an illustrative program
of military procurement and budgetary
support which would satisfy the require-
ments of Section 812 of the Act and
thereby avoid unilateral U.S. force reduc-
tions in NATO Europe. Subsequently,
during the December 1973 meeting of
NATO defense ministers, our Allies de-
clared their intention "to participate in
multilateral or bilateral arrangements
towards providing a common solution to
the United States problem", agreed "to
examine how the share of the United
States in the civil and military budgets of
NATO and in the infrastructure program
might be substantially reduced", and
noted that "consideration was being given
to widening the eligibility of projects for
funding under the common infrastructure
program." We are continuing to point out
in the North Atlantic Council and else-
where the importance we attach to meet-
ing the requirements of Section 812 if we
are to avoid unilateral U.S. force reduc-
tions. We continue to stress, therefore, the
urgent need for Allied action to fulfill the
intentions declared at the December 1973
meeting of NATO Defense Ministers, re-
gardless of the evolving balance of pay-
ments position of the U.S. and its Allies.
Pursuant to Section 812(a) of the Act
cited above, a working group composed
of representatives of the Secretary of
Commerce, the Comptroller General of
the United States, and the Secretary of
181
