Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
gather and disseminate information about
individuals, the safeguards needed to pro-
tect the privacy of individuals and com-
munications have not kept pace. Another
part of the problem is that clear definitions
and standards concerning the right of
privacy have not been developed and
agreed upon.
I have therefore ordered an extensive
Cabinet-level review-which will be
undertaken this year-of both government
and industry practices as they relate to
the right of privacy, of the conflicts that
arise and the balances that must be struck
between legitimate needs for information
and the right of privacy, and of those
measures—including appropriate legisla-
tion that can be taken to ensure that
these balances are properly struck.
ENDING DRUG ABUSE
During the decade of the '60s, increas-
ing numbers of Americans-including a
high percentage of young people—each
year turned to heroin and other drugs in
search of "new highs" and "synthetic solu-
tions" to the problems of life. In this
retreat from reality, the Nation's drug
problem grew dramatically. Residents of
our proudest cities were gripped by fear as
addicts turned to crime to support their
habits, and thousands of families suffered
devastating personal tragedies.
I am pleased to be able to report that
since then, Federal spending on drug
treatment and enforcement have in-
creased tenfold, and progress has been
made. We have indeed turned the corner
on hard drugs:
-Better drug law enforcement, at
home and abroad, has caused an acute
heroin shortage throughout much of the
country.
-Enough treatment capacity has now
been created so that virtually all addicts
who want medical help and counselling
can get it.
Our drug abuse indicators all sug-
gest that we have at last succeeded in re-
ducing both the total number of heroin
addicts and the number of new addicts.
Nevertheless, the drug battle is far from
over.
For the sake of the next generation, I
am determined to keep the pressure on-
to ensure that the heartening progress
made to date is translated into a lasting
victory over heroin and other drugs.
As enforcement efforts meet with suc-
cess in one area of the world, pressure in-
creases on other trafficking routes. To
meet these new threats, we will step up our
support of joint drug enforcement pro-
grams. I have also directed that plans for
increased vigilance at our own borders be
put into effect.
In the treatment area, we are inten-
sifying our efforts to encourage hard-core
addicts to undergo treatment.
To provide added incentive for those
not motivated to seek help on their own,
I have directed Federal agencies to ex-
pand their support for local programs
which direct addicts charged with
crimes into treatment pending trial and
sentencing.
Continued progress will also require
help from the Congress:
-I will shortly recommend severe new
penalties for both heroin traffickers and
those engaged in illegal distribution of
other illicit drugs. This legislation will
supplement my proposals currently pend-
ing before the Congress.
-The Psychotropic Convention, a key
international treaty regulating manufac-
tured drugs worldwide, has—after 22
43-437 - 75-8
79
