[2] Jan. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the gains to the Nation that will flow
from a healthier private-sector rail freight
system.
When I signed legislation last Novem-
ber authorizing additional funds for rail
passenger service, I stated my position
that "... Federal action to shore up the
financial condition of our major Northeast
and Midwest railroad freight lines must
take the form of a private solution that
would impose only a minimal and finite
financial burden on the taxpayer." ยน I
have concluded that this act meets these
criteria. While there are some trouble-
some aspects of the legislation, the act
represents an appropriate legislative
compromise.
I want to commend the Congress for
passing such responsible legislation and
for the spirit of cooperation with which
it approached the long and, at times,
tedious development of this very complex
bill. In particular, the Senate and House
Commerce Committees have devoted long
hours of work to this task, with members
from all regions of the country treating
this legislation as an important national
issue and not simply as a Northeast
problem.
3
1
ยน See 1973 volume, Item 320.
I look now to Secretary of Transporta-
tion Brinegar, who has been deeply in-
volved in the development of this bill, to
ensure that this legislation is implemented
quickly and effectively. While this task
will be difficult and will require the con-
tinued cooperation of all concerned, I am
confident that the joint efforts of the
public and private sectors can and will
make this legislation work effectively.
In the years ahead, with the added
pressures brought on by the energy crisis,
must press hard to rebuild and
strengthen our entire nationwide rail
freight system. This effort will require
fundamental changes in the regulatory
environment and stepped-up capital im-
provement and modernization programs.
To address these issues, I plan to send
additional rail legislation to the Congress
in the near future, legislation which will
deserve the same careful attention and
close cooperation which were devoted to
H.R. 9142.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9142 is Public Law
93-236 (87 Stat. 985).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the act by Secretary of Transportation
Claude S. Brinegar.
Statement on Signing the Emergency Highway Energy
Conservation Act. January 2, 1974
I AM pleased to sign into law H.R. 11372,
an act aimed principally at helping to
reduce gasoline and diesel fuel consump-
tion during the energy crisis.
This legislation will encourage State
governments to establish maximum speed
limits on their highways of 55 miles per
hour. The continued receipt of Federal
highway trust funds by the various States
will be conditioned upon the establish-
ment of these speed limits.
I have been gratified and encouraged
by the number of States which have
already voluntarily reduced their speed
limits in accordance with my request. I
have also been pleased by the response
2
