[121] Apr. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
materially, will we have the spiritual
strength, the character, the stamina, the
vision to lead as we must lead, whether
it is in negotiating a peace in the Mideast,
whether it is in negotiating a reduction in
the burden of armaments in the world,
whether it is in developing a dialog with
those who are our adversaries, as well as
with our friends? America, in order to do
that, and an American President, in order
to have that kind of leadership, must have
the backing of a strong and a united
American people.
Let me say to you, my friends, that
today that is the challenge we face. Our
challenge, then, is not just for ourselves
alone. Our challenge is about the whole
human race.
That is not original with me. Thomas
Jefferson said it much better when Amer-
ica was very young and very poor and
very weak. At the time of the signing of
the Declaration of Independence, he said
we act not just for ourselves alone, we
act for the whole human race.
That was not true then, but he believed
it. And Lincoln believed it, Andrew Jack-
son believed it, and I am sure Robert E.
Lee believed it, and I am sure, too, Wood-
row Wilson did, the other Presidents
through the years.
What I am saying today is that today,
it is true, there is no other nation in the
free world of the great nations that has
the strength, militarily and economically,
to give the leadership which must be given
if we are to build a world of peace.
And so, it is all in our hands, and the
question is: Will we fail or will we suc-
ceed? And the answer is in your hands,
and I say that answer will be: We shall
not fail. We cannot fail, because Ameri-
cans are a great people. We would not
have come so far all across the prairies
and clear over to the Pacific, we could not
have survived so many disasters unless we
were a good people and a strong people.
And so today, we will be strong not only
materially but spiritually. And in the
leadership that we will provide to the
world, we will be strong, we will meet
that challenge, and a day will come-I
can see it now-25 years from now a
President of the United States, I trust,
may be standing in this very place. It will
be the year 2000, a new year that comes
only once in 1,000 years, and he will look
back to this critical generation of ours and
he will say, "They did not fail when the
going was very difficult and when Ameri-
can leadership was so important to the
world."
But even more than that, when that
year 2000 comes, if we meet the challenge
that destiny has placed upon us, and if
we meet it not as a burden, but as an
opportunity, gladly, if we meet that chal-
lenge, then 3, probably 4 billion people
on this Earth will look at America, will
look at what we have done, and joining
with us, they will say, "God bless Amer-
ica."
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. at
the Mississippi State Coliseum.
388
