[186] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
come. Convinced of the determination of
this valiant people to live in peace, the
President gave them renewed assurance of
the support of the people of the United
States.
The Prime Minister and the President
agreed that the cordiality of Israel's
recep-
tion of the President reflected the long
friendship between Israel and the United
States and pledged their continued ener-
gies to nurture and strengthen that friend-
ship. To this end, the President invited
Prime Minister Rabin to pay an early visit
to Washington.
NOTE: The text of the statement was released at
Jerusalem, Israel.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the Presi-
dent's meetings in the Middle East by Secre-
tary of State Henry A. Kissinger.
Also on the same day, the President and Mrs.
Nixon visited the Yad Vashem Monument at
Mount Herzl in Jerusalem to attend a memo-
rial service for the 6 million European Jews
killed during World War II.
187 Toasts of the President and King Hussein of Jordan
at a State Dinner in Amman.
Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses,
and all of your distinguished guests:
First, Your Majesty, may I express my
deep gratitude on behalf of the Nation
I represent for the award you have just
presented to me. And I can assure you
that it will be on display at the White
House for the thousands of visitors to see,
who come through those rooms and who,
when they see it, will recognize how im-
portant we in the United States consider
friendship with Jordan to be. And I am
grateful for the fact that this award, which
I understand goes only to heads of state,
is one that you have seen fit to present on
this occasion.
Also, I would like to tell you how
touched Mrs. Nixon and I have been by
the reception we have received in our visit
to Jordan. As you know, this is the first
time I have been to this country. It is not
because of a lack of desire on the part of
either of us not to have come sooner, be-
cause we would have liked to, but it is only
because our schedules did not permit at an
earlier time.
June 17, 1974
And I can only say that never have we
had what we thought was a warmer recep-
tion from the hearts of the people as we
drove through the streets of Amman, a
city with a great past and a city and a
country with an equally great future. It is
called the City of the Seven Hills, and I
only wish that we had a chance to explore
more than just three, which has been our
lot to date.
And so, we will have to come back some
day so that we can go to those many places
of historical interest which I know attract
tourists from all over the world, come
back so that we can see them and per-
haps again enjoy another visit with you.
And let me also, on behalf of your
American guests particularly and, I think,
perhaps all of your guests tonight in the
diplomatic corps and your guests from
Jordan, express appreciation for the
splendid musical entertainment that we
have had. As I listened to it, I could not
believe my ears. I thought that some way
we had imported the United States
Marine Corps Band which plays, as you
528
