[33] Feb. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
While I have not done so, my wife has,
and I am glad that you paid tribute to
her as well as to our daughters, because
many years ago when she was working her
way through school, the University of
Southern California, between junior col-
lege and finally getting her degree, she
took off some time, a period of approxi-
mately 2 years, and worked as an X-ray
technician in a hospital in New York
City. So, she could be an honorary mem-
ber of your organization.
As far as myself, I just try to stay out
of the hospital.
Because this is a special occasion in
terms of a President for the first time ad-
dressing this organization and because
this is a significant year in terms of what
may happen with regard to health care as
far as your National Government is con-
cerned, I thought, Mr. Kauffman, it
would be appropriate for me to read a
statement, a Presidential statement that
I have prepared, in which I will be talk-
ing to you but also will be talking to the
Nation about the health care proposals
that the Congress will be considering dur-
ing the course of this year.
I would say at the outset that I have
had discussions with members of your or-
ganization and, of course, with members
of the medical profession on various as-
pects of these proposals and will expect to
have more. But just to outline them now
briefly, I think this statement would be
in order.
Gandhi used to say that "It is health
which is real wealth. . ." And if that is
the case, there is a lot of wealth in this
room. By your efforts and the efforts of
doctors and nurses and medical scientists
in laboratories and schools throughout
this country, this is a very wealthy Nation.
But, of course, we can do better, do
better in this field as in every other field.
I think the time has come to make it pos-
sible for every American to have access
financially to the best health care this
Nation is capable of providing.
Those who can afford it should pay for
it, but those who cannot afford it must not
have it denied on that account.
We don't want a generation of Ameri-
cans on the 200th anniversary of this
country that is just 3 years away-to
look back and wonder why, in the richest
country in the world, some were denied
the right to live because, in the starkest
sense, they just couldn't afford it.
We want to leave a legacy of peace for
the next generation-I will have more to
say about that later-but that achieve-
ment will be flawed if we cannot also pro-
vide a legacy of life whenever we have the
means to do so. We have to increase the
availability of our health service, and as
high as the quality of that service is—and
it is high in America-we have to increase
the quality as well.
There are those who say that health
services in America can only be improved
and extended by the Federal Government,
and with that I totally disagree. That will
be a major subject for debate during this
session of the Congress and during the
year 1974, when some health care legis-
lation is going to be enacted, in my
opinion.
But, let me give you the reasons for my
opposing the total Federal involvement
in this area and control of it and my rea-
sons for the program that we have pre-
sented to the Congress.
I believe we should build on the great
strengths of the health care system in this
country that we already have, and not
destroy them. For 5 years we have been
building on the strengths of that system,
126
