Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 8 [73]
ceilings on such spending would have to
be imposed which unavoidably would
penalize the lesser-known challengers.
Through the existing tax check-off for
Presidential elections and political tax
credit or deduction, in 1972 the Federal
Treasury was subject to the expenditure
of up to $100 million for taxpayer support
of political campaign activities. These
programs, however, do not sever the
crucial tie between the individual citizen
and the party or candidate of his choice,
and do not carry as great a threat of Fed-
eral domination of political campaigns.
I believe our Nation has already seen
too many examples of how the use of tax
dollars can lead to Federal control. By
setting reasonable limits on campaign
contributions, and by requiring broader
public disclosure, we can guarantee that
the American voters are fully aware of
who is making the contributions; and the
Nation can then leave it to the people
themselves to judge the wisdom and
propriety of these donations.
Another problem in this area warrants
the early attention of Congress. The In-
ternal Revenue Service has recently held
that income earned from funds of political
parties is taxable under the present Inter-
nal Revenue Code. This ruling has caused
widespread confusion and uncertainty on
the part of political campaign commit-
tees. I believe this situation was never
intended by Congress and urge enact-
ment of legislation removing any tax or
potential tax on any income earned from
political party funds.
While strong financing and disclosure
laws are necessary, these alone will not en-
sure the reform we need. For most of the
20th century our campaign laws have not
been enforced. Enforcement of the Fed-
eral Corrupt Practices Act, a measure rid-
dled with loopholes, has been all but im-
possible, and enforcement of the Federal
Election Campaign Act is difficult because
of the proliferation of committees and
the lack of central reporting.
Therefore, I endorse the proposal de-
veloped in the Congress to establish a
Federal Elections Commission to super-
vise the Federal Election Campaign Act
and other election measures.
This independent commission would be
bipartisan and would monitor our cam-
paign finance and disclosure laws. It
would bring under the umbrella of one
agency the current oversight functions
of the Comptroller General, the Clerk
of the House of Representatives, and the
Secretary of the Senate. Membership on
the commission should include representa-
tives of the major political parties.
In its supervisory capacity, the com-
mission would serve as a much needed
central repository for election records
and would have powers to subpoena docu-
ments and witnesses to fulfill its duties. It
would also be able to refer campaign
violations to the Justice Department for
appropriate action. The work of the com-
mission would in no way impinge upon
Congressional rights and responsibilities,
but would expedite the disposition of
violations and provide a coordinated
supervisory role in overseeing the various
election laws.
B. CAMPAIGN PRACTICES
Many people have made the point that
additional Federal laws are needed to
deter or punish criminal, tortious or other-
wise improper activities in Federal elec-
tion campaigns. Existing laws deal with
vote bribery, vote fraud, spurious cam-
paign literature and other breaches of
249
