[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
-FHA mortgage insurance has en-
abled nearly 32 million families to pur-
chase homes.
-Over two million units of subsidized
housing for low and moderate income
families have been approved, more than
during the previous 33 years of federally
subsidized housing programs.
-Over $1.4 billion has been committed
to improving and modernizing existing
public housing.
-Subsidies to local housing authorities
have grown from $33 million in 1969 to
$350 million in 1974.
Even as good housing has become a
reality for most Americans, it is clear
that important problems still exist. Two
are especially significant. First, our credit
institutions often encounter problems in
providing adequate housing credit. Sec-
ond, too many low income families are
unable to obtain adequate housing-even
as good housing sits vacant in their com-
munity. We must help them to meet their
needs.
In order to increase the availability of
housing for all families, I urge passage
during this session of two key measures I
have already proposed:
-The Financial Institutions Act to en-
able savings and loan associations to com-
pete more effectively for funds during
periods of tight money, as well as to en-
courage increased investment in housing
through a tax credit on income earned
from residential mortgages.
-The Administration's proposed
Housing Act which would ease the pres-
ent tight mortgage credit situation and
make homeownership easier in the long
term by:
-Authorizing increases in the permis-
sible mortgage amounts eligible for FHA
insurance.
-Permitting home buyers to pay
market interest rates on FHA and VA
insured mortgages, and reducing the cost
of buying a home by doing away with the
present system of charging points on
mortgage loans.
-Authorizing on an experimental basis
more flexible repayment plans on FHA
insured mortgages.
-Authorizing more flexible interest
rates, longer repayment terms and higher
amounts for mobile homes and home im-
provement loans.
This legislation would extend authority
for extensive experiments with a new
approach-direct cash assistance—for
addressing the housing problem of low
income American families. Despite the
commitment of over $66 billion, evidence
has clearly shown that the subsidized
housing programs for low income families
have not worked well. Instead of pro-
grams to treat symptoms, I will continue
to press for a longer term solution-
which goes to the root of the problem-
lack of sufficient income—and which per-
mits the private housing market to work
in as efficient a way as possible. Addi-
tionally, this legislation would improve
the operation of our existing public hous-
ing projects, by helping them move to a
more effective, efficient and self-sufficient
basis of operation.
IMPROVING TRANSPORTATION
The energy crisis has made urgent what
once seemed only necessary: the build-
ing of a transportation system that per-
mits all Americans to travel efficiently
and at reasonable cost.
While some elements of our transporta-
tion system-such as the Federal highway
network have been dramatically im-
86
