[70] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
time that payments were made to de-
fendants to keep them quiet and that you
considered a number of options. Did you
not consider the option of blowing the
whistle, of turning that information over
to the authorities immediately, and on
reflection now, do you think you should
have?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
among the options we considered was get-
ting out a full report, a report that he
would write. Among the options we con-
sidered the next day-and we started to
consider it that day-was to have every-
body testify before the Ervin committee
and waive executive privilege, which was
a course of action which Attorney General
Mitchell recommended.
Yes, the option of a full disclosure at
that time by everybody concerned was one
that was considered. The difficulty that
I had was that for months these matters
had not been brought to my attention. I
had not been informed of the payments to
the defendants. I had not been informed
with regard to the alleged coverup. I had
not been informed about the possible in-
volvement of some White House aides.
I felt it was my responsibility to conduct
my own investigation with all the assist-
ance I could get from those who could
provide information before moving to
what would be a proper way of getting
this story out to the country.
At all times, it had been my goal to
have a complete disclosure of this whole
situation because, as you know, I have
said there can be no cloud over the White
House. I want that cloud removed. That
is one of the reasons we have cooperated
as we have with the Special Prosecutor.
We will also cooperate with the Rodino
committee. The facts will come out.
Q. Mr. President, I have a followup on
that question right there, on the March
21st meeting. You have referred to your
own personal desire to have complete dis-
closure, and you have also mentioned here
this evening that anybody who heard the
tape of that March 21st meeting, or dif-
ferent people hearing that tape or reading
the transcript, might get different impres-
sions. Have you ever considered the option
of making that tape and transcript pub-
lic so that the American people can read
it and hear it and make their own judg-
ment on what happened at that meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have. We have
a problem there, however, in that that
tape, as well as the others—as was, I think,
probably implied at least in the hearing
today-affects the rights of the defendants
and also the possibilities of the prosecu-
tion, and under the circumstances, of
course, we must be, to a certain extent,
guided by that.
I think eventually the entire tape will be
made available. And as far as I am con-
cerned, when any individual who is look-
ing at it objectively not only hears it or
reads what the transcript is but also sees
what was done after that particular con-
versation took place, will conclude, first,
that the President had no knowledge be-
fore the 21st, which Mr. Dean himself said
when he came into the meeting; second,
that the President never authorized clem-
ency, in fact, rejected it on several oc-
casions in that meeting; and third, that
the President never authorized the pay-
ment of money to the defendants for the
purpose of hushing them up.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY BEFORE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
[15.] Q. Mr. President, you have
spoken tonight of your willingness to take
238
