Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 15 [79]
other people who want to do something
about it—is to urge the Congress to act
on 17 different measures which I have
submitted to them, which will help to
make the United States self-sufficient.
How are you going to do it? The way
to do it is to increase supplies. We should
deregulate natural gas, which is the clean-
est fuel, for example, that we have. We
should move on the environmental field to
relax some of those inhibitions so that we
can develop our coal resources and use
our coal.
We should do that because the United
States is blessed with having approxi-
mately half the coal in the world, and we
are foolish not to develop it, and we can
eventually develop a clean fuel out of coal.
And third, we should move to develop
those energy sources. I refer to shale oil;
I refer to the Elk Hills and others which
exist in the United States in great abun-
dance. In the long term, of course, we
must move forward with the development
of nuclear power.
It is disgraceful that the United States,
that broke the secret for the atom and was
first in that field, has been so far behind
in developing nuclear power for peaceful
uses, because it is clean fuel and it is safe
fuel, and we should move forward in that
area as well.
There are others that I could mention,
but I can only say, in conclusion, this: We
would rather not have had the energy
crisis. I would like to be in Mr. Meany's
position and be able to blame the oil com-
panies. What politician wouldn't like to
put it off on somebody else?
But I have to tell the truth. The truth
is, there is an energy shortage. The way to
deal with that shortage is not to demagog
about it, but do something about it, and it
is time for the Congress to get off its some-
thing and do something about it right
now.
THE OIL EMBARGO AND GASOLINE SUPPLIES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am a Repub-
lican State senator from Illinois, and I
want to tell you, before asking my ques-
tion, sir, that in my district you are
thought of belovedly by thousands of peo-
ple, and I think you need to hear that.
THE PRESIDENT. Perhaps you should
tell your United States Senator that.
[Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, I don't think I will
reply to that. However, I would like to
ask my question now.
In my Senate district in Will County,
there are portions of it that have had a
tremendous difficulty in obtaining fuel—
gasoline and I am wondering, Mr. Presi-
dent, now that the Arab embargo seems as
though it is about ready to be lifted, that
whether by summer the people, not only
of
my district but throughout the State
of Illinois, can look to having gasoline
readily available?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
the embargo, I think it is well for us to
put that in perspective. We have had no
official report from the meeting of Arab
oil ministers with regard to what action is
going to be taken with regard to lifting
the embargo.
There are, of course, sources that have
indicated that some action will be taken
perhaps this weekend.
Second, there are also indications that
that action might be conditional, that they
may raise the embargo, but on the condi-
tion that they might reimpose it unless the
United States came through in terms of
working out a settlement of the political
problems, the very difficult ones, that exist
267
