[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
food prices for the consumer. I am there-
fore asking the Congress to revamp the
programs which still require restrictive
Federal control over the production of
some remaining farm commodities-espe-
cially rice, peanuts, tobacco, sugar, and
extra long staple cotton.
To further enhance agricultural activ-
ity, the Administration will also:
-Promote longer-run soil and water
conservation practices.
-Consolidate the locations of local of-
fices of Federal agricultural agencies-
specifically, the Agricultural Stabilization
and Conservation Service, the Soil Con-
servation Service, the Farmers Home Ad-
ministration, and the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Corporation-creating one-stop ag-
ricultural service centers on the local level
to make things easier for the farmer and
less costly for the Government.
-Place high priority on directing agri-
cultural research into those areas which
will assure plentiful agricultural goods at
reasonable prices, maintain our competi-
tive advantage in world agricultural pro-
duction, and protect the land.
At my direction, Secretary Kissinger re-
cently proposed to the United Nations that
it convene a World Food Conference, a
concern made urgent by acute food short-
ages in many parts of the world. This con-
ference, to be held in November of 1974,
should prove of particular importance to
the American farmer, whose extraordi-
nary productivity has made this Nation
the world's leading food exporter and
whose own prosperity will continue to in-
crease as we help to meet the needs of a
hungry world.
Our farm policy must of course address
not only the needs of the farmer but also
those of the consumer. During 1973, we
experienced a period of rapidly increasing
food prices. Those prices leveled off in late
1973, but now we appear to be heading
into a period of increasing food prices for
at least the next few months. It is our in-
tention to hold these increases to the
smallest possible rate through executive
actions such as lifting the quota on wheat
imports, an action that I took last week.
But the most significant force in the battle
against higher food prices is higher pro-
duction. This summer and fall, the large
1974 harvest should be coming on the
market, serving as the best possible
damper on higher prices.
ECONOMIC SECURITY
One of the most significant legislative
achievements of 1973 was the enactment
of the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act (CETA). A form of man-
power revenue sharing, this bill transfers
from the Federal Government to States
and localities significant control over the
design and operation of programs to im-
prove the employability of the unem-
ployed and the underemployed. CETA is
a landmark of the New Federalism. It is
also a landmark on the way to better
manpower programs.
Under this legislation, State and local
governments will be able to use Federal
funds to meet locally-determined needs
and to devote special attention to employ-
ment problems with particular local im-
pact-as, for example, those that might
arise in certain areas as a result of the
present energy shortage. In my new
budget, I am including an additional
$250 million for CETA in the current
fiscal year, and $350 million in the year
beginning July 1, for distribution to areas
with high unemployment. Overall, I am
requesting more than $2 billion to fund
66
