[67] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in-
develop proposals for basic improvements
in the veterans compensation program,
cluding those structural changes which
would assure more equitable treatment of
the seriously disabled.
As a first step, the Administrator shortly
will be sending the following proposals for
consideration of the Congress:
-Increases in benefits paid to all recip-
ients of veterans compensation and de-
pendents and indemnity compensation
(DIC). The objective is to lift all bene-
fits by the amount of the increase in cost-
of-living since increases for these pro-
grams were last enacted in August and
January of 1972 respectively. This would
be accomplished by a 12 percent increase
for veterans compensation and a 14 per-
cent for DIC. I propose that these in-
creases be made effective March 1. The
total cost of both increases will be $432
million in the first full year following
enactment.
-Protection of compensation and DIC
benefits in the future. An automatic ad-
justment in benefits is needed to recog-
nize future increases in the cost-of-living,
as measured by the Consumer Price In-
dex. This feature would resemble that
which I have proposed already for pro-
tection of VA pension recipients.
-Structural changes in veterans com-
pensation which will bring the disability
ratings of underrated veterans up to a
level corresponding to what survey data
show to be their actual degree of impair-
ment. Such action can target VA com-
pensation increases to the veterans suffer-
ing the greatest degree of economic hard-
ship imposed by their disability. The
cost-of-living adjustment which I am
proposing for all disabled veterans, to-
gether with the further increases provided
by these structural adjustments, will re-
sult in far greater percentage increases
in compensation for seriously disabled
veterans than any across-the-board in-
crease now under consideration.
I know that the Congress shares my
concern for disabled veterans and their
survivors. Just as this Administration and
the Congress are cooperating to develop
immediate and needed improvements in
the veterans' and widows' pension pro-
grams, I look forward to a similar coop-
erative effort to develop promptly the
needed improvements in the veterans
compensation program.
With every good wish,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The letters were addressed to the Hon-
orable Vance Hartke and Clifford P. Hansen,
chairman and ranking Republican member, re-
spectively, of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Com-
mittee; and to the Honorable William Jennings
Bryan Dorn and John P. Hammerschmidt,
chairman and ranking Republican member, re-
spectively, of the House Veterans' Affairs
Committee.
On the same day the White House released
a fact sheet on the veterans disability com-
pensation program.
224
