[150] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am hopeful that the difficulties pre-
sented by the Senate bill can be resolved
in conference, so that we can get on with
the vital business of helping local school
boards provide the best possible education
for all of America's children. The Admin-
istration will continue to work with the
Congress in the effort to provide an edu-
cation bill which is fair to all, acceptable
to all, and which will advance the effort
to provide the highest quality education
for all.
151 Letter Responding to House Judiciary Committee
Subpoenas Requiring Production of Additional
Presidential Tape Recordings and Documents.
May 22, 1974
Dear Mr. Chairman:
This letter is in response to two sub-
poenas of the House of Representatives
dated May 15, 1974, one calling for the
production of tapes of additional Presi-
dential conversations and the other call-
ing for the production of my daily diary
for extended periods of time in 1972 and
1973. Neither subpoena specifies in any
way the subject matters into which the
Committee seeks to inquire. I can only
presume that the material sought must be
thought to relate in some unspecified way
to what has generally been known as
"Watergate."
On April 30, 1974, in response to a sub-
poena of the House of Representatives
dated April 11, 1974, I submitted tran-
scripts not only of all the recorded Presi-
dential conversations that took place that
were called for in the subpoena, but also
of a number of additional Presidential
conversations that had not been sub-
poenaed. I did this so that the record of
my knowledge and actions in the Water-
gate matter would be fully disclosed, once
and for all.
Even while my response to this original
subpoena was being prepared, on April 19,
1974, my counsel received a request from
the Judiciary Committee's counsel for the
production of tapes of more than 140 ad-
ditional Presidential conversations-of
which 76 were alleged to relate to Water-
gate together with a request for addi-
tional Presidential diaries for extended pe-
riods of time in 1972 and 1973.ยน
The subpoenas dated May 15 call for
the tapes of the first 11 of the conversa-
tions that were requested on April 19, and
for all of the diaries that were requested
on April 19. My counsel has informed me
that the intention of the Committee is to
also issue a series of subpoenas covering all
76 of the conversations requested on
April 19 that are thought to relate to
ยน On May 22, 1974, the White House issued
the texts of two letters from James D. St. Clair,
Special Counsel to the President, to John M.
Doar, counsel to the House Judiciary Com-
mittee, replying to the committee request of
April 19, 1974, and discussing separately the
subpoenas for materials relating to the milk
support price and ITT antitrust decisions. The
texts of the letters are printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
10, p. 539).
Reference was made in Mr. St. Clair's letters
to two "definitive papers" prepared by the
White House on the milk support and ITT
subjects, the texts of which are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 10, pp. 20 and 28).
450
