[180] June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Arabia to get oil. We can use oil. But we
need more, something that is worth far
more than oil. We need wisdom.
And that is why I am sure that the talks
that His Majesty and I have already been
privileged to have and that we will con-
tinue tomorrow, will help me, help the
Secretary of State in our developing the
policies and developing the programs that
can continue the momentum toward the
goal that we all seek, a just and lasting
peace for the people of the Mideast and
all of the nations in this area.
And finally, just to demonstrate that I
am somewhat of a practical politician, let
me say that while we will treasure most
the wisdom that we will take with us after
this visit, we, of course, will need the oil
to carry us to our next stop.
And, Your Majesty, I just want to
make clear, we, of course, will pay the
world price.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
9:30 p.m. at the Royal Guest Palace in response
to remarks by King Faisal.
King Faisal spoke in Arabic. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Your Excellency Mr. President, honorable
gentlemen:
I extend to you a warm welcome in this land
of the heavenly message that illuminated for
all humanity the path of righteousness and
wisdom.
Mr. President, we have always endeavored to
maintain the friendship which was founded by
His Majesty the late King Abdul Aziz, may God
bless his soul, between the people of the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia and the American people.
We have always been concerned with the im-
provement and strengthening of this friendship
and constantly advised our friends in the United
States of America to do likewise and not to
give anyone the pretext to harm it.
Mr. President, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
appreciates fully and realizes her responsibility
towards the world community whose members
should cooperate together for their common
happiness and prosperity.
But at the same time, she cannot approve
of any harm which may be inflicted upon any
of its member nations, especially if such harm is
directed against her.
Mr. President, the injustice and aggression
which were wrought upon the Arabs of Palestine
are unprecedented in history, for not even in
the darkest ages had a whole population of a
country been driven out of their homes to be
replaced by aliens.
The Arab nation has appealed to the con-
science of the world for more than a quarter
of a century to regain their lost rights and to
undo the injustice which had been committed,
but these appeals were in vain, and they had
no alternative but to resort to arms in the
defense of their rights, their lands, and their
sacred shrines.
Mr. President, we seek a peace based on
right and justice, because only with such peace
can security and stability throughout the world
be obtained.
In this respect, we highly appreciate this
step forward which has been realized on the
road to peace under Your Excellency's guidance
and by the wise and decisive efforts of your
Secretary of State, Dr. Henry Kissinger. We
hope that the United States of America will
continue her efforts for a just and lasting peace
in the area so that it may live in peace and
security, because it is peace and security that
form the basis for its development and pros-
perity. Thus the United States of America
would be fulfilling her responsibilities as the
most powerful nation of the world.
We believe that there will never be a real
and lasting peace in the area unless Jerusalem
is liberated and returned to Arab sovereignty,
unless liberation of all the occupied Arab ter-
ritories is achieved, and unless Arab people of
Palestine regain their rights to return to their
homes and be given the right to self-determina-
tion.
Mr. President, the step performed by Your
Excellency in visiting the area is such a wise
act which wins our thanks and appreciation.
We hope that it will bring peace and prosperity
to this part of the world. We assure Your Ex-
cellency that we value the friendship of the
508
