Richard Nixon, 1974
July 3 [209]
and painstaking work to prepare this meeting
and the appropriate agreements.
I would like to say a few words more about
our talks on international problems. As during
our previous meetings with President Nixon,
they were thorough, quite frank, and useful.
Given all the differences of views and positions
of our two countries on a number of specific
questions, both the Soviet and, evidently, the
American participants in the talks have treated
and continue to treat as a matter of paramount
importance joint or parallel efforts by the So-
viet Union and the United States to strengthen
universal peace and create conditions for the
peaceful cooperation of all states in the spirit
of the well-known principles of peaceful co-
existence and the provisions of the United
Nations Charter.
The last 2 years have already shown the use-
ful influence that the improvement of Soviet-
American relations may have in this sense. It
has certainly played a positive role in ending the
war in Vietnam and in creating conditions for
certain progress towards a peaceful settlement
in the Middle East and in convening the Euro-
pean conference.
Now the task, as we see it, is successfully to
complete what has been started and to ensure
that the development of Soviet-American rela-
tions continues to be beneficial for universal
peace and for the security of nations.
I feel it will be no exaggeration to say that
the political results of our talks will be a new
confirmation of the determination of both sides
to go on developing and deepening ties and co-
operation between our two countries in many
fields and to act on the international scene in
favor of détente and peace. This is exactly what
we expected from the talks, and that is why
we express our satisfaction with their results.
We appreciate the contribution that you have
made, Mr. President, to the achievement of
these results. And we wish you and the entire
Administration and the Congress of the United
States every success in giving effect to the good
initiatives of peace, growing mutual confidence,
and useful cooperation embodied in the docu-
ments signed in the days of this meeting, as well
as in those Soviet-American documents that
were signed last year and the year before last.
You may rest assured that the leadership of
the Soviet Union, fully supported by the entire
Soviet people, will do all in their power in this
direction. We are glad, Mr. President, that
Mrs. Nixon and you have returned from your
trip to the Crimea and to Byelorussia with good
impressions.
For my part, I want to say that I remember
with gratification my stay in the United States
last summer, and I thank you, Mr. President,
for the invitation to pay a new visit to the
United States next year.
Availing myself of this occasion, I wish to
congratulate you, Mr. President, on the com-
ing national day of the United States, Inde-
pendence Day, and to wish the American
people peace, happiness, and well-being.
I propose a toast to the health of the Presi-
dent of the United States of America, Richard
Nixon, and Mrs. Nixon, to the further develop-
ment of relations of friendship and cooperation
between the Soviet and American peoples, to a
lasting peace between all people.
209 Joint Communique Following Discussions With
Soviet Leaders. July 3, 1974
IN ACCORDANCE with the agreement
to hold regular US-Soviet meetings at
the highest level and at the invitation, ex-
tended during the visit of General Secre-
tary of the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union
L. I. Brezhnev to the USA in June 1973,
the President of the United States of
America and Mrs. Richard Nixon paid an
official visit to the Soviet Union from
June 27 to July 3, 1974.
During his stay President Nixon visited,
in addition to Moscow, Minsk and the
Southern Coast of the Crimea.
The President of the United States and
the Soviet leaders held a thorough and
567
