Richard Nixon, 1974
July 10 [215]
that had it not been for the support of
France, the United States would not be
independent today, and that special rela-
tionship is one that we Americans have
never forgotten.
We have always stood by France, and
France has always stood by us, and it will
continue in the future.
Also, with regard to the sound and light
programs, I think you should know that
in 1963 I took a trip with my family
through various parts of Europe and the
Mideast, and I saw a sound and light pro-
gram in three different places: one in
Rome, one also in Athens, and another
one in Cairo at the Pyramids. It is a splen-
did concept.
And I know that it is primarily due to
those French who participated in develop-
ing the concept that those programs have
been put on, and to have one during our
Bicentennial year, to have it at Mount
215
Vernon, I think, is as fine a gift—we will
call it that—that you can make, you and
your people, to the United States.
I think hundreds of thousands, perhaps
millions of Americans will come there to
see it, and they will be reminded not only
of our independence but of the part that
France has played in gaining the inde-
pendence and also of the continued
French-American friendship, which is as
strong today as it was that day and will
remain so.
AMBASSADOR
KOSCIUSKO-MORIZET.
Thank you, Mr. President. I will see Presi-
dent Valéry Giscard d'Estaing next week.
I can bring your messages to him.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I will look for-
ward to seeing him sometime in the
future.
Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 12:35
p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
Letter to President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of France
Accepting the Gift for the American Bicentennial.
July 10, 1974
Dear Mr. President:
I was greatly pleased to receive your
letter of June 20 informing me that the
people of France will present the people
of the United States with a Sound and
Light Spectacle for Mount Vernon in
commemoration of the Bicentennial of the
United States. It is especially fitting that
this particular art form, which has been
perfected in France for the purpose of
dramatizing your country's great historical
treasures, be utilized to dramatize one of
America's most cherished symbols of its
struggle for independence.
In acknowledging this generous gift on
behalf of the American people, I join you,
Mr. President, in a tribute to the bonds
of friendship which have joined our two
nations since the 18th Century, and which
will continue to link them as we act to-
gether to forge a structure of peace in
the years to come.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the French gift for the
American Bicentennial.
President Giscard d'Estaing's letter, dated
585
