Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 20 [55]
55 Special Message to the Congress on Health Programs.
February 20, 1974
To the Congress of the United States:
Good health is basic to the well-being
of any society, as basic as education, jobs
and individual liberties. Improving the
level of health in America and assuring
that all Americans have financial access
to quality health care remains a top pri-
ority of this Administration.
By world standards, the health of Amer-
icans is good, and our health care system
is capable of delivering the finest and most
modern care the world has ever known.
But there are still inequities and defi-
ciencies. Improvements can and must be
made.
The objectives we seek for health care
in this country can be simply stated:
-We want all Americans to have the
necessary financial resources to purchase
the health care they need at reasonable
prices.
-We want an adequate supply of
health professionals-doctors, nurses and
others to serve our communities.
-We want a full range of health serv-
ices to be used efficiently by those who
need them; over-use is poor health care
and bad economics.
-And we want a strong research pro-
gram to find ways to prevent and cure
diseases.
These are common objectives all rea-
sonable people can agree on. But we must
also reach a consensus on how best to
achieve them.
Neither the private sector nor the Fed-
eral Government acting alone can assure
financial access to care for all, improve
the quality of services, and guarantee that
biomedical research is both supported and
utilized. We must rely instead upon a
partnership among private physicians and
institutions, State and local authorities,
and the Federal Government-a partner-
ship that builds upon the strengths of the
present system and gives it new vitality.
We have already made great progress.
By strengthening and expanding our part-
nership, we can achieve even more. I have
already proposed an integrated strategy
that includes a Comprehensive Health In-
surance Plan as well as rapid development
of Professional Standard Review Organi-
zations, continuation of price controls in
the health sector, and increased biomedi-
cal research funding. I am recommending
other health proposals on planning and
health manpower. Taken together, these
measures represent a realistic and effective
health strategy for the 1970's-a strategy
to improve the quality of health care for
all of our citizens. In this message, I want
to review the components of that strategy
and outline the additional proposals that
the Administration will soon be sending
to the Congress.
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH INSURANCE
Today the health insurance possessed
by many Americans is often inadequate
or encourages misuse of the health care
system. Usually it pays for a stay in the
hospital, but not for visits to the doctor's
office. It will pay for only a limited num-
ber of days in the hospital. Often it fails
to
cover prescription and life-saving
drugs, or preventive services for the young,
or mental health care. Finally, while it
often encourages unnecessary use of ex-
183
