Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 28 [65]
achieve it simply because of what Govern-
ment does. Government will help. Govern-
ment will provide the seed money.
I saw an interesting statistic, and it is
this: When the Government puts in $15
billion into energy, private enterprise over
the same 5-year period will be putting in
$200 billion and, over a 10-year period,
$500 billion. In other words, 15 to 20 times
as much will come from private enterprise.
I come back to my fundamental theme,
and it applies to every problem that we
have in this country today. The answer to
the problem, a problem in America, is not
through bigger and bigger government.
The answer is through unleashing and
encouraging and providing incentives to
private enterprise to do the job that needs
to be done.
So, that is why I veto a bill that would
lead to longer gas lines, that would lead to
compulsory rationing across this country.
That is why I come down, as I hope you
will come down, for a program in which
we will increase the supply, because that
is the way to get rid of the gas lines and
to avoid rationing.
Let me come to another subject that
will be of considerable interest to this
group.
It happens that the 28th of February,
in addition to being the day that the Brit-
ish are voting, is also a day that is some-
what of an anniversary for Mrs. Nixon
and me. It is the day we returned from
the People's Republic of China 2 years
ago. It seems like a very long time ago,
and I know that many in this audience
had concerns about that trip when it was
announced.
You also have concerns about our pro-
grams for negotiation rather than con-
frontation with the Communist nations,
including the Soviet Union, because of
the differences that we have, deep ideo-
logical differences between our system and
theirs.
Let me explain that policy to you in
just a few words.
Negotiation with another country does
not mean approval of their system of gov-
ernment. What we have to consider is
what the alternative is. The alternative to
negotiation with another super power is
mutual destruction. What we are trying
to build is a world in which nations with
different systems of government can
settle those differences without having
those inevitable confrontations and even
possible clashes which could lead to
nuclear destruction.
Let me say there are easier ways to
demagog this problem. There are ways
which say, if it is a system of government
we don't like, have nothing to do with
them, threaten them, deny them this, do
this or that or the other thing.
If those ways could succeed, that would
be one thing, but we must look at the real
world. I know the leaders of the real
world. I know the leaders of the Soviet
Union. I know the leaders of the People's
Republic of China. I know the leaders of
the other Communist nations.
I totally disagree with their systems;
they totally disagree with ours. But I can
assure you that the primary objective
that we in America must have is to settle
those differences without going to the
inevitable confrontation which could lead
to nuclear destruction.
That is what our peace initiatives are
about, and that is why today-25 years
after World War II, not just because
we ended a long and difficult war in
Vietnam and ended it with honor and
respect for America but because we have
begun negotiations and discussions with
219
