Richard Nixon, 1974
June 16 [184]
have in the past in times of trouble, and
now to work with Israel in a better time,
a time that we trust will be a time of peace.
Reference has been made to the fact
that this is the first visit of a President to
Israel, a President of the United States.
It is, of course, not my first trip to this
land. I was here in 1966 and then at the
very end of the June war in 1967.
As I visited some of the troops, as I met
for the first time the now Prime Minister,
then commander, and also Mr. Dayan
and others who were leaders of Israel at
that time, and particularly as I visited the
hospitals where some of the wounded
were the wounded on both sides-I real-
ized, first, how much Israel had gone
through to defend itself in war, how much
war cost not only Israel but also those on
the other side, and how the goal of peace
was one that was in the interests of both
sides, in the interest of Israel, this nation
of enormous ability, enormous prospects,
whatever the odds may be, but a people
with the ability to go forward to heights
undreamed of if the terrible danger of war
could be reduced and even sometime
removed.
And that is why, at this time as I travel
to nations that over the past few years
have been Israel's traditional adversaries,
that I have been glad to know that the
people of this nation understand, that they
appreciate the purpose of that journey.
The people of Israel understand, ap-
preciate the purpose of a journey I will
take later to the Soviet Union for the third
meeting with Soviet leaders. And that
purpose is the purpose of peace for all the
world and, in this area particularly, peace
among the nations involved. It is not an
easy goal to achieve.
The road ahead is difficult, because the
peace that we seek, that all nations in the
area seek, must be one that is just and one
that is equitable, one that provides the
opportunity for each nation to maintain
its independence and its security against
all those who might threaten it.
But we have taken the first steps down
that long road and now, working with our
traditional friends from Israel as well as
with some of the other nations in the area
who have indicated a similar desire to find
a way to solve differences through peace
rather than war, we believe the goal can
be achieved.
We are dedicated to it. We know that
you, too, are dedicated to it. And I would
say, finally, you are dedicated to it not
because you have, as you look back over
your history, any fear insofar as your abil-
ity to defend yourself is concerned, because
you have demonstrated your courage over
and over again, but you look forward to
the achieving of this goal because you
know how much more Israel-this great,
proud people, small in numbers but high
in intelligence and dedication and abil-
ity-how much more they could create
for their own good and for the people of
the world if they could turn their full at-
tention to the works of peace. That is our
goal.
An impossible dream, one would have
said when I was in Israel at the end of
the June war in 1967. A possible dream
now. What we want to do is to make that
possible dream come true with your co-
operation, with your help, and I am con-
fident we can.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
3 p.m. at Ben-Gurion Airport in response to re-
marks of welcome by President Ephraim Kat-
zir.
517
