Appendix B
January
21 The President met with the Troika-Secre-
tary of the Treasury George P. Shultz, Di-
rector Roy L. Ash of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and Chairman Herbert
Stein of the Council of Economic Advisers.
They discussed the President's Budget Mes-
sage and Economic Report, and Secretary
Shultz reported on the International Mone-
tary Fund meetings in Rome.
21 Vice President Gerald R. Ford met with
the President at the White House to discuss
energy legislation and legislative priorities
for the new session of the Congress.
22 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Speaker of the House
Carl Albert.
22 The President participated in a swearing-in
ceremony at the White House for John H.
Powell, Jr., as a member of the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission. The
President designated Mr. Powell as Chair-
man of the Commission.
22 Secretary of Transportation Claude S.
Brinegar met with the President at the
White House to discuss transportation ini-
tiatives being developed for the State of the
Union Message.
22 Counsellor Anne L. Armstrong met with the
President at the White House to discuss
Bicentennial plans.
22 The President met with approximately 20
Republican Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives to discuss legislative plans for
the second session of the 93d Congress.
23 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House.
23 The President met with approximately 20
Democratic Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives to discuss the legislative calen-
dar for the second session of the 93d
Congress.
January
24 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with Senate Majority
Leader Mike Mansfield.
24 The President met with the National Secur-
ity Council in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
February
I The President directed the Secretary of
Labor to certify as eligible to apply for ad-
justment assistance under the Trade Ex-
pansion Act of 1962, employees and former
employees of the Moxees Shoe Corp., Au-
burn, Maine, a subsidiary of Multivisions
Corp., Bellows Falls, Vt.
I Rev. Sun Myung Moon, founder of the
Unification Church International, called on
the President at the White House. The
President thanked Reverend Moon for his
support.
I The following Ambassadors presented their
credentials to the President in ceremonies
at the White House: Alejandro Jose Luis
Orfila of Argentina, Francisco Bertrand
Galindo of El Salvador, Sahabzada Yaqub
Khan of Pakistan, Ali Hedda of Tunisia,
Nicos G. Dimitriou of Cyprus, Mbeka Ma-
kosso of Zaire, Ahmed Macki of the Sul-
tanate of Oman, and Pyong-choon Hahm
of South Korea.
4 Soviet Foreign Minister A. A. Gromyko
met with the President at the White House.
4 The President announced the designation
of Eileen R. Donovan, United States Am-
bassador to Barbados, as Personal Repre-
sentative of the President, with the rank
of Special Ambassador, to attend cere-
monies celebrating the independence of
Grenada on February 7.
5 Dr. James Salmon of Baytown, Tex., newly
elected chairman of the board of trustees
of the American Medical Association, met
with the President at the White House.
654
