Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 19 [83]
whom I have very great respect, has
checked these facts, and I have gone over
it with him over and over again. He as-
sures me that the feed grains will con-
tinue, that we are going to have a bumper
crop to begin with. But second, with
regard to the demand, the demand world-
wide, is still going to be very big.
in
I do not expect that the farmers of this
country are going to have a bad year
1974. But the prices that they had, for
example, $14 for soybeans, that was too
high. Now perhaps it is $7. That is still
about $3 more than it was when it was
$4. And $7 is pretty good.
I am simply suggesting that as far as
the farmers are concerned, I think they
are doing very well, and our policies, our
policies of opening new markets for them
abroad-and that is one thing that our
negotiations with the Europeans is all
about-we believe that Europe's markets
should be open to our farmers rather than
closed. We believe that Japan's markets
should be open to our farmers rather than
closed. So, we will have plenty of markets
abroad.
But at the same time, we want to see
to it that in our export programs abroad
we don't create shortages here which
forces prices that the housewife pays to
exorbitant heights, because our first con-
cern is what the American housewife
pays for things, and we are not going to
be exporting so much that we have short-
ages here at home to feed our cattle and to
do the other things that are necessary to
keep prices on a reasonable basis.
PRINCIPLE OF CONFIDENTIALITY
[19.] Q. Mr. President, Tom Brokaw
of NBC News. Following on my colleague
Mr. Rather's question, you have referred
here again tonight, as you have in the past,
about what you call the precedents of past
Presidents in withholding White House
material from the House Judiciary Com-
mittee. But other Presidents protecting the
confidentiality of their conversations were
not the subject of impeachment investi-
gations, Mr. President, and in fact, many
of them wrote that the House Judiciary
Committee, at least Congress, had the
right to demand White House materials
in the course of the impeachment investi-
gations. And history shows that Andrew
Johnson gave up everything that the Con-
gress asked him for when he was the sub-
ject of an impeachment investigation.
So, Mr. President, my question is this:
Aren't your statements to that matter his-
torically inaccurate or at least misleading?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Brokaw, it is true,
as you say, that the only other President
who was exposed to an impeachment in-
vestigation was Andrew Johnson, and
insofar as that particular part of your
question is concerned, you are correct.
However, insofar as the principle of
confidentiality is concerned, that principle
still stands, and it affects an impeachment
investigation as well as any other investi-
gation. Because in the future, if all that a
Congress under the control of an opposi-
tion party had to do in order to get a
President out of office was to make an
unreasonable demand to go through all of
the files of the Presidency, a demand
which a President would have to refuse,
then it would mean that no President
would be strong enough to stay in office
to resist that kind of demand and that
kind of pressure. It would lead to in-
stability. And it would destroy, as I
have indicated before, the principle of
confidentality.
With regard to the problem, I simply
297
