Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
spending for education from $4.3 billion
to $7.6 billion—an increase of 76 percent.
In special messages to the Congress on
education in the past, I set forth five major
proposals to improve American educa-
tion. They were:
-A new program of student assistance
to help to ensure for the first time in the
Nation's history-that no qualified per-
son is barred from attending college by
lack of money.
-A National Institute of Education, to
be the focal point for educational research
and development aimed at increasing our
knowledge of how to help students learn.
-A National Foundation for Higher
Education, to encourage innovation in
learning beyond high school.
-An Emergency School Aid program
to assist desegregating school districts.
-A thorough reform of the programs
for Federal support of elementary and
secondary education, consolidating the
myriad separate categorical grant pro-
grams in order to transfer educational
decisions back to the State and local levels
where they belong.
The first four of these basic proposals
have been enacted, in whole or in part,
and a great deal has already been accom-
plished through them. As for the fifth, re-
form of Federal funding for elementary
and secondary education, I believe that
1974 should be the year of its enactment.
COLLEGE STUDENT ASSISTANCE
The Basic Educational Opportunity
Grant Program is the primary vehicle in
my effort to ensure that no qualified stu-
dent be denied a college education be-
cause of lack of funds. In my new budget,
I am asking Congressional approval to
strengthen this program by providing
grants of up to $1,400 a year for needy
students. Altogether, when combined with
other student funding efforts, the Federal
Government in the coming fiscal year
would provide an estimated $2.2 billion
of financial aid to post-secondary students,
an increase of over $900 million from the
level of five years ago.
Since the present student assistance
programs are targeted to help the need-
iest, and because the costs of higher educa-
tion have risen dramatically, many mid-
dle income students are now finding it in-
creasingly difficult to make ends meet. I
therefore also recommend that the limit
on total borrowing be increased so that
professional and other graduate students
will be able to find adequate student loans.
EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
When I originally proposed the crea-
tion of a National Institute of Education,
I suggested that providing equal oppor-
tunity for quality education means, in
part, increasing our knowledge about the
ways that students learn and then chang-
ing the way we teach them. For too long
we have followed the belief that bigger
educational programs are necessarily bet-
ter educational programs and that money
alone can solve our educational problems.
But now we are beginning to see that the
quality of our thinking about education
can be as important as the size of our
educational budget.
The National Institute of Education
can help us to marshal our educational re-
sources in ways which will produce the
best results. It has already begun to pro-
vide the kind of leadership in educational
71
