[65] Feb. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
well intentioned, I am sure, but one that
goes in the wrong direction. It did some-
thing that I know everybody, when he
thinks of it just superficially, would like
to have done. It rolls back the price of
gasoline. So we will roll back the price of
gasoline, and many would say that will
solve the problem.
The difficulty with that, of course, is
this. The difficulty is that the bill passed
by the Congress, which would provide for
a rollback of prices of gasoline, something
that we would all like to achieve in the
end, that bill will result in longer gas
lines and also would inevitably lead to
compulsory rationing in this country. And
that we are not going to have and we
should not have.
And I shall veto that bill. And I am
going to veto it, not because I am against
lower prices-because I am for lower
prices-not because I am against more gas
and oil available to the American people,
but because I am for more gas and oil
available to the American people at prices
they can afford to pay.
But the answer is for the Congress to
act on the proposals that we have had be-
fore them--not for months, in some cases
for years which would increase the sup-
ply of energy in this country, increase it,
and by increasing the supply, the price will
go down, the gas lines will certainly dis-
appear, and we can move forward as a
country with the energy that we need.
The other point I want to make in this
respect is that the problem of energy is
not limited to the United States, it is a
worldwide problem. In one sense that is a
good thing. It means that the nations of
the world, poor nations that never thought
of having as much uses for energy as they
now
ow have, do have those demands, richer
nations like ours and the nations of Europe
and Japan, who have increasing demands
for energy, as those demands have gone
up worldwide, certainly it has the in-
evitable result of creating an energy short-
age which must be dealt with.
The point I want to make, however, is
that the United States is in a very for-
tunate position. Of all the free nations of
the world, with the possible exception of
Canada, we are the only nation that has
the resources right here in this country to
become totally independent of any other
country in the world for our energy. Let's
get out and get those resources out of the
ground.
For example, we have half the coal in
the world. But that coal isn't going to be
mined and it isn't going to be used unless
we make the necessary steps which we
have asked the Congress to take in terms
of certain environmental regulations
which in the long run we can have, but in
the short run must be amended, because
the important thing for us to remember is
that the coal resources of this Nation must
be put to work in order to get rid of the
energy shortage.
The deregulation of natural gas, some
of the other efforts that we are making,
not to mention, of course, the efforts in
the international field to remove the em-
bargo, which presently is plaguing us, par-
ticularly on the eastern seaboard.
The major point I would make with re-
gard to energy, however, is this. You have
heard about the big Government program
we are going to have. It is necessary. We
are going to put $15 billion from the Gov-
ernment into developing our energy re-
sources over the next 5 years.
We have set as a goal in 1980 becom-
ing completely independent. We call it
Project Independence for 1980. We can
achieve that, but we are not going to
218
