[148] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
sylvania and the East and also struck
through the South, and then, of course,
the ones that more recently are causing
flooding in various parts of the country-
the South Dakota problem, which we all
remember, that particular disaster.
We are glad we do have one coordi-
nated program to deal with it. I, however,
emphasize that to me, the important thing
that I found is that the individuals I talked
to whose homes were wiped out, in every
one of these cases, they want to stay. They
don't want to move, but they cannot stay
unless they have jobs. And consequently,
while a piece of legislation as compre-
149
hensive as this is does deal with disasters
in a very effective way, the longer-term
problem of bringing industry in and keep-
ing industry in so that there will be enough
jobs for the people who want to stay, this
is one that we all want to commit our-
selves to, and we will appreciate your
advice on it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:20 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. Present
at the bill signing ceremony were Members of
Congress and Federal officials responsible for
the disaster relief programs.
As enacted, the bill (S. 3062) is Public Law
93-288 (88 Stat. 143).
Statement About the Disaster Relief Act of 1974.
May 22, 1974
I HAVE today signed S. 3062, the Disas-
ter Relief Act amendments of 1974.
This bill amends the Disaster Relief
Act of 1970 by further extending the as-
sistance available from the Federal Gov-
ernment for individuals and States and
local communities suffering from the
effects of disasters such as the tornadoes
that ravaged a wide area of the Nation
early last month. It also strengthens disas-
ter planning and preparedness and re-
quires as a condition to receiving Federal
assistance that insurance coverage be pro-
vided to protect property against future
disaster losses.
Since taking office, I have had to
declare over 180 major disasters in 42
States. The amount of Federal assistance
given to disaster victims has been greatly
expanded, and this Administration has
made every effort to provide this aid more
equitably and expeditiously. Last year, I
sent a message to the Congress outlining
this Administration's proposals for im-
proving the assistance which the Federal
Government can provide in time of major
disasters and other emergencies and for
increasing the role of State and local gov-
ernments in disaster recovery. The Con-
gress, while altering the particulars of
some of my proposals, has incorporated in
this bill the essential features of a sound
disaster assistance program. Combined
with the Flood Disaster Protection Act
that I signed into law on December 31,
1973, this new disaster relief law truly
brings the New Federalism to our disaster
preparedness and assistance activities.
I congratulate the Congress for acting
speedily and responsibly in responding to
the needs of those who are suffering as a
result of the recent tornadoes—and of
those who may face similar problems in
the future. This bill responds to a vital
need of the American people, and it
demonstrates that the Federal Govern-
ment, in cooperation with State and local
authorities, is ready and able to provide
448
