Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 25 [61]
SUPPLY AND PRICE OF GASOLINE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
follow up on your discussion of the energy
situation. When you said that the crisis is
ended, that the problem is still with us, I
think for most people the problem is wait-
ing for a long time in line for gasoline,
and another part of it is the price of gaso-
line going up, as it has been.
What can you tell the American people
about when lines for gasoline may become
shorter under your program, and what do
you see in terms of the future of the price
of gasoline?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the lines
for gasoline will become shorter in the
spring and summer months. In fact, that
is the purpose of our program, and I think
we will achieve it.
As far as the price of gasoline is con-
cerned, I would be less than candid if I
were not to say that the price of gasoline
is not going to go down until more supplies
of gasoline come into the country and
also until other fuels come on stream
which will reduce the pressure which is
upward on the price of gasoline.
Obviously, too, when the embargo is
lifted, that is and will have some effect on
the price of gasoline.
OIL EMBARGO
[7] Q. Mr. President, when do you
think the embargo might be lifted?
THE PRESIDENT. The embargo ques-
tion is one that I know is on the minds
of all of us, and it is one that presently is
under consideration, as you know, by the
oil-producing countries.
I should point out here that Dr. Kis-
singer's trip to the Mideast is directed
toward getting a disengagement or getting
talks started with regard to a disengage-
ment on the Syrian front. That, following
on the disengagement on the Egyptian
front, I think, will have a positive effect,
although it is not linked to the problem
of the embargo directly.
If I could perhaps elaborate just a bit
on that: As far as the oil-producing coun-
tries are concerned we believe it is in their
interest to lift the embargo. They should
do that independently of what happens
on the front of the negotiation with regard
to developing a permanent peace in the
Mideast.
As far as we are concerned, we believe
that getting a permanent peace in the
Mideast is a goal worth achieving, apart
from the embargo.
But while they are not conditioned on
one another by either party, what hap-
pens in one area inevitably affects what
happens in the other. And I can say,
based
on the conversations I have had with the
foreign ministers I met with last week and
based on the reports I have received to
date, I believe we are going to make con-
tinued progress on the peace front. I
believe that will be helpful in bringing
progress on getting the embargo lifted.
By the same token, if the embargo is not
lifted, it will naturally slow down the
efforts that we are making on the peace
front. And it is because I believe that we
are going to make progress in developing
those particular items that are essential
towards movement toward a permanent
peace in the Mideast that the oil-produc-
ing countries will conclude that they
should move on the embargo front.
PRESIDENTIAL TESTIMONY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, has the Special
Prosecutor requested your testimony in
203
