Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 23 [17]
necessary and I have proposed legisla-
tion that would give such Congressional
approval. It would also provide that funds
from the sale or exchange of the oil could
be used for further exploration and de-
velopment of Elk Hills and for explora-
tion of Naval Petroleum Reserve #4 in
Alaska. I am pleased that the Senate has
already passed this legislation, and I am
hopeful that immediate action will now
be taken by the House of Representatives.
Mined Area Protection
A Mined Area Protection Act is needed
to encourage the development of State
programs which permit the mining of coal
and other minerals to go forward in a way
that is environmentally safe. The absence
of clear legislation in this area is inhibiting
the development of our coal reserves. The
Senate has passed a bill, but it deals only
with surface mining of coal rather than
all mining and it contains provisions
which would actually impede production
of coal.
The House Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs is scheduled to take up the
matter soon and I am hopeful that it will
act favorably on the Administration's
proposal.
Deepwater Port Facilities
Even though our policy is to achieve
self-sufficiency, we will clearly continue
to import oil as long as it is available at
reasonable prices. To enable us to import
fuel more economically, I have proposed
Federal Government licensing of the con-
struction and operation of deepwater port
facilities three miles or more at sea on the
Outer Continental Shelf. The main use of
these facilities would be to import crude
oil in ships that are economically and envi-
ronmentally desirable, but are too deep
of draft to permit their entry into our
port facilities on the East and Gulf Coasts.
This legislation would also eliminate
many of the legal uncertainties which now
drive private investors away from Ameri-
can waters and to other nations of the
Western Hemisphere. The present system
only serves to create investments and jobs
abroad and raises our costs of imported
oil, already high, even further.
Drilling Investment Credit
Last April I proposed that the invest-
ment credit provisions of present tax laws
be extended to provide a credit for all
exploratory drilling for new oil and gas
fields. Approval of this provision would
provide an essential incentive for new oil
and gas exploration. At the same time, I
am asking the Congress to eliminate the
tax shelter that now exists for wealthy
taxpayers who reduce their taxes by tak-
ing deductions for investments in oil
drilling.
Mineral Leasing Act
The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 gov-
erns the exploration and production of oil,
gas, coal, and other minerals on Federal
lands while the Mining Act of 1872, gov-
erns the exploration and mining for
"hard-rock" (gold, silver, copper, etc.)
minerals. Both acts have become obsolete.
Last February, I proposed a bill that
would place all mineral exploration and
mining activities on Federal lands under a
single Federal leasing system. The bill
would assure that the persons who obtain
the leases are those who have an interest
in early exploration for oil, gas, and other
minerals. It would also require that ex-
ploration meet the environmental stand-
25
