Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 27 [63]
63 Letter to Chairmen and Ranking Minority Members of the
Senate and House Labor Committees About Pending
Minimum Wage Legislation. February 27, 1974
I AM writing to you with regard to the
need for enacting a responsible minimum
wage bill during this session of the
Congress.
The minimum wage for most workers
has now been at the same level for six
years, and there can be no doubt that it
should be higher. I have consistently
urged appropriate increases, starting with
legislative recommendations in 1971 and
most recently in my State of the Union
message last month. Yet, in amending the
minimum wage, we must avoid hurting
the many low wage workers we are trying
to help. This was my concern when I
vetoed H.R. 7935 last fall.
Last week, Committees of both Houses
of Congress began work on new minimum
wage legislation. In the House, the initial
actions showed a desire to phase in in-
creases in the minimum wage in a way
which should reduce the inflationary and
disemployment impact that last year's bill
would have had. I am particularly en-
couraged by the House Sub-committee
action in making some changes to help
expand student employment opportu-
nities.
There is one area of new coverage
which is of special concern to me. The
disemployment effects on domestic work-
ers could be very acute if there are no
practical limits on coverage and their
minimum wage is put at too high a level.
The adoption of a meaningful hours-
worked test, especially when coupled with
a delay in the increase in subsequent steps
of the minimum wage, would help to
ameliorate the disemployment effects that
would result from covering domestic
workers. However, the initial tests pro-
posed in the House and Senate bills are
so broad that they may not have their
intended effect.
The extension of the Federal minimum
wage and overtime requirements to State
and local Government employees is also a
problem. I appreciate the fact that the
House bill under consideration tries to
avoid undue interference in the operations
of these Governments by exempting police
and firemen from the overtime require-
ments. However, I continue to agree with
the Advisory Commission on Intergovern-
mental Relations that, in general, addi-
tional Federal requirements affecting the
relationship between these governments
and their employees is an unnecessary in-
terference with their prerogatives. The
available evidence has failed to convince
me that these governments are not acting
responsibly in setting their wage and salary
rates to meet local conditions. Addition-
ally, if the Congress desires to make the
minimum wage and overtime laws ap-
plicable to Federal employees, who are
already adequately protected by other
laws, it should place enforcement respon-
213
