[217] July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
in Federal spending over the past decade.
The Congress has wisely recognized
these weaknesses and taken steps to cor-
rect them through the passage of this legis-
lation.
There are provisions in this bill I hope
will be simplified if the requirements im-
posed by them prove to be restrictive. The
impoundment control provisions, in par-
ticular, may well limit the ability of the
Federal Government to respond promptly
and effectively to rapid changes in eco-
nomic conditions.
Nevertheless, this bill represents a major
step toward reform of the Congressional
budgetary system. Its enactment is espe-
cially timely, because an excessive rate of
inflation makes the need for careful con-
sideration and control over Government
spending more crucial than ever. Already
the Congress has enacted, or has pend-
ing, programs which could add some $4
billion to our 1975 budget proposals of
218
$305 billion. I will have no choice but to
veto bills which substantially exceed my
budget.
The 1976 budget also gives us the op-
portunity to work together to face our fis-
cal responsibilities. In the near future, I
will send to each department and agency
their preliminary budget guidance for
1976. It will reflect a balanced budget in
1976. To achieve this balance, I plan to
propose a broad range of legislation which
will be needed to cut back individual
programs.
I am confident that the Congress will
assist me in this effort to keep spending
from exceeding my proposed budget levels.
H.R. 7130 will permit the high level of
cooperation which will be required to
achieve this critical goal.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the act by Roy L. Ash, Director
of the Office of Management and Budget.
Remarks at a Meeting with the Wu Shu Troupe of the
People's Republic of China.
Mr. Ambassador:
We want to express our appreciation to
the performers who have been here today
at the White House, and I only wish that
we could see the entire performance. From
what I have heard, it has been an enor-
mous success at the Kennedy Center on
Wednesday night.
This is another of a series of visits be-
tween our two countries that began in
the year 1972. And what we think is im-
portant is that this is another demonstra-
tion of the basic friendship between the
Chinese people and the American people.
We believe that the Chinese people are
a great people. We believe the American
July 12, 1974
people are a great people. And we believe
that our two peoples have always been
destined to be friends and never enemies.
And we know that as you travel through
the United States that you will certainly
make many friends for the Chinese peo-
ple, and we know, too, that as we have
an opportunity to welcome you that you
will convey to our friends in the People's
Republic of China our warm good wishes
to Chairman Mao, to Premier Chou En-
lai, and all of our good friends whom we
met in 1972.
Normalization of relations between our
two countries continues to be a major
goal of American foreign policy, and while
588
