Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
tion to which women are subjected. Some
of this discrimination can be erased by
existing law; some requires new law; some
would be rectified by the Equal Rights
Amendment, now nearing ratification by
the required three-fourths of the States.
It is my hope that the Equal Rights
Amendment will be ratified speedily so
that equal justice under our laws will be-
come a reality for every American.
One of the primary goals of this Ad-
ministration is to ensure full equal em-
ployment opportunity for women by striv-
ing to open to women jobs that previously
were reserved for men, often simply by
habit or custom. Specifically, we have
moved vigorously both to enforce the law
and to lead by example-by insisting on
equal employment and promotion oppor-
tunities within the Federal service, by
promoting more women into the profes-
sionally critical areas of middle manage-
ment and by continuing our special
recruiting drive to bring more women into
the highest levels of Government.
To help advance these goals I have
appointed the first woman Counsellor to
the President, and she, in turn, has set up
a new Office of Women's Programs within
my executive office. We are particularly
proud that this Administration is the first
to have women as heads of three inde-
pendent Federal agencies the Atomic
Energy Commission, the Federal Mari-
time Commission, and the United States
Tariff Commission.
The effort to improve the economic
status of women outside the Government
is also continuing. The Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission, which
has been given enforcement power in the
Federal Courts, has reported a marked
increase in its activities to end sex dis-
crimination in employment.
We will continue to pursue all these
efforts with vigor. This emphasis is espe-
cially appropriate as we approach 1975,
which has been declared International
Women's Year by the United Nations.
One especially invidious form of sex dis-
crimination in particular is ripe for cor-
rection now through new legislation: the
discrimination that often denies women
equal access to credit. In an economy that
increasingly operates on credit, this is a
particularly grievous practice.
The Congress already has before it a
proposal to ensure that credit is extended
to all persons on an equitable basis, with-
out regard to their sex or marital status.
This Administration strongly supports this
proposal and is sending to the Congress
amendments which we believe will
strengthen it even further. I urge prompt
consideration and passage of this vital
legislation.
PROTECTION AGAINST CRIME AND
INVASIONS OF PRIVACY
Over the past five years I have had no
higher domestic priority than rolling back
the tide of crime and violence which rose
in the 1960s. I am therefore especially
pleased with the progress we are making
on this front:
-After 17 years of continuous and
often dramatic increases, crime in 1972
registered its first overall decline. Al-
though in 1973 it again registered a slight
increase, it still held below the level of
1971. Now that the momentum of increase
has been broken, I am confident that we
can look forward to further reductions in
crime rates in the years ahead.
-Serious crime in our largest cities was
actually reduced by 13 percent between
1971 and 1973.
77
