[244] Aug. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
released a transcript of their news briefing on
the meeting on the same day. The briefing is
245
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 10, p. 1010).
Remarks on Departure From the White House.
August 9, 1974
Members of the Cabinet, members of the
White House Staff, all of our friends here:
I think the record should show that
this is one of those spontaneous things that
we always arrange whenever the President
comes in to speak, and it will be so re-
ported in the press, and we don't mind,
because they have to call it as they see it.
But on our part, believe me, it is
spontaneous.
You are here to say goodby to us, and
we don't have a good word for it in Eng-
lish-the best is au revoir. We will see you
again.
I just met with the members of the
White House staff, you know, those who
serve here in the White House day in and
day out, and I asked them to do what I
ask all of you to do to the extent that you
can and, of course, are requested to do so:
to serve our next President as you have
served me and previous Presidents-be-
cause many of you have been here for
many years with devotion and dedica-
tion, because this office, great as it is, can
only be as great as the men and women
who work for and with the President.
This house, for example I was think-
ing of it as we walked down this hall, and
I was comparing it to some of the great
houses of the world that I have been in.
This isn't the biggest house. Many, and
most, in even smaller countries, are much
bigger. This isn't the finest house. Many
in Europe, particularly, and in China,
Asia, have paintings of great, great value,
things that we just don't have here and,
probably, will never have until we are
1,000 years old or older.
But this is the best house. It is the best
house, because it has something far more
important than numbers of people who
serve, far more important than numbers
of rooms or how big it is, far more impor-
tant than numbers of magnificent pieces
of art.
This house has a great heart, and that
heart comes from those who serve. I was
rather sorry they didn't come down. We
said goodby to them upstairs. But they
are really great. And I recall after so many
times I have made speeches, and some of
them pretty tough, yet, I always come
back, or after a hard day-and my days
usually have run rather long-I would
always get a lift from them, because I
might be a little down but they always
smiled.
And so it is with you. I look around
here, and I see so many on this staff that,
you know, I should have been by your of-
fices and shaken hands, and I would love
to have talked to you and found out how
to run the world-everybody wants to tell
the President what to do, and boy, he
needs to be told many times-but I just
haven't had the time. But I want you to
know that each and every one of you, I
know, is indispensable to this Govern-
ment.
I am proud of this Cabinet. I am proud
of all the members who have served in
our Cabinet. I am proud of our sub-
Cabinet. I am proud of our White House
|
630
