[121] Apr. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
lems, we analyze them and we do some-
thing about them. That is the American
spirit. It is what made this country in
the beginning, has kept us going through-
out our 200 years, and will keep us even
greater in the future.
So, let us examine, first, the problem
of the economy, where it is. As we know,
in the first quarter of this year, we have
had an economic downturn, primarily
related to the problems of energy and
also characterized by inflation, inflation
which began in '73 due primarily again
to energy, as I have indicated, and to
higher food price costs.
Under these circumstances then, as we
look at our economy, we wonder, what is
the prospect for the second quarter, for
the third quarter, for the fourth quarter.
And here it is as we see it today:
First, the problem of inflation is a most
nagging one. That problem, however, is
not going to be solved by putting this
economy under the straitjacket of Gov-
ernment controls from Washington, D.C.
That would be an awfully easy answer for
a President to give.
But we have tried that way, not only
this Administration and others. And it
works for a time, but in the end we pay a
bigger price in higher prices. That prob-
lem also is not going to be solved by sim-
ply spending more, because while you can
spend more yourself into an inflation, you
can't spend yourself out of inflation.
So, that means as we look at the prob-
lem of inflation, that whenever we make
decisions in Washington with regard to
what your Government spends for the
Federal budget, that affects your family
budget. We must spend what is necessary
to keep our economy on the move. We
must spend what is necessary to deal with
such problems as disasters, that the Gov-
ernor has referred to, and we will. But I
can assure you, too, that we will be respon-
sible, responsible because we must remem-
ber that a sound policy in Washington,
where the Government spends only what
is necessary and not more, is essential if
we are going to be able to control the fires
of inflation that presently are eating away
at us.
What, then, is the answer, long-term,
as far as inflation is concerned? You
know what it is: more production—more
production of food-and here the pros-
pects are good. A record agriculture year
in which Mississippi, a great agriculture
State, now primarily an industrial State—
which is an indication of a change in 25
years that has occurred in this State-Mis-
sissippi is playing its great role in that
respect. And so, that means that as we
have more production of food, that the
rise in food prices will tend, as we go
through the balance of the year, to level
off. That is one good sign for the future.
And then the other problem is that of
energy. Here again, it is a problem of
whether or not we have the supplies to
meet the demand.
The other day I was talking to the
Chancellor of Germany. I was asking him
how much it costs for a gallon of gasoline
in Germany. He said, "$1.40 and we are
willing to pay it." Now, of course, as far
as we are concerned, we believe the prices
we pay for gasoline are too high now be-
cause of what we have been through in
the past, and they are.
We believe that some of the profits that
are made are windfall profits and that
the Congress should tax them, as I be-
lieve the Congress eventually will, but let
us remember this, too:
The answer to getting our energy prices
under control is to produce more, and
382
