Richard Nixon, 1974
July 17 [221]
people are classified and paid is unrea-
sonably inflexible and provides limited op-
portunity to recognize differences in in-
dividual performance and ability.
The Congress has given preliminary
consideration and provided advice on the
first proposal the Administration made to
reform the executive manpower manage-
ment system. I soon will be sending to
the Congress new legislation which incor-
porates earlier Congressional views. The
new Executive Personnel System I pro-
pose will:
1. Provide flexibility to assign senior
career executives where they are most
needed;
2. Compensate on the basis of individ-
ual capability within broad salary bands;
3. Remove the current, inflexible
quotas and other statutory allocations ap-
plicable on the number in the highest
three grades, but maintain a responsible
oversight on the total number;
4. Recognize the distinction between
the executives with career commitments
and those temporarily working for the
Government; and,
5. Improve the overall management of
our total executive resources by provid-
ing for a comprehensive annual analysis
and review by the Congress and the execu-
tive branch.
Enactment of this legislation would
provide the means to build and maintain
an effective and responsive Federal execu-
tive work force. I urge early and favor-
able consideration by the Congress.
Second, I strongly urge prompt con-
gressional action on the recommendation
for pay increases for Federal executives
that I submitted on May 7, 1974. The
failure of the Congress to approve higher
salaries for the executive, legislative, and
judicial branches has created a severe
problem within the Government that
needs to be remedied quickly. Some 10,000
executives are now paid the same salary.
This pay compression denies fair increases
in compensation and the incentive to seek
greater responsibility. For many of the top
staff within the Government, it has be-
come financially more rewarding to retire
than to remain in the Federal service.
Failure to relieve this situation may well
lead to a serious decline in the quality of
our management capability.
Third, to insure that those individuals
entering our executive ranks in the future
are managerially fit, I have asked the Civil
Service Commission to improve the cri-
teria by which individuals are judged for
those positions. There must be assurance
that these individuals have been ade-
quately prepared to handle their new re-
sponsibilities. While technical competence
will remain a factor in filling executive
positions with leadership responsibilities,
demonstrated managerial capability will
be more heavily weighed in the future.
Finally, I am calling for and support-
ing new and original efforts to reward
outstanding performance among our
executives. We do not offer our executives
strong personal incentives to be aggressive
and achieve results. Often our most de-
serving and promising civil servants leave
the Government in search of employers
who are better able to recognize and
reward their ability. We cannot afford to
lose such people.
Therefore, I am directing that the In-
centive Awards Program be more widely
utilized to recognize outstanding man-
agerial performance. There will be ex-
perimentation with group awards that
executives can selectively use to reward
593
