[65] Feb. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
get in there and fight when it is hardest
and when it is toughest, and I will show
you a good candidate.
So, number one, when the battle looks
toughest, get in there and fight for the
cause. Believe in it, because next time.
around, if you lose this time, you will be
there.
Second, in life generally and in politics
particularly, you don't win them all. I am
an expert on that. And also, you never win
even when you win big and just assume,
well, now the job is done because the bat-
tle always goes on. That is our system.
That is the way it should be.
You learn from your defeats, and then
you go on to fight again-never quit,
never quit. Always go on and fight for
those things you believe in.
Third, and this comes to something that
is very difficult to describe, but it is some-
thing that you feel deep within your own
selves, your own innermost spirit: Keep
your faith, keep your confidence. There is
a tendency to become disillusioned with
politics. Mistakes are made. Mistakes are
made by people who are in your own
party. They are made by other people in
political life. And there is a tendency to
throw up our hands and say, "Oh, I am
not going to have anything to do with it."
You see what that would mean, how-
ever. Then you leave it to those who don't
care about those mistakes so much, and
the answer, therefore, if you think that
there are things wrong with our political
system and there are things that are
wrong with it-then get in and do some-
thing about it.
This is the time that we need our young
Republicans with your idealism, with your
enthusiasm, and with your faith, not only
to build the Republican Party—and that
is a great goal-as one of our two great
parties but to build a new America and to
build a new world.
That is the challenge I give to you, and
you are going to meet it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:16 a.m. in
the Ambassador Room of the Shoreham Hotel.
In his remarks, the President referred to
George H. Bush, Republican National Chair-
man; Richard W. Smith, chairman of the
Young Republican National Federation; and J.
Charlene Baker, executive director of the 1974
Young Republican Leadership Conference.
66 White House Statement Following Grand Jury Indictment
of Seven Former Administration and Campaign Officials.
March 1, 1974
THE PRESIDENT has always main-
tained that the judicial system is the
proper forum for the resolution of the
questions concerning Watergate.
The indictments indicate that the judi-
cial process is finally moving toward reso-
lution of the matter. It is the President's
hope that trials will move quickly to a just
conclusion. The President is confident
that all Americans will join him in recog-
nizing that those indicted are presumed in-
nocent, unless proof of guilt is established
in the courts.
NOTE: Deputy Press Secretary Gerald L. War-
ren read the statement at a noon news briefing
at the White House.
Earlier in the day, a Federal grand jury had
returned an indictment charging conspiracy to
obstruct the administration of justice, in con-
nection with the Watergate investigations, and
other offenses on the part of seven former Ad-
222
