[122] Apr. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
me and those with whom I have talked-
which they will-and not just because
they will become the subject of specula-
tion and even ridicule-which they will-
and not just because certain parts of them
will be seized upon by political and jour-
nalistic opponents—which they will.
I have been reluctant because, in these
and in all the other conversations in this
office, people have spoken their minds
freely, never dreaming that specific sen-
tences or even parts of sentences would be
picked out as the subjects of national at-
tention and controversy.
I have been reluctant because the prin-
ciple of confidentiality is absolutely essen-
tial to the conduct of the Presidency. In
reading the raw transcripts of these con-
versations, I believe it will be more readily
apparent why that principle is essential
and must be maintained in the future.
These conversations are unusual in their
subject matter, but the same kind of unin-
hibited discussion-and it is that-the
same brutal candor is necessary in dis-
cussing how to bring warring factions to
the peace table or how to move necessary
legislation through the Congress.
Names are named in these transcripts.
Therefore, it is important to remember
that much that appears in them is no more
than hearsay or speculation, exchanged as
I was trying to find out what really had
happened, while my principal aides were
reporting to me on rumors and reports
that they had heard, while we discussed
the various, often conflicting stories that
different persons were telling.
As the transcripts will demonstrate, my
concerns during this period covered a wide
range. The first and obvious one was to
find out just exactly what had happened
and who was involved.
A second concern was for the people
who had been, or might become, involved
in Watergate. Some were close advisers,
valued friends, others whom I had trusted.
And I was also concerned about the hu-
man impact on others, especially some of
the young people and their families who
had come to Washington to work in my
Administration, whose lives might be sud-
denly ruined by something they had done
in an excess of loyalty or in the mistaken
belief that it would serve the interests of
the President.
And then, I was quite frankly con-
cerned about the political implications.
This represented potentially a devastating
blow to the Administration and to its pro-
grams, one which I knew would be ex-
ploited for all it was worth by hostile ele-
ments in the Congress as well as in the
media. I wanted to do what was right, but
I wanted to do it in a way that would
cause the least unnecessary damage in a
highly charged political atmosphere to the
Administration.
And fourth, as a lawyer, I felt very
strongly that I had to conduct myself in a
way that would not prejudice the rights of
potential defendants.
And fifth, I was striving to sort out a
complex tangle, not only of facts but also
questions of legal and moral responsibility.
I wanted, above all, to be fair. I wanted
to draw distinctions, where those were
appropriate, between persons who were
active and willing participants on the one
hand, and on the other, those who might
have gotten inadvertently caught up in the
web and be technically indictable but mor-
ally innocent.
Despite the confusions and contradic-
tions, what does come through clearly is
this:
John Dean charged in sworn Senate
testimony that I was "fully aware of the
392
