Richard Nixon, 1974
[43]
Feb. II
would call a watershed of world history.
We are here at a time when we have seen
the conclusion of a very long and difficult
war in which the United States was in-
volved in Vietnam, a time when we have
seen the beginnings toward movement to-
ward what we hope would be not just a
temporary but a permanent peace in the
Mideast.
Also, over the past few years during the
time that I have been in this office and
during the time that most of you have
been in the offices you hold, we have seen
the whole world change. Not only the
United States but other free world nations
have opened a new dialog with the Soviet
Union and with the People's Republic of
China.
We have also seen that at the present
time, as a result of that dialog, negotia-
tions are taking place that no one would
have predicted 3 or 4 years ago-negotia-
tions with regard to the reduction of forces
in Europe, negotiations insofar as the
European Security Conference is con-
cerned, negotiations which are taking
place between the United States and the
Soviet Union in the field of limiting
nuclear arms.
When we look at this record and of all
of the events that have come together
before this day on which we meet, we
realize that the world now faces an un-
precedented challenge.
That has probably been said before at
other times in the world's history, but
probably it has never been so true, cer-
tainly not so true since World War II
than today. And that challenge is to build
a world of peace, not simply a peace that
is an interlude between wars but a peace
that has a chance to be permanent.
I would not suggest to this sophisticated
group that building that peace and keep-
ing that peace will be easy. We all know
the complex situation in the Middle East,
and all of us will be working toward a
solution that will be permanent and just
and fair to all concerned. We all know
that in the relations between the great
powers and the smaller powers, between
what is known as the Communist world
and the free world, that one must never
assume that simply because negotiations
are taking place that confrontation may
not later occur.
On the other hand, I think that we can
say that because we are living in an era of
negotiation rather than confrontation
where the free world and the Communist
world is concerned, because we have seen
the end of those wars-small though they
were, but very painful they also were,
which plagued us for the past genera-
tion-although that has happened, we
realize that in order to build the peace
and to keep it, that it is essential that we
maintain the strength and the unity that
brought us where we are.
Having spoken in that particular area,
the area of security, let me now relate it
to the other areas with which this confer-
ence is more closely identified, the area of
economics or, should I say, of the whole
field of not only how do we have peace
in the terms of simply absence of war, but
how do we have peace in which we build
an era of progress for all of our people,
the people of the free nations and, for that
matter, of the Communist nations of the
world.
It is this challenge that confronts us
today.
I would like to speak quite directly to
this audience with regard to what I see in
the world and what I see in the United
States as we face this challenge.
We must examine what is a truism, I
151
