[34] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ance if they cannot otherwise get cover-
age at reasonable rates. Included in this
latter group might be persons whose
health status or type of work puts them in
high-risk insurance categories.
Assisted Health Insurance would thus
fill many of the gaps in our present health
insurance system and would ensure that
for the first time in our Nation's history,
all Americans would have financial access
to health protection regardless of income
or circumstances.
A principal feature of Assisted Health
Insurance is that it relates premiums and
out-of-pocket expenses to the income of
the person or family enrolled. Working
families with incomes of up to $5,000, for
instance, would pay no premiums at all.
Deductibles, co-insurance, and maximum
liability would all be pegged to income
levels.
Assisted Health Insurance would re-
place State-run Medicaid for most serv-
ices. Unlike Medicaid, where benefits vary
in each State, this plan would establish
uniform benefit and eligibility standards
for all low-income persons. It would also
eliminate artificial barriers to enrollment
or access to health care.
COSTS OF COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH
INSURANCE
When fully effective, the total new costs
of CHIP to the Federal and State govern-
ments would be about $6.9 billion with an
additional small amount for transitional
assistance for small and low wage
employers:
-The Federal Government would add
about $5.9 billion over the cost of con-
tinuing existing programs to finance
health care for low-income or high risk
persons.
-State governments would add about
$1.0 billion over existing Medicaid spend-
ing for the same purpose, though these
added costs would be largely, if not wholly
offset by reduced State and local budgets
for direct provision of services.
—The Federal Government would pro-
vide assistance to small and low wage em-
ployers which would initially cost about
$450 million but be phased out over five
years.
For the average American family, what
all of these figures reduce to is simply
this:
-The national average family cost for
health insurance premiums each year un-
der Employee Health Insurance would be
about $150; the employer would pay
approximately $450 for each employee
who participates in the plan.
-Additional family costs for medical
care would vary according to need and
use, but in no case would a family have
to pay more than $1,500 in any one year
for covered services.
-No additional taxes would be needed
to pay for the cost of CHIP. The Federal
funds needed to pay for this plan could
all be drawn from revenues that would be
generated by the present tax structure. I
am opposed to any comprehensive health
plan which requires new taxes.
MAKING THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
WORK BETTER
Any program to finance health care for
the Nation must take close account of two
critical and related problems-cost and
quality.
136
