[243] Aug. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
substantially above my budget for fiscal
year 1975 would be vetoed because it
would otherwise contribute to inflationary
forces in the economy. This legislation
exceeds my budgetary recommendations
by such a large amount-some $540 mil-
lion that it presents a clear and distinct
threat to our fight against inflation and
cannot be accepted.
Under this legislation, outlays for fiscal
year 1975 would exceed our recommenda-
tions by $150 million in fiscal year 1975,
$300 million in fiscal year 1976, and by
additional amounts in fiscal year 1977.
Water and sewer grants for the Depart-
ment of Agriculture would be authorized
at a level of about $345 million, a level
more than eight times higher than any
level in the past. Funding for agricultural
conservation programs would be more
than doubled, completely reversing re-
cent efforts of this Administration to re-
form these programs. Furthermore, this
bill would increase certain loan programs
operated by the Department of Agricul-
ture by $400 million more than we recom-
mended, an increase which would further
strain already over-stressed credit markets
and would add to inflationary pressures.
I also oppose a provision in this bill
transferring from the Department of
Housing and Urban Development to EPA
a $175 million program to clean up the
Great Lakes. The feasibility of this clean-
up program has not yet been proven.
Further study is essential if we are to
avoid ineffective Federal spending for
these purposes.
My original budget recommendations
to the Congress laid out program priori-
ties as we see them in the executive
branch. While differences have frequently
existed between the Congress and the
executive branch on priorities for partic-
ular programs, I firmly believe that our
current fiscal situation demands national
unanimity on the issues of a larger con-
cern: namely, that we agree to enact ap-
propriation bills which do not fuel the
fires of inflation through excessive spend-
ing.
I would welcome Congressional recon-
sideration of this bill and the program
priorities contained therein so that a more
acceptable bill can be enacted. In keep-
ing Federal spending under control, we
do not intend, of course, to single out only
farm or environmental programs. Indeed,
I would hope that in considering all fu-
ture appropriation measures, the Congress
will assiduously avoid enacting measures
which pose inflationary problems similar
to the bill I am returning today.
The White House,
August 8, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
244 Address to the Nation Announcing Decision To Resign
the Office of President of the United States.
August 8, 1974
Good evening:
This is the 37th time I have spoken to
you from this office, where so many deci-
sions have been made that shaped the
history of this Nation. Each time I have
done so to discuss with you some matter
that I believe affected the national
interest.
626
