Richard Nixon, 1974
May 4 [128]
area. We must remember that the conser-
vation record of the American Indian,
stretching over the thousands of years he
has inhabited this continent, is virtually
127
unblemished.
NOTE: The statement was released at Phoenix,
Ariz.
Remarks at Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington.
May 4, 1974
Governor Evans and Mrs. Evans, and all
of you here at Fairchild Base, and all of
our guests:
As
you know, Expo '74 is going to have
to open at 12 noon sharp, and the Gover-
nor has told me therefore my remarks here
must be very brief. But while they will be
brief, I can assure you that they will come
very much from the heart.
First, I want to express appreciation
to all of those who serve in our Armed
Forces. You serve on a voluntary basis,
and by reason of your service here at this
base and, of course, the other hundreds of
thousands of Americans that serve around
the world, you are helping to keep peace
in the world. That is a great venture. We
thank you for what you are doing in help-
ing to keep peace in the world.
And second, I want to say a word—
since I understand that when we get over
to Expo we will be talking to the whole
Nation; as a matter of fact, to the whole
world—a word about Spokane.
Governor, generally, when people think
of the State of Washington, they almost
always refer to the Seattle-Tacoma area.
Now, that is a beautiful area, and a lot of
people live there. But I have been to Spo-
kane five times, and I know this is great
and good country out here, and I am glad
to be here in Spokane. And among many
other things that this Expo will do, things
that are good for America and good for
the world, it will point all of the people of
America and the world to Spokane and
this area. What a beautiful country this
is, what strong people you are, and that,
believe me, that alone is worth having
Expo '74 here in Spokane.
Thank you very much.
The Governor just reminded me that
perhaps far more important than his in-
troducing me and both of us standing here
so you could see us was that you should
see the First Lady of the United States
and the First Lady of this State of Wash-
ington. I think when you see these two
lovely ladies, you will agree that both
the Governor and I married above
ourselves.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. at
Fairchild Air Force Base, Spokane, Wash.
128 Remarks Opening Expo '74, Spokane, Washington.
May 4, 1974
Governor Evans, Secretary Dent, Con-
gressman Foley, Your Excellencies rep-
resenting the nations from abroad, Your
Eminence, all of the distinguished guests
and all of those here on this historic oc-
casion for the opening of Expo '74:
I am honored to be here for a number
of reasons: First, because the State of
411
