[165] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
In a letter to Lafayette in November of
1781, George Washington wrote, "With-
out a decisive Naval force we can do
nothing definitive. And with it, everything
honorable and glorious."
As Washington well knew, it was the
Navy that meant the difference between
victory and defeat in America's struggle
for independence. It was the Navy that
meant the difference in the birth of a
nation.
Today, in a nuclear age, the Navy's role
is just as important as it was 2 centuries
ago. For now, when the American con-
tinent is no longer an isolated fortress, but
instead an integral part of a shrinking and
a troubled world, a strong American Navy
is an indispensable factor in maintaining
global peace and global stability.
You are embarking on your careers at a
time when America's Armed Forces are
making a vital contribution to achieving
a goal of fundamental importance to each
of us here today, to all Americans, and to
all nations of the world: the goal of a
lasting peace. This is the goal to which I
have personally pledged this Administra-
tion since the first day of my Presidency.
It is a goal to which American diplomacy
is totally committed. And it is a goal that
can only be reached when it is backed by
American strength and American resolve.
I
As you set out on your noble voyage as
new leaders in the defense of peace,
would like to sketch for you the outline
of America's strategy for peace and the
important role you will now play in
advancing that strategy.
Let us look back a moment to the world
in which you have grown to manhood.
When the war ended in Europe and
Asia in 1945, America was the only eco-
nomic and military super power in the
world. Most of Europe and Japan were in
ruins-economically exhausted, politically
demoralized. Leadership of a whole free
world fell on our shoulders, whether we
wanted it or not.
Hard as it was, our task at the outset
was made easier by our overwhelming
material strength and by a strong, unified
sense of national purpose.
Around the globe, we, as Americans,
committed ourselves to halting the
advance of communism, to promoting
economic development, and even to en-
couraging other countries to adopt our
economic, political, and social ideas.
Simplistic and occasionally misguided
as this goal may have been, it was a noble
and unselfish goal in its enthusiasm. And
despite some mistakes, which we came to
correct, we in our hearts know-and mil-
lions in Europe and Japan and in the
developing world know-that America's
contribution to mankind in the quarter
century after the war was of historic and
unprecedented dimensions. And we can
be proud that America was as generous in
helping our former enemies as we were in
aiding our friends.
During this same period, the face of the
world changed more rapidly and dramat-
ically than ever before in the world's his-
tory. Fifty-eight newly independent
nations joined the world community. The
once monolithic Communist bloc was
splintered. New centers of power emerged
in Europe and in Asia.
American zeal and innocence were tem-
pered during these years, also. The war in
Korea, followed by the long war in Viet-
nam, sapped too much of our national
self-confidence and sense of purpose. Our
own domestic needs commanded greater
attention. And by the later 1960's, our
468
