Richard Nixon, 1974
June 19 [191]
190
Remarks on Arrival in the Azores.
June 18, 1974
Mr. President:
I am very pleased that our first stop
after returning from the Mideast is in this
friendly country of Portugal, and I look
forward to the first opportunity to have a
talk with you about our mutual relations
between two countries that have such a
close, friendly relationship.
PRESIDENT ANTÓNIO DE SPÍNOLA. I am
also very happy to have this opportunity
to meet with the President of the United
States, the first chief of state I meet after
the events of the 25th of April.
THE PRESIDENT. I am very honored.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8:30 p.m. at Lajes Field.
President Spínola spoke in Portuguese. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
191 Remarks at the Conclusion of Discussions With
President António de Spínola of Portugal.
June 19, 1974
Mr. President:
As you have stated, we have just had a
very constructive exchange of views with
regard to mutual problems that our two
countries face.
In coming to Portugal, I feel that I
have had the opportunity to visit with a
new friend and also to renew an old
friendship, the friendship between our two
countries.
A great challenge faces the President
and his government at this time. I think
that challenge can best be described by
some symbolism. A very strong wind is
blowing across these islands today, and
the winds of political change have never
blown stronger all over the world than
they are today.
What we must all understand is that
change by itself, however, is not some-
thing that is necessarily good. Change
that sweeps away what was obsolete and
what may have been wrong in the past is,
of course, what we consider beneficial. But
then new institutions must be created.
And that is often the most difficult prob-
lem involved when these changes occur,
not the sweeping away of what was bad
in the past, but the building of something
new to take its place.
President Spínola is one of those rare
leaders who recognizes this problem and
this challenge. And I have assured him
that he will have not only the understand-
ing of the Government of the United
States but, to the extent that we are able,
our support in meeting the challenge, be-
cause an independent, free, prosperous
Portugal is vital not only to the Atlantic
Alliance but vital also to the interest of
the United States as well as to the interest
of the people of Portugal.
And I can assure all of those who are
in this country that the United States will
continue to be a good friend and a trusted
ally of Portugal and that we look forward
to working with President Spínola toward
the great goals he has set for his govern-
ment.
And Mr. President, finally, I want to
537
