[184] June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Prime Minister was Yitzhak Rabin.
President Katzir's remarks were as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
guests from the United States, ladies and gen-
tlemen, blessed are you who come in the name
of peace:
You are the first President of the United
States to visit the State of Israel, and we wel-
come you and Mrs. Nixon and the distinguished
members of your party with a very warm sha-
lom. Your visit to our country is an occasion
of joy as well as of great significance for us.
The United States has stood by the side of
Israel from the day of her rebirth as a sovereign
state. Throughout the years, the great Ameri-
can people have demonstrated their friend-
ship. In hours of trial, we have enjoyed your
sympathy and support just as we always have
benefited from your Nation's generosity in help-
ing us to advance our country and to bring a
better life to our people.
You, personally, Mr. President, have demon-
strated in a singular manner your amity and
your constant readiness to come to our assist-
ance. We shall never forget, Mr. President,
that you stood with us in hours of grave perils
as well as in days of opportunity and hope.
And today our hopes are that our people,
gathered from the four corners of the Earth
after centuries of persecution and decades of
wars, will be able to live as free men in peace
and security.
We are grateful to our great sister democ-
racy and to you, Mr. President, for all that
has been done and is being done to strengthen
us in our national rebuilding. You will have
some opportunity to observe for yourself what
has been accomplished in transforming this
once barren land into a fast developing and
vibrant country.
We welcome you, Mr. President, because
your presence here epitomizes the mission of
peace in our area which the American Ad-
ministration, under your guidance and leader-
ship, is pursuing. As a people whose supreme
goal is peace, we applaud your efforts in which
we wholeheartedly participate.
We know that you, Mr. President, regard
the mission of peace in this area as an essential
ingredient of the wider endeavor to build a
world structure of peace.
On behalf of the Government of Israel and
the people of Israel, and in the spirit of the
profound friendship between our nations, I bid
you Barukh Haba, blessed be he who comes.
185 Toasts of the President and President Ephraim Katzir
of Israel at a State Dinner in Jerusalem. June 16, 1974
Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, and
all the very distinguished guests on this
very great occasion:
I say it is a very great occasion, because
for Mrs. Nixon and for me, for Secretary
Kissinger and all of your American guests,
it is a great moment for us to be enter-
tained here in this place which means so
much to this country, which has won our
admiration and affection and respect over
the years and also because of the very
gracious and eloquent remarks that have
been made by the President in proposing
the toast to the President of the United
States.
To President Katzir, of course, I will
propose a toast in response. But it is the
prerogative of presidents sometimes to
break precedents. Normally, there is only
one toast in an evening, particularly a
state dinner.
Tonight, I would like to propose a
second toast and propose it first, not in
derogation of your President, but because
I discussed the matter with him and have
his permission.
518
