Appendix B
February
5 The President greeted Senator Bill
Brock, State Senator Bill Carter, and Dr.
William C. McAfee of Jackson, Tenn. They
presented petitions in support of the Presi-
dent.
5 The President met with Mr. and Mrs. J.
Mark Trice to express his thanks and best
wishes on the occasion of Mr. Trice's re-
tirement, after 53 years, as secretary for the
minority, United States Senate.
5 The President greeted Senator and Mrs.
Bob Packwood and their 8-year-old son,
Bill.
6 The President had a breakfast meeting
with the Chowder and Marching Society
and the SOS Club, groups of Republican
Members of the House of Representatives.
6 George H. Bush, chairman of the Republi-
can National Committee, and Arthur
Fletcher, director of the National Black Re-
publican Council, met with the President
at the White House to report on a recent
meeting of the Republican Executive
Committee.
6 William E. Simon, Administrator of the
Federal Energy Office, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House for a general re-
view of energy matters.
6 The President met at the White House with
approximately 20 Republican Members of
the House of Representatives to discuss na-
tional issues, pending legislation, and legis-
lation to be sent to the Congress in the
following week.
7 Walter J. Stoessel, Jr., met with the Presi-
dent at the White House prior to assuming
his post as United States Ambassador to the
Soviet Union.
8 Members of the President's Foreign Intelli-
gence Advisory Board met with the Presi-
dent in the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
February
9 The President met at the White House with
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger,
Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz,
Administrator of the Federal Energy Office
William E. Simon, and Deputy Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs
Maj. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, USAF, to dis-
cuss plans for the meeting of oil-consuming
nations held at the Department of State
beginning February 11.
11 The President met at the White House
with a delegation from the Albert Schweit-
zer Hospital Committee. The President was
honorary co-chairman of the international
fund drive for the hospital located in Lam-
baréné, Gabon. A grant-in-aid of $1 million
for the hospital was approved by the Con-
gress and is contained in the foreign assist-
ance appropriations for fiscal year 1974.
II Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz and
senior officials of the Department of Agri-
culture met with the President at the White
House.
12 The President and Mrs. Nixon attended a
party celebrating the 90th birthday of Alice
Roosevelt Longworth at her home in
Washington.
13 William E. Simon, Administrator of the
Federal Energy Office, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss the
energy situation.
16 Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger met
with the President at Key Biscayne, Fla., to
discuss the Washington Energy Conference,
the Middle East situation, and the forth-
coming Latin American foreign ministers
conference in Mexico City.
19 Administrator William E. Simon and Dep-
uty Administrator John C. Sawhill of the
Federal Energy Office met with the Presi-
dent at the White House prior to announc-
ing emergency increases in gasoline alloca-
tions for 20 States.
655
