[55] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet despite major efforts and invest-
ment of resources by governmental and
private agencies, it is evident that the nec-
essary knowledge is not reaching enough
of our people and that many people who
have access to that knowledge do not act
upon it.
During the past year I received the
report of a distinguished group of profes-
sional and civic leaders whom I had asked
to recommend an action program to im-
prove health education in the United
States.
On the basis of the recommendations
of this group we will establish an office
of health education within the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
This new organization will bring together
and coordinate the existing fragmented
health education efforts now underway in
many health programs and agencies. It
will also evaluate the approaches we now
use in attempting to encourage people to
lead healthier lives and will develop more
effective educational techniques.
At the same time we will work with the
private sector to develop a National Cen-
ter for Health Education. While the Fed-
eral Government will assist in launching
the center, we intend that it eventually be
supported by private funds.
Potentially, these actions could sharply
improve the effectiveness of health edu-
cation through many channels, including
our schools, mass media, neighborhood
and community organizations and the
health care system itself.
ASSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY
We are moving to improve the quality
of our health care and consumer services
on a number of fronts. Professional Stand-
ards Review Organizations will allow phy-
sicians to monitor and improve the
quality of their own services. Health
Maintenance Organizations hold promise
for delivering quality care efficiently to
great numbers of people, even those in
rural areas. Demonstrating improved
emergency medical systems can signif-
icantly improve the quality of care ren-
dered in situations where minutes mean
life or death.
But there are some elements of personal
health care and management which are
beyond the control of the individual and
often beyond the influence of the health
care system. One such area is protection
against unsafe food, drugs, cosmetics and
medical devices.
This year I have asked the Congress to
appropriate $200 million for the Food
and Drug Administration, an increase of
$35 million. These added funds would
allow the FDA to intensify its inspection
activities and increase its research.
Furthermore, I again urge the Con-
gress to take swift action on the legisla-
tion I proposed last year to regulate the
sale of medical devices. This new author-
ity is essential if we are to assure that new
technology for the diagnosis and treat-
ment of disease is both safe and effective.
Legislation recently submitted to the
Congress would upgrade the quality of
foods and drugs available to the American
public. These amendments would:
-Broaden inspection authority.
-Broaden FDA's authority to inspect
quality control records in food, drug, de-
vice and cosmetic factories.
-Authorize FDA to require needed
record-keeping and reporting for foods,
certain drugs, medical devices, and
cosmetics.
188
