Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [25]
prosperity of all nations but also strength-
ens the peace among all nations.
In the past 5 years, we have made more
progress toward a lasting structure of
peace in the world than in any compara-
ble time in the Nation's history. We could
not have made that progress if we had
not maintained the military strength of
America. Thomas Jefferson once observed
that the price of liberty is eternal vigi-
lance. By the same token, and for the same
reason, in today's world the price of peace
is a strong defense as far as the United
States is concerned.
In the past 5 years, we have steadily
reduced the burden of national defense as
a share of the budget, bringing it down
from 44 percent in 1969 to 29 percent in
the current year. We have cut our mili-
tary manpower over the past 5 years by
more than a third, from 3.5 million to
2.2 million.
In the coming year, however, increased
expenditures will be needed. They will
be needed to assure the continued readi-
ness of our military forces, to preserve
present force levels in the face of rising
costs, and to give us the military strength
we must have if our security is to be main-
tained and if our initiatives for peace are
to succeed.
The question is not whether we can
afford to maintain the necessary strength
of our defense, the question is whether
we can afford not to maintain it, and the
answer to that question is no. We must
never allow America to become the second
strongest nation in the world.
I do not say this with any sense of
belligerence, because I recognize the fact
that is recognized around the world.
America's military strength has always
been maintained to keep the peace, never
to break it. It has always been used to
defend freedom, never to destroy it. The
world's peace, as well as our own, depends
on our remaining as strong as we need
to be as long as we need to be.
In this year 1974, we will be negotiat-
ing with the Soviet Union to place fur-
ther limits on strategic nuclear arms. To-
gether with our allies, we will be negotiat-
ing with the nations of the Warsaw Pact
on mutual and balanced reduction of
forces in Europe. And we will continue
our efforts to promote peaceful economic
development in Latin America, in Africa,
in Asia. We will press for full compliance
with the peace accords that brought an
end to American fighting in Indochina,
including particularly a provision that
promised the fullest possible accounting
for those Americans who are missing in
action.
And having in mind the energy crisis
to which I have referred to earlier, we
will be working with the other nations of
the world toward agreement on means by
which oil supplies can be assured at rea-
sonable prices on a stable basis in a fair
way to the consuming and producing
nations alike.
All of these are steps toward a future in
which the world's peace and prosperity,
and ours as well as a result, are made
more secure.
Throughout the 5 years that I have
served as your President, I have had one
overriding aim, and that was to establish
a new structure of peace in the world that
can free future generations of the scourge
of war. I can understand that others may
have different priorities. This has been
and this will remain my first priority and
the chief legacy I hope to leave from the
8 years of my Presidency.
This does not mean that we shall not
have other priorities, because as we
53
