[175] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
fore, we are building on a foundation that
will last because it is built on natural and
not unnatural interests.
I don't know whether the President may
have something to add to that or not.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Well, it is a great
occasion for us to have President Nixon
among us and to show him our true feel-
ings towards the American people and
towards himself, also. President Nixon by
all measures has performed a great act
in our most dangerous area here for the
first time since 26 years to the millions
that you have seen hailing him, and you
have seen what they wrote on the bal-
conies and so, "Nixon's America is a peace
loving nation." So they want to show you
and tell the American people that the
most natural thing for us is to be friends;
the unnatural is that there may be any
conflict among us.
Q. Mr. President, your being here per-
haps, too, might raise some very high
expectations. Do you feel that your being
here might raise expectations that cannot
be reached?
THE PRESIDENT. President Sadat and
I have had very extensive conversations,
first, about the needs of Egypt and, sec-
ond, about how we can meet those needs
in an effective way without overpromising
and without disappointing people as a
result of expectations that have been
raised. It is not a case of coming into a
nation, for example, led by unsophisti-
cated men who simply think that the visit
of an American President means that in-
stantly the problems will be solved.
President Sadat, for example, wanted
me to see what he called the slum areas of
Cairo. He wanted me to see the Delta,
which is very rich, but many of the peas-
ants are poor. It was interesting to note
that the people in both places, inciden-
tally, were just as friendly as they were in
downtown Cairo around the Palace. But
we have been very careful in our talks
and in our public statements to speak of
what can be done.
And I would say that I look for an era
of cooperation, not just government-to-
government, but an era of cooperation in
which American private enterprise will be
welcomed in Egypt and will bring not only
capital but technology to Egypt.
So, in a word, naturally the unsophis-
ticated individual may expect that in-
stantly life will be better. That will not be
the case. The foundation has been laid
for steady economic growth, and the
President's programs which I have ex-
amined in some detail-for one, recon-
struction, two, industrialization, three, in
the field of agriculture, and four, and
most important, education-in all areas,
these programs will build a solid base
where Egypt will go no place but up, and
it will not be plagued by what it has had
for the past 25 years, intermittent wars,
which every time they began to move for-
ward they were pushed back. That is my
view.
Q. President Sadat, what is the princi-
pal contribution that the United States
can make for continuing peace in the
Middle East?
PRESIDENT SADAT. It is to keep the mo-
mentum of the whole thing going on, and
I must say, you have read what my peo-
ple wrote. They wrote, "We Trust
Nixon." Since the 6th of October and
since the change that took place in the
American policy, peace is now available
in the area. And President Nixon never
gave a word and didn't fulfill it; he has
fulfilled every word he gave. So if this
momentum continues, I think we can
achieve peace.
492
