[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
the courts, we are forcefully asserting In-
dian natural resources rights, as we have
done in protecting Indian rights in Pyra-
mid Lake.
One measure of our attempt to foster
a better, more humane policy is the level
of Federal funding benefitting American
Indians over twice what it was five years
ago or about $1.6 billion.
I am especially encouraged by the fact
that the rate of infant deaths, pneumonia,
influenza, and tuberculosis is significantly
lower among Indians than ever before.
Although we have not yet achieved our
full goals of health and educational serv-
ices for the Indian people that are fully
compatible with those of the general pop-
ulation, this progress demonstrates our
continuing commitment.
The Congress has shared in these ac-
complishments in a spirit of bipartisan
cooperation. I hope that I will soon have
on my desk two more enactments on
which Congressional action is progressing:
measures to speed Indian economic devel-
opment and to upgrade the position of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the
Assistant Secretary level. Also still await-
ing Congressional action are four other
proposals I have submitted previously: to
permit turning over to Indian tribal gov-
ernments the management and control of
Indian programs; to create an Indian
Trust Counsel with authority to safeguard
Indian natural resources rights; to help
ensure that funds for Indian education
actually reach Indian children; and to
provide greater local control over feder-
ally assisted reservation programs through
a program of tribal grants.
Looking forward, I shall ask that the
Bureau of Indian Affairs make specific
plans to accelerate the transfer of signifi-
cant portions of its programs to Indian
tribal management, although I repeat my
assurance that, while accelerated, these
transfers will not be forced on Indian
tribes not willing to accept them.
THE SPANISH-SPEAKING
The Spanish-speaking citizens of our
Nation face special problems in obtain-
ing equal opportunities because of lan-
guage and cultural barriers. For that
reason, my Administration has made
a special effort to expand those
opportunities.
Our progress on this front is reflected
in many ways. Nearly 3,800 Spanish sur-
named Americans have been employed
by the Federal Government, despite an
overall reduction in Federal jobs. The
Small Business Administration has also
increased its loans to Hispanic business-
men, reaching a total of $109 million in
fiscal
year 1973.
In 1969, the Cabinet Committee on
Opportunities for the Spanish-speaking
people was created. The Cabinet Com-
mittee has both made the Government
more aware of the needs and the talents
of Spanish-speaking citizens and helped
to expand Federal employment of the
Spanish-speaking. Since the authoriza-
tion for this organization expires this year,
I am asking the Congress to extend its
life through June 30, 1975. The Cabinet
Committee on Opportunities for the
Spanish-speaking serves to focus the Ad-
ministration's continuing efforts in this
important area of concern.
THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN
Both men and women have become in-
creasingly aware of the pattern of some-
times blatant but often subtle discrimina-
76
