[56] Feb. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
cult the task will be. We can never afford
to relax our vigilance and we must be
willing to adjust our methods as experi-
ence tells us they should be adjusted.
We will continue to support treatment
and rehabilitation of abusers with all the
generosity and compassion which victims
of drug abuse require.
But there can be no compassion for
those who make others victims of their
own greed. Drug traffickers must be dealt
with harshly, and where the law is not
sufficient to the task, we must provide new
laws, and we must do so rapidly.
I urge the earliest possible considera-
tion and passage of the legislation which I
am proposing to strengthen our drug en-
forcement efforts by closing the loopholes
in our criminal justice system.
The White House,
February 21, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the proposed legislation by John R.
Bartels, Administrator of the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration, Department of Justice.
57 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Czechoslovak Consular Convention. February 21, 1974
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting for the Senate's ad-
vice and consent to ratification the Con-
sular Convention between the United
States of America and the Czechoslovak
Socialist Republic, along with the Agreed
Memorandum and related exchange of
notes, signed at Prague on July 9, 1973.
I also am transmitting, for the informa-
tion of the Senate, the report of the De-
partment of State with respect to the
Convention.
The signing of this Convention is a
significant step in the gradual process of
improving and broadening the relation-
ship between the United States and
Czechoslovakia. Consular relations be-
tween the two countries have not previ-
ously been the subject of a formal agree-
ment. This Convention will establish firm
obligations on such important matters as
free communication between a citizen and
his consul, notification of consular offices
of the arrest and detention of their citi-
zens, and permission for visits by consuls
to citizens who are under detention.
The people of the United States and
Czechoslovakia enjoy a long tradition of
friendship. I welcome the opportunity
through this Consular Convention to
improve the relations between our two
countries. I urge the Senate to give the
convention its prompt and favorable
consideration.
The White House,
February 21, 1974.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
A (93d Cong., 2d sess.).
194
