Richard Nixon, 1974
Apr. 17 [112]
Among the positive results of Tlatelolco,
there are two that are very important, but
that were not even included in the agenda.
The first is having converted this "new dia-
log" offered in October of 1973 into a con-
tinuous process of consultation. The second,
which is the birth of what we have come to
call the "Spirit of Tlatelolco," which is a new
state of feeling among all of the nations of
the Americas who commit themselves to work
with faith and will in a coordinated and joint
action in order to achieve the harmonious de-
velopment of all the nations.
Development in all its aspects has to be
the basic theme of the process of consultation
that we have established. It has been said that
the new name for peace is "development." In
reality, there is so much overlapping between
both terms that just as we cannot have de-
velopment without peace, we also cannot con-
ceive of peace without development.
Mr. President, this splendid setting that
you are offering to the Foreign Ministers of
the nations of Latin America and the Carib-
bean undoubtedly is not the propitious time to
refer to generalized preferred tariffs, to fi-
nancial assistance, to the transference of tech-
nology, to monetary reform, to tariff and
nontariff barriers, to the net transfer of real
resources, and to many other items which will
appear in the agendas in this continued proc-
ess of consultation until they are definitely
resolved.
But if what separates us is not geographic
distance, but rather the differences in the de-
gree of development, necessarily we must agree
that our main fundamental concern should
concentrate and give priority to the structure
of international trade and the monetary system.
And so the present and unfair terms of trade
dealing with our raw materials vis-a-vis manu-
factured products, a trade that takes place not
only with the United States of America but
with the entire industrialized world, this is what
generates the differences in development that
create artificial distances and obstacles of all
kinds in the relations between our peoples.
I have the conviction that the day that our
nations of Latin America and the Caribbean
receive fair and equitable prices for their labor
and their products, there will be a reduction in
the clamor for financial loans, and technology
will be just another product that we can pur-
chase and pay for and not assistance or a favor
that we want to receive.
In this task, the nations of Latin America
and of the Caribbean expect to continue count-
ing on the firm cooperation of the United
States Government, a cooperation that we have
seen already in the dialog and in the consulta-
tions with Secretary of State Kissinger.
Mr. President, even though the meeting of
foreign ministers that we are holding here in
Washington is in appearance unrelated to the
Fourth Period of Sessions of the General As-
sembly of the Organization of American States,
which will begin on April 19 in Atlanta, al-
though this first meeting is informal and non-
institutionalized and the second one will be
formal and will follow treaties and instruments
that are in effect, it is obvious that we cannot
separate one from another and even more ob-
vious that the subject of the restructuring of the
inter-American system will appear on both
agendas.
I have the honor to express to you, Mr.
President, that the nations of Latin America
and of the Caribbean harbor the hope that
as a result of the restructuring of the inter-
American system, that more dynamic instru-
ments may come into being that will permit
a better and faster achievement of development
of all nations, that will embody all of the rights,
assurances, and protection deserved by persons
and states, that will stimulate what Secretary
of State Kissinger has called a friendship based
on equality and respect for the dignity of each
one and a new inter-American system, in short,
that will be able to be imbued with and which
we will decide to translate into this symbol of
faith which we have come to call the "Spirit
of Tlatelolco."
Your Excellency President Richard Nixon,
I interpret the sentiments of all my colleagues,
the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, in expressing
to you the deepest appreciation and esteem with
which we have followed your admirable and
tenacious efforts in favor of a world peace and
for the reduction of international tensions.
In thanking you on behalf of all the Ministers
of Foreign Affairs of the nations of Latin Amer-
ica and of the Caribbean for the many and very
fine attentions which we have been receiving
from your Government, I would like to express
363
