Richard Nixon, 1974
May 3 [125]
we keep down the cost of Government in
Washington, that helps you keep down
the cost of living here in Arizona and all
across this country.
A second way to fight inflation, one that
we learned will not work, and that is we
must fight it not through trying to control
this economy. A free economy and more
production that is the answer to bring-
ing down prices.
And third, in order to have the progress
we want, more jobs, more opportunity,
more freedom-and we are the best in the
world in all of these areas already—but
more in order to have that, we must re-
member how we got where we are, the
richest, the strongest nation in the world.
Looking back over our almost 200
years, we find that we got here not by
what government did, but by what peo-
ple did; not through government enter-
prise, but private enterprise. That is the
way to progress in America.
I outlined in the State of the Union Ad-
dress a number of goals in the field of
health, in the field of education, and in
many other areas. Let me give you two
examples of why it is that it is through
our activities as individuals in our private
capacities rather than as a government
that we can have great progress.
We have a choice in terms of the health
program. All Americans want to be sure
that every American has an opportunity
to have the best health care. That is why
we are for a program which provides for
everybody to have health insurance who
needs it or wants it, and also provides for
catastrophic illnesses and all this without
new taxes.
That is why we have rejected, however,
the proposition that what we should do is,
in effect, to abolish the private health care
system and to have it all taken over by the
Federal Government. Let me say, I think
every American, whenever he is ill, he
wants a doctor that is working for him and
not for the Federal Government.
Let me put it in better perspective, per-
haps, in terms of numbers by pointing up
our great goal of Project Independence
1980 for energy. You have heard what the
Federal Government is going to do, and it
sounds very big-$15 billion over the next
3 to 5 years the Federal Government will
spend in research and a number of other
areas in order to help achieve the goal of
Project Independence in 1980.
But did you realize that over the next
10 years, as compared to the $15 billion
that I have just referred to, private enter-
prise will spend $500 billion, a half tril-
lion dollars.
The way to make America achieve a
goal which we want of being independ-
ent of any other nation for our energy-is
through unleashing private enterprise so
that it can produce the energy that
America has in such great resources. And
that is why I say tonight to my colleagues
in the Congress here, who don't need to
hear it, but also to the Congress generally,
that the time has come to move on the
great number of energy proposals that we
have before it:
One, to deregulate natural gas. Why?
So that we can get more supplies and
eventually bring down the price.
Two, to change the environmental re-
strictions with regard to the use of the re-
source in which we have two-thirds of the
free world's capacity-coal. We should
mine our coal and use our coal, and we
can make it a clean fuel. But we must
move forward, and the Congress must co-
operate so that we can move forward.
And third, we must develop the great
Federal lands that we have in terms of
407
