Richard Nixon, 1974
July 12 [217]
goals: one, to see that the '75 budget in
which we are currently working does not
go beyond the amounts that we proposed
when we first submitted it, and two, to
achieve a goal in the 200th year of this
Nation's history that we all want to
achieve, of a balanced budget in 1976.
That is our goal; we are out to achieve
it. We believe this battle can be won, but
it can only be won by the Congress and
the President working together.
That is why I pledge, certainly, my co-
operation in this respect, and I know,
from having signed this bill and the work
that went into it, that we will have the
cooperation of Congress.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. Present
at the bill signing ceremony were Members of
Congress, Administration officials, and members
of private organizations concerned with eco-
nomic matters.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 7130) is Public
Law 93-344 (88 Stat. 297).
217 Statement About the Congressional Budget and
Impoundment Control Act of 1974. July 12, 1974
I TAKE special pleasure today in signing
H.R. 7130, the Congressional Budget and
Impoundment Control Act of 1974. I
commend the Congress for this landmark
legislation, and I pledge the full support
of the executive branch in helping fulfill
the great promise of this bill.
In each of my five budget messages, I
have urged the Congress to review and re-
form its procedures for considering the
Federal budget and pledged the support
and cooperation of this Administration in
achieving this vital national goal. During
the past year, the Congressional commit-
tees concerned worked energetically and
effectively with this in mind. H.R. 7130
is the result.
Under this legislation, the Congress
will, for the first time, focus on overall
budget totals early in the legislative proc-
ess and then relate individual appropria-
tion items to each other within a general
set of spending priorities.
Budget committees in the House and
Senate, assisted by a new Congressional
Budget Office, will be established to
develop overall spending levels and
priorities.
A tight timetable is established for
Congressional action on authorizing
legislation and appropriation bills, and a
reconciliation process is provided to bring
appropriation bills into line with pre-
scribed overall budget totals.
In short, this bill will allow the Congress
to step up to full and equal responsibility
for controlling Federal expenditures.
Prior to the enactment of this bill, the
Congress has had to consider a large num-
ber of separate measures with no system
for establishing priorities relating to an
overall spending goal. This system did not
impose sufficient disciplines on the Con-
gress to stop the passage of pork-barrel
legislation or to resist the pressure of spe-
cial interest groups seeking a dispropor-
tionate share of the tax dollar. Costly pro-
grams could be enacted without adequate
consideration of their added burden to the
taxpayer. This lack of discipline in Con-
gressional procedures has been one of the
major factors behind the sizable increases
587
