[26] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
and that work is going forward to estab-
lish a more systematic budgeting proce-
dure. The Congress devoted considerable
effort in 1973 to developing a mecha-
nism for coordinating its individual spend-
ing decisions with the budget as a whole. I
continue to support this effort, although
I have been troubled by some of the
extraneous amendments which have been
added to some of the measures for achiev-
ing this goal. I urge the Congress to enact
workable budget reform in this legislative
session.
TAX REFORM
Our entire economy is affected by the
incentives for job-creating investments
that are embodied in our tax laws. Major
steps have been taken to reform our tax
laws in the past five years, but much
remains to be done.
Since 1969-primarily through the Tax
Reform Act of 1969 and the Revenue Act
of 1971-major changes have been in-
troduced to make the personal income tax
system conform more nearly to contem-
porary standards of fairness. Both the
higher level of personal exemptions and
the low income allowance have worked
to free more than eight million low in-
come families from their entire Federal
income tax burden. The difference in the
tax liability for single and married tax-
payers has also been reduced. As a result
of these and other tax changes, individual
income taxes will be about $25 billion.
less in 1974 than they would have been
under the old tax laws. The saving in the
tax burden for a typical family will be
more than $270, or the equivalent of two
weekly take-home paychecks for the aver-
age worker.
I look forward to working with the
Congress during the next few months not
only to simplify our tax laws themselves,
but also to simplify the tax forms that in-
dividuals fill out and to distribute the
income tax burden more equitably.
Last April, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury presented to the Congress a set of
Administration proposals for major and
fundamental tax reform. Included in these
proposals were the establishment of a
minimum taxable income so that no one
could avoid paying a fair share of the tax
burden, the establishment of new rules
for taxing income from foreign sources,
and also a limitation on artificial account-
ing losses to eliminate so-called "tax shel-
ters." I urge the Congress to consider the
Administration's tax reform proposals
early in the year.
I have also been concerned about the
excessive burdens imposed on our low
income elderly families by State and local
property taxes. To deal with this prob-
lem, I have proposed a refundable tax
credit for those low income elderly persons
whose property taxes exceed five percent
of their income. The proposal would also
provide equivalent relief for the low in-
come elderly individual who pays rent. I
again urge the Congress to enact this
important proposal.
FINANCIAL REFORM
very
The health of our economy depends
upon an efficient and flexible private
financial system-commercial banks,
thrift institutions, credit unions, and a
host of other institutions and individuals
that comprise the financial sector of our
economy. The average family depends on
these institutions, both to provide a fair
and reliable return on its savings and to
provide credit on reasonable terms when
needed to buy homes, automobiles and
64
