Richard Nixon, 1974
Mar. 8 [73]
cal committee as his authorized campaign
organization, which in turn would have
to designate one single depository for all
campaign funds. With this single com-
mittee and single depository, account-
ability becomes virtually assured, and the
unhealthy proliferation of political com-
mittees to pyramid and conceal campaign
donations would be stopped at last,
I also strongly support the proposed re-
quirement that every donation to these
committees be specifically tied to the orig-
inal individual donor, excepting only do-
nations by a national political party or-
ganization. Other organizations could act
as agents of individual contributors, but
the donor himself would be required to
designate the ultimate recipient of his
campaign donation. This requirement
would do more than facilitate disclosure;
it would have the highly positive side
benefit of reducing the influence of special
interest groups by discontinuing their di-
rect and often very substantial contribu-
tions to candidates. Donations to political
party organizations, rather than to indi-
vidual candidates, would not be inter-
fered with and would continue to be iden-
tified as to the original donor, as existing
law requires.
Even though disclosure is, I believe, the
single most important prescription to deal
with financing reform, I believe also that
donation limits are needed on the amounts
that an individual contributor could give
to any Federal election campaign. I sug-
gest that a candidate's authorized cam-
paign committee be prohibited from
accepting more than $3,000 from an indi-
vidual donor in any Senate or House elec-
tion, and not more than $15,000 in any
Presidential election. These ceilings would
apply in each campaign-primaries, run-
offs, and general elections—and would in-
clude any contributions earmarked for a
candidate through a national political
committee. Regardless of the number of
Presidential primaries, no candidate for
President could receive more than $15,000
from any individual for all of the pri-
maries combined, or more than this
amount from any individual in the gen-
eral campaign.
In recent years there has been a pro-
liferation of "in kind" contributions in
the form of paid campaign workers, print-
ing supplies, the use of private aircraft,
and other such non-monetary campaign
assistance. Because there is as much room
for abuse with "in kind" contributions as
with financial ones, I believe we should
prohibit all "in kind" donations by any
organization other than a major political
party.
Any “in kind” contribution by an indi-
vidual would, of course, continue to be
permissible, but would have to be dis-
closed as to both donor and recipient, with
an open report of its reasonable value.
These personal "in kind" donations would
come within the same ceiling limitations
as monetary contributions and would
apply towards the ceiling amounts for
Senate, House and Presidential elections.
I also urge:
-That all donations of more than $50
be made by check or other negotiable
instruments, so that large flows of cash
can be at least inhibited;
That all campaign-related expendi-
tures of over $50 be drawn only from the
central campaign treasury;
-That all loans to political commit-
tees be banned, so that we can end the
practice of disguising donations as loans;
-That the donation of physical assets
such as appreciated stocks be prohibited;
-And that campaign contributions
247
