Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
But that office lacks a statutory base and
does not have sufficient authority to do
the full job. That is why I have asked the
Congress to establish the Federal Energy
Administration and I once again urge it
to act on this matter. Recognizing that
this country should no longer remain
dependent upon foreign energy sources, I
have also urged the creation of an Energy
Research and Development Administra-
tion to develop the necessary technology
to tap new domestic sources of energy and
a separate Nuclear Energy Commission to
carry on the regulatory activities presently
assigned to the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion.
While these organizational initiatives
are needed now, the best organization to
knit together the future energy and nat-
ural resource programs of the Federal
Government would be a comprehensive
Department of Energy and Natural Re-
sources. This concept is consistent with
the major Federal departmental reform I
submitted to the Congress in 1971.
Today, I again urge swift, favorable action
by the Congress on this proposal so that
we will have the broad organizational base
that will ultimately be needed to meet
many of our energy needs in the most
effective manner and to balance energy
and natural resource considerations in the
future.
That same consolidation and reorgani-
zation of the executive branch that I pro-
posed in 1971 would also have created
new departments for community develop-
ment, human resources and economic af-
fairs. The basic problems of fractionated,
sometimes overlapping and often conflict-
ing organizations that prompted these
original proposals remain acute today. I
therefore urge the Congress to join with
me in a serious effort to achieve an effec-
tive reorganization in these areas.
In view of the close relationship be-
tween food assistance programs and other
income security programs, I will also pro-
pose new legislation to transfer the food
stamp and related programs from the De-
partment of Agriculture to the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare.
Another important organizational pro-
posal still awaiting Congressional action
is the creation of an independent Legal
Service Corporation. My Administration
will work closely with the Congress in the
weeks ahead to obtain final passage of our
proposal which would provide the poor
with quality legal representation, would
create an organization free from political
pressures, and would include safeguards
to ensure its responsible operation. Legal
services legislation has already passed the
House. I am hopeful that reasonable legal
services legislation will now be passed by
the Senate.
A major new opportunity for better
Federal management has been initiated at
my direction by the Office of Management
and Budget. Frequently termed "man-
agement by objective," it involves the
identification of specific, high-priority ob-
jectives for each year for each of the de-
partments and agencies. During the year,
progress in reaching these objectives can
be closely measured and reported to
agency heads and to me. In the years
ahead I expect this technique will help
make the Government both more respon-
sive and more accountable.
Nothing is more important to improv-
ing the efficiency of our Government than
the recruiting of top flight personnel for
Federal jobs including positions in the
career civil service. We will be working in
43-437 O 75-9
95
