Richard Nixon, 1974
Jan. 30 [26]
past, we will take pride in our efforts to
work with developing nations which
aspire to greater economic and social well-
being. The United States has called for
the World Food Conference which will be
held in November under the auspices of
the United Nations. We will also actively
observe 1974 as World Population Year,
as proclaimed by the United Nations.
MAINTAINING A STRONG DEFENSE FORCE
But as we work for peace, we must be
conscious that the opportunity to build
a structure of peace came because our
arms have served as a deterrent to war.
We must maintain that deterrent.
In the last five years, outlays for the
Department of Defense have been reduced
by about 1/3-measured in constant dol-
lars—and military personnel have been
cut from 3.5 million to 2.2 million.
This year, I will recommend a substan-
tial increase in the 1975 budget for the
Department of Defense. These increases
are necessary to improve the readiness of
our armed forces, to build up levels of es-
sential equipment and supplies and to pre-
serve present force levels in the face of
rising costs.
CONCLUSION
Throughout these five years, I have
had one overriding aim: to establish a
structure of peace in the world that can
free future generations from the scourge
of war. Others may have different priori-
ties; this has been and will remain my first
priority, the chief legacy that I hope to
leave from the eight years of my
Presidency.
As we strengthen the peace, we must
also continue each year a steady strength-
ening of our society here at home. Our
conscience requires it. Our interests re-
quire it. We must insist on it.
As we create more jobs, as we build a
better health care system, and improve
education; as we develop new sources of
energy, as we provide more abundantly
for the elderly and the poor, as we
strengthen the system of private enterprise
that produces our prosperity—as we do
all this and more, we solidify those essen-
tial bonds that hold us together as a Na-
tion. Even more importantly, we advance
what in the final analysis government in
America is all about; more freedom, more
security, a better life, for each one of the
211 million individual persons who are
America.
We cannot afford to neglect progress
at home while pursuing peace abroad. But
neither can we afford to neglect peace
abroad while pursuing progress at home.
With a stable peace, all is possible; with-
out peace, nothing is possible.
Earlier in this message, I comment that
"one of the continuing challenges facing
us in the legislative process is that of the
timing and pacing of our initiatives . . .
selecting each year among many worthy
projects those that are ripe for action at
that time . . .”
What is true in terms of our domestic
initiatives is true also in the world. This
period we now are in-these few years—
presents a juncture of historic forces
unique in this century, which provide an
opportunity we may never have again to
create a structure of peace solid enough
to last a lifetime and more-not just
peace in our time but peace in our chil-
dren's time as well. It is on the way we
respond to this opportunity, more than
anything else, that history will judge
whether we in America have met our
responsibility.
99
