[199] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
SECRETARY-GENERAL LUNS
Your Majesties, Mr. President:
It is with very great pleasure that I welcome
you, Mr. President, on your arrival in Brussels
for the forthcoming high-level meeting of the
North Atlantic Council.
It is 5 years since you last sat in the Council
that was in Washington. Then, you spoke of
entering into negotiations with the Soviet
Union on a wide range of issues on the basis
of full consultation and cooperation with
American allies.
In the 5 intervening years, aided by your
distinguished Secretary of State, you have given
dramatic effect to that policy.
As His Majesty has just remarked, you come
from the Middle East, where your journey has
opened new prospects for the future in that
area and for the world at large. You go on to
Moscow to take one more step along the road
of negotiation with the Soviet Union.
Tomorrow you will consult with your friends
and allies and sign with them the Declaration
on Atlantic Relations. Your visit will once
again mark a page in the history of the Coun-
cil and of our Alliance.
Later in the evening, the President and Mrs.
Nixon called on King Baudouin and Queen
Fabiola at the Royal Palace. The President
then met at the Royal Palace with Belgian
Prime Minister Leo Tindemans and Foreign
Minister Renaat Van Elslande.
200
Statement About Signing the Energy Supply and
Environmental Coordination Act of 1974.
June 26, 1974
I HAVE signed H.R. 14368, the Energy
Supply and Environmental Coordination
Act of 1974. This bill represents a first
step by the Congress toward achieving a
balance between our environmental re-
quirements and our energy requirements.
While the Congress has begun to address
the complex problem of reconciling these
two priorities, it must be clear that this
step is only a beginning and that more re-
mains to be done.
This bill provides two principal authori-
ties. First, the bill amends the Clean Air
Act by extending for up to 2 years the
automotive emission standards that cur-
rently apply to 1975-model, light-duty
vehicles and engines. This amendment
will provide additional time for the devel-
opment of emission control technology and
permit manufacturers to focus attention
on improving automobile fuel economy.
Second, the bill provides authority for
a limited program to convert powerplants
and other major fuel-burning installa-
tions from the use of petroleum products
and natural gas to the use of coal. This
authority represents a step in the right
direction, but it does not provide a basis
for the long-term program of coal conver-
sion necessary to achieve our goal of de-
veloping the capacity for energy self-
sufficiency.
As I indicated to the Congress in my
January 23, 1974, energy crisis message,
the Clean Air Act has provided the basis
for major improvements in air quality,
and we must continue our progress to-
ward even greater improvement. It has
become clear, however, that certain re-
quirements established by the act cannot
be achieved within the deadlines allotted,
and others have unacceptable economic
and social implications.
A thorough review of the Clean Air Act
was undertaken by the appropriate execu-
tive branch agencies. Following that re-
548
