[201] June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
King Baudouin began his remarks in French.
They were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President, Your Excellencies the heads of
governments, and gentlemen:
It is a great pleasure for me cordially to
welcome you to Brussels, the headquarters of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
You have, this morning, signed the impor-
tant declaration,' which the Atlantic Council
approved a few days ago at Ottawa and have
thus, on the occasion of its 25th anniversary,
drawn attention to the youth and vigor and
cohesion of the Alliance.
On April the 4th, 1949, President Truman
declared, when the Washington treaty was
signed, that "For us, war is not inevitable. We
do not believe that there are blind tides of his-
tory which sweep men one way or an-
other.... Men with courage and vision can
still determine their own destiny."
We, today, who no longer feel afraid, can
estimate how much the situation has changed.
What was happening 25 years ago now appears
to be as far behind us as would the events of a
period we had not lived through.
The panic in which our defense was hastily
set up so that we might survive has given way
to a feeling of security which goes so far as
to make us skeptical about the existence of any
danger.
By their determination and by the choices
they made, the men with vision, of whom Mr.
Truman spoke, have allowed our younger peo-
ple to have no experience of war. They have
also rejected the old rules of political action
under which fixed purpose often took the place
of law and power that of ethics.
By entering into a system of collective de-
fense, Belgium has made a fundamental option
in order to avoid a recurrence of the wars
which, twice within 35 years, had ravaged the
country, to participate in the quest for a lasting
¹ On June 26, 1974, following a meeting of
the North Atlantic Council, the President and
leaders of other NATO countries signed the
Declaration on Atlantic Relations. The text of
the declaration is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 10,
p. 729).
peace and to foster the construction of a united
Europe.
Owing to the safeguard provided by the
solidarity and indivisibility of our defense, it is
possible to conduct a policy whose primary
objective is peace and, more particularly in
Europe, the pursuit of understanding and co-
operation with all the countries of the
Continent.
To be sure, the Alliance is not altogether
identical with defense. Since a few years ago,
a correlation has been established between the
notions of defense and détente. They had, until
then, been separate.
Defense for its own sake seemed to exclude
détente. The outcome of détente seemed to be
to destroy defense. Since then, the delicate
threads which bind them together and strength-
en the significance of them both have been
grasped.
Without defense, there can be no equi-
librium of forces, and no coexistence is possible.
Without détente, there can be no progress
towards peaceful solutions. The Atlantic
Treaty, which is an instrument of security, thus
appears as a combination of forces tending to
peace.
Belgium, moreover, has always hoped that,
in the spirit of friendship and solidarity which
ought to mark the relations between allies, the
progress made as regards the political unifica-
tion of Europe should favor the establishment
of a transatlantic dialog between two equal
partners.
[At this point, King Baudouin continued his
remarks in English.]
The idea is, in any case, recognized by all,
since, in the Ottawa Declaration, we wel-
comed the beneficial effect that the further
stages toward unity, which the member states
of the European Community are determined to
pass through, will have for the Atlantic
Alliance.
From Belgium's point of view, the two
choices-European and Atlantic-are com-
plementary. Without the achievement of a
genuine European union on the political level,
the European states and the European Com-
munity will be unable to assume the respon-
sibility imposed on them by their economic
success.
552
