Richard Nixon, 1974
Feb. 13 [45]
open-an increase of about 8,000 miles
since 1968. By the early 1980's, when
completed, this system will carry more
than 20 percent of all highway traffic.
II. NEW DIRECTIONS
To continue the forward progress of
recent years, I propose that we take new
actions in 1974 on two major legislative
fronts: public transportation and Federal
rail regulations. I am submitting proposals
to the Congress in both of these areas.
They are designed to increase the flexi-
bility of our Federal transportation pro-
grams, to allow State and local officials
more latitude in the way they spend Fed-
eral transportation dollars and to mod-
ernize Federal regulation of the railroads.
1. UNIFIED TRANSPORTATION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM (UTAP)
It has long been apparent that dramatic
improvements were needed in our public
transportation systems. Now the energy
crisis has given new urgency to that need.
Currently most of the Federal funds
available for public transportation are
provided under the Urban Mass Trans-
portation Act. While this program has
enabled us to make a substantial improve-
ment in our urban transportation systems,
it can be improved in several important
respects. First, it is administered on a
project-by-project basis, requiring exten-
sive Federal involvement in reviewing
these projects. Priorities have been deter-
mined in Washington, not back home
where it counts. In addition, commu-
nities are unable to predict how much
money they will receive from one year
to the next. Finally, local communities
are restricted in the ways they can spend
the money.
By reforming the Federal highway aid
program in 1973 to permit some of its
funds to be used for public transportation,
we took an important step toward increas-
ing the financial resources available to
large cities.
As we look to the future, it is apparent
that we must further broaden our pro-
grams of public transportation assistance,
providing more funds and giving greater
flexibility to those who spend the money.
Our public transportation system itself
must be diversified and strengthened. We
need not only more physical assets, such
as buses, but also sufficient financial sup-
port to assure that our buses, trains, and
other public conveyances can be operated
with greater frequency and reliability and
comfort for our communities in both
urban and rural areas.
We have also too long taken the trans-
portation systems of rural America for
granted. Often, the social and economic
needs of our rural citizens are left unful-
filled because of the lack of good public
transportation. Expanded public trans-
portation will be a key element in our
program to assist rural community
development.
To reach these goals, I am submitting
to the Congress today legislation to create
a Unified Transportation Assistance Pro-
gram. This program would provide $15.9
billion to urbanized areas over a six-year
period and $3.4 billion for small urban
and rural areas through fiscal year 1977.
This act would mark the largest single
commitment by the Federal Government
to metropolitan and rural transportation
in our history.
This legislation would make several
161
