Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 7
he became director of foreign policy
policy
studies at the Brookings Institution.
D.C. General Hospital
Commission Act
Announcement of the Decision Not To Take
Action on the Bill, With a Statement by the
President. March 7, 1977
The White House said today that Pres-
ident Carter would take no action to over-
turn the D.C. General Hospital Commis-
sion Act, which provides for an independ-
ent panel to administer the D.C. General
Hospital.
The act was passed by the D.C. City
Council by a 12-to-2 vote, overriding a
veto by Mayor Walter Washington.
Under the Home Rule Act, any legisla-
tion passed by the Council over a mayoral
veto goes to the President for a decision.
The President had 30 days after receiv-
ing the legislation February 11 to sustain
the mayor's veto or to take no action to
show disapproval of the act.
The bill now goes to Congress for a re-
view period of 30 legislative days.
Under the act, the city's only public
hospital would be removed from adminis-
trative control of the D.C. Department of
Human Resources and placed under the
control of a board of commissioners ap-
pointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the Council.
A statement by the President follows:
"The people of the District of Colum-
bia share with the other people of our
Nation a determination to improve such
public services as health care and a desire
to do so with the least possible interfer-
ence from the Federal Government.
“The District is, of course, in a unique
legal position. There are special responsi-
bilities that I, as President, have for the
District, and there may be cases involving
Federal interests or true emergencies
where I may find it my proper duty to
intervene.
"But I believe that the people of the
District, through their elected representa-
tives, can best decide for themselves such
questions as the proper way to provide
high-quality health care. Therefore, I will
take no action on this bill.”
President's Economic
Policy Board
Executive Order 11975. March 7, 1977
ABOLISHING THE PRESIDENT'S ECONOMIC
POLICY BOARD, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including the
International Economic Policy Act of
1972, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2841 et
seq.), and the Council on Wage and Price
Stability Act (88 Stat. 750, 12 U.S.C. 1904
note), and as President of the United
States of America, in order to permit a
new designation of the Chairman of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability and
to abolish the Economic Policy Board, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Executive Order No. 11808,
as amended, is hereby revoked.
SEC. 2. The Secretary of the Treasury
shall continue as Chairman of the Coun-
cil on International Economic Policy (22
U.S.C. 2844 and 2848).
The White House,
March 7, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:40 p.m., March 8, 1977]
NOTE:
The Executive order was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
333
