Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
with respect to such projects, all of the
responsibilities for environmental review,
decisionmaking, and action pursuant to
the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969, as amended.
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:44 p.m., May 24, 1977]
in the construction of projects, in the
management of its own properties, and in
the provisions of financial or technical
assistance.
In order to avoid to the extent possible
the long and short term adverse impacts
associated with the destruction or modi-
fication of wetlands and to avoid direct or
indirect support of new construction in
wetlands wherever there is a practicable
alternative, I have issued an Executive
order on the protection of wetlands.
Protection of Wetlands
Statement Accompanying Executive
Order 11990. May 24, 1977
The Nation's coastal and inland wet-
lands are vital natural resources of critical
importance to the people of this country.
Wetlands are areas of great natural pro-
ductivity, hydrological utility, and envir-
onmental diversity, providing natural
flood control, improved water quality, re-
charge of aquifers, flow stabilization of
streams and rivers, and habitat for fish
and wildlife resources. Wetlands contrib-
ute to the production of agricultural prod-
ucts and timber, and provide recreational,
scientific, and aesthetic resources of na-
tional interest.
The unwise use and development of
wetlands will destroy many of their special
qualities and important natural functions.
Recent estimates indicate that the United
States has already lost over 40 percent of
our 120 million acres of wetlands inven-
toried in the 1950's. This piecemeal alter-
ation and destruction of wetlands through
draining, dredging, filling, and other
means has had an adverse cumulative
impact on our natural resources and on
the quality of human life.
The problem of loss of wetlands arises
mainly from unwise land use practices.
The Federal Government can be respon-
sible for or can influence these practices
Environmental Impact
Statements
Executive Order 11991. May 24, 1977
RELATING TO PROTECTION AND ENHANCE-
MENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
furtherance of the purpose and policy of
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
seq.), the Environmental Quality Im-
provement Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4371
et seq.), and Section 309 of the Clean Air
Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1857h-7), it
is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Subsection (h) of Section 3
(relating to responsibilities of the Council
on Environmental Quality) of Executive
Order No. 11514, as amended, is revised
to read as follows:
"(h) Issue regulations to Federal agen-
cies for the implementation of the proce-
dural provisions of the Act (42 U.S.C.
4332(2)). Such regulations shall be de-
veloped after consultation with affected
agencies and after such public hearings as
may be appropriate. They will be designed
to make the environmental impact state-
1005
