Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
think we come out better in dealing with
the Soviet Union if I am consistently and
completely dedicated to the enhancement
of human rights, not only as it deals with
the Soviet Union but all other countries.
I think this can legitimately be severed
from our inclination to work with the
Soviet Union, for instance, in reducing
dependence upon atomic weapons and
also in seeking mutual and balanced force
reductions in Europe.
I don't want the two to be tied to-
gether. I think the previous administra-
tion, under Secretary Kissinger, thought
that there ought to be this linkage; that
if
you mentioned human rights or if you
failed to invite Mr. Solzhenitsyn to the
White House that you might endanger
the progress of the SALT talks.
I don't feel that way. I think it ought
to be clear, and I have made clear directly
in communication to Mr. Brezhnev and
in my meeting with Ambassador Dobry-
nin that I was reserving the right to speak
out strong and forcefully whenever hu-
man rights are threatened-not every in-
stance, but when I think it is advisable.
This is not intended as a public relations
attack on the Soviet Union, and I would
hope that their leaders could recognize
the American people's deep concern
about human rights.
I think in many other countries of the
world there has been some progress. I
think in the Soviet Union there has al-
ready been some progress. The number of
Jews, for instance, who have been per-
mitted to emigrate from the Soviet Union
in the last few months has increased.
If this trend should continue, I would
be encouraged. But I would have to take
this position of being independent in my
own public pronouncements. I've got a
lot to learn. I was concerned the other
day, for instance, when the AP reporter
was expelled from Moscow. I had at first
thought to retaliate by expelling the AP
reporter from Washington. But I found
out that was not the right approach to
take. [Laughter]
But we have got to be firm and we have
got to be forceful. But I don't want to tie
everything together in one package so
that we are timid about insisting on hu-
man rights.
Q. Do you interpret this in any way as
a kind of testing of you by the Soviet
Union?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. I don't
interpret it as a testing. I regret the fact
that the Soviet Union saw fit to expel a
newspaper reporter. I regret very deeply
the fact that the Soviet Union has now
incarcerated Mr. Ginsburg, who has been
one of the leaders in the Soviet Union in
representing the case of the dissidents.
But I can't go in with armed forces and
try to change the internal mechanism of
the Soviet Government.
But I don't think it is designed to ag-
gravate me or to test me or to test the will
of this country. My commitment to hu-
man rights is clear. I will maintain that
clarity to the maximum extent possible.
I don't want to mislead the American
people in dealing with the Soviets or with
others. We can't expect overnight success.
It requires long, tedious, labored, very
carefully considered progress. I am not
looking for magic answers, but my deter-
mination is very deep.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Carter's first news conference
began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building. It was broadcast live
on radio and television.
George A. Krimsky, an Associated Press
correspondent who had been reporting on So-
viet dissidents active in human rights matters.
100
