Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
dependence and the insight and the care-
ful planning that's been part of your lives
ever since this area was settled and began
to depend upon a careful utilization of
both land and water supplies.
I hope that in the future we can learn
more in Washington about how to work
harmoniously with you. And the Mem-
bers of Congress and the U.S. Senate here
on the platform with me, the members
of your own general assembly and your
Governor are all working as closely as
is humanly possible to share plans for the
future.
I'm going to leave here and visit a
couple of farms so that I can understand
better as President the practical prob-
lems that are faced by prospective
drought. You've probably noticed in the
news that in the areas north of San
Francisco, in Marin County, that with
strict conservation measures they've cut
down the use of water more than 55
per-
cent. This is the kind of thing that might
be necessary in many areas of our coun-
try in months to come.
I'm glad we live in the kind of country
where the Congress, the President, the
State and local officials can work closely
with the citizens of our Nation and where
the citizens-farmers and consumers-
can have an input in the decisionmaking
process of government.
I'll try to do the best I can. I think I
bring one advantage to the White
House that I farmed most of my life.
myself. I know that farmers are very sel-
dom satisfied. We often complain about
the weather, but I can say that you have
a real reason and an excuse for complain-
ing this year.
But I believe and I hope that the fu-
ture might bring us better rainfall, and
whether it comes or not, I believe we can
weather this problem and we can con-
tinue to serve the rest of the Nation as
you have for so long.
So, thank you for letting me come.
Thank you for the tremendous welcome.
I really appreciate your support and your
confidence. Thanks a lot.
NOTE. The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. He
was introduced by Dan Whitehurst, mayor of
Fresno, Calif. The President's flight from Los
Angeles to Fresno included a 20-minute fly-
over of reservoirs affected by the drought. Dur-
ing the flight, the President was briefed on
the subject by District Conservationist Morris
A. Martin, Jr., of the Soil Conservation Service,
Department of Agriculture.
I think you see already the need for
this kind of close care of what we have.
Your area is perhaps the richest agricul-
tural producing area in the world. What
you do here not only affects your own
prosperity and your own income but it
affects the rest of our Nation. And the
degree of inflation that's going to take
place next year that robs every consumer
to a major degree will be decided in Cali- Reedley, California
fornia, depending upon how much rain
we get, how bountiful your harvests are,
the supplies of adequate food, and the
prices that result if shortages occur.
So, I'm here to learn, to let you know
how interested I am in your future, and
to share with you a commitment that
whatever God gives us in the future we'll
use it to the best interest of us all.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
Following a Tour of the Kryder Farm.
May 17, 1977
WESTERN DROUGHT
THE PRESIDENT. I think anybody could
turn around and look at the valley
and see the beauty of this place and the
917
