Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 21
economy and our Nations' great contri-
bution to that economy.
Prime Minister Trudeau has been rec-
ognized for many years as one of the de-
veloped nations' leading negotiators and
understanders of the problems of the de-
veloping nations of the world. Because
of his commitment to humanitarian pur-
poses, he has the trust and confidence of
people who are not quite so fortunate as
are we. He is a senior statesman of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, hav-
ing been in office now for more than 8
years. And his common and unique and
persistent commitment to the principles
of the democratic nations of the world
has made him a leader even from the
first days when he was in office.
He made a comment recently that I
think is important for all of us to remem-
ber, which typifies his own attitude to-
ward human beings. He said it is not
enough to measure a nation's product in
our gross national financial product, but
we should think about the outcome and
the output of our Nation on the basis of a
net human benefit, how well the people
find a better life because of the activities
and decisions of government.
So, because of all these reasons, in a
personal way and as a leader of our great
Nation, I want to welcome to our coun-
try Prime Minister Trudeau and his wife,
Margaret.
Welcome, Mr. Prime Minister.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, and American friends:
First, I wanted to tell you, Mr. Presi-
dent, that I brought the greetings of some
22 million Canadians. But I see that by
the flags over on the lawn there that a
lot of them have preceded me here. The
greetings are warm nonetheless.
I want to tell you, also, that we bring
you our great, good wishes as you assume
the
very arduous, important office of Pres-
ident of this great Nation.
Canadians are looking forward to this
period of good relationships with you at
the head of this great Nation. With your
dedication, your hard work, your disci-
pline, your sense of morality, we feel that
these are great days for our relationship
and for the world.
We are particularly grateful and hon-
ored, sir, that you invited your North
American neighbors very early in the
term of your office. I am sure I can speak
for President López Portillo-I certainly
speak for myself and for Canadians-
when I say that we have great expecta-
tions that this continental neighborhood
will flourish and develop because of the
great personal interest you have shown
in it.
The links between our countries are
so numerous, the cooperation that we are
involved in is so deep that this kind of
meeting is as natural as it is friendly. As
I look through the enormous briefing
books that I had, sir, and I am sure it
happened to you, too, I just felt that there
is perhaps nothing that our countries can
do which doesn't involve one another.
There are so many associations, so many
committees, so many clubs, so many links
between us of all kinds that I believe they
are absolutely legion. I tried to get a count
and I was told it wasn't possible. And I
can well understand it.
We have been such old friends and our
links are so deep that this number of as-
sociations together can only rest on the
deep friendship between our peoples.
The International Women's Year, sir,
has only passed in history for 14 months
now. It seems that our wives, Mrs. Carter
and Margaret, have already met and es-
tablished a good agenda for the discus-
sions. You and I are only meeting this
moment. But I am quite convinced that
209
