Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
your stand or your position going to be
on cutting down on military spending?
THE PRESIDENT. What did you say just
before waste, military-
Q. What is your stand on Fort Devens,
the closing or the opening of
THE PRESIDENT. I understood that
part. And the part about waste?
Q. Since I've been in the service, I've
noticed a tremendous amount of waste
through the service. What is your plan
on it?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. All right.
When I campaigned for 2 years in our
country, in, I think, every State, I never
promised in order to get votes that I
would keep a particular military base
open. I would like to make a judgment
in every instance on what I think is best
for our country. I'm not familiar with the
Fort Devens question. I know that back
almost a year ago the decision was made
to phase out part of the Fort Devens
operation.
I would not promise you tonight, even
though we are in the neighborhood, that
I would change that order and keep it
open. But I will make sure that before a
final judgment is made that I will meet
with personally your Members of the
Congress, including your Senators and
your Congress Members, and also the
Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense, to assess as practically
as I can, if it's best for our country to shut
down that part of Fort Devens that's
under consideration.
I can't give you an answer about
whether it will be shut down or not. But
it won't be done lightly.
Secondly, if a decision is made to close
down part of the Fort Devens operation,
I'll do all I can as President, again work-
ing with your Governor and your local
officials and your congressional delega-
tion, to replace as many of those jobs as
possible, not just in training programs
under the Labor Department and so
forth, but in permanent jobs, because
there are a lot of new kinds of Federal
programs that are coming along in years
ahead. And I think it's only fair that
when military bases are phased out to
some degree, that when there is an option
there, that we put those new Federal jobs
in the same locality to keep the unem-
ployment rate from going up very high.
I know, as you do, that there is a great
deal of waste in the military. I believe in
a strong defense, and I will never permit
as President any possibility of our Nation
being vulnerable to successful attack or
threat of attack or blackmail from any
other country.
I want to keep us strong. But you don't
create military strength by waste and in-
efficiency in the military. I promised dur-
ing the campaign that I would identify
and cut out $5 to $7 billion of waste in
the military. I believe that we can do this.
There are many ways that it can be
done. One is to eliminate the building
of weapons systems that are not needed.
Another way is to cut down on the gross
overload of high rank officers in the mili-
tary. They've grown by leaps and bounds
since the Second World War.
Another way is to make sure that we
don't transfer military personnel so fre-
quently. Now the average stay on a base
of anyone in the military is only about 15
months. At any one time we have about
one-seventh of our military people who
are either being transferred or are on tem-
porary assignment.
We also need to make sure that we cut
down on the future costs of the retire-
ment systems in the military. Quite often
they are excessive, and I don't think it's
right for the taxpayers of our Nation to
have someone go into the Army or Navy
at the age of 21, serve 20 years, retire at
the age of 41, draw a substantial retire-
ment benefit, and then get a full-time job
390
