Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 13, 1977
The President's Trip to London,
Newcastle, and Geneva
Remarks on Departure From the
White House. May 5, 1977
I was planning to say that when Cy
Vance and I go to Europe, along with
other distinguished representatives of our
Government, to work with our friends
and allies there, and leave the Vice Presi-
dent and others here, that I would feel
much better about Europe for the next
5 days than I will the United States.
[Laughter] But since he made such a
beautiful speech, I will have to drop my
frivolous remarks and say that I don't be-
lieve that there has ever been a President
and Vice President who have been bound
together more closely with a common
philosophical commitment, with a com-
mon belief and confidence in the quality
of the American people, and a sharing of
every possible problem and its potential
solution. And I'm very grateful for the
continuing support and advice that I get
from the Vice President, who is in almost
every way an equal partner with me.
This is an important trip. It's the only
trip that I have planned this entire year
outside of our country. We have a great
undertaking to bind ourselves closer to-
gether with our friends and allies in Japan
and Canada and in Europe, as we face
common tasks and common challenges.
The economic discussions will be de-
signed to put the people of the world back
to work, to discourage a rampant robbing
of people by inflation, to share the proper
and fair use of raw materials and other
supplies that come from the less-
developed countries, and to share with
those less-fortunate nations the bounties
that God has given the world.
We will have long discussions about
close political interrelationships, consulta-
tions with our closest allies and friends.
We'll be dealing with problems that con-
cern NATO, the defense of Europe, the
relationships between the East and the
West, among close friends and potential
adversaries whom we hope to be our close
friends in the future.
I'll be having bilateral private consul-
tations with more than a dozen leaders
of foreign countries. I feel well briefed
and well prepared. And my own hope is
that I can well and truly represent what
the American people would like to see
their President do in discussing world
problems with other world leaders.
We will be pursuing our long-range
goals for world peace, for nuclear dis-
armament, for holding down the sale of
conventional weapons, for preventing the
spread of the capability for nuclear ex-
809
