Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
icies have not always used the most prac-
tical tools, nor the least costly; they have
sometimes imposed burdensome bureau-
cratic regulations where economic incen-
tives could have done the job as well; and
they have occasionally ignored the need
for different solutions in different areas of
our diverse country. There is room for
improvement.
1. Implementation of the National En-
vironmental Policy Act
This Act is best known for requiring
federal agencies to prepare environmental
impact statements before taking actions
having significant environmental effects.
In the seven years since its passage, it has
had a dramatic—and beneficial—influ-
ence on the way new projects are planned.
But to be more useful to decision-makers
and the public, environmental impact
statements must be concise, readable, and
based upon competent professional anal-
ysis. They must reflect a concern with
quality, not quantity. We do not want im-
pact statements that are measured by the
inch or weighed by the pound.
Accordingly, I am today issuing an Ex-
ecutive Order directing the Council on
Environmental Quality to issue regula-
tions requiring all federal agencies to meet
these criteria and the provisions of Sec-
tion 102 (2) of the National Environmen-
tal Policy Act in the impact statements
they prepare and to establish a procedure
for referring to the Council differences
among agencies concerning implementa-
tion of the National Environmental Policy
Act.
2. Coordination within the Federal
Government
Various programs within the Environ-
mental Protection Agency provide funds
to state and local government for plan-
ning, training, monitoring, enforcement,
and research in pollution control. They
are presently authorized under different
pieces of legislation, funded by different
offices within the agency, and entail dif-
ferent procedures for allocation of their
funds. In the near future I will submit
legislation to the Congress designed
to bring these programs together into
one comprehensive environmental grant
program.
The problem of uncoordinated policy
is, unfortunately, not confined to any
single federal agency. Today, before any
federal agency can construct a new proj-
ect, or grant funds to local or state gov-
ernments, or issue a permit to a private
party, it must comply with more than a
score of different environmental review
requirements. I have directed the Council
on Environmental Quality to examine the
present federal environmental review re-
quirements and to recommend specific
measures, including legislation, to clarify
and integrate them in a way compatible
with my broader proposals for govern-
mental reorganization.
I am also directing the Council on En-
vironmental Quality to establish an inter-
agency task force to review present
environmental monitoring and data pro-
grams, and to recommend improvements
that would make these programs more
effective.
3. Relations with Local Governments,
Industry and the Public
My Administration will, in a variety of
ways, move to simplify the delivery of fed-
eral programs and encourage a greater
degree of local control. There are almost
five hundred separate federal programs,
most of which have separate planning
requirements, providing tens of billions of
dollars in assistance to state and local gov-
ernment. My Administration will support
measures to bring these programs under a
consistent, comprehensive policy, and to
985
