Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 30
duction in the consumption of gasoline.
It comprises about half of our total oil
consumption, and it's the greatest oppor-
tunity for us to save energy and to reduce
waste.
The gas tax is very modest, and it's also
not inevitable. If the American public will
cooperate and will reduce waste of gaso-
line, only cutting back total consumption
by 10 percent between now and 1985 with
much more efficient automobiles, then
there is no reason for the gas tax ever to
be imposed.
If it is imposed, it would be 5 cents per
gallon at the time. If subsequent reduc-
tions in consumption meet the prescribed
goals, then that tax would be removed and
all the money collected from the gas tax
would be refunded to the families in our
Nation. For instance, this would amount
to about $6 billion, which figures out to
about $25 per person in our Nation.
So, if the 5-cent gas tax were imposed
because of inadequate conservation co-
operation, that would mean that each
family of four would get back $100 in
direct rebates or tax credits, which means
that a family that didn't use gasoline, or
that used it in a parsimonious way, would
actually benefit. Those who insisted on
large expenditures for gasoline would have
to pay a slight increase in price.
I might point out in fairness, though,
that the wellhead tax would also add
about 7 cents a gallon to the price of gaso-
line. I think that this is a modest amount,
compared to the severity of the conse-
quences of not conserving.
So, it is important. I hope it will
pass.
I
don't have any alternative. We consid-
ered, obviously, dozens of alternatives, and
this optional or standby gas tax that would
be implemented only if moderate goals
were not met, I think, is the best approach.
We tried to fix the levels of conservation
so that there would be at least a 50-percent
chance of the tax not being imposed. And
if the American people will join in, in a
patriotic way, in trying to save, then the
gas tax will never be imposed.
Q. Mr. President, in places like Arizona
where you have to travel a long way just
to get to work, how is that going to work?
I
mean, you can't conserve; you've got to
get to work. There aren't systems, mass
transit systems, like we see in the East. It
doesn't seem equitable.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, for, say, a family
that has an efficient automobile, say that
meets the 1982 standards, if they drive
10,000 miles a year to and from work,
then I think the cost there would be about
$20. But they would get back, a family of
four, about $100 in tax credits. So if some-
one does have to go to work and if they
do use an efficient automobile, it would
not cost them.
This, I think, is fair. And there is a
choice to be made. If they have an auto-
mobile that would continue at the present
average efficiency, which is about 14 miles
per gallon, it would cost them a slight
amount. So I don't think it would work
any hardship even on a family that had to
use their car extensively for travel.
I think a 10,000-mile annual use of an
automobile would well take care of any
requirement for going to and from work.
FEDERAL WATER-SHARING PLAN
Q. Mr. President, in light of the drought
that we're facing in the West, could you
address yourself to the possibility of a Fed-
eral water-sharing plan of some kind and,
also, to the possibility of increased research
and development in the desalination proj-
ects in the West?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
we've put forward, as a result of the ex-
tensive drought, a legislative proposal
that's likely to be passed that consists, I
think, of about $850 million-about $200
million to $250 million of which is grants.
751
