May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
from Israel's denial of the legitimate
recognition of various of the Arab people
of Palestine. The fact that this occupa-
tion and the homelessness of an entire
people continue inevitably means the pro-
longation of a grave situation that threat-
ens to renew the wars and tragedies from
which our region has suffered for 30 years.
We in Syria have repeatedly stressed
our determination to continue to work
with full facility in order to make our
region enjoy the peace which it needs.
This peace would serve not only the in-
terests of our region but those of the world
at large. We welcome any sincere effort
that may help establish a just peace in
our region and believe that the sincere
efforts which the United States of Ameri-
ca can exert in this field are basic and
important.
As you know, President Carter has
started a series of talks with a number of
Arab leaders aimed to know at first hand
the facts of the situation in order to pro-
mulgate an American stand and, as a
number of American officials have de-
clared, in order to use the great influence
of the United States to help find a solu-
tion based on justice for the existing con-
flict in the Middle East.
My meeting with President Carter to-
day is within this context. I sincerely hope
that our talks will enhance opportunities
of peace, will throw light on the justice of
our cause, and will pave the way with
clear ideas for the holding of the Geneva
conference, which, as is generally agreed,
provides a suitable framework for the im-
plementation of the resolutions on the
Middle East of the United Nations Se-
curity Council and the United Nations
General Assembly.
We shall spend 3 days in Switzerland,
during which I shall visit Bern at the in-
vitation of President Furgler, who has
kindly come to Geneva and to whom I
have paid a courtesy call this morning.
We are happy to be in Switzerland.
Finally, I wish to thank again President
Carter and hope that we will meet success
in our effort.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Although Presi-
dent Asad and I have only been together
for a few minutes, we've reached a very
important agreement in this brief time.
We've noticed that at the end of each
day's deliberations, that those who travel
with us can visit the local night spots and
have a great deal of pleasure. We've also
noticed that when we get off the elevator,
everyone else enters the room, we have to
come in last.
We've noticed that when we are having
a very congenial conversation that proto-
col officers order us as to what we should
do next. And when we finish our major
success or failure, we report to the ulti-
mate masters—the press. We've also no-
ticed that our Foreign Ministers travel
frequently to delightful places in the world
and enjoy the hospitality of friendly
countries. So, President Asad and I have
agreed to begin a movement to establish
for the first time, human rights for Presi-
dents. [Laughter]
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 3:25 p.m. in
the Grand Ballroom at the Intercontinental
Hotel in Geneva, Switzerland. President Asad
spoke in Arabic, and his remarks were trans-
lated by an interpreter.
Meeting With President Asad
of Syria
Toasts of the President and President Asad
at a Dinner Hosted by President Carter.
May 9, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. Many of the Ameri-
can leaders who have been to Syria to
meet with President Asad, and who have
844
