Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
gentina, Pakistan, South Korea, Taiwan.
We are moving very aggressively on this
subject. I am now trying to induce the
Germans not to sell nuclear processing
capability to the Bazilians; to try to in-
duce the French not to sell the same capa-
bilities to Pakistan. But it has to be done
with a sense among other people that we
can provide part of the nuclear materials
to produce power and then deprive them
of an opportunity to reprocess waste to
make explosives. That is the first part of
your question.
Secondly, I would like to move toward
the reestablishment of normal relation-
ships between our own country and An-
gola, among other nations.
We now have several problems involved
in that. The attitude of Angola and its
Government toward keeping Cuban mer-
cenaries I would very much like to see
the Cubans remove their soldiers from
Angola. Let the Angolan natives make
their own decisions about their Govern-
ment.
We have received information from in-
direct sources that Castro and Cuba has
promised to remove those troops. That
would be a step toward full normalization
of relationships with Angola.
The same thing applies ultimately to
the restoration of normal relationships
with Cuba. If I can be convinced that
Cuba wants to remove their aggravating
influence from other countries in this
hemisphere, will not participate in vio-
lence in nations across the ocean, will re-
commit the former relationship that
existed in Cuba toward human rights,
then I would be willing to move toward
normalizing relationships with Cuba as
well.
The same thing applies to Vietnam. I
would like to see us work out with Viet-
nam a proper accounting for the 2,205
Americans who were lost in that war.
There are some still classified as missing
in action. Then I would be perfectly glad
to support the admission of Vietnam to
the United Nations and to normalize rela-
tionships with Vietnam.
In all we have 14 nations in the world
with whom we do not have normal rela-
tionships. We are dealing with each one
of those cases on an individual basis. In
some instances, the other governments
despise us so deeply that they don't want
to deal with us or search out common
grounds for normalizing relationships.
So, to hold down nuclear weapons, to
remove the military presence in the Afri-
can nations from any other country in-
cluding our own, and to normalize rela-
tionships with countries with whom we
don't have a present friendship with, all
those are matters of high priority on my
foreign affairs agenda.
WELFARE REFORM
Q. On welfare reform, is it possible to
get people who are able to work off wel-
fare?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is about
welfare reform and the possibility of get-
ting people who are able to work off
welfare.
This was one of my major themes dur-
ing my campaign. Let me say this: About
90 percent of the people on welfare can-
not work. The other 10 percent can work.
I am perfectly willing to give humane
and adequate aid to those who are not
able to work. I am not willing to support
those who are able to work and won't.
The separation of that will be a major
thrust of my government.
I might point out one other thing: We,
by the first of May, will complete an
analysis of the entire welfare system. We
are trying to get HEW, HUD, Labor,
and many other agencies to work together
to deal with this question.
For those who are presently on welfare
that are able to work ought to be given
173
