Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
those in the Armed Forces of the United
States, it's a great pleasure to welcome
you to the Pentagon. And you can tell
from your reception, it's a great pleasure
for them, too.
This building was completed in 1943,
in the record time of 16 months, just as
you were entering courses in the Naval
Academy in Annapolis. Both you and the
building have come a long way since then.
[Laughter]
Mr. President, nowhere in Government
or anywhere else will you find a more
dedicated and able group of people than
those in this Department. I am proud to
work with them and honored to introduce
you to them.
Ladies and gentlemen, the President of
the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
When I retired from the Navy, I was
a lieutenant. And it's very nice to come
back to the Pentagon and know that I'm
the senior officer here. [Laughter]
I found that in my new position as
Commander in Chief that there is no
uniform allowance, that the pay is, I
think, very good, and the base quarters
where my family lives are completely
adequate.
I want to thank all of
you
who served
with me for giving me a chance-along
with other Americans who had confi-
dence in me to serve in this position of
leadership.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
There is no other department in Gov-
ernment which consistently demonstrates
such a superb level of courage and dedi-
cation and, quite often, personal sacrifice.
I know from my own military experience
how important it is to those of us who are
responsible for our Nation's existence and
safety to be able to dedicate, if necessary,
our own lives for our country.
But it also naturally follows that we,
who have been and are serving in the
Armed Forces, are the most deeply com-
mitted to peace. Ours are the families
who suffer first, and have in times of war.
And for that reason, we now commit our
lives to ensuring that our Nation is strong
enough to ensure peace, that the world
realizes our dedication to military
strength, and we also recognize that to the
degree that the American people are com-
patible with our Government policies,
international affairs, and military capa-
bility, that our strength is enhanced.
Our will must be unshakable. Our
dedication to the principles of democracy
and human freedom must never be in
doubt. Our loyalty to our allies must
never be changed in any way, and our
communication with them must be
constant.
When the President of the United
States or the Secretary of State speaks to
the world without the comprehension or
understanding or open support of the
Congress or the American people, we
speak with a hollow voice. And it's only
when the world knows that our Nation is
indeed united that our strength can be
exerted in a proper and effective way.
I know that we have many challenges
in the future. I don't fear those chal-
lenges. No one in our country has traveled
in the last 2 years more than I have, nor
met with more groups, nor heard more
advice, nor answered more questions, nor
been able in any better way to assess what
the American people are, what we stand
for, to understand our problems, our con-
cerns, our fears, our prejudices, our com-
petence, our compatibility with one
another, any better than 1.
And because of my sure sense of the
strength
strength of America, our natural re-
sources, tremendous land areas, water re-
260
