Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 25
As some of you know, during the recent
campaign Joe Califano was assigned a
very important task to perform along
with me and did a very superb job in
dealing with the American family and
how the impact of government in all of
its forms impacts either beneficially or ad-
versely on the basic family structure. It
was the first speech that I made after my
own nomination when I went to New
Hampshire.
I think that his appointment as Sec-
retary of HEW will be a very good place
for him to demonstrate his sensitivity
about this need.
I am very grateful to have Mr. and
Mrs. Califano here and the other mem-
bers of Joe's family. I think this indicates
the sound base from which he has given
me advice on the family. And I know the
Califanos are very happy to see their son
assured of steady employment, now that
the Senate has confirmed him. [Laughter]
And I think that all of us recognize that
one of the key policy planners and instiga-
tors of the Johnson years was Joe Cali-
fano, who had a deep commitment, which
he still retains, of making government
services available to those who quite often
don't have a strong voice, don't have very
much influence, and quite often are the
most in need of a sensitive and compas-
sionate government.
He is also a tough administrator, and
I believe that the HEW Department will
respond very well to this capability on his
part.
So, I am very delighted today to in-
troduce to the group-first of all, Justice
Brennan has come to administer the oath,
and my choice for Secretary of HEW and
the Senate's choice for Secretary of HEW,
Joe Califano, and his wife, Trudy.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:04 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Follow-
ing his remarks, Supreme Court Associate Jus-
tice William J. Brennan, Jr., administered the
oath of office.
Secretary of State Vance's
Trip to the Middle East
Announcement of the Secretary's
Trip. January 25, 1977
The President today announced that
he has asked Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance to visit certain Middle East coun-
tries in mid-February to convey to their
leaders the importance the President at-
taches to making significant progress this
year toward a just and lasting peace in
the Middle East.
The President believes it is essential to
have a firsthand understanding of the
views of Middle Eastern leaders at the
earliest possible time as the administra-
tion considers how it can most effectively
contribute to the peace process.
Secretary Vance will also emphasize
during his trip the value the President
places on maintaining good bilateral rela-
tions with the states of the Middle East.
Secretary Vance will visit Israel, Egypt,
Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, and Saudi
Arabia.
Ambassador at Large and Special
Representative of the President
for the Law of the Sea
Conference
Nomination of Elliot L. Richardson, With a
Statement by the President. January 25, 1977
The President, upon the advice of the
Secretary of State, announced today the
nomination of Elliot L. Richardson to
serve as Ambassador at Large and as Spe-
17
