Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the rank of major in the U.S. Air Force
Auxiliary, Senior Civil Air Patrol.
Mr. Dobelle was formerly on the faculty
in government/education at California
State University at Los Angeles, Pasadena
City College, and the University of Massa-
chusetts. He also taught at the John F.
Kennedy Institute of Politics at Harvard
University from 1971 to 1973.
Mr. Dobelle is married to Edith Hunt-
ington (Kit) Jones of Hamden, Conn.
Mrs. Dobelle is a graduate of Colby Junior
College for Women and holds a B.A. in
education from the University of Massa-
chusetts.
Department of Labor
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It is probably going to
be difficult to hear in here, and I will try
to keep my-you can't hear? Very good.
Let me go ahead.
I
I am glad to be over here with you.
understand that I am the first President
who ever has had a chance to visit the
Labor Department. And I was, as you
know, unemployed 3 or 4 months ago, and
now I have got a good job.
I know you will do a good enough job
so that I won't have to come back. Maybe
at the end of 4 years I will be back to get
you to help me again, or maybe 8 years-
I am not sure yet. [Laughter]
I have been looking forward to having
a chance to say just a few words to you
and then to spend a few minutes answer-
ing questions that you might have to pro-
pose to me.
As
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
you know, your Department is at the
heart of the possible solution to some of
the most serious problems that afflict our
Nation. We have got more than 7½ mil-
lion people out of work who are actively
looking for jobs, and you are the ones-
just less than 15,000 employees in this
Department, most outside of Washington,
D.C.-who are responsible for being the
bridge between discouragement and de-
spair and poverty and dependence on the
one hand, and pride and security and pro-
ductivity and enjoyment of life on the
other. And although many things might
look to you, here in this huge building in
Washington, as impersonal, the people
who look to you for help have real hopes.
How you and Ray Marshall and the
other leaders perform your jobs will have
a great impact on the consciousness of
America and on its strength in the future.
For many people, your Department is the
connecting link with government, and in
the employment security agencies and
your relationships with training programs,
Job Corps, and other things, you repre-
sent our country.
It is very difficult for me to have per-
sonal contact with very many people ex-
cept through the news media, but you and
others who work with you have that direct
personal contact.
I want to say one other thing. We need
to have an aggressive, constant search for
a better way to deliver those services. And
just because there has been some policy in
effect for the last 5 or 10 or 50 years is no
reason why we should honor it, unless it is
the best policy.
I can see this is a remarkably diverse
group [laughter] quite young, on the
average, and a lot of women, a lot of mi-
nority groups. You bring to government a
sensitivity that quite often has been miss-
ing. But this is a recent development, and
when you superimpose young people who
are innovative and aggressive, no matter
how many years they might have lived, on
102
