June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Chip and Caron left this morning to go
and represent me in England at the
Queen's Jubilee. As you know, she was
nice enough to come over here last year
on our own celebration of independence
from Great Britain, from the United
Kingdom, and they particularly asked me
when I was in London to send some mem-
ber of my family to participate in this
week's ceremonies.
And as you know, my wife is now in
Brasilia, in Brazil. She was in Peru yes-
terday and part of that was in Ecuador,
Costa Rica, and Jamaica.
She'll leave Brazil after 2 or 3 days of
work with the Brazilian Government and
visit Colombia and Venezuela before she
comes back next week.
This is one of the rare times when our
family has been divided into so many geo-
graphical regions.
But I've liked Washington very much.
It's my first job with the Federal Govern-
ment [laughter]-since I got out of the
Navy in 1953. But the living conditions
here are very good. [Laughter] It's not far
to my office. And I've had a good working
relationship with the people who share
with me the Government. It's been
pleasant.
We like Washington as a city. I think
the whole family does.
AMY CARTER
Q. Mr. President, from what you know
about the pages that you've learned,
would you like your daughter, Amy, to try
it for one summer maybe?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'd like very
much for her to do that. I used to have
that aspiration myself, and I never was
able to be accepted. I finally had to settle
for an appointment to the Naval Acad-
emy from my Congressman. But it took
me a long time. I think it would be very
good for Amy, and I would like very
much for her to do that some day.
GOVERNMENT SPENDING
Q. Do you expect to cut down on Gov-
ernment spending in the short time that
you're in office?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to cut back
on spending compared to what we are
spending now, because there's an inevita-
ble growth because of inflation and in-
creasing demands from Government. But
I hope to have a much more effective way
to spend the money that we do have
available.
We are now considering five or six
major programs, as you know. We've al-
ready made a recommendation to the
Congress on social security reform and
on energy. We have still upcoming major
proposals in, say, welfare and taxation.
And all these items, including health care,
for next year directly impact on the
amount of money that is spent.
I have deliberately imposed some very
strict discipline in this reform effort. We
may increase total expenditures in the
welfare field, but the proposal that we
evolve is designed not to increase spend-
ing, but to see if we had the same amount
of money to spend as was projected, how
we could spend it better.
I think there will be some growth in
total expenditures, which is inevitable.
My only hope is that the money that is
spent will be spent most effectively.
ABORTION
Q. Do you think we'll soon have a right-
to-life amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. That's
something that addresses itself to the Con-
gress. My own hope as a President is to
do everything I can within my own legal
capability to hold down the number of
abortions that are needed and which take
place in our country. As you know, con-
stitutional amendments don't address
themselves to the President directly, but
1062
