Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 22
Q. What kind of a filtering process can
we use to bring some credibility to prob-
ably both sides and still work with the
facts?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt that anyone
knows accurately how much oil, gas, ura-
nium, or coal still remains to be discov-
ered. Our own estimates, I felt, were quite
accurate and reasonably conservative.
The subsequent analyses that have been
done by independent groups have con-
firmed, basically, that our own estimates
are fairly accurate. Nothing would please
me more than to find that we had under-
estimated the reserve supplies of those
energy sources.
But regardless of how much is there,
there can be no arguing with the fact that
waste of those supplies is counterproduc-
tive to our Nation's and the world's best
interests I don't feel that a tight conserva-
tion effort, regardless of the level of sup-
plies, is going to constrain the quality of
life of American people. Waste is not good
for us.
And whether the oil supplies in our own
country are going to continue to drop off
6 percent per year, in spite of an increase
in exploration effort of 18 to 21 percent
per year, I don't know. We have no way
to anticipate what will evolve in the fu-
ture. But I think that the order of magni-
tude of error is fairly small. And the rapid
increase in demand in an exponential way
show that a doubling in supplies of, say,
oil or natural gas, will only extend the
time period from 5 to 10 years.
So, no matter what the estimates might
be as far as accuracy is concerned, the
need for conservation is great.
We are trying to approach this question
on a multi-energy source basis. One of the
reasons that I'm late today is because
Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser and I and
our staff members and Cabinet members
had a long discussion about the question
of nonproliferation, how to make sure that
nations can shift more and more toward
atomic power as a source of electricity and
energy and, at the same time, eliminate
the increase in the number of nations that
can develop atomic explosions.
We, the Canadians, Australia, Britain,
and others, I think, have turned around
world opinion on this subject in the last
6 months. I think it's accurate to say that
half a year ago nobody thought that we
could reverse the trend toward nuclear ex-
plosive proliferation. Now, I think there's
a general sense among the consuming and
supplier nations of atomic fuels that we
can indeed control the additional spread
of atomic weapons.
So, the estimates of what we have and
what we need, I think, are in doubt. But
the need for conserving what we do have
and making sure we have an orderly en-
ergy policy to assure the best use of the
energy sources, I think, cannot be
doubted.
We can go on that basis. And if we find
that we are pleasantly surprised in the
future, every possible effort that we will
have expended in ensuring an efficient use
of our limited supplies will certainly have
been to good purposes. I hope that our
estimates are too conservative, but my fear
is that they might be too liberal.
COAL PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, I live in the heart of
the anthracite region, and the coal reserves
there are supposed to be the greatest in
the world right now. What 4 years ago was
the main source of our economy, today has
trickled to practically nothing.
Most of the miners are on pensions, and
production is nothing. And up in the sec-
tion where we had coal, where coal was
once king, it is almost believed impossible
to get coal back in production. And I'm
just wondering-because Mr. Schlesinger
and yourself, sir, are placing a lot of em-
phasis on the use of coal—are there any
1145
