Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
equality of opportunity in our Nation, to
the elimination of discrimination in our
schools, and to the rigid enforcement of
all Federal laws. There will never be any
attempt made while I'm President to
weaken the basic provisions or the de-
tailed provisions of the great civil rights
acts that have been passed in years gone
by.
So, my commitment to you is total. I
think there has been some beginnings of
a move in the right direction. I don't know
the latest statistics because they are im-
proving every day. But the last time I had
a press conference, I got a report from my
staff. In the top administrative positions-
Assistant Secretaries, Deputy Secretaries,
Under Secretaries, and Secretaries—in
the major departments headed by Cabinet
members, under the Ford administration,
which was, I think, a fairly good one on
this subject, we had, I think, nine of those
key positions filled by women. Now we
have 29. And the number is growing every
day. And we had double the number of
blacks; we had triple the number of Span-
ish-speaking Americans. This is just a
start.
Over a period of my own administra-
tion, I want to be sure that our commit-
ment to equal employment opportunity
is profound and that it covers every level
of government and that I assume, on a
continuing basis, that leadership role from
the White House.
Q. What about the Indians? For 15
years, they were the only race completely
denied all social security benefits in New
Mexico and Arizona-[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, ma'am.
She said make sure I don't forget the In-
dians, and I certainly won't.
DAY CARE CENTERS
Q. Does your administration favor the
Federal funding of day care centers for
Federal employees?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the question is,
does my administration favor the Federal
funding of day care centers for Federal
employees?
I think that I would have to answer no.
I don't see why we should single out Fed-
eral employees as the only group in the
Nation who would uniquely be provided
with day care services. I think Federal em-
ployees ought to be treated the same as
other employees in private life.
CIVIL SERVICE
Q. Can I follow up on the downgrad-
ing question—[inaudible]—the Republi-
can administration on civil servants.
The Department itself says that 35 per-
cent of Department employees will be
downgraded. That percentage is even
higher right now. It was the last attempt.
It is now going on.
Ex-Secretary Mathews, before he left,
realized the tremendous burdens that is
caused on the bureaucracy and the ability
for him to carry out his program. He has
sent a letter to the Civil Service Commis-
sion recommending legislation which
would protect all incumbents in their po-
sition. When they left, then the position
would accede to the position that it was
reclassified as.
Could you support legislation like that?
THE PRESIDENT. If you don't mind, for
a moment, let me ask Secretary Califano
for his assessment of that question.
SECRETARY CALIFANO. Let me say that
I, Mr. President, am looking at this, and
I will look at what Secretary Mathews
did and what he recommended and will
consult with the Civil Service Commis-
sion, especially when you have put your
own people in the Civil Service Commis-
sion.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me add just a lit-
tle more to that. My own inclination is to
handle it, as you have described, through
normal attrition or through a delayed fu-
164
