Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 28
on so that when I do speak the American
people are part of it.
Last week I had four foreign leaders to
come and see me, and we have an aver-
age of one head of state coming more
frequently than every 2 weeks the whole
year because of two things: One, they are
very eager to get to know me and to see
what the leadership of our great country
can do in bilateral relationships now and
in the future; and secondly, I learn from
them.
And early next month I will be going
to London to meet with the European
leaders and the Prime Ministers of Japan
and of Canada, and then to Geneva to
meet with President Asad of Syria to
complete my study and my basis for
negotiations on economic matters and
political matters with those world leaders.
I know that I have a lot to learn. I'm
an eager student. Many of you have
international experience and travel and
business relationships that can be very
important to me. And I hope that you
will never be reticent in giving me your
advice and your counsel and your
criticisms when you consider it to be
warranted.
in-
The last point I want to make is this:
There's no way for me to separate in my
own life my involvement with my family,
my involvement with my church, my
volvement with government, my involve-
ment with the Democratic Party and the
people of our country. We have to depend
on you.
The new campaign finance laws, which
I strongly favor, made it possible, first of
all, for me to be elected President. Sec-
ondly, they have made it possible for me
to be elected President without having
unwarranted obligations to people be-
cause of financial contributions. They
give me a unique freedom to make my
decisions as President based upon my
current analysis of what's best for you and
me and for this country. And that's a
very precious thing that I would never
want to see abridged. The separation of
the political financial arrangement and
governmental finances is also a very im-
portant heritage which I cherish.
The Republican Party has always had
plenty of money. The Democratic Party
has always been broke. But I think we
have at the same time learned to make
the most out of every dollar we have. And
I think that's proven by the remarkable
success we have had in congressional elec-
tions, gubernatorial elections, Presidential
elections in the last few years. I know that
every one of you is expected to raise
$5,000 a year for the next 4 years. That's
not a difficult task if your heart is in it.
And the fact that you have come here
today to join in with me and others in
this commitment is a great tribute to you,
to your patriotism, your belief in our
country, and your loyalty to the Demo-
cratic Party.
The diversity of our country and the
diversity of our party is not a sign of
weakness. It's a sign of strength. And I
think we can each preserve the deep com-
mitments that we have philosophically
and otherwise and, at the same time, feel
that we are equal partners in shaping the
future of our country.
You've never demanded anything from
me that was at all embarrassing, and I
thank you for it. You've given me your
support. The only feeling I have is one of
gratitude to you. I've got a lot to learn.
As a new President I have seen again
in a much more vivid fashion the poten-
tial greatness of our country, even exceed-
ing the greatness of the past. But that
doesn't rest in the White House. It doesn't
rest on Capitol Hill. It rests among the
tens of millions of American people who
are your neighbors. And you are there in
737
