Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But I'd like to bring those agencies to-
gether in a much more cohesive form. We
now have a backlog, so that if you have a
legitimate complaint-either in govern-
ment or private industry-about discrim-
ination, it takes an average of 3 years now
before a determination of that case can be
completed. And in the meantime, of
course, that employee who may have been
suffering may have moved somewhere
else. All the witnesses that knew about the
original circumstances have gone, and
most of the cases are resolved just by the
withdrawal of the original complaint.
But I think if we can bring some re-
newed strength into the equal employ-
ment opportunity field, that it will help.
I might add one other thing. I have
tried to do this at the top levels of Govern-
ment. At the executive level, the top five
grades in the Cabinet-led Departments,
we have more than tripled the number of
women employed under the last adminis-
tration, which was the highest up until
then. We had 9 women; we now have 29
women in the executive levels. We have
doubled the number of black citizens from
8 to 16. We've tripled the number of Span-
ish-speaking citizens, and we're only two-
thirds of the way through.
So, we'll set a good example, and I hope
that all of you will help with this very
serious problem. It's not easy to change
the way of habit that's existed for many,
many years, but we're trying. And I see, in
looking across this group, that a great deal
of progress has already been made in
HUD. We hope to equal this progress in
the other departments.
Q. Bravo!
Q. No!
THE PRESIDENT. I heard some "noes."
Not enough progress; we've got to make
some more.
FLEXI-TIME
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I got a question the
other day I think at the Labor Depart-
ment-about flexi-time. I don't know the
answer to that yet. I think that this is go-
ing to be a part of the energy policy pro-
posal. As you know, it's much more effi-
cient in the conservation of energy if there
is a stretching-out of employee attendance
or presence within a building. And it also
is becoming more and more of a problem
in holding families together to have some
flexibility in the times that people work.
I don't know the answer to that. That
will address itself primarily to the Secre-
taries at the Cabinet level. But I think the
concept is a good one.
I might add one other thing that just
came to mind. I have asked my own White
House staff, and I've also asked Pat Harris
and the other Cabinet members to protect
the integrity of their own family. I think
it's very important that all of us in Gov-
ernment not forget that no matter how
dedicated we might be and how eager to
perform well, that we need a stable family
life to make us better servants of the
people.
So, those of you who are living in sin,
I hope you'll get married. [Laughter]
Those of you who have left your spouses,
go back home. And those of you who
don't remember your children's names,
get reacquainted.
But I think it's very important that we
have stable family lives. And I am serious
about that.
FEDERAL JOB DISCRIMINATION
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this was a ques-
tion that was raised yesterday, too, about
the Civil Service policies being one of the
causes of discrimination against women
and minority groups. This is quite often
the case.
138
