Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 14
little hand and darkness all around the
back of her head and a star in the palm of
her hand. Well, I think this illustrates very
well what he means to the people of his
country. The people have put their faith
in him and they are beginning to realize
the fruits of his tremendous intelligence,
his talent, his ability, his sensitivity to their
needs. And I think in the future the people
of his great nation will know as his daugh-
ter did, that he is capable of delivering to
them the things that they cherish so
deeply.
I would like to propose a toast to Presi-
dent López Portillo and his wife, and to
the people of the great nation of Mexico.
President López PORTILLO. President
Carter has just referred to ancient history,
and he has drawn this picture with very
generous lines.
I would now like to refer to the history
that is being made and written at this par-
ticular point in time. I would like to ask
all of you to reflect on what is happening
here and now in order to measure the
enormous responsibility that lies on the
shoulders of this great Nation.
Today, President Carter has done a
great honor to my country by inviting me
to visit the United States on a state visit,
the first statesman to come to the United
States during the administration of Presi-
dent Carter.
Responsibility has to be faced in two
ways: by facing the problems that this Na-
tion has, which is not only geographically
a neighbor but also a neighbor that is un-
dergoing a process of development, and
we have studied the characteristics of this
problem in depth. On the other hand, and
a few minutes back one of his very dis-
tinguished Secretaries, the Secretary of
State, Mr. Vance, has had to leave for the
Middle East in order to participate in ne-
gotations that are to bring about order and
peace in the world.
In these few hours in this very place,
contemporary history is being made, the
history of American responsibility, the
great responsibility that was brought about
by power which is being written here at
the White House that now houses an ex-
emplary family full of unity and love, un-
derstanding, in which a lovely and intelli-
gent child, Amy, has been reading "The
Mystery of the Screaming Clock" right
here at the table.
We have had the privilege of being able
to spend some time with this lovely family
in spite of the distance, the geographic
distance, in spite of the differences in lan-
guage, the differences in culture. And in
spite of these differences, I feel that they
are very close to me and very dear, and I
think that I am speaking also for my wife.
As a human experience it is a privilege
to be present in moments when the dis-
tance in responsibility is no longer. On the
one hand, in spite of being at such a high
level and having such a high position as
this family does, they are able to give their
love, affection, and warmth to the small
child.
They facilitate communication among
the members of the family in spite of pro-
tocol. And this family that is observing of
their child while waiting for an increase
in the grandchildren in 2 weeks time, and
at the same time is praising all the loveli-
ness of the small child, begins within that
broad spectrum to have in its hands the
participation of the United States in mak-
ing the future for humanity.
For a Mexican it is very comforting, a
Mexican that to a certain extent in some
way is representing Latin America, who in
a certain sense represents the developing
world—it is very comforting, I repeat—
to know that he who has the greatest
153
