Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 21
nation barring the United States. You
have a slight edge on us. But they have
come to Canada by the tens of thousands
from Czechoslovakia, from Hungary,
from Tibet, from Uganda, from Chile,
and many, many other places.
So, we do try to, as Canadians, show
this hospitality to the world which cor-
responds to the generosity of the Cana-
dian people. I was telling you this after-
noon, sir, that though we have been a
nuclear power for some 30 years, and
though we have the technology and the
financial means of building a bomb, we
have chosen not to do so. We have tried
to put our technology towards a more
creative and fraternal use.
We, with the United States, are the
only member of NATO which has troops
on both sides of the Atlantic. We're into
our fourth term in the Security Council.
We have been in every peacekeeping
operation, United Nations peacekeeping
operation, since the end of the Second
World War. We were in Korea. We were
in the four Indochina Control Commis-
sions.
I say these things, sir, partly to be
slightly chauvinistic, but also because we
in Canada today tend to be a little bit
cynical towards the role of Canada in the
world and towards its generosity. And I
think that you won't be angry at me for
using this occasion and these hidden
microphones to talk a little bit about
Canada's contribution, because these
things would not have been possible with-
out a strong and united Canada. And I
just want to assure you, sir, that we in-
tend to keep Canada that way.
It is said that Daniel Boone, when giv-
ing advice to those who wanted to join
him on the frontier, said that there were
three essentials-to have a good gun, a
good horse, and a good wife.
Well, now the frontier has changed in
kind. We are still very much living on a
new kind of a frontier. And in these days
when changing values in the world and
the increasing closeness of mankind to
each other and where a new, special kind
of brotherhood is called for, I think we
could replace Daniel Boone's three essen-
tials by three others. I would say it is to
have good goals, good discipline, and good
friends.
Well, I know we have good goals, and
we discussed them a great deal this after-
noon. We found that together, we shared
many, many of the goals in foreign rela-
tions and, indeed, in internal affairs.
In terms of having good friends, well,
you have shown us tonight through your
hospitality and your friendship that that
is a reality.
What has to be achieved is good disci-
pline. I speak for Canada, and I feel that
it is a virtue that we can do with a bit
more of-if I can twist my grammar that
way. We are going through a period now
when discipline, self-discipline, is being
understood as the only substitute for dis-
cipline from the outside or discipline from
the state. And I must say that I personal-
ly was very, very enthusiastic to see the
measure of discipline that appears in your
thoughts, sir, in your approach to prob-
lems, and in your way of life.
I would propose a toast, not to the
friendship that we have, and not to the
goals that we share, but to the disciplines
of our people-may it increase, and to
President Carter and to Mrs. Carter, who
will help President Carter in imparting
some of those disciplines on the indus-
trialized democracies.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:23 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
213
