Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
He'll be able, I think, to present to other
countries an accurate representation of
what our Nation can do in resolving an
almost irresolvable conflict between pro-
tecting the jobs of American workers and
having a strong economy here on the one
hand, and not having restrictive import
rulings or decisions that would bring the
whole world trade concept in a constantly
declining circumstance.
This is a very difficult question to ad-
dress. And he and I together, the other
members of our executive branch of Gov-
ernment, and the Congress will be trying
to deal with this question in the months
ahead.
But I have complete confidence in him,
and with Helen to give him good advice
I am sure that he will succeed in this as
well as he has in his past endeavors.
So, it's a good day for our country, to
have Bob Strauss as Special Trade Repre-
sentative and Jack Gilligan as director of
our AID program. I am very proud of
them and grateful to them.
And I want to congratulate them and
the people of our country for this fine ac-
ceptance on their part of a major and
very important responsibility.
Thank you, Bob. Thank you, Jack.
Now the Attorney General will admin-
ister the oath.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Follow-
ing his remarks, Attorney General Griffin B.
Bell administered the oath of office.
United States-Canada Transit
Pipeline Agreement
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Agreement. March 30, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Agreement
between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
Canada Concerning Transit Pipelines
signed at Washington on January 28,
1977. I also transmit, for the information
of the Senate, the report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the Agree-
ment, including copies of letters ex-
changed at the time the draft text of the
Treaty was initialed.
The Agreement was negotiated in re-
sponse to a request made by the Congress
in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authoriza-
tion Act (P.L. 93-153) that the President
determine the willingness of the Govern-
ment of Canada to permit the construc-
tion of pipelines across Canada to carry
oil and gas from Alaska's North Slope to
markets in the lower 48 states, the terms
and conditions which might apply to the
operation of such pipelines and the need
for intergovernmental agreements for this
purpose. The Agreement negotiated in re-
sponse to this request provides reciprocal
protection against interruption in the
flow of hydrocarbons in transit, and
against discriminatory taxation. The
Agreement is applicable both to existing
and future pipelines transiting the United
States and to future pipelines transiting
Canada.
It became clear early in the negotia-
tions that the Government of Canada was
not prepared to conclude an arrangement
which granted advance approval to a spe-
cific pipeline project. Consequently, the
Agreement was drafted without reference
to the specific proposals which have been
made for the construction of pipelines to
transport gas from Alaska's North Slope
to the lower 48 states. Its provisions would
be applicable to both existing and future
transit pipelines.
The Agreement does not constitute
Canadian approval of construction of a
transit pipeline across its territory. Upon
completion of studies currently in prog-
534
