Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 11
Childhood Immunization
Program
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. April 11, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
As you may know, approximately 20
million of the Nation's children under the
of the additional measures we each may
take to assure its success.
NOTE:
JIMMY CARTER
The text of the memorandum was
made available by the White House Press Of-
fice. It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
Proclamation 4497. April 11, 1977
age of 15 are not fully protected from pre- Older Americans Month, 1977
ventable childhood diseases. At my re-
quest, the Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare will initiate this week a con-
tinuing, high-visibility program and pub-
lic information campaign to promote
desirable childhood immunization. Our
goal over the next two years is to reduce
as much as humanly possible the numbers
of youngsters without medical protection
against many major childhood afflictions.
By the President of the United States
of America
I want each of you to join in this na-
tionwide initiative by taking direct and
widespread actions to stress the very great
importance of childhood immunization to
all federal employees and to initiate effec-
tive, agency-wide information programs
on how parents can obtain the needed
immunizations for their children. Secre-
tary Califano will send to you a packet
containing the details of our nationwide
program and a memorandum that will
highlight any aspects of direct interest and
concern to those of us in federal service.
I sincerely believe this single measure
of preventive health care can and will af-
fect the future lives and well-being of
countless numbers of the Nation's chil-
dren. I hope each of you will do what
you
can personally to inform those with whom
you work and the Nation's citizens about
it. At my request, Mr. Califano will pe-
riodically keep us all informed of the
progress of this key health initiative and
A Proclamation
Nearly 33 million Americans are at
least 60 years old, and the number is
growing by 500,000 a year.
Older Americans can provide our
youngsters with an awareness of their
heritage, and with a sense of family con-
tinuity.
And older Americans can pass on to
our children not only the knowledge and
wisdom that come with age, but also the
values that guided our forebears in build-
ing a great republic.
We must find ways to assure that older
citizens will continue to lead useful and
productive lives. And we must find ways
to use their experience, judgment and
ability.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby designate the month of
May, 1977, as Older Americans Month.
I call upon all Federal, State and com-
munity agencies, educators, the communi-
cations media, the clergy, and concerned
organizations and individuals to do all
that lies within their power to help assure
that our older citizens have an adequate
605
