Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 4
peace in the Middle East. Undoubtedly,
this genuine determination stemmed out
of thoughtful realization on your part of
the possibility as well as the necessity to
establish peace in the area after 29 years
of devastating wars and stifling tension.
This also demonstrates your enlightened
awareness that your country has a certain
mission to fulfill and a major responsibil-
ity to contribute positively to the process
of peace in the Middle East. More im-
portant, you registered your willingness
your willingness
and even enthusiasm to fully assume this
responsibility.
In your speech at the United Nations
on March 17, you reiterated that your
country has the strength of ideals and that
you are determined to maintain these
ideals as the backbone of your policy.
I endorse this statement and hope to see
it implemented in practice. Such ideals
certainly coincide with the norms of legit-
imacy and legality in international be-
havior.
Thus, you cannot support foreign occu-
pation of one's land or tolerate territorial
expansionism. We know that attachment
to one's land is a value which is deeply
rooted in the fabric of the American so-
ciety. It is the central force that made
the realization of the American dream
possible.
Mr. President, I am sure that you con-
cur with me that it would be a grave
mistake to waste this golden opportunity
to put an end to a state of affairs that
has plagued our area for decades.
There is every indication that you are
aware of the centrality of the Palestinian
cause to the entire dispute. It is the core
and crux of the issue. No progress what-
soever can be achieved so long as this
problem remains unsolved.
In your public pronouncements in re-
cent weeks, you came very close to the
proper remedy. What is needed is the
establishment of a political entity where
the Palestinians can, at long last, be a
community of citizens, not a group of
refugees. The humanitarian dimension of
their plight is merely one of the aspects
of the problem. Their yearning to exercise
their normal rights remains the heart of
the issue.
Mr. President, the Arab nation, with its
long history of tolerance and cooperation
with other nations, is eager to contribute
further to the welfare and prosperity of
mankind. It harbors no ill-feeling towards
any people, nor has it ever experienced
prejudice or hatred against any creed or
peoples. We remain committed to peace
in our area and in the world at large.
Mr. President, over the past few years,
I worked with your predecessors to de-
velop ties of cooperation and mutual
understanding between our two peoples.
I am glad to
I am glad to say that we are satisfied with
the development of our bilateral relations
and are looking forward for an era of an
ever-increasing exchange and interaction
during your Presidency. In this respect, I
must express my people's gratitude and
mine, Mr. President, for the gallant action
from your side, helping us in our eco-
nomic problems lately. Really, it has
shown the valiant American spirit after
you
have helped us in many ways in the
last few years, especially in preparing the
Suez Canal for the navigation and for the
prosperity of the whole world.
Mr. President, I am carrying to every
American a message of friendship and
amity from 40 million Egyptians. We wish
you all the success and gratification of
fulfillment you are aspiring to. Let us
pray to God Almighty so that the days
ahead may witness a happy American
family under every roof and a state of
peace and solidarity in every community.
Let us also pray that God grants us the
563
