Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 9
other function of government. More than
33 million people currently receive bene-
fits. Another 104 million people are mak-
ing contributions with the expectation
that they will receive benefits when they
retire or become disabled, or when their
survivors need help.
Today, the Board of Trustees of the
Social Security Trust Funds is submitting
its 1977 report to the Congress. The re-
port tells us that the system critically
needs financial support in the short term.
The high unemployment of recent years
has curtailed Social Security's revenues,
while benefits have risen with inflation.
Since 1975 expenditures have exceeded
income; and existing reserves will soon be
exhausted.
Unless we act now, the Disability In-
surance Trust (DI) Fund will be ex-
hausted in 1979 and the Old Age and
Survivors Insurance (OASI) Trust Fund
will run out in 1983.
The Trustees' Report indicates that
there are serious longer term problems as
well. Under current law the Social Se-
curity system will have an estimated defi-
cit of 8.2 percent of taxable payroll over
the next seventy-five years. About half of
this deficit is due to changes in the pro-
jected composition of our population over
those years. Higher life expectancy and
lower birthrates will make the nation older
as a whole. About half is due to a techni-
without reducing the relative value of re-
tirement benefits as compared with pre-
retirement earnings.
I am announcing today a set of pro-
posals which meet those commitments
and which solve both the short-term and
long-term problems in the Social Security
system through the end of the twentieth
century. These proposals are designed to:
-Prevent the default of the trust funds
now predicted to occur.
-Bring income and expenses into bal-
ance in 1978 and keep them that way
through the end of the century.
-Create sufficient reserves to protect
the system against sudden declines
in revenue caused by unemployment
or other economic uncertainties.
-Protect the system's integrity beyond
the turn of the century to the extent
we can predict what will happen in
the next 75 years.
-Provide for an orderly review and ex-
amination of the system's basic
structure.
My proposals are the result of a num-
ber of hard choices. I am convinced that
action is needed now, and that these steps
will restore the financial integrity of the
Social Security system.
I will ask the Congress to take the fol-
lowing specific actions:
1. Compensate the Social Security trust
cal flaw in the automatic cost of living funds from general revenues for a share
formula adopted in 1972.
While campaigning for President, I
stressed my commitment to restore the
financial integrity of the Social Security
system. I pledged I would do my best to
avoid increases above those already sched-
uled in tax rates, which fall most heavily
on moderate and lower-income workers.
I also promised to correct the technical
flaw in the system which exaggerates the
adjustment for inflation, and to do so
of revenues lost during severe recessions.
General revenues would be used in a
countercyclical fashion to replace the pay-
roll tax receipts lost as a result of that por-
tion of unemployment in excess of six
percent. General revenues would be used
only in these carefully limited situations.
Because this is an innovative measure, the
legislation we submit will provide this fea-
ture only through 1982. The next Social
Security Advisory Council will be asked
837
