May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
pensation. While engaged in the work of
the Committee, members may receive
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu
of subsistence, as authorized by law (5
U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
(b) The Attorney General shall furnish
to the Committee necessary staff, supplies,
facilities and other administrative services.
(c) All necessary expenses incurred in
connection with the work of the Commit-
tee, to the extent permitted by law, shall
be paid from funds available to the At-
torney General.
SEC. 7. Federal Advisory Committee Act
Functions. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, which are applicable to the
Committee, shall be performed by the
Attorney General in accordance with the
guidelines and procedures established by
the Office of Management and Budget.
SEC. 8. Termination of the Committee.
The Committee shall terminate on De-
cember 31, 1978, unless sooner extended.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:02 p.m., May 25, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
United States Circuit Judge
Nominating Commission.
Executive Order 11993. May 24, 1977
RELATING TO THE UNITED STATES CIR-
CUIT JUDGE NOMINATING COMMISSION
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America,
Section 3 of Executive Order No. 11972
of February 14, 1977, is amended by re-
designating the present text as subsection
(a), redesignating the present lettered
subsections as numbered paragraphs (1),
(2), (3), and (4), and by adding the
following new subsection (b):
"(b) The Panel for the District of Co-
lumbia Circuit shall have the additional
function of recommending nominees for
the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, in accordance with
the standards and procedures prescribed
by this order for recommending nominees
for circuit judges.".
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:03 p.m., May 25, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
Visit of Crown Prince Fahd of
Saudi Arabia
Remarks to Reporters on the Crown Prince's
Departure. May 25, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. We have enjoyed hav-
ing you. Thank you again. Good luck to
you. You have been very helpful to us.
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us any-
thing about this visit?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it was a very
fruitful discussion. At the Crown Prince's
suggestion, we divided up into groups this
morning for a very deep discussion of
some of the major issues that bind us to-
gether. The Crown Prince and I were
alone, and then Secretary Vance had a
1010
