Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the steam which is now wasted from electrical power production. In Ger-
many, for instance, 29 percent of total energy comes from cogeneration.
In this country, formerly it was about 19 percent, but now it's only 4 per-
cent in the United States. I propose a special 10-percent tax credit for
investments in cogeneration.
Along with conservation, our second major strategy is production
and rational pricing. We can never increase our production of oil and
natural gas by enough to meet our demand, but we must be sure that our
pricing system is sensible, that it discourages waste and encourages ex-
ploration and new production.
One of the principles of our energy policy is that the price of energy
should reflect its true replacement cost as a means of bringing supply and
demand into balance over the long run. Now, realistic pricing is especially
important for our scarcest fuels-oil and natural gas. However, proposals
for immediate and total decontrol of domestic oil and natural gas prices
would be disastrous for our economy and also for working American fam-
ilies. It would not solve the long-range problems of dwindling supplies.
The price of newly discovered oil will be allowed to rise over a 3-year
period to the 1977 world market price, with allowances from then on for
inflation. The current return to producers for previously discovered oil,
that which already exists, would remain the same, except for adjustments
because of inflation.
Because fairness is an essential strategy of our energy policy, we do
not want to give producers windfall profits beyond the incentives that they
do need for exploration and production. But we are simply misleading
ourselves if we do not recognize the replacement costs of energy in our
pricing system.
Therefore, I propose that we phase in a wellhead tax on existing
supplies of domestic oil, equal to the difference between the present con-
trolled price of oil and the world price, and return that money collected
by this tax to the consumers and the workers of America.
We should also end the artificial distortions in natural gas prices
in different parts of the country which have caused people in the produc-
ing States to pay exorbitant prices, while creating shortages, unemploy-
ment, and economic stagnation, particularly in the Northeast. We must
not permit energy shortages to divide or Balkanize our country.
We want to work with the Congress to give gas producers an ade-
quate incentive for exploration, working carefully toward deregulation
of newly discovered gas as market conditions permit.
668
