Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 1
nomics from George Washington Uni-
versity in 1950.
From 1952 to 1962, Mr. O'Leary served
as economist, and later senior staff econ-
omist, in the office of the Assistant Secre-
tary of the Interior for Natural Resources.
He served as Deputy Assistant Secretary
for mineral resources in the Department
of the Interior from 1962 to 1967. From
1967 to 1968, he was Chief of the Bureau
of Natural Gas of the Federal Power
Commission. Mr. O'Leary served as Di-
rector of the Bureau of Mines from 1968
to 1970, and was self-employed as an en-
ergy consultant to firms in the petroleum,
natural gas, and coal industries from 1970
to 1972. From 1972 to 1974, he served as
Director of Licensing for the Atomic En-
ergy Commission. In 1974, he worked as
a private consultant on energy matters to
government agencies and other organi-
zations, including the MITRE Corp., a
systems analysis firm. In October 1974,
he joined the staff of the MITRE Corp. as
technical director of energy resources and
the environment division. Mr. O'Leary
became administrator of the New Mexico
Energy Resources Board in November
1975.
Vice President Mondale's
Trip to Europe and Japan
Remarks on Welcoming the Vice President
Home. February 1, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I am very glad to wel-
come back to our country Vice President
Mondale, who has done an absolutely
superb job in demonstrating our deep and
continuing friendship with our major al-
lies in France and Europe and in Japan.
He has taken messages from me to the
leaders of six nations. He has engaged in
the same kind of discussions on the same
subjects and with the same depth that I
would have if I had gone on the trip
myself.
I have received constant reports back,
both from Vice President Mondale and
from the governments and their leaders
whom he has visited. And he has done an
absolutely superb job. He has made me,
and I am sure the Nation, very proud.
My only order to him now is that he
go home and get some rest. They have
had a very difficult trip, very fast moving.
He will be meeting with me tomorrow to
give me a complete briefing. And I be-
lieve we will have a press conference to-
morrow after he meets with me.
But, Fritz, we are proud to have you
back home and proud of what you did on
this trip.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you very,
very much, Mr. President, for those very,
very kind words. I am delighted to be
back and especially thrilled that you
would honor me by your personal pres-
ence upon my return to the United States.
I am also glad that Joan greeted me, as
well. I have prepared a separate arrival
statement for Joan, which I will deliver
at home. [Laughter]
I want to announce to the press, how-
ever, that that will not be released to the
public because of the highly sensitive na-
ture of the information that I will be car-
rying back from the leaders of the other
countries.
Nine days ago, I left to visit our friends
and allies of Western Europe and Japan,
under instructions of our new President,
to bring the message that we wanted the
with our friends. And we wanted to begin
earliest possible cooperative consultations
the long-term process of a mutual part-
nership. I can say, Mr. President, that
wherever I went, to Brussels, to Bonn, to
Paris, to London, to Berlin, to Tokyo, to
Reykjavík, we were received warmly. And
there is a spirit of optimism and excite-
57
