June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tween the department and the Office of
Management and Budget, sometimes in-
volving my own staff, and sometimes in-
volving a broad-scale, blue-ribbon citizens
committee working with us.
We've initiated some major objectives
which have been postponed, in my opin-
ion, too long. They create an agenda that's
almost overwhelming for us, but I don't
feel any doubt that we should have ad-
dressed these problems.
On domestic issues, as you well know,
they involve a basic energy policy, the
evolution of an Energy Department, a
resolution of the very serious questions
concerning social security, welfare reform,
tax reform these kinds of things have
been postponed from one administration
to another. And in my opinion, their
threat to our Nation's domestic well-being
has grown in severity.
In foreign affairs, we've also been quite
aggressive, I think, so far. We are trying to
wrestle with the basic questions of south-
ern Africa in a deeply involved fashion,
working with the British and others. I
have met with all the leaders in the Mid-
dle East. We've taken an innovative stand
on nonproliferation of nuclear explosive
capability.
We've had, I think, so far, a very suc-
cessful effort to arouse the consciousness
of the world about basic human rights and
human freedoms. I don't think there's a
foreign leader in the world who doesn't
have in the forefront of his consciousness
or her consciousness now, the basic ques-
tion of what are we doing in our country
about human rights. And this has been a
very gratifying thing to us so far.
We are dealing with the questions of
normalizing relationships with countries
who have been our adversaries or even
enemies in the past. This is one that's
fraught with grave political consequences
if they're not handled in a sensitive
fashion. My own inclination, though, is to
aggressively challenge, in a peaceful way,
of course, the Soviet Union and others for
influence in areas of the world that we
feel are crucial to us now or potentially
crucial 15 or 20 years from now. And this
includes places like Vietnam and places
like Iraq and Somalia and Algeria and
places like the People's Republic of China
and even Cuba. I don't have any hesitancy
about these matters.
The other thing I'd like to mention
briefly is that we've, I think, formed a
much tighter alliance of consultation and
mutual purpose with our friends in the
Western democracies. I have the utmost
confidence that their democratic systems
can prevail.
I think this is somewhat of a change,
maybe from some of the attitudes of our
leaders that have preceded me. But I think
in the long run, we have the advantage on
our side, because there's an innate hunger
among the human beings who inhabit this
Earth for a right to make their own deci-
sions, not to be abused by government, to
be free to develop as they choose, to be
treated fairly. And I think in this way, our
system of government can be exemplary
to others. I think this is something that is
now being more clearly seen.
And I feel like in the competitive
world of, say, among the African nations
or in Asia or in Latin America-that we
ought not to be timid in putting our best
foot forward and that we ought to be sure
that our own system here is clean and
decent and honest and open and that
there is a general sense among the world's
people that when I speak I don't speak as
an isolated voice; that as best I can, my
Cabinet understands and supports what I
say, that the Congress understands and
supports what I say, and as best I can,
again, that the American people under-
stand and support what I say.
We've been criticized to some degree by
injecting some of the controversial issues
1088
