Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
strange and alien military forces down
through the generations, we have always
been staunch allies.
I think on behalf of all the American
people, I can offer a toast with the surest
sense that I speak in a way that repre-
sents us all.
I would like to offer a toast at this
point: To the Queen.
felt during the last few weeks. And we
want to thank
want to thank you for it.
It is a very great privilege to be part
of it. And I want you to know that in the
generous words you have uttered about
the relationships between our two coun-
tries that there is nothing that you can say
about that that we don't echo and reecho,
because your success is our success; your
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President, failures, we share. But when you are going
Mrs. Carter:
When you entertained the President of
Mexico, the after dinner speeches began
at 9:22. When you entertained the Presi-
dent of Canada, the after dinner speeches
began at 9:23. This evening, sir, I checked
my watch with you, but you
didn't know
for what purpose, they began at 9:24. I
hope that is no sign that you are slipping.
[Laughter]
But it is a very great pleasure, indeed,
to be here, Mr. President, and Mrs. Car-
ter, for Audrey and myself. And I would
like to say thank you on behalf of all our
party who traveled with us this week.
You were quite right in your apocry-
phal conversation to reveal the upbring-
ings that we both share. When my
brother-in-law, who is a Baptist minister,
went to the deacons for his appointment
in the southwest of England, they uttered
a prayer for him which you will, I know,
clearly recognize. The chief deacon got up
and he said: “O Lord: Keep him hum-
ble. We will keep him poor." [Laughter]
I wasn't exactly sure about your refer-
ence to 1814. I want to assure you that on
this occasion at least we arrive in peace
and in concord. [Laughter] And nothing,
sir, will separate us from each other.
But we do love being in the United
States. I speak for all my party when I
say that. And it is especially nice—and I
want to repeat what I said this morning—
to be here and feel the invigorating sweep
of a new administration such as we have
through difficult times, we feel it, too. But
wider than us, this is true of Europe, be-
cause what you do will have, and does
have, a profound effect upon the Euro-
pean continent as a whole. That is our
history. That is our background.
And so allow me just for one second
to speak as president of the Community
for the time being, and to say to you, sir,
that—and I speak on behalf of the leaders
of all the countries of the Community—
that they are looking to you, looking to
your administration with hope, with be-
lief, with faith in the future of the United
States under your leadership.
And so, we wish you well and we trust
that under God's guidance you will bring
not only peace and prosperity to your own
people but you will bring it to us as well.
For that lies in your hands and you shall
have all our support in all that you are
trying to do.
Now, I dictated a fine speech here the
day before yesterday, but I have got a
feeling it is a little out of date now. Indeed,
you stole my point this morning, and I
promise you I dictated this some time ago
when I said-I am going to read it-you
built up-I shan't read it very well—you
built up a wide network of relationships
and friendships around the world and in
the process, I said, we have become a little
shy of using the traditional term of spe-
cial relationship to describe our friend-
ship with each other. That was true until
you used it yourself again this morning.
360
