Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 25, 1977
Department of the Interior
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 18, 1977
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Thank you very
much, ladies and gentlemen.
Good morning, fellow employees of the
Department of the Interior. It gives me a
great deal of pleasure to introduce to you
the man who won the hearts and the
votes of America because he cared about
America. He cares about the people. He
cares about the environment. He cares
about the world.
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the
President of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, every-
body.
Well, first of all, it is a great pleasure
to be over here because, as I told a group
outside, if I had my choice of any Cabinet
post, I would prefer to be Secretary of
the Interior. That is why I chose my best
friend to be in this job. But between the
Cabinet and the White House, I would
choose the White House.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I don't think anything has been more
reassuring to me nor more gratifying than
my trips to meet with the distinguished
public servants of our major depart-
ments. And concentrated within your
own Department here is a focusing of in-
herent, very difficult questions that must
be addressed now and in the future: how
to preserve and still use the precious re-
sources with which our Nation has been
blessed; how to deal with humanitarian
concerns of American Indians and oth-
ers; how to preserve the beauty of nature
and enjoyment of human beings in a time
of recreation; how to inventory what we
have now and what we might have in the
future; how to deal with the growing
questions of energy, of conservation; and
how to make sure that we don't destroy
what is so precious to us all because of the
pressure of transient needs.
Every one of those items that I men-
tioned, and there could be many more,
require a great deal of common sense,
technical knowledge, experience, and
ability and sensitivity, and that is why to
me it is so exciting to observe the present
and future status of that decisionmaking
process within your own Department.
I have traveled perhaps as much as
anyone has ever done in my own cam-
paign for President the last 2 years. I have
seen the beauty of America, and I have
seen the gratifying achievements of our
country, and I have seen the challenges
and disappointments of our Nation as
well. And I want to be sure that you feel
an intense and personal partnership with
197
