Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am.
MRS. DEHART. That's a little outdated.
It's not been tested, and the doctors who
signed the papers at that time had not
tested it. They went on somebody else's
word
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you, Mrs. De-
hart. I know the President is going to
have you called on that. It is a matter
that concerns a lot of people in the
U.S.
THE PRESIDENT. Walter, I might say
one of the things that concern the medi-
cal profession in permitting the use of a
drug that might not be harmful and may
not do any good either, is that sometimes
it causes people not to seek treatment be-
cause they are depending on a worthless
drug. I'm not trying to make a judgment
on this one, but I know that's a concern
to us.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. O. B. Parris of
Vinemont, Alabama, on the phone, Mr.
President. Mr. Parris?
OIL COMPANY DIVESTITURE
MR. PARRIS. Yes, Mr. President, I'm
Red Parris with Gulf Oil. I'm a jobber
for Gulf Oil Company here in Cullman
[County], Alabama; also with Goodly
Construction Company.
I was wondering how you feel on the
vertical divestiture of the oil companies-
vertical and horizontal divestiture of the
oil companies.
THE PRESIDENT. The position that I
took during the campaign, Mr. Parris, is
the same one that I have now, I think, as
a general proposition, vertical integration
of major industries is not contrary to the
best interests of the American people,
provided you have a continued and ade-
quate competition.
I am concerned on two ends of the
vertical integration process. One is that
there be an insured competition for leas-
ing rights. I think it would be a mistake
for us to require a different company to
drill for oil, to extract the oil from the
ground, to pump the oil to a refinery, to
do the refining, and then to distribute it,
and then to wholesale it, and then to re-
tail it.
If different companies had to do all
those processes, I think that the price of
the final product, like gasoline, would be
greatly increased because of inefficiency.
MR. PARRIS. I do, too.
THE PRESIDENT. I think at the whole-
sale and retail level, though, there have
been occasions that I've witnessed when
there has been an inadequate amount of
competition. And sometimes small and
independent service station operators
have been forced to shift toward the ma-
jors, and this particularly did occur in the
initial stages of the 1973 embargo period.
I have a concern also about horizontal
investments. When the major oil com-
panies acquire over a period of time a
controlling interest in, say, coal mining
operations, it means quite often that
there's not a heavy enough emphasis
placed on increasing coal production.
So, at the wholesale and retail level, I
have some concern.
And in the horizontal investments by
oil companies, like in coal or uranium, I
have some concern unless I am convinced
that there is adequate competition there.
I would be in favor of considering dives-
titure, but my first preference would be
to insure competition through the anti-
trust laws and disclosure of profits at the
individual levels of the vertical integra-
tion, rather than divestiture itself.
MR. PARRIS. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr.
Parris.
MR. CRONKITE. The next caller is Mr.
Dale Butkovitz of Peru, Illinois. Mr.
Butkovitz?
308
