Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
has an agency that can handle it for him.
Many of these are poor people.
THE PRESIDENT. You're right. I favor,
in certain instances, the right, the in-
creased right of consumers to file class ac-
tion suits, law suits, where a thousand
customers who have been cheated can get
together and get some relief from unfair
trade practices. And also, on occasion, the
consumers ought to have an increased
right to have legal standing in court.
I think that within the Government it-
self, quite often the consumers have not
been treated fairly. That's why I believe
it is better to have a separate agency for
consumer protection itself.
REVEREND BAKER. Thank you, sir. You
have the prayers of the American public
for a successful term of office.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank
Baker.
you,
Mr.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, when do
you expect to send legislation or a pro-
posal for legislation to establish a con-
sumer agency up to the Hill?
THE PRESIDENT. The legislation, Wal-
ter, as you know, made a lot of progress
last year. My own inclination is to sup-
port the legislation that was already con-
sidered by Congress, and I believe that
with the support of the White House,
instead of the opposition that was the case
under the previous administration, that
it will be passed.
MR. CRONKITE. Will you support the
present legislation as it is now up at the
Hill then?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I wouldn't want
to say I would support it in any language
that is put in it, but if I can approve the
basic language, I am strongly in favor of
the agency, yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon,
John.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
MR. MELFI. I know we have a foreign
aid policy to help countries in need, but
why do we spend so much on this when
we have so much poverty, unemployment,
et cetera, in our own country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, John, I am go-
ing to take a position that's not very
popular, politically speaking. We only
spend about 3/10 of one percent of our
gross national product on foreign aid,
which is about half the proportion that is
allotted to this purpose by other countries
like France, Germany, and so forth.
I don't particularly want to increase
this greatly, but I would like for it to be
predictable. Also, in the past, we've not
had foreign aid used in an effective way.
As one of my friends has said quite often,
I'm not in favor of taxing the poor peo-
ple in our rich country and sending the
money to the rich people in poor coun-
tries, and quite often that has been done
in the past.
We have also a need, in my opinion, to
support the lending institutions, the In-
ternational Monetary Fund, the World
Bank-they give aid to other countries
in the form of loans, sometimes low-inter-
est loans. But instead of just handing
gifts out that are kind of bad, as a basic
philosophy, and also that are abused, I
would favor contributing to the capital
stock of these international or regional
lending agencies. I believe we will get a
lot better return on our money, and I
might say that my own experience in this
first 6 weeks has been that the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund, for instance, and
the World Bank are quite strict on a na-
MR. CRONKITE. The next caller is John tion that makes a loan.
Melfi of Johnson City, New York.
They make them work hard toward
MR. MELFI. Good afternoon, Mr. Pres- balancing their budget. Quite often they
require them to clean up corruption.
ident.
313
