Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 21
of children have been turned out of their
schools because of natural gas shortages.
As a former Governor, I know firsthand
the extent of the problem facing State
governments which are presently attempt-
ing to deal with the crisis. I am even
more concerned about the growing cost
in human suffering that will increase if
severe winter weather continues.
In order to deal with this situation in a
prompt and coordinated fashion, Dr.
Schlesinger, as my personal representa-
tive, Senator Adlai Stevenson and Repre-
sentative John Dingell, the chairmen of
the respective Senate and House sub-
committees having jurisdiction over natu-
ral gas, Chairman Richard Dunham and
the members of the Federal Power Com-
mission, and consumer representative Lee
White have today met with representa-
tives of the Nation's interstate pipelines
to obtain a current measure of the short-
age and to identify the options available
to deal with the situation on an emer-
gency basis.
The industry indicated willingness to
work cooperatively with the Government
in dealing with the crisis. I can pledge that
the Government will use the full measure
of its authority to respond forthrightly to
minimize the adverse effects of this situ-
ation. I have instructed Dr. Schlesinger
to work with congressional leaders to
develop emergency legislation that will
augment our legal means to distribute
equitably our available supplies to pro-
tect property and safeguard the health
and safety of our people.
Some affirmative action has already
been undertaken to help alleviate the
situation. The Federal Power Commission
has extended emergency orders to allow
more intrastate natural gas to enter the
interstate system. The Canadian Govern-
ment has agreed to make additional natu-
ral gas available on an emergency basis.
The Federal Energy Administration has
been directed to review existing authori-
ties to expedite the use of propane to
supplement natural gas supplies and to
assure that fuel oil supplies will be avail-
able to prevent localized spot shortages.
I recognize the critical need for the
legislative and the executive branches to
work together to put all the instrumen-
talities of government to work to help
alleviate this crisis. Today, we are begin-
ning this effort. But the most important
short-term priority will be to save energy.
We can secure additional supplies and
put an energy allocation program in
place. But without public conservation,
there may not be enough energy to allo-
cate. I am calling on all Americans,
whether their homes are heated by natu-
ral gas, heating oil, or some other fuel,
to turn their thermostats down to 65 de-
grees in the daytime and lower at night.
By this action, great savings are possible.
I am immediately directing that this dis-
cipline be observed in all Government
installations.
I have great confidence in our ability
to respond effectively to deal with this
crisis and reduce consumption to man-
ageable levels over the remainder of the
winter. If we work together we will
accomplish much, and our reward will
be measured in the jobs we save and the
human suffering we alleviate.
Today's crisis is a painful reminder
that our energy problems are real and
cannot be ignored. This Nation needs a
coherent energy policy and such a pro-
gram of energy action will be formulated
promptly.
Department of State
Nomination of 10 Persons. January 21, 1977
The President today announced his
selection, on the advice of Secretary of
7
