Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 24
projects that would be reassessed, with
only two exceptions—one exception in
Arkansas, one exception in Georgia-
which I personally asked that they be re-
assessed when the corps did not agree.
But these projects need to be looked at
very closely. I personally don't believe
that any of the projects ought to be built,
but I will keep an open mind until after
the complete review process is concluded
and will then make my own decision as
far as the President's position is con-
cerned. But I can assure you that the
Corps of Engineers and Interior Depart-
ment have been intimately involved in the
preparation of the list and the reassess-
ment of the list. It's a preliminary screen-
ing. Public hearings will conclude for me
what my own position would be.
Ed Bradley [CBS News].
VIETNAM
Q. Mr. President, on the subject of
Vietnam, if you feel the United States is
not obligated to uphold the terms of the
Paris Peace Accords because of the North
Vietnamese offensive that overthrew the
South Vietnamese Government, do you
feel, on the other hand, any moral obliga-
tion to help rebuild that country?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say what my
position would be now on future eco-
nomic relationships with Vietnam. I think
that could only be concluded after we
continue with negotiations to see what
their attitude might be toward us.
My own natural inclination is to have
normal diplomatic relationships with all
countries in the world. Sometimes there
are obstacles. I believe there are now 14
nations with whom we do not have diplo-
matic relationships. I don't know what
the motivations of the Vietnamese might
be. I think part of the motivation might
be to be treated along with other nations
in economic assistance from our country,
and in trade, and development of their
fairly substantial natural resources, in-
cluding oil.
Other considerations might be political
in nature. They might very well want to
balance their friendship with us with their
friendship with the Soviet Union and not
be completely dependent upon the Soviet
Union. That is just a guess on my part.
But I am willing to negotiate in good
faith. But as far as describing what our
economic relationship might be with
Vietnam in the future after the relation-
ships are established, I just couldn't do
that now.
Q. Mr. President, with that under-
standing and your hesitancy to disclose
a position before negotiations are
started.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have a
position.
Q. beyond that, do you still feel
that if that information on those Ameri-
can servicemen who are missing in action
is forthcoming from the Vietnamese, that
then this country has a moral obligation
to help rebuild that country, if that infor-
mation is forthcoming?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the destruction
was mutual. You know, we went to Viet-
nam without any desire to capture ter-
ritory or to impose American will on other
people. We went there to defend the free-
dom of the South Vietnamese. And I don't
feel that we ought to apologize or to cas-
tigate ourselves or to assume the status of
culpability.
Now, I am willing to face the future
without reference to the past. And that is
what the Vietnamese leaders have pro-
posed. And if, in normalization of rela-
tionships, there evolves trade, normal aid
processes, then I would respond well. But
I don't feel that we owe a debt, nor that
we should be forced to pay reparations at
all.
501
