Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
Youth Employment Programs
Message to the Congress Outlining Programs
as Part of the Economic Recovery
Package. March 9, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As part of the economic recovery pack-
age I sent to Congress on January 31, I
requested $1.5 billion, to be spent over an
18-month period, for new youth unem-
ployment programs.
This reflected my concern about con-
tinued high unemployment rates among
our young people. Unemployment for
those between the ages of 16 and 19 is
now 18.5 percent, and a total of 3.4 mil-
lion people aged 16 to 24 are out of work.
Today I wish to outline the programs
we intend to begin as soon as these funds
are made available. They include pro-
posals developed in the Congress. Under
the wide discretion granted by Title III
of CETA, we are able to begin these pro-
grams without additional legislation. But
because I believe that full Congressional
participation is essential for projects of
this magnitude, I will soon present to the
Congress my request for specific authoriz-
ing legislation.
Although a wide variety of agencies
have programs for unemployed youth,
most are carried out by the Department
of Labor. During Fiscal Year 1976, some
two million young people took part in
programs under the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act. These in-
cluded:
-160,000 in public service jobs
-500,000 in work experience pro-
grams
-200,000 in on-the-job and classroom
training programs
-40,000 in the Job Corps
-1,135,000 in the Summer Neighbor-
hood Youth Corps programs.
We are recommending two changes in
these ongoing efforts:
First, an increase of $342 million for
the Job Corps, which will double the pro-
gram, and
Second, a one-year extension of the
Comprehensive Employment and Train-
ing Act, which was made law in 1973 and
expires this year. CETA established a new
system under which states and local com-
munities are responsible for planning and
operating their own employment and
training programs. I have asked the Con-
gress for this one-year extension to give us
time to review the program and consider
what steps would make it most responsive
to the problems of the unemployed.
Beyond these changes, we must take a
broad look at Federally-funded employ-
ment and training programs for our
young people. My Administration is now
proposing three new initiatives, developed
in consultation with Congressional lead-
ers, which we can begin under current
legislative authority but for which we will
seek a specific legislative mandate.
First A National Youth Conservation
Corps, similar to the Civilian Conserva-
tion Corps of the 1930's. This would be
administered by the Department of Labor
through agreements with the Agriculture
and Interior Departments and on State
park and forestry lands. The Youth Con-
servation Centers would employ young
Americans aged 16 to 24 in conservation
programs and in the maintenance and
improvement of public parks, forests and
recreation areas. We plan to spend $350
million over the next 18 months for 35,-
000 jobs under this plan.
Second-Youth Community Conser-
vation and Improvement Projects, devel-
oped by State and local government
would employ those aged 16 to 19 in well-
planned, well-supervised projects of obvi-
ous local benefit. Funds would be avail-
able for needed supplies and equipment.
349
