Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar 24
Mr. Brezhnev said before the Labor
Congress that normal relations would
be impossible-"unthinkable" was his
word-if your human rights campaign
continued.
You have referred to private communi-
cations with Mr. Brezhnev, and I would
like to know in the follow-up question,
whether he has given you any assurances
in those private communications that he is
indeed willing to go forward on SALT II?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is not just a
matter of private conversations. We are
not trying to overthrow the Soviet Gov-
ernment nor to intrude ourselves into their
affairs in a military way.
I think it has been a well-recognized
international political principle that in-
terference in a government is not a verbal
thing. There is an ideological struggle that
has been in progress for decades between
the Communist nations on the one hand
and the democratic nations on the other.
Mr. Brezhnev and his predecessors have
never refrained from expressing their view
when they disagreed with some aspect of
social or political life in the free world.
And I think we have a right to speak out
openly when we have a concern about
human rights wherever those abuses occur.
I think that Mr. Brezhnev has not said
that he is concerned about my campaign
on human rights. What he said is that he
objects to any intrusion into the internal
affairs of the Soviet Union.
Now, I have tried to be reticent about
it. I have tried to let my own position be
clear in the speech at the United Nations
and in my other actions. I have tried to
make sure that the world knows that we
are not singling out the Soviet Union for
abuse or criticism.
We are trying to move in our own coun-
try to open travel opportunities and to cor-
rect civil rights abuses and other abuses
in our country. So, I don't think this is a
matter that is connected with the search
for peace through the SALT negotiations,
for instance.
The very fact that Mr. Brezhnev and his
associates have welcomed Secretary Vance
to the Soviet Union and have helped us
prepare a very comprehensive agenda is
adequate proof that he has not broken off
relationships in any way, and that he has
hopes that the talks will be productive.
My belief is that he is acting in good
faith. We are not going to negotiate in
such a way that we leave ourselves vulner-
able. But if the Soviet Union is willing to
meet us halfway in searching for peace
and disarmament, we will meet them half-
way.
I think that this is a good indication that
they are acting in good faith. If we are
disappointed, which is a possibility, then
we'll try to modify our stance.
Yes, Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling,
Jr., Christian Science Monitor].
ORGANIZED CRIME
Q. On a subject on which I don't be-
lieve you have been questioned before,
have you asked the Justice Department
to finally come up with a national strategy
for fighting organized crime?
THE PRESIDENT. I have discussed this
with Attorney General Bell, and he has
not yet evolved to present to me a com-
prehensive approach to the organized
crime question. But I'd have to give you
an answer to that after the press confer-
ence.ยน I don't know what the status of his
effort is, Mr. Sperling.
ยน Later in the day, the White House Press Of-
fice issued the following statement:
At his news conference, the President said he
assigned a high priority on fighting organized
crime and promised to elaborate on his position
after he had a chance to review the status of
this effort with Attorney General Bell.
The President is informed by the Attorney
General that Peter Flaherty, whose nomination
to be Deputy Attorney General advanced in the
503
