Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
divisive and the most difficult question
that we addressed.
Q. So, at the moment, you didn't reach
agreement in these 2 days. You're just
going to study it and try to reach agree-
ment later?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. We'll
study it. But we put a deadline on the
study for just 2 months in the future.
Q. Mr. President, when you say it was
the most divisive discussion, I wonder if
you could elaborate on that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it was a subject
that they've always agreed previously not
to discuss, because nations have their own
autonomy and sensitivities involved. They
don't want the supply nations like our-
selves and Canada and, in the future,
Australia to tell them how to handle their
waste products, particularly those coun-
tries that make nuclear weapons them-
selves.
And then, there's a question of differ-
ent kinds of countries. We have about 12
or 15 nations who are referred to as
threshold countries. Those are ones that
have not yet acknowledged that they have
explosive nuclear capability, but we think
they either do or will very shortly.
And how to deal with those countries,
what kind of action to take—if we supply
them with nuclear fuel as Canada did
India, what should we do if they create
an explosion? So, it's a very difficult
ques-
tion, and it's one that they have avoided,
apparently, in years gone by. But it will
be addressed this year.
Q. If I could follow up on how signifi-
cant that is as an agreement to a study.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's very sig-
nificant to get that group to support pub-
licly a study of this question, because it's
one of the most politically divisive mat-
ters in almost every country there. Japan,
for instance, Germany, our own coun-
try—we've had massive demonstrations
even against the construction of light
water reactors, which are safe as far as
their operations are concerned.
And I think that all of us see that
unless this is addressed, that the present
concern about nuclear power and the
proliferation of weapon capability is going
to get worse in the coming years instead
of better.
Q. Mr. President, did you suggest this
study, or does this represent a compro-
mise from something else that you may
have recommended?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we suggested this
study, and I think it is accurate to say
that after the long debate, all the other
leaders thought it was a good idea.
Q. Mr. President, do you feel satisfied
at the conclusion of the conference and
the communique? What's your feeling
about the 2-day wrap-up?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I feel quite satis-
fied. We got acquainted with one another
for the first time. I think that there was
no disappointment that I feel in the final
communique, or decisions. The major
question is whether or not to follow up.
Some of the more senior heads of state
than I am said that quite often they've
made very good
made very good decisions, but there's
been no mechanism by which they could
monitor progress.
And we have agreed to keep intact the
small group of very highly qualified tech-
nicians who put together the preparation
for this summit. Henry Owen will repre-
sent the United States. He will stay on
duty until we make a final report, per-
haps 8 months in the future, to monitor
our progress and to point out to me and
to other leaders if we are falling behind
in the schedule for the accomplishment
of our goals.
Q. Was a new summit mentioned, was
a date for a new summit mentioned?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we had that in
the original draft, but we decided to leave
that out because it's so uncertain. I don't
827
