Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
Federal Government not will quit dic- major obstacle in reorganizing the gov-
tating [laughter]-but will try to abbre-
viate the enormous volume of paperwork.
And I would also hope to close out a
long answer to a very good question
that in the reports required from people
around the country on basic data, that we
might have several of our departments
get together and share the preparation of
requisite forms, so that a businessman
who does have to submit information
about his own affairs could fill out one
form and let HUD and HEW and EDA
and Transportation and others share the
information that comes in on that form.
But I'm determined to accomplish this
before I go out of office. If I do, my
administration will have been successful,
even if I don't do anything else.
GOVERNMENT RESPONSIVENESS
Q. Mr. President, your intention to get
a handle on the Federal Government and
make it more responsive to the average
citizen-as a part of that process of get-
ting a handle on it, there are literally
thousands of Government workers who
are not in the supergrade status, so to
speak, or the higher levels of Government,
who feel that they want to make this type
of responsive contribution for the citi-
zenry, and yet we are the proverbial
word-weighed down so heavily by the
mass of bureaucracy. As part of your in-
tention to get a handle on Government,
will there be new types of
of programs
will allow this, what I like to refer to or
really don't like to refer to it as such-but
it is a wasteland of power and energy.
And we want to contribute, but how do
we get out of that boxed-in feeling?
that
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer very
quickly. When I became Governor of
Georgia, I ran on a platform, similar to
my Presidential platform, of reorganizing
the Georgia government. I thought that
the civil service workers would be my
ernment.
When I got in office, we turned to the
civil servants, who were by far the most
knowledgeable people, for help. And they
were involved in the initial stages of the
preparation of proposals for improve-
ments. They became my strongest sup-
porters, because every one of you in this
room-even much more than Mike Blu-
menthal and Jimmy Carter-are devoting
your whole life to your professions in serv-
ing the American people in Government.
You've just got one life to live on Earth,
and I know you want to do a good job.
And to be constrained from giving good
service by unnecessary paperwork, regula-
tions, complexity of assignment, a lack of
specificity about who has responsibility
for a job, the multiple division of respon-
sibility for the same function among many
agencies those things sap away the abil-
ity that you have to do a good job.
So, reorganization is a kind of a—not
a good word, perhaps; I wish there was a
better word—but I think it ought to orig-
inate with you.
And any time any of my Cabinet offi-
cers bypass the civil servants, at whatever
grade in that process, they will be violat-
ing my own instructions and making a
very serious mistake. It will also be a
sacrificial or suicidal mistake, because un-
less we have your support and your par-
ticipation and your advice, we're not
going to succeed in making a change,
even if we want to. But I would like for
it to come from you, up through your
superiors, ultimately to me.
The other thing we are going to do is
this: The 1979 fiscal year budget will be
prepared using zero-based budgeting.
This is a procedure that I used in Georgia
for 4 years. It's simple and it works. It
puts every function—whether it's been
here 50 years, 5 years, or the first time
next year-on the same basis. You don't
131
