Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
them. And she has called me on the
phone and I've called back, and I've done
the best I could along with many of you
to get the Equal Rights Amendment
passed.
I don't think anybody here could know
how much time my wife has put in on it.
And in my public statements more re-
cently, I think on Saturday when I had
the call-in show, I have never equivo-
cated about it. We have not yet been
successful.
In the last 2 or 3 days, I have talked
to Reubin Askew in Florida and I have
talked to the speaker down there, Don
Tucker. They both assured me that the
Equal Rights Amendment will pass in
Florida. And I've had my hopes raised
and then have been disappointed on
many occasions, but I trust Don Tucker
to know the House in Florida. I trust
Reubin Askew to know the Senate and
House. I believe that is a fairly good pros-
pect for success.
We have appointed strong, vigorous,
sometimes controversial women spokes-
men to positions of crucial importance.
They have not been token appointments.
And my own effort to ensure adequate
women to represent you and others in
this country will be continuing. It is not
going to slack off.
One of the constant criticisms of our
own administration has been that we
have made appointments too slowly. We
have been in office now more than 6
weeks. But I think that the slowness has
been to your advantage.
There are a couple of things that I
would like to say that you will not like. It
is not fair to judge the appointments just
on the basis of sex and to say that when
we appoint someone that is sensitive and
who cares about women and your rights
that they are unqualified or unacceptable
just because they happen to be men.
I don't believe I could have chosen a
woman to be Vice President who cares
more about day care centers, care for
those who are deprived, and women's
rights, than Fritz Mondale. And this is
something that ought to be recognized.
In some of our major Departments we
have 50 percent women at the top levels;
in some we have much less than that. I
understand that we have got a long way
to go. And when we double or triple
what has been done with the previous
Presidents, even Lyndon Johnson, even
John Kennedy, we are not bragging about
it. But I think it would be good for you
to recognize it.
I have a hard time with my own staff
members and I have a hard time with
some of my male and female Cabinet offi-
cers who come to me and say, no matter
what we do we will never get anything
but criticism from the strong and forceful
and militant women spokesmen.
I think every now and then it would
help if you would call Joe Califano and
call Bob Bergland and say, "We appreci-
ate that appointment." It might be only
the one out of ten or one out of five. But
I have had a hard time trying to con-
vince them, you know, to come along with
me and to come along with Fritz Mon-
dale in breaking new ground.
I am not saying that we have done
enough. But I am just giving you very
frank advice. I think it would really pay
you rich dividends, as spokesman for
women in this country, to let Bergland
and them know that you appreciate it
when they do make a very highly contro-
versial appointment like Carol Foreman,
for instance. She is a superb leader and
in the long run we are all going to be
benefited from it.
But Bergland, he really has a hard time
to face farmers all over this Nation who
are concerned about marketing their
peaches and marketing their other crops
356
