Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
answer to a question that relates to the
Treasury Department or to the Commerce
Department or the Labor Department or
to the State Department. You can go
directly to those Cabinet members. They
speak for me. They speak with authority.
They speak with sound judgment. And
they need your help just like I do.
Another point that I want to make is
this: The Congress in the past has been
very wise, I think, in addressing some of
the needs of the labor community, the
working people of our Nation. That's
where I came from; I'm one of them,
also. I think, for instance, in the passage
of, say, the OSHA legislation, the con-
cept and the purpose is good. It's sound.
But I want to make sure that the admin-
istration of that program is no longer so
aggravating that it alienates the employ-
ers and the employees, both of whom can
be well served with a well-administered
program.
I had a long meeting this morning
about the writing of unnecessary regula-
tions. If I accomplish one thing in my
administration, it's going to be to cut
down the volume, the complexity of
regu-
lations, guidelines, directives, and re-
quired reports that afflict the business
community of this country. I mean it.
And I don't intend to fail in that effort.
I think you can count on it.
It's unbelievable-you believe it-
[laughter]-what comes out of the Fed-
eral Government every year. Just in the
final regulations alone, after they are
edited down, it takes a 15-foot bookshelf
with very fine, legal-type printing to house
all the final regulations. And I've told all
my Cabinet officers that I want the peo-
ple that prepare those regulations and do
the final editing to put their name on
them, and I want the Secretaries of HEW
and Labor and so forth to read every regu-
lation in the future beore they are issued.
I told them it might take all their week-
end, that's all right. But I believe after
three or four weekends, when they've
spent all the time reading unnecessary
regulations, they will start trying to go
down to the department and say, “Now,
is this really necessary? Can it not be writ-
ten clearer or briefer?" And you can help
with that.
I'm also going to do the best I can so
that when you fill out reports that the
same data need not be given separately to
the Commerce Department, the Labor
Department, HEW, and so forth.
I think one comprehensive report, if
prepared for you to fill out with multiple
departments, might be divided once it
gets to Washington so that you might
minimize greatly the amount of time that
you spend filling out sometimes necessary
data on which I have to base ultimate
decisions and on which the Congress has
to base its decisions. Some of those reports
are necessary to assure compliance with
the law and for us to derive data bases on
which to make decisions. But the unnec-
essary reports-we're going to cut them
down.
We will announce the director of the
OSHA program in about a week. And at
that time, we are scheduling regional
hearings, or I might say forums-they are
not official hearings-where you might
come and register your complaints and
your suggestions for better administration
of the program. We will bring in the
OSHA representatives in your area. We
will bring in representatives of labor. And
I hope that you will start preparing your-
selves to present your own ideas—I hope
in a constructive but critical way-of
when those open forums are conducted.
We want to make the program work.
And I want you to have an input into the
changes that are necessary.
122
