Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
produce 200 different kinds of crops in
this valley alone.
I don't know how to answer questions
very well about it, but if you have any
questions for a few minutes, I'm sure the
farmers behind me or the conservation
specialists would be glad to answer your
questions.
QUESTIONS
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. During your campaign when you
were running for President, you criticized
President Ford's veto of so many projects
without consulting Congress. You have
vetoed about 17 water projects without
really consulting Congress. Do you feel
that you've lost support there that you
might need for your energy programs, the
arms limitation talks, and do you feel that
the people deserve a second thinking on
those water projects?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've had a
second thinking on the projects. As a
matter of fact, we have about 300 water
projects in the country under construction
or under plans having been approved.
After a very careful reassessment of the 35
most doubtful projects, I recommended
that 18 of them not be built. That's 18
out of 300. It's very important not to
waste money on unnecesary projects,
which means that you can't spend money
on projects that are necessary now and in
the future.
I've not vetoed any bills of Congress
yet. And I'm trying to work with the Con-
gress in deleting those projects as they
approve the appropriations for that sub-
ject this year.
I do reserve the right, though, to veto
items that the Congress passes if I believe
very deeply that they are mistaken.
There's got to be some rationale brought
into the approval of projects. In the past,
quite often those kinds of undertakings
were created simply because of the influ-
ence of a Congressperson in getting some
special deal for one district when the over-
all national priorities were not that much
a consideration.
But I think we've brought some realism
into this proposal. As a matter of fact, in
California we did not disapprove any proj-
ects. The only holdup is on the Auburn
Dam, and the main reason—the only rea-
son for the holding up there is to deter-
mine if it is safe. It's on an earthquake
fault zone area, and if that dam should be
built and should fail, as one did recently in
Idaho, it would destroy, for instance, the
city of Sacramento. So, we don't want to
take any chances there. But that's the only
one in California that has been held up,
because we think they are needed.
WESTERN DROUGHT
Q. Mr. President, what do you do next
year if it gets worse?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's nothing
that we can do if it gets worse. One reason
I wanted to come to this farm is because
they've shifted to a very efficient means of
using what scarce water there is. You
probably noticed a little hose down along-
side the trees with one drip nozzle on it.
That nozzle puts out about one gallon of
water per hour-is that right?—and this
uses for a given irrigation need, only about
25 percent of the water that would be re-
quired if other means of irrigation were
pursued.
So, I think there would be a shifting
toward more efficient methods of irriga-
tion, a drastic cutback in the number of
acres that are harvested. And obviously,
this has been one of the means by which
the farmers have seen the interrelationship
between different areas of this country and
how to conserve water that formerly has
been spent and wasted quite prolifically.
So, I think that the main thing that we
could do is just to provide financial aid
919
