Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 11
I went on to say, I see no reason why
we should refrain from using it, which
only goes to show we thought alike even
before we met. It isn't an exclusive rela-
tionship. It shuts no one out. But what it
does is to describe with accuracy the ease,
the intimacy, the common feeling which
Americans and Britons share with each
other when they meet and talk, a common
feeling that comes from similar political
systems rooted in the same common law.
This feeling reached its highest manifes-
tation, Mr. President, as there are some
here who know-former Ambassadors to
our country of very great distinction-
reached its highest manifestation in that
great partnership during the dark days of
war. And successive generations in my
country will not be allowed to forget the
generous aid and assistance, the massive
support and power which you brought to
us in those days which enabled us to come
together in a way that has forged a per-
manent partnership.
your
And when, as you put on with your new
world responsibilites, you put on new
friends, you make new friends, and so you
should, and you widened the area of
friendship, I just say in the words of
Shakespeare to you once again, and I say
it from us to each other: "To thy friends
thou hast and their adoption tried grap-
pled them to thy heart with hoops of
steel." That is the relationship, sir, be-
tween the United States and Britain.
Now, politicians come and go; even
in the world within the limits of our
strength and our influence.
We have gone through a period of ad-
justments since the war. The empire has
dropped away; our old industrial system
has got to be refurbished. Yes, we are go-
ing to come through that. And I regard
this as a passing period in which is the
responsibility of my generation to see that
we do come through so that we can take
our place side by side with you in the
influence that we bring together jointly
to bear in the world. This I regard as one
of our responsibilities and is one that we
shall seek to discharge.
So, Mr. President, I thank you, I thank
our guests here and our friends, some of
whom are old friends, for the great
warmth of your reception. You can be
assured that any help that we can give to
your great country during the years that
lie ahead shall be given. Any support that
you need will be there to your hand.
We shall work with you, work in your
interests because of the deep affection we
have for the American people; work in
our interest because we know that a strong
and fearless America, self-possessed, self-
confident, with a great faith that you
have, is the surest guide and watchword
for freedom in this world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:24 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
statesmen, sir, they tell me fade away American Mushroom Industry
sometimes. [Laughter] But our friendship
won't do that. It is rock hard. And you,
your country, has a special place in the
hearts of our people.
We have got our problems, you are
right-domestic problems-but we don't
intend to allow them to obscure our vision
of the world. We intend to play our part
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 10, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
determination that import relief for the
361
