May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the Commission determined that in-
creased imports of sugar are a substantial
cause of the threat of serious injury to the
domestic sugar industry. The USITC rec-
ommended the imposition of an annual
quota of 4.275 million short tons, raw
value, for a five-year period beginning
with calendar year 1977, to be allocated
among supplying countries in an equita-
ble manner.
American Sugar Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting
a Report. May 4, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with Section 203(b)
(2) of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is
a report to the Congress setting forth my
determination that import relief for the
I have determined today that import U.S. sugar industry is not in the national
relief is not in the national economic in-
terest. However, I believe that a strong
and viable domestic sugar industry is vital
to the economic well-being of the Ameri-
can people, and that this can best be
achieved by the negotiation and imple-
mentation of an International Sugar
Agreement. As you know, I have in-
structed our negotiators to enter into ne-
gotiations regarding such an agreement
and discussions are now underway in
Geneva.
In the interim, pending completion of
these negotiations, I have decided that
the implementation of domestic meas-
ures are necessary to help U.S. producers
and processors through the present pe-
riod of low prices. Accordingly, I hereby
request that you institute, pursuant to
Section 301 of the Agricultural Adjust-
ment Act of 1949, a program for sugar
producers, effective with the 1977 crop,
offering supplemental payments of
two cents a pound, whenever the market
price falls beneath 13.5 cents per pound,
for the interim period, until an Interna-
tional Sugar Agreement is successfully ne-
gotiated and implemented.
Sincerely,
up
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of
Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250]
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
May 5.
economic interest, together with the rea-
sons for that determination.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
SUGAR
In accordance with Section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
ting this report to the Congress setting
forth the actions I will take with respect to
sugar imports covered by the affirmative
finding on March 17, 1977, of the United
States International Trade Commission
(USITC) under Section 202(d)(1) of
the Trade Act of 1974.
I have determined that import relief
for the sugar industry is not in the na-
tional economic interest. Import relief,
achieved either through quotas or tariff
increases, would have an inflationary im-
pact on the economy, raising prices to
consumers without the promise of offset-
ting price stabilization benefits. It would
be of questionable benefit to the domestic
sugar industry, because it would encour-
age increased market penetration by sub-
stitute sweetners, particularly high-fruc-
tose corn syrup, which can be produced at
a lower cost than most U.S. sugar.
In addition, the U.S. has entered into
negotiations for an International Sugar
800
