Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. The question was
raised about the shutdown of the West-
inghouse Air Brake Company, and it
would be typical, even of this one here, if
we don't have an alleviation of the short-
ages. Now there is no way that the Presi-
dent of the United States or the Federal
Power Commission or a Governor can di-
rect the closing down of particular plants
that are not crucial and have very low
employment and all, and where produc-
tion can be delayed in allotting scarce en-
ergy materials on a priority basis.
If you remember back in 1973—I was
the Governor of Georgia then, and I and
the other 49 Governors were given the au-
thority to allot 3 percent of the total diesel
oil, kerosene, and gasoline to make sure
that we could serve people who were par-
ticularly in need from a less high priority
source.
We need that same authority to allot all
kinds of fuel. We have plants that use
natural gas as a raw material, whose prod-
ucts are primarily used in the summer-
time. It might very well be that we could
close down those plants on a 2-week basis
or a month basis, even, and allot that fuel
to companies that have to have it to stay
open on a continuing production basis.
But that authority does not exist now,
and I wouldn't want to disrupt the nor-
mal free enterprise system of allotting fuel
and have the Government take over the
whole responsibility. But to allot maybe 3
percent or 5 percent of the fuel in the
country would probably be enough to
keep the air brake company from closing
down or the generation company from
closing down if we just had that much
flexibility.
That is one of the things that we will be
considering on the emergency legislation
as an amendment. Now, I don't want to
put on very many amendments on that
legislation, because the more amendments
you put on, the more delay there is in hav-
ing the bill passed. So, whatever amend-
ments are proposed will be decided on
today, they will be introduced in com-
mittee tomorrow, and then we will go with
the bill as it is. We will come back with
comprehensive legislation proposals, as I
said, hopefully with a deadline date of
April 20. I might say one other thing be-
fore I take a question from the news
media, and that is this: I had a Cabinet
meeting yesterday and brought in all the
leaders of the Federal Government execu-
tive agencies.
There are some problems that we face
in the future, brought about by this ex-
treme cold, that the average citizen, in-
cluding myself, would not think about un-
der normal circumstances.
I am going to direct, for instance, the
Corps of Engineers and the Interior De-
partment both to assess for me the pros-
pects of additional flooding that we can
anticipate when the ice breaks up and the
snow starts to melt.
We already have many rivers in this
country that have floods under a normal
spring thaw condition. But with massive
blocks of ice, some of them 24 inches
thick, which we haven't had before, block-
ing the normal exit of water over the rivers
and, also, combined with the excessive
snowfall that gives us more runoff when
the snow starts to melt, we might be faced
with extraordinary flooding conditions this
year. And I want to be sure that we are
prepared for it. We can't prevent all the
floods, but at least the Corps of Engineers
and other Federal agencies can give me a
report on where we might expect those
floods, let the mayors and the county offi-
cials, the Governors, know about it so we
might have to prepare for evacuation un-
der those conditions.
But there are literally dozens of ques-
tions like that that face me now, and we
are trying to do it in a very careful, very
methodical, very orderly fashion, so that
42
