June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
be very gratifying to us all. And I want
to make sure that at the local, State, and
Federal levels of government, we have the
same interrelationship that's productive
and which demonstrates that our system
of federalism can work.
In closing, let me add one other com-
ment. There are going to be a great num-
ber of controversies, because many of the
issues that I've described to you in the last
couple of minutes have been lying dor-
mant for years, decades, sometimes even
generations, and have not been addressed
adequately.
We have needed an energy policy for a
long time. We've needed welfare reform
for a long time. We've needed to have the
social security system revised and made
sound for a long time. We've needed to
address the undocumented workers ques-
tion for many years. And of course, in the
field of education, housing, transporta-
tion, the needs of our country are very
great. We can't answer these questions or
solve these problems alone. And I think
it's accurate to say that I need you much
worse than you need me.
I'm eager to learn. I've enjoyed being
President so far, and the reason that I feel
confidence in my own self as the leader of
our country is because I know that I can
depend upon you.
So, work closely with us; don't ever be
reticent about either requests or advice or
criticisms. And as you have demonstrated
so effectively in your own cities and towns,
I'll try to demonstrate as President that
you and I share the responsibility for
administering the affairs of people in the
greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much. I'm very proud
of you and hope that later on I can be
with you at one of your future confer-
ences. Thank you very much, Ken Gibson,
and all of those assembled.
MAYOR GIBSON. Thank you very much,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I enjoyed it, Ken.
How's it going?
MAYOR GIBSON. Very good.
THE PRESIDENT. Give my personal
compliments to all those that have been
so close to me and helped me. And I look
forward to seeing you often. Goodby, sir.
MAYOR GIBSON. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:05 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to the con-
ference, which was meeting in Tucson, Ariz. In
his concluding remarks, he spoke with Kenneth
Gibson, mayor of Newark, N.J., and president
of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JUNE 13, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. I have
a brief report to make, and then I will
answer questions.
SELECTION OF FBI DIRECTOR
Four months ago, a group of distin-
guished Americans began to screen about
230 persons for selection for the director-
ship of the FBI. They have interviewed a
large number of people, about 45 or 50,
and they have now made a recommenda-
tion to me and to the Attorney General of
five persons whom we will now interview
and consider. We may or may not choose
one of these five, but the likelihood is that
we shall.
One of the persons is Judge John Irwin
from Massachusetts. Another one is Wil-
liam Lucas, the sheriff of Wayne County
in Detroit. The third one is John Van de
Kamp, district attorney from California-
Los Angeles, I believe; Neil Welch, who is
the special agent in charge of the FBI
office in Philadelphia; and a Circuit
Court Judge, Seventh Federal Circuit,
Judge Harlington Wood. Those five men
1102
