Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
As agriculture commissioner in Texas,
White was responsible for ongoing reor-
ganization of the department, the first co-
operative effort with Mexican officials on
control of cotton insect pests, encourage-
ment of State legislation for the registra-
tion and analysis of potentially hazardous
agricultural chemicals, and the creation of
a consumer protection and services divi-
sion in the department. He also inaugu-
rated the Texas Agricultural Projects
(TAP) project, a worldwide marketing
program.
White was a delegate to the Democratic
National Conventions in 1960 and 1964.
He served on the executive committee of
the Democratic Charter Commission in
1974 and was chairman of the Texas del-
egation to the 1974 mini-convention.
In 1963 White headed the task force
that negotiated the "chicken war" with
the European Community under Presi-
dent Kennedy. He was President John-
son's representative to the Turkey and
Yugoslavia Trade Conference in 1964. In
1967 he traveled to Vietnam as a special
adviser with a program establishing a self-
sustaining food production program for
Southeast Asia.
White is married, and he and his wife
have five children. They reside in Austin,
Tex.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MARCH 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning. I have
two brief statements to make, and then
I'll be glad to answer questions.
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
I've sent to Congress this morning, a
youth employment package which will
consist of about $12 billion, part of the
economic stimulus package.
I've been particularly concerned in my
own campaign trips around the country
the last 2 years with the extraordinarily
high unemployment rate among young
people. More than half the total unem-
ployed are less than 24 years old. And
among those, say, from 16 to 19 years old,
we have over 18-percent unemployment,
and in some of the minority groups in ur-
ban areas more than 40 percent.
So, we're going to try a heavy concen-
tration of effort in several of the major
departments of Government to cut down
unemployment among our young people.
We have, for instance, a Youth Conserva-
tion Corps similar to what we had during
the Depression years known as a Civilian
Conservation Corps, the CCC. This will
be administered by the Departments of
Agriculture and Interior in the open
spaces of our country.
We'll have a Youth Community Con-
servation Corps in the urban areas and a
heavy emphasis on training for young
people leading to employment. Including
existing programs, this will be about a
million jobs on a permanent basis plus
another million jobs during the summer.
I hope that the Congress will act quickly
on this proposal. I might say that many of
the Members of Congress have been
equally concerned and have done a great
deal of work on this subject even before I
became President.
FOREIGN TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS
The other item that I'd like to mention
is one that's already been reported to some
degree. I have long been concerned about
our own Nation's stance in prohibiting
American citizens to travel to foreign
countries. We also are quite eagerly as-
sessing our own Nation's policies that
violate human rights as defined by the
Helsinki agreement.
340
