Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I recognized Mr. Ar-
nold Miller.
MR. MILLER. I have been sitting here
listening to the facts as they unfold. I am
delighted to say at least you have come
here, Mr. President, with an idea to get
these people together. And you can see the
problems as they come through from the
different people sitting around this table.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
MR. MILLER. You look back, several
years back in the production of coal-it's
always, I think, human nature-we are
going after the best seams of coal, the ones
that can be easily mined. We have got
down now where it is a little tougher to
get. One of the biggest hangups I see in
producing more coal, which we in the
Mine Workers are primarily concerned
about, is getting more coal out and getting
our problems taken care of and mining
the coal, as Mr. Costle said, in a safe man-
ner, which we believe can be done.
There are several areas that we are woe-
fully weak in. The industry outrun us. We
have got so many young miners today that
don't have a chance to be trained. In
fact, we have training programs that
were far less than what they should be.
And now, we are getting over that. But
one of the things I see here, as a result of
people such as us getting together here, is
we are getting these ideas in the mix, and
we're no longer, as Mr. Costle said, going
to be worrying about how competitive coal
is in one area in reference to another, be-
cause we're going to have to get all the
coal mined we can get mined. We're going
to have to deal with the sulfur, whether
it's by blending or however to reduce the
sulfur content and work towards finding
a level of sulfur in the coal that we can
all live with and produce the energy we
need at a cost that people can afford to
pay.
And I think this meeting here today is
really something that I've been hoping for
for 10 or 15 years. I think it's going to
work. I'm delighted you came down here.
We're going to go on from here. This is
the first I ever [inaudible].
MR. MCMANUS. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have promised Mr.
Kilpatrick, who's in charge of the research
program on surface mining.
MR. KILPATRICK. Mr. President, the
Secretary of EPA, if I read him right, is
suggesting that he supports the use of
scrubbers on all new powerplants as a way
of helping West Virginia coal. Let me just
suggest that if that in fact becomes a law,
as it almost did under the past administra-
tion, I would suggest to him that it is go-
ing to devastate the steam coal markets
for West Virginia, eastern Kentucky, and
western Virginia. It is going to do nothing
to prevent the utilities that own coal out
West or own barge lines or own their own
railroad trains, as some of them do, and
want to bring in western coal from doing
it. I think if you want to forestall the
movement of western coal into the East,
you've got to recognize two things: Num-
ber one, that western coal is not coming
into the East because it's cheaper. This in-
formation I have here alone documents
that. It's coming in because there are the
utilities which have interests in mining or
transporting coal in the areas which the
profits on, which are not regulated. And
if you want to stop western coal coming
into the East, you might well consider
forcing utilities to divest themselves of
their coal mining and their barge and
their train operations and get them back
to the business of selling electricity under
strict State regulation. Because if you re-
quire scrubbers on all new plants, you not
only are going to hurt the low-sulfur mar-
kets for eastern coal but you're also going
to kill the American consumers, because,
in fact, that would mean if Appalachian
Power builds a new powerplant in Mason
County as it plans to do, and agrees to use
418
