May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ments. We commit ourselves to do this while reducing the risks of nuclear
proliferation. We are launching an urgent study to determine how best
to fulfill these purposes.
-The world economy can only grow on a sustained and equitable
basis if developing countries share in that growth. We are agreed to do all
in our power to achieve a successful conclusion of the CIEC and we com-
mit ourselves to a continued constructive dialogue with developing coun-
tries. We aim to increase the flow of aid and other real resources to those
countries. We invite the COMECON countries to do the same. We sup-
port multilateral institutions such as the World Bank, whose general re-
sources should be increased sufficiently to permit its lending to rise in
real terms. We stress the importance of secure private investments to fos-
ter world economic progress.
To carry out these tasks we need the assistance and cooperation of
others. We will seek that cooperation in appropriate international institu-
tions, such as the United Nations, the World Bank, the IMF, the GATT
and OECD. Those among us whose countries are members of the Euro-
pean Economic Community intend to make their efforts within its
framework.
In our discussions we have reached substantial agreement. Our firm
purpose is now to put that agreement into action. We shall review prog-
ress on all the measures we have discussed here at Downing Street in
order to maintain the momentum of recovery.
The message of the Downing Street Summit is thus one of confidence:
-in the continuing strength of our societies and the proven demo-
cratic principles that give them vitality;
—that we are undertaking the measures needed to overcome prob-
lems and achieve a more prosperous future.
APPENDIX TO THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC SUMMIT MEETING DECLARATION
World Economic Prospects
Since 1975 the world economic situation has been improving gradually. Serious
problems, however, still persist in all of our countries. Our most urgent task is to
create jobs while continuing to reduce inflation. Inflation is not a remedy to un-
employment but one of its major causes. Progress in the fight against inflation has
been uneven. The needs for adjustment between surplus and deficit countries remain
large. The world has not yet fully adjusted to the depressive effects of the 1974
oil price rise.
We commit our Governments to targets for growth and stabilization which vary
from country to country but which, taken as a whole, should provide a basis for
sustained non-inflationary growth worldwide.
820
