Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 18
from the project, and only about 60 land-
owners would be benefitted.
-Some projects would have inundated
large amounts of productive farms and
forests without counting these losses as
project costs and providing questionable
flood control, recreation and other bene-
fits.
-One project would have destroyed
significant and heavily used natural rec-
reation areas to create unneeded lakes for
flatwater recreation already abundantly
provided.
-One project would have widened a
waterway at taxpayer expense for the
benefit of a very few private companies.
-Several projects would have
worsened the water shortages and salinity
concentrations in the Colorado River,
causing increased problems for down-
stream users, expensive remedial desalt-
ing costs, and jeopardizing our water
agreements and treaties with Mexico.
-Several projects had costs exceeding
benefits, even at their low authorized dis-
count rates and even if questionable bene-
fits were not examined.
In cooperation with Congress I want to
insure that our future water resource
policies meet the real needs of this nation.
I look forward to working with you in
that enterprise.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the letter was made avail-
able by the White House Press Office on
March 18. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Foreign Assistance Programs
Message to the Congress. March 17, 1977
To the Congres of the United States:
In the years sirce World War II, the
United States has encouraged economic
development throughout the world
through a variety of economic assistance
programs.
Most of our efforts have succeeded.
Some have failed. Now we have the op-
portunity, as with many of our domestic
programs, to learn from our experience,
and to improve our policies in the future.
Members of my Administration are
now testifying in support of our approach
to foreign assistance. I am sending you
this message to explain some of the prin-
ciples behind our program-especially, to
outline the lessons we have learned about
foreign assistance and the goals we now
hope to achieve.
The future of the United States will be
affected by the ability of developing
nations to overcome poverty, achieve
healthy growth and provide more secure
lives for their people. We wish to join
with other nations in combining our
efforts, knowledge, and resources to help
poorer countries overcome the problems
of hunger, disease, and illiteracy. We are
seeking important improvements in our
program, some of which reflect changes
in emphasis and approach:
-We will ensure that lending agencies
attach adequate self-help conditions to
their loans so that borrowing nations will
make effective use of the funds they re-
ceive.
-We will make certain that the Con-
gress is able to exercise its legitimate re-
sponsibility to monitor the effectiveness of
our aid programs.
-We will encourage other wealthy
nations to contribute a greater share to
the multilateral aid effort, and we will
reduce our own share where it has been
too high.
-In close cooperation with the Con-
gress we have made sure that our con-
cessional aid goes to those who need it
most; we will continue this approach.
455
