May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
AMBASSADOR OWEN. No. He did not
say that. He said that he had asked. He
said that in the defense budget which
went to the Congress this year—you re-
member the Ford administration submits
one budget and the new administration
submits supplements—he pointed out that
in the defense budget he had sent up
there was additional funds for conven-
tional forces. It was past tense; not future
tense.
WEAPONS PURCHASES
Q. What is your assessment of the con-
gressional attitudes toward the United
States buying more weapons in Europe?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. Of course, you
know there is the Nunn-Culver resolution
which is very forthright on the question,
and indeed requires the Secretary of De-
fense to provide a special justification
when he doesn't buy weapons which are
subject to standardization. So, I would
say the attitude of the Congress toward it
in general is favorable.
you
Now, obviously, on specific issues
have specific Members of the Congress
who will feel strongly when defense indus-
tries in their districts are involved. So, I
think the attitude of the Congress is fav-
orable toward it as a general matter; on
specific issues, there are bound to be ob-
jections from individual Members of the
Congress. That's just inherent in the
situation.
Q. He was talking about SALT. He
said that he would seek to reach an agree-
ment with the Soviet Union to limit or
end the modernization of strategic weap-
ons. He has said things something like
that, but never quite like that before. Is
this a new policy that he's unveiling here?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. No. It was def-
initely not a new policy. It was a recitation
of existing policy. I should have men-
tioned, by the way, that when he was talk-
ing of the SALT part, he interpolated at
one point to reduce and eventually elimi-
nate nuclear weapons which, as you
know, is a phrase that he's used in the
past.
I'm quite clear that the President was
not making new policy, but was simply
describing the existing policy and the
existing proposals which we've made to
the Soviet Union.
NATO BUDGET
Q. Would you say that the European
countries had reservations about Presi-
dent Carter's long-term plans on grounds
of cost?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. If they did, they
didn't voice them. It was clear that the
European countries are constrained by
budgetary considerations, as indeed is the
United States and Canada.
And several European heads of govern-
ment mentioned these constraints. But
this did not, so far as I could see, lead
them to have any reservations of the pro-
posal. Quite the contrary. It was the fact
that there are constraints which made
them, as it made President Carter, anx-
ious to carry out a study which is designed
not to produce a quantum jump in de-
fense expenditures, but to see how the
very large sums that NATO is now spend-
ing for defense can be used more
effectively.
The President made that point and sev-
eral heads of government repeated it.
FUTURE PLANS FOR TRAVEL
Q. Can you make the forecast, sir, on
the frequency of Presidential travel to
summits now?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. Well, there are
two summits. There is the Economic and
the NATO Summit. The Economic Sum-
mit, there are no plans for another sum-
mit, and whether another summit occurs
will depend whether one of the seven gov-
ernments invites people to one. I think
856
