Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I
dog agency, to prevent injustice, to pre-
vent minority men and women being rail-
roaded into prisons throughout the United
States of America.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
SECRETARY ADAMS. One more, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Do I have another
question?
LARRY FLYNT
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to know
what effect do you think the conviction
of Larry Flynt, publisher of Hustler, will
have upon freedom of the press in the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
answer that question. As you know, this is
a judicial decision over which the Presi-
dent has no control, and that case is be-
ing appealed. I think it would not be
proper for me to comment on it, as Pres-
ident, about what ought to be taking
place in the future.
JUSTICE FOR MINORITIES
To go back quickly to the previous
question, the Solicitor General of our
country, working very closely with but
independently of the Attorney General, is
a very distinguished black judge named
McCree, from Detroit, Michigan. So I
would think that under Griffin Bell's lead-
ership and with his very good represen-
tation in the new organizational structure
of the Attorney General's office in the De-
partment of Justice, that we would not
have innocent people going to jail any
more who happen to be black.
I didn't answer the previous person be-
cause it was not in the form of a question.
But I think you'll be satisfied with that,
too.
Maybe one more question before we all
get wet.ยน
ยน It was raining at the time of the question-
and-answer session.
MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAM
Q. All right. This is going to be a short
and simple question. I know you are hard
up for time.
I'm interested in serving as a volunteer
on Rosalynn's mental health committee.
I've had experience in the northern Vir-
ginia area, and I believe the national level
would be more effective. How could I
accomplish my purpose?
The second portion of this is, when are
you going square dancing again? We
missed you at the last one. You were to
show up but you never did come. This
was on the 21st of January.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. Well, my wife
and I have done a lot of square dancing
in our lives, both the old-fashioned kind
and the more structured, Western kind
of square dancing. And we are sorry we
missed the square dance on the 21st.
There was a limit of how much we could
do in those first 2 days. I can't give you a
specific answer.
I can say that if you are interested in
serving on my wife's effort to bring to-
gether a comprehensive mental health
program, contact her directly. And if you
have trouble with contacting my wife,
there is no place that you can appeal to.
She's the top person in the family.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say one other
thing in closing. I don't claim to know all
the answers. I come here to let you know
of my interest in what you are doing. I've
come here to let you know that I have
complete confidence in Brock Adams, who
is going to be, I think, a superb leader
and a great Secretary of Transportation.
Third, I want you to know how in-
tensely interested everyone who lives in
our Nation is in what you are doing here
and what you will do in the future. I want
you to know about my personal interest
in the evolution of a comprehensive trans-
portation policy which we don't have.
234
