Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 9
his knowledge, his sensitivity, and his
ciousness in meeting me here.
gra-
So, thank you again, President Asad.
I hope that this day's deliberations will
be a contribution to peace in the Middle
East which can help to guarantee peace
and prosperity throughout the whole
world.
Thank you, sir.
PRESIDENT ASAD. Before I read the pre-
pared short statement, I would like to ex-
press my thanks and appreciation to
President Carter for his warm expressions
which he has kindly offered, and also to
thank him for his untiring, persistent ef-
forts which he manifested towards reach-
ing, achieving peace in the area which
he has manifested since he took office.
In spite of the difficulties which we
have encountered in the past and which
will obviously exist to some extent in our
search for peace and for a solution of the
problems in the Middle East, I must say,
in spite of all this, that taken in their
totality, the expressions of President Car-
ter on the subject have created an atmos-
phere of faith and an encouraging atmos-
phere of optimism.
And as I said at the airport in Geneva
yesterday on arrival, I believe that the
target which President Carter has in
mind, the target which we have in mind,
namely, the resolution of the problem and
the achievement of peace in the area, is a
noble target, is of such a nobility as a
target that it should be the goal of every-
body in the world who loves peace. And
as long as we hold tenaciously to some
moral values, as long as we do that, we
are bound to strive very hard for the
achievement of justice and the solution
of causes all around the world, causes that
are worthy, and of course, we mentioned
foremost among these the cause that we
are engaged in, trying to seek a solution.
for in our area.
cult, complicated
And as long as leaders of principle meet
together to discuss these pernicious, diffi-
cult, complicated problems-foremost
among which is that of the Middle East-
as long as these leaders, with that moral
courage, can meet together, so much more
would we be armed with the possibilities
of finding a just and lasting solution.
Although it is not always wise or useful
to prejudge things and be ahead of
events, I would like to express myself right
now-although the meeting between
President Carter and myself is still at its
first flush, so to speak, the first few min-
utes-I would like to say, nevertheless,
and take the risk in saying it, that we are
greatly optimistic.
This does not mean the solution of the
problem has become axiomatic, nor do
we mean that there is, or there suddenly
has appeared, a magic wand to solve the
problem. But what it does prove is that
obviously there is the will to look for a
solution, a solution which is just and
lasting.
The recent statement of the President—
you know that as a result of contacts that
have taken place between the Syrian Arab
Republic and the United States of Ameri-
ca, it has been agreed that President Car-
ter and myself would meet today. This is
the first time we meet. After a few min-
utes, we shall begin our talks at the hotel,
and shortly we shall discuss the main sub-
ject, which is of interest to all, namely,
how to move towards a just peace in the
Middle East.
Again, I would thank President Carter
for his coming to Geneva for this meeting.
Regarding the achievement of a just
peace in the Middle East, our opinion,
which we have always declared, is that a
grave situation threatening international
peace and security exists in our region.
This situation arises from the continued
occupation of the Arab territories which
Israel seized by force in 1967, as well as
843
