Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 10, 1977
Capitol Page School
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the Graduating
Class. June 6, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Now I want you to go back and make
sure that the Members of Congress wel-
come me that way. [Laughter]
I'm very proud of you. I've had my
staff instruct me on what you have done,
what you have learned, your own individ-
ual background and achievements, the
relationships with your family and with
one another, and the history of the grad-
uates of the Page School and what you've
accomplished.
I'm very proud to be partners with you
in trying to make our Government a bet-
ter one. I spent a lot of my time studying
the Congress. [Laughter] And I must say
that so far I've been very pleased, as I
know you have. There are a lot of news
articles and reports that come out about
the conflict and disappointments and so
forth, but we've not failed in any item so
far in working harmoniously with the
Congress and constructively with the
Congress.
Everything that we proposed so far has
been dealt with fairly and objectively. I
think in some instances when the Con-
gress has changed a proposal that I've
made it's been for the better, and I have
a good relationship with them. I hope we
can continue this.
I thought perhaps this morning since
we only have about 5 minutes or so that
you might have some questions that you'd
like to ask me, rather than listening to a
speech. And since you've had a chance to
relate to the Members of Congress, per-
haps a couple of questions, and I'll try to
be brief in my answers.
Does anyone have a question? Do you
have one?
THE FIRST FAMILY AND WASHINGTON
Q. How do you like Washington, D.C.?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good ques-
tion. We like it very much. We've had a
chance to bring our family together here
in Washington. As you know, for 2 years
or more we went in different directions-
11 of us campaigned simultaneously.
Amy likes very much the public school
system. She's got a lot of close friends, and
one of her best friends is the daughter of
a janitor in one of the embassies, and she
comes and visits Amy. But she has a good
relationship.
Jeffrey and Annette are now in the
Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. They'll be
working there in Honduras and Guate-
mala in archaeology. He's a student at
George Washington University in archae-
ology.
1061
