Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
warn about the time element required to
be significant here in making any changes
in policy.
THE PRESIDENT. As we approach the
April 20th report to the Nation and to the
Congress, it's very important that Dr.
Schlesinger have that kind of advice, be-
cause when we spell out an energy policy
and a time schedule for putting it into ef-
fect, I'm going to be very determined as
President to make sure we meet our time
schedule.
And so, we want to make sure that be-
fore I do present it to the country that we
understand the obstacles that we might
face.
Ed Light?
ENVIRONMENT
MR. LIGHT. I'd like to mention the im-
portance to the environment in West Vir-
ginia of restructuring the rates we pay
for
electricity; the idea of the peak-load pric-
ing to pay more for the electricity during
the peak demand has been ignored pretty
much by the State and Federal Govern-
ment. We have the impending licensing of
a very energy-inefficient and destructive
project in West Virginia called the Davis
Power Project which would flood the
beautiful and unique Canaan Valley and
also destroy some other unique wilderness
areas in West Virginia.
The Federal Power Commission has ig-
nored the alternative of lowering the peak
demands through rate restructuring or,
perhaps, if this is not sufficient, build a
pollution controlled, coal-fired power-
plant.
There are also-many of the other re-
maining free-flowing streams in West Vir-
ginia are on the Army Corps of Engineers'
books for more of these destructive pump
storage projects.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
THE PRESIDENT. Ed, we had a meeting
the other day with the Chairman of the
TVA and they are doing two things that I
think are helpful already. And we need to
restructure, I think, the program of the
TVA to let it be a massive demonstration
project on how we can save electrical
power. When the TVA was originally
formed it was an innovative idea that
helped people that hadn't been helped in
the past, and over a period of years, it's
just gotten to be another utility with no
thrust to help people try new and produc-
tive opportunities.
One of the things that they are doing,
for instance—they've got 4 million homes
by the way on TVA-they are providing
insulation opportunities for homeowners,
and the TVA is financing the cost. This
puts thousands of people to work, because
the blowing of insulation in attics and so
forth is primarily manual labor; it doesn't
require high skills.
And then they continued the last year's
monthly electricity bills at the same rate
they were last year, but because of the
good insulation, they're not using as much
electricity. So, the difference between
what they paid last year and what they're
using this year is taken to pay off the bor-
rowed money.
Another thing they're doing is putting
into a number of homes-I think the
number he told me was 14,000 homes—a
little red light that goes on on the wall of
the kitchen. And in the peak-load hours,
Mr. Lloyd, that red light comes on. They
charge the homeowner a great deal more
for electricity when that red light is on,
but they charge them less during other
hours. This is a reminder to the housewife,
for instance, that when she's going to wash
a batch of clothes or wash dishes, that she
411
