June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
lution of August 3, 1949 (63 Stat. 492,
36 U.S.C. 157), has requested the Presi-
dent to issue annually a proclamation
calling for its appropriate observance. By
joint resolution of June 9, 1966 (80 Stat.
194, 36 U.S.C. 157a), the Congress also
requested the President to issue annually
a proclamation designating the week
which includes June 14 as National Flag
Week.
To encourage the American people to
take pride in the Nation which that flag
symbolizes, the Congress, by joint resolu-
tion of June 13, 1975 (89 Stat. 211, 36
U.S.C. 157b), has declared the twenty-
one days from Flag Day through Inde-
pendence Day as a period to honor
America.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
June 12, 1977, as National Flag Week and
I call upon the appropriate officials of the
Government to display the flag on all
Government buildings during that week.
I urge the American people to celebrate
Flag Day and National Flag Week by dis-
playing the flag of the United States at
their homes and other suitable places.
I also call upon all Americans to observe
the period from Flag Day through Inde-
pendence Day as a period to honor Ameri-
ca through public gatherings and other
suitable activities that will demonstrate
their pride in their Nation and its accom-
plishments.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of June
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-seven, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:33 a.m., June 13, 1977]
Rosalynn Carter's Trip to the
Caribbean and Latin America
Remarks of the President and Mrs. Carter on
Her Return. June 12, 1977
MRS. CARTER. I've had a lot of arrival
ceremonies in the last couple of weeks, but
it's always good to arrive back home.
Mr. President, Jimmy, Mr. Secretary of
State, Mr. Vice President, distinguished
Ambassadors:
I bring you greetings from Latin Amer-
ica and the Caribbean.
Es un gran placer para mi está aqui.
(It's a great pleasure for me to be here.)
I've done this for 2 weeks, and I
couldn't resist. But seriously, it was a good
trip.
This morning in Venezuela, President
Pérez said to me that Jimmy's Pan Ameri-
can Day speech and my visit to Latin
America had opened new paths in inter-
American relations instead of the pater-
nalism that has characterized the past. We
are ready and eager to develop balanced,
natural, normal, and equal relationships.
I found good will and friendship every-
where I went. They love you in the Carib-
bean and in Latin America, and every
head of state that I spoke with without
exception agreed with me on the impor-
tance of cooperating and consulting closely
on the issues that concern you, Jimmy, and
that concern us all-human rights, nu-
clear nonproliferation, economic devel-
opment, arms control.
I think we've made progress in all of
these areas. I'm glad to be back home. I'm
glad to be with Amy and with Jimmy. I'm
going to convey all of this information that
I have to Jimmy. In fact, I look forward
to consulting closely with him on a regular
basis. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. She's given me permis-
sion to say just a word. Every day we have
1098
