Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 21
political campaign how burdensome and
onerous it is to run for office for 2 years
all over the country and where I very sel-
dom saw my little girl and where my
family was divided into 11 different places
in the country and I had no home life and
lived out of a suitcase for that long and,
in the early stages of the campaign, was
really quite often physically lonesome and
isolated and quite often ignored and dis-
couraged. But now it's a much, much
better life than it was then.
So, in summary, in a personal way it's
been enjoyable.
I'll take one more question.
SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, the Mondale-Vorster
talks seem to have ended with an agree-
ment to disagree-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. —and there have been some re-
ports that if that were the case, we might
be applying various kinds of pressures in
the near future. Can you tell us what
comes next?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I can't until I
talk to Fritz when he gets back. You
know, the South African question has
been a problem for the world community
for generations, and nobody expected that
a day-and-half meeting between the Vice
President and the Prime Minister would
solve all those problems. We had three
basic hopes when Fritz went to Geneva.
One was to Vienna-one was that the
South African leaders would back us and
Great Britain in our efforts to bring some
resolution to the question of Rhodesia or
Zimbabwe. We may have made some
progress there. I don't know yet.
Another one is that we hoped that the
meeting would encourage Vorster and the
South African Government to abandon in
its entirety their commitment to the Turn-
halle Conference concerning Namibia,
formerly known as Southwest Africa, and
to permit a widely diverse group
of po-
tential leaders to present themselves to the
electorate for future democratic choice of
a government.
We may or may not have made some
progress there. We don't know yet.
And the other part is a much more
difficult one, and that is for Fritz to under-
stand the South African leaders' point of
view and for them to understand our
point of view about possible progress in
South Africa in the future toward an end
to apartheid or the distinction under law
between the rights of black citizens com-
pared to those of white citizens.
We never have had any expectation
that we would change the basic structure
of the government in South Africa, but I
would guess that in all those areas if we
don't have any tangible achievements
that we have made some progress.
I don't think anybody has ever been
better prepared for a trip than Fritz
Mondale was when he left here. He had
spent literally months studying all the
details and the history and the back-
ground and the neighboring countries'
attitudes and the identity of the persons
involved and what their interrelationships
were concerning Rhodesia, Zimbabwe, on
the one hand, Southwest Africa or Na-
mibia on the other and southern Africa.
So, I would guess that when Fritz
comes back, he and I will have a much
clearer picture of what prospects might
be for progress in the future even if he
didn't achieve any tangible signs of prog-
ress in these discussions.
I talked to Fritz twice on the phone
yesterday during recesses in his conversa-
tions with Vorster, and I think that my
statement has pretty well encapsulated
what his expectations were, nothing of a
treaty or a firm nature, but progress
toward at least better understanding.
953
