Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
rights in other nations, that we, ourselves,
might be free of justified criticism.
Well, all these matters that have just
come to my mind as I stand here before
you are important to us all. And I just
want to be sure that we work in harmony
to alleviate tensions and to reinspire those
who can legitimately, I hope, in the fu-
ture look to us for justified inspiration.
I would be glad to answer any ques-
tions that you might have or I will refer
the questions I can't answer to these no-
table people behind me.
QUESTIONS
FEDERAL PAY INCREASE
Q. Mr. President, my question is: Ac-
cording to the news media, you whole-
heartedly supported the congressional and
top Government employees' raise. Will
you not now give low Government em-
ployees the same support in their raise?
THE PRESIDENT. As an example of my
sensitivity to the needs and yearnings of
our people, I can detect that this ques-
tion is very interesting to all of you.
[Laughter] Well, I can't promise that
whatever proposal is put forward that I
would support it. But I know that I can't
succeed as President without your co-
operation and your trust in me.
As you know, my salary was not raised.
I didn't think it ought to be. [Laughter]
We do have in some instances excessive
grade creep, too many people in the high-
er levels of the pay grades. And that has
got to be corrected over a period of time.
I want to be sure that the correction is
made without hurting any of you.
And rather than demoting those who
have been promoted too high, I would
rather, through normal attrition—that is,
resignations, transfers, and retirements on
your own initiative-let those vacancies
be created in the higher levels where they
are overloaded at this point.
Additionally, I want to be sure that we
have, as a result of reorganization, no
one who is a professional damaged in your
own family lives, in your own economic
status, or seniority position. And we have
enough attrition within the Federal Gov-
ernment, about 10 percent a year, to take
care of those changes.
So, I would say with those qualifica-
tions, m answer would be yes. I am very
eager to see those who serve well, as do
you, rewarded in a financial fashion and
also in recognition of your good work.
So, I did feel that there was one mis-
take made in the recent pay increases, the
way the law is written. I don't think that
the pay increases for Federal Judges,
Members of Congress, or top-level em-
ployees in the Federal Government ought
to go into effect until after the next gen-
eral election. I think that that would be
a reassuring thing to the American people
because quite often they don't think that
the high level pay level increases should
be changed. And I think if it was consum-
mated after the next general election that
one problem would be alleviated.
So, I will certainly be very much aware
your needs. And, in general, with those
qualifications I will be supportive of treat-
ing you as fairly as we have the higher
levels of Government.
of
FEDERAL REORGANIZATION
Q. This question regards your talk
about reorganization and reform. As you
probably know, the State Department has
been the object of so-called attempts at
reform during the last 25 years many more
times than any other part of Govern-
ment on the average of once every 2
years we estimate it. Most of the times
these efforts at reform have failed because
of certain problems in their conceptuali-
zation and their implementation. They've
been quick fixes, developed in isolation
from the real problems of the operational
238
