June 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
gress enacted the Commission's recom-
mendations as the International Broad-
casting Act of 1973, Public Law 93-129,
on October 19, 1973.
The International Broadcasting Act of
1973 set up the Board "to provide an ef-
fective instrumentality for the continua-
tion of assistance to Radio Free Europe
and Radio Liberty and to encourage a
constructive dialog with the peoples of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
and Eastern Europe." Members of the
Board, according to the act, are to be "se-
lected by the President from among
Americans distinguished in the fields of
foreign policy or mass communications"
and may not be concurrently full-time em-
ployees of the U.S. Government.
In addition to providing funds for
operation of the radios, the Board is re-
quired "to assess the quality, effectiveness
and professional integrity of their broad-
casting within the context of the broad
foreign policy objectives of the United
States." At the same time it is charged
with keeping in mind "the necessity of
maintaining the professional independ-
ence and integrity" of these stations. In
addition to receiving congressionally ap-
propriated funds for the stations, the
Board is authorized to receive funds from
private sources.
Active in many fields of academic en-
deavor and public affairs, Dr. Gronouski
is married to the former Mary Louise
Metz and has two daughters, Stacey and
Julie.
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 11995. June 8, 1977
RELATING TO CERTAIN POSITIONS IN
LEVEL V OF THE EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 5317 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and as President of the
United States of America, Section 2 of
Executive Order No. 11861, as amended,
placing certain positions in level V of the
Executive Schedule, is further amended
by adding thereto “(13) Executive Direc-
tor, Federal Personnel Management Sys-
tems Study, United States Civil Service
Commission.".
The White House,
June 8, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:59 p.m., June 8, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
Presidential Scholars
Remarks to High School Students Selected as
Presidential Scholars of 1977. June 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I need to get you to help
me with a lot of things. I think I will just
substitute you for the Congress. [Laughter]
I spent this morning meeting with 50
Members of Congress, mostly from the
Southwest, from Illinois all the way down
through Texas. And this morning for
breakfast, with the leadership of the Con-
gress, I feel like my life now is one mas-
sive multiple choice examination where
things are put in front of me and I have
to make the difficult decisions.
I'm very grateful to have a chance to
come over here for a few minutes to first
of all congratulate you, and secondly to
call on you for continued help. You've
been chosen in an intensely competitive
way, based on merit alone. But, of course,
with an opportunity that you've had
comes commensurate responsibility. The
avenue you've enjoyed coming into Gov-
ernment, looking at it from a fresh per-
spective, is one that's very valuable to me
and to our country. And I hope that when
1074
