Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Small Business Administration. They gave
me a loan.
But by then I had built up a fairly sub-
stantial place in the community. I inher-
ited a lot of substantiality from my father.
And I think because of that, the Small
Business Administration didn't just give
me enough money to go broke-which
they quite often do with people they
gave me a loan, and they assigned a very
distinguished retired businessman from
Atlanta who helped to start the Genuine
Parts Company. He would come down to
Plains and look over Carters Warehouse,
which is my little business, and he would
give me advice on accounts receivable,
whether or not I had parts of my business
that were wasteful, whether I was spend-
ing too much money on overhead, and
then he would go back to Atlanta.
And I would consider what he recom-
mended and try to put it into effect. About
3 months, and then he'd come back down
to Plains-he'd let me know ahead of time
—and just as a nonpaid adviser to me, he
gave me a great deal of help. It was a vol-
untary thing on his part. He didn't even
get any pay at all for it.
The minority business enterprise part
of the small business needs to be rejuven-
ated. And, I think, we need to carefully
assess the capabilities of the entrepreneur,
both minority and otherwise. And when
the Small Business Administration makes
a loan, I think we ought to expand the vol-
unteer counselor part of it so that every
small business person, whether he's in the
peanut warehouse business, like I was, or
whether he's opened a service station or a
laundry, ought to have somebody to come
in there and kind of work with him like a
big brother in business.
I believe this would help a lot to make
sure that those loans are repaid. And I
think it would make the local bank par-
ticipation much more clearly assured. And
we have a lot of retired business people
who are looking for something to do that's
worthwhile and interesting.
So, that's part of it. The other part is
the quality of people that administer the
program. And I'll make sure that when
the decision is made on the administrator
of that program, it's someone that you can
trust to do a good job for the small busi-
ness people.
FEDERAL ENERGY PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, on energy, you have
made some proposals for a new Federal
energy agency. I understand in April
you're going to make some more. Those
are long-term proposals.
Two questions: What about people
who, in the natural gas crisis that hit the
Northeast a few months ago, are paying
two, three hundred dollars a month when
they were paying $100? What help can
they expect, if any, now, for this year?
And if we have a cold weather winter
next year as we did this time, as has been
predicted, will we be prepared, or will we
go through the same natural gas crisis
again?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't guarantee that
we'll be prepared next year because of
several reasons. One, it takes a long time
to change historical habits and trends and
laws. Secondly, I don't know how the
Congress is going to respond to my pro-
posals on April 20. Third, I don't know
whether or not the Congress will move
expeditiously in setting up a new depart-
ment of energy so that there can be some
cohesion in the evolution and the con-
summation of energy policy. Fourth, I
don't have any way to anticipate the
severity of the winter next year. If it's
very mild, we can handle it.
Fifth, we have had in the last number
of years in natural gas and in oil produc-
tion about a 6-percent reduction per year
in domestic supplies. And my guess is that
518
