Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 22
pared constructive proposals for the forthcoming meetings on North-
South problems of poverty, development, and global well-being. And we
agreed on joint efforts to reinforce and to modernize our common defense.
You may be interested in knowing that at this NATO meeting, for
the first time in more than 25 years, all members are democracies. Even
more important, all of us reaffirmed our basic optimism in the future
of the democratic system. Our spirit of confidence is spreading. Together,
our democracies can help to shape the wider architecture of global
cooperation.
Third, we've moved to engage the Soviet Union in a joint effort to
halt the strategic arms race. This race is not only dangerous, it's morally
deplorable. We must put an end to it.
I know it will not be easy to reach agreements. Our goal is to be fair
to both sides, to produce reciprocal stability, parity, and security. We
desire a freeze on further modernization and production of weapons and
a continuing, substantial reduction of strategic nuclear weapons as well.
We want a comprehensive ban on all nuclear testing, a prohibition against
all chemical warfare, no attack capability against space satellites, and
arms limitations in the Indian Ocean.
We hope that we can take joint steps with all nations toward a final
agreement eliminating nuclear weapons completely from our arsenals of
death. We will persist in this effort.
Now, I believe in détente with the Soviet Union. To me it means
progress toward peace. But the effects of détente should not be limited to
our own two countries alone. We hope to persuade the Soviet Union that
one country cannot impose its system of society upon another, either
through direct military intervention or through the use of a client state's
military force, as was the case with Cuban intervention in Angola.
Cooperation also implies obligation. We hope that the Soviet Union
will join with us and other nations in playing a larger role in aiding the
developing world, for common aid efforts will help us build a bridge of
mutual confidence in one another.
Fourth, we are taking deliberate steps to improve the chances of
lasting peace in the Middle East. Through wide-ranging consultation
with leaders of the countries involved-Israel, Syria, Jordan, and
Egypt-we have found some areas of agreement and some movement
toward consensus. The negotiations must continue.
Through my own public comments, I've also tried to suggest a more
flexible framework for the discussion of the three key issues which have so
far been so intractable: the nature of a comprehensive peace—what is
959
