Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
tween the people who cannot work that
will depend on the cashed out payments,
those who can work and earn an income
less than adequate for a family, who
would receive additional incentives, and
those who can work full time but haven't
been able to find a job. And that's why it's
so crucial that the income tax structure,
the HEW Department, and the Labor De-
partment share responsibilities for the
comprehensive package.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing. The White House press release also in-
cluded the transcript of a question-and-answer
session with reporters by Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano,
Jr., and Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall.
European Newspaper Journalists.
Question-and-Answer Session.
April 25, 1977
FRED EMERY [The Times, London]. We
tried to have a European unity parley
here to get organized with questions and
order of sitting. It has proved impossible.
We are not going to unite. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. We will make it in-
formal. I am glad to have you here. I am
looking forward to meeting with the lead-
ers of your own countries when we go to
Europe.
I will defer to your questions.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. EMERY. As I say, we have tried to
prepare some things. Mr. President, you
know that quite a few people in Europe
are puzzled and some are refreshed by the
way you are going about governing. How
do you describe your first hundred days
in office?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been pleased
so far at the response of the American
people to our administration. I think we
have attempted to address some very dif-
ficult questions which, in the past, have
been either ignored or delayed.
Last week I spent presenting our energy
proposals to the American people. We
have evolved and laid before the Soviet
Government a comprehensive reduction
proposal in nuclear armaments. We have
begun to reduce the effort to sell conven-
tional arms around the world. We have
spelled out a strong position, which has
not been unanimously accepted well, on
nonproliferation of nuclear explosive
capability.
I have, I think, accurately mirrored the
American people's beliefs on public es-
pousal of human rights. We have begun
to reorganize our own Nation's Govern-
ment and to commence proposals which
will ultimately transform our welfare sys-
tem and our income tax structure. I have
made some-sometimes controversial-
decisions to prevent the raising of trade
barriers and have had an almost unprec-
edented stream of distinguished visitors
here from other countries. This past week,
four foreign leaders came to see me.
So, in all of these areas I think we have
been fairly successful, either in beginning
efforts or in some few accomplishments
at this early time. The relationship be-
tween myself and the American people
is very good now.
MR. EMERY. May I interrupt to
say-
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
MR. EMERY. How about your relations
with Congress-
THE PRESIDENT. That was the other
clause in my sentence.
-the business com-
MR. EMERY.
munity and the unions?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the relation-
ship with Congress has been steadily im-
775
