Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 2
But I think this is the kind of thing
that we can do that is a little above and
beyond Government-kind of nice, that
perhaps you can help us with.
But I particularly want to break down
any remaining barriers that exist between
the State governments and the Federal
Government. We want to make there be
a common sense of community between
people in your communities and the city
of Washington, and remove any sort of
last remaining feeling that this is an alien
Government or that it doesn't care about
you and doesn't need your help.
Only those of you who've served as
Governor know how much I need your
help. And I hope that you'll be free with
it.
To conclude my brief remarks before
we go in for some entertainment, I'd like
to offer a toast to one of the finest groups
of public servants in the world who will
provide a constant inspiration to me and
my family, the Governors of the 50 States
of the most wonderful nation on Earth.
Here's to the Governors and their
families.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Limitation on Hiring in the
Federal Government
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. March 1, 1977
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
One of the top priorities of this Admin-
istration is to manage the affairs of Gov-
ernment more efficiently. As part of this
effort, we must hold Federal employment
to the lowest number needed to operate
effectively. Toward that end, I am im-
posing a limitation on the hiring of Fed-
eral civilian workers pending the estab-
lishment of revised employment ceilings.
I ask that you issue instructions limit-
ing the number of appointments to full-
time permanent positions in your agency
to not more than 75 percent of the num-
ber of vacancies occurring after Febru-
ary 28, 1977. This limitation should be
made effective at once and will remain
in effect until new employment ceilings
for fiscal years 1977 and 1978 have been
established.
I am instructing the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and the Civil Service
Commission to issue guidance on this di-
rective. In addition, I delegate authority
to the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to grant specific excep-
tions in a very limited number of cases,
when such action is necessary to preserve
the continuity of Government by assur-
ing that essential services are provided
and that fundamental needs are met.
You should make every effort to avoid
requesting exceptions by making person-
nel reallocations within your respective
agencies to meet needs of highest priority
and to assure that vital and basic services
are not interrupted. Contracting with
firms and institutions outside the Govern-
ment will not be used to alleviate the
effect of this directive.
I am depending on you to give this
effort your sincere support and personal
attention.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on March 2.
On the same day, the White House Press
Office released the following information in an
announcement on the memorandum:
The reductions in current employment levels
will be met by attrition. No one will be fired.
As of December 31, the Federal payroll in-
cluded 1,902,000 permanent civilian employees
(excluding the Postal Service). The Office of
Management and Budget estimates attrition at
10 percent of the Federal work force annually.
271
