Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
Unemployment now stands at the low-
est level in 29 months-down a full 1
percent since last November. But of
course, you know and I know that a 7-
percent unemployment rate is still com-
pletely unacceptable. We still have a long
way to go.
The equally dangerous threat of infla-
tion is building. Consumer prices reflect-
ing the drought and last winter's cold
weather have been going up at an annual
rate of about 10 percent in the last
3 months, and the basic inflation rate,
under everything else, has been running
6 or 62 percent.
These inflation figures are too high for
comfort. And as you know, also, inflation
falls most heavily on people with modest
means and people who've worked all their
lives for a little security and who then find
that security threatened. Inflation robs us
of our confidence in the future.
However, it's interesting to point out,
at the recent London summit conference,
the single issue of most concern to the
seven heads of state assembled there was
unemployment among young people. In
the ideological struggle with the Eastern
Socialist and Communist countries, this is
our one major vulnerability. We have got
to provide in our country an economic
system that's healthy enough and an edu-
cation system that's competent enough so
that when our young people reach the age
of 18 or 19 years old, they can find a
way to use the talent and ability and
opportunities that God gave them and not
enter adult life discouraged and excluded
from society. This ought to be number
one in all our efforts in the future.
Experience has shown us and all econo-
mists that we must attack inflation and
unemployment together. To get our econ-
omy moving again, in the short 4 months
that I've been in office, we proposed both
direct creation of jobs and permanent tax
reduction for the low-income and middle-
income taxpayers.
Last week I signed a bill, public works,
which will provide both necessary com-
munity improvements where you live,
plus about 600,000 jobs concentrated in
areas of high unemployment.
We have proposed more than doubling
the existing jobs program for the long-
term unemployed and the young. And
Congress has already appropriated the
money that we requested to increase pub-
lic service jobs from 310,000 to 725,000.
I've also proposed and I believe the
Congress will rapidly approve—a major
initiative to train our young people and
to put them to work in productive jobs in
our cities, rural areas, national parks and
forests. And in addition to this, above and
beyond what I've just described, we will
provide work this summer for about 1.1
million young people, more than ever
before.
To help our hard-pressed cities, which
quite often in the past have not gotten a
fair share of governmental opportunity,
we've supported-and Congress just
passed yesterday—a major expansion of
countercyclical revenue sharing, which
means that the money goes to the areas
that are most in need.
We've also proposed a renewed com-
munity block grant program with changes
that will stimulate private investment, in
particular housing and other develop-
ments, and put more of the money into
the cities again which need it most.
We support extending the earned-in-
come tax credit for working people and a
general, personal tax credit, which to-
gether add up to $6.8 billion annually in
individual tax relief, mostly for low- and
middle-income families, including those
families too poor to owe any income tax.
And also, I will sign into law within the
next few days-Congress has already
passed a permanent $4 billion tax cut
889
