Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
and to strengthen them in the future. And
when the nations involved consider it ap-
propriate, I would certainly welcome the
absorption within the European Com-
munity of Portugal and Spain.
So, I think that already I have both
come to realize and also have begun to
act on the premise of a strong Europe as
essential to our own good future and have
recognized the importance of the bilateral
relationships with the nations involved.
ΝΑΤΟ
VITTORIO ZUCCONI [La Stampa, Turin].
Mr. President, about NATO, do you
think that NATO is still a viable alliance
as it is now after 30 years of existence, and
do you foresee or wish any change? Do
you think the Europeans should do more
in their own defense? You might share
your thoughts on NATO with us.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think the
NATO military alliance is a cornerstone
of our own national security. I think the
degree of cooperation that has evolved
from NATO since its inception has helped
to tie our nations together in political and
economic and social ways. So the military
alliance has been a core around which our
good progress has been enhanced.
I have been concerned about the need
for a more fair sharing of military supplies
and weapons among the countries in-
volved. It ought to be a two-way street
and, to the extent that we can have com-
mon understandings about standardizing
weapons systems, I believe that we will
increase the portion that does come from
the European suppliers.
I would hope that within the next 12
months, that the other leaders and I could
acquire a renewed commitment to NATO
principles and improvements on a multi-
lateral basis. I am quite reluctant to move
unilaterally in this field because I am so
new. I have a lot to learn from the leaders
of France and Germany and Great Brit-
ain and other countries where they have
been involved so long.
The last point is that the differences
that we have had among us, I think, can
only be resolved among the heads of
state. And with the Leopard tank and the
AWACS system-these matters are of tac-
tical importance, but they don't endanger
the total commitment of our countries to
share in our future security. And although
France is not a complete partner in the
process as far as mutual defense is con-
cerned, that is not a matter of great con-
cern to us.
We have among the American people
an almost unanimous belief that NATO
is a very beneficial commitment to us. So,
I see no danger of a deterioration in the
NATO alliance.
EUROCOMMUNISM
MR. ZUCCONI. That leads inevitably to
the question of the political situation, cer-
tainly, in the European countries, among
which Italy and France-how do you re-
act to the growth of the Marxist left, so-
called Eurocommunists in those coun-
tries? How would you react to the possi-
bility of coalition governments in a
member's country, with a role for the
Communists in it?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the first prem-
ise on which we function is that the
European citizens are perfectly capable
of making their own decisions about po-
litical matters through the free election
process.
Within my own memory, this is the first
time that all the NATO countries have
been democracies. And I think this is a
very good evolution that we have already
witnessed.
Secondly, we prefer that the govern-
ments involved continue to be democratic
and that no totalitarian elements become
777
