May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tees of Congress in executive session such
other information as is necessary for effec-
tive oversight.
Federal Incentive Awards
Program
Remarks on Presenting the Award to
Lawrence L. Guzick. May 18, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I believe in 1954, the
Government established a procedure by
which distinguished employees could be
rewarded for suggestions or inventions
that saved the American taxpayers tre-
mendous amounts of money. This is only
the sixth time that the maximum award
will have been made. Mr. Guzick is an
engineer. He has evolved a device which
has been now adopted in the Navy and,
I think, which has a great potential for
adoption in all steam systems in the mili-
tary and in private industry.
It's a small device. I was given one this
morning to take a look at. And this little
metering device for permitting steam-
trapped pressure to escape is that cor-
rect? has already saved more than
875,000 barrels of oil and more than a
half million dollars in repair costs in the
Navy alone.
This is a saving of about $10½ million
to the Federal Government. I understand
that Mr. Guzick, after he designed this de-
vice and had it patented, had a hard time
getting it adopted for use. This is typical,
I think, of what does occur quite often
unnecessarily in our government structure,
but it's also a tribute to him that his
per-
sistence and his ingenuity has brought
such rich dividends to the American peo-
ple. I'm very proud to present this morn-
ing the maximum award to Mr. Guzick
that can be presented under the Employee
Incentive Program of the Federal
Government.
I think we have all heard that the
award is for $25,000. The check is for
$18,130.31. Perhaps we ought to devise
another incentive reward for somebody
who can come up with an idea of not
withholding taxes when such an award is
presented. But this is your share of the
award, and the Navy has now saved
$10,500,000, plus about $7,000 that we
have taken out of your award for taxes.
[Laughter]
I do want to thank you. It's a great
honor for me to participate in this cere-
mony. And I think it's a tribute to Mr.
Guzick, but also in some ways, this is a
tribute to all the superlative civil servants
that work for our Government. They're
not recognized often enough, and the
quiet professionalism that's there is a great
strength to a President. And the absence
of adequate recognition is something that
I hope can be alleviated.
I know that the Navy officials here and
the Secretary of the Navy, Graham Clay-
tor, and others, join me in congratulating
Mr. Guzick in expressing our sincere
thanks to him on behalf of the American
people for the superlative contribution to
our Nation's security and to the more
efficient administration of the jobs of all
of us from the President on down.
So, this saved us $10,500,000, Mr.
Guzick, and we thank you very much for
this contribution to the American people.
Good luck to you.
SECRETARY CLAYTOR. Thank you very
much, Mr. President. I'm not only very
proud of this invention which has saved
us so much money, but I'm also proud
that the Navy was able to put it to use as
fast as it did, in spite of the bureaucratic
problems that we all face. I'm proud of
that.
I also want to say that I hope we can
have a few more inventions like this, be-
cause if we do we'll balance that budget
930
