Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 27
left in CRAMS to take care of the British
Islands. The war was won because the
United States entered and those subma-
rines were incapable compared to modern
submarines.
In World War II, the Germans started
with about 40 submarines. That is all
they had at the time. Had they had more,
they would have won.
Those submarines required-the Ger-
man submarines that eventually built up
required 20 percent of the entire Allied
war effort to lick. The only reason they
ever came near doing that is we found
out subsequently that the United States
and the Allies knew all the German codes.
They knew exactly where every German
submarine was at all times. Without such
a great assist, the war would have been
lost.
So, this is the submarine. Both ours to-
ward the other side and the Russians' to-
ward our side offer a great menace. But
as all military organizations are, the peo-
ple in them tend to fight the way they
already have, and it is quite natural be-
cause a military man has to be conserva-
tive. He has to look at the lessons of the
past.
Further, in any military organization,
it tends to be dominated by the percent-
age of officers in it. The American Sub-
marine Corps constitutes about 6 percent
of the entire personnel in the Navy.
Therefore, its importance rests or lies in
proportion. Congress has recognized this.
The Defense Department and the Navy
have almost consistently been against
submarines, nuclear submarines. Con-
gress has recognized it and has dealt with
it.
THE PRESIDENT. The way I understand
our present submarine force, this subma-
rine, the Los Angeles, then would be de-
signed for attacking other ships, protect-
ing our own ships—
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT.
sels.
-against war ves-
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. It is designed for
two major purposes-to be an attack sub-
marine and also to act as an escort ves-
sel. So, what I would like to do is start-
we have a regular briefing set up. I think
we are getting underway.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. Thank
you all.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:05 a.m. on
the dock at Port Canaveral.
As printed above, this item follows the text
of the White House press release.
Port Canaveral, Florida
Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters on Disembarking From the
U.S.S. "Los Angeles." May 27, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, everybody. I think
the best thing to say when I come off this
9-hour trip on one of our latest, I think
the latest, nuclear submarine is that it
strengthens my own confidence in the
superb quality of the people who man our
very crucial defense mechanisms. It also
strengthens my confidence in those who
design them and keep them operating in
such a superb way.
Admiral Rickover's involvement in
this program has ensured literally thou-
sands of years of cumulative operation of
nuclear powerplants under the most strin-
gent conditions and in the earliest phases
of research and development, with never
a mishap. And I believe this is a credit to
him and to our own country's technical
capabilities and to the men and women
who serve in the Navy.
It's very important for me as President
to understand as clearly as I can the capa-
bilities of our own forces to defend our
1037
