May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
which we go serves justice, serves the good
of humanity.
Mr. President, in my name and in the
name of members of the Syrian-Arab del-
egation, I thank you for the invitation to
dinner and for the kind remarks we have
just heard. I am happy we are having
this meeting, which has provided the first
occasion for personal contact between us
and has provided me with the opportu-
nity to know you personally, firsthand, af-
ter having become acquainted with you
as well as possible through your stance
and statements.
We have come to Geneva prompted by
the sincere desire to make of this meeting,
through our common efforts, a landmark
in the history of relations between the
Syrian Arab Republic and the United
States of America and to realize the main
objective of this meeting-that of work-
ing assiduously in order to establish a
just peace in the Middle East. This ob-
jective both you and we have, on several
occasions, expressed the wish to see
achieved.
You are aware of the extent to which
bilateral relations between our two coun-
tries have been influenced by the Middle
East conflict, passing through low-ebb
phases, due to our feeling that the Ameri-
can attitude toward our cause was incom-
patible with the American responsibilities
as we see them. And this, unfortunately,
has had an influence on the interests of
the Arab and the American missions.
We consider our talks today a joint ef-
fort aimed to remedy the situation that
has caused a misstatement from which
relations between our two countries have
suffered. We hope that this effort will pro-
duce results promoting the good of our
peoples and serving the cause of the es-
tablishment of a just peace in the Middle
East.
I believe that you agree with me that
the outcome of the phase which we have
started today depends on continuing ef-
forts to be exerted after reaching the con-
viction that peace in the Middle East can
be established only on the basis of justice,
and that the continued occupation of the
Arab territories and the denial of the
rights of the Palestinian people are com-
pletely opposed to justice.
There are those who believe that time,
aided by considerations of violence and
various forms of coercion, can solve prob-
lems of the conflict in accordance with
their viewpoints and aspirations, though
these may be illegitimate. I have no doubt
that they are mistaken and that they act
in accordance with a wrong, destructive
urge.
I have an unshakable belief that the
rights of peoples cannot and should not
be obliterated by the passage of time. It
is vain that man should build his happi-
ness at the expense of the happiness of
others and that he should believe that
such happiness could continue while he
persists in the destruction of the happi-
ness and existence of others. Of course,
events will not happen isolated from the
will and efforts of man, but I presume
that the will of man is one of good, one of
justice and fruitfulness, and that the ef-
forts of man are exerted in order to fulfill
his will.
What we, the Arabs, seek with consist-
ency, is to arrive at a just peace on the
basis of the resolutions of the United Na-
tions. We believe that the United States,
as a big power, as a permanent member
of the Security Council and a cochairman
of the Geneva conference, can play a
major and effective role towards contrib-
uting to the achievement of this goal to
which all those who sincerely believe in
the cause of a just peace aspire.
The United States efforts can help
fundamentally in making the march to
peace obtain its desired objective. What
846
