Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 6
that you will celebrate this year, her Sil-
ver Jubilee. And although I can't be here
on the exact date, I hope that a member
of my family or maybe more than one can
come here to represent our country, to
add congratulations to your wonderful
leader. These are the kinds of thoughts
that go through my mind.
I'm looking forward to my visit here,
which will be all too brief, but I hope that
when I leave, having enjoyed your own
hospitality, that the ties that bind our
countries together will be even stronger
than they have been in the past.
So, I hope the weather is good tomor-
row when we go to northern England, and
if it's not, I'm sure the warmth of the
peo-
ple as they receive you and me together
will make us forget about the weather
itself.
I'm really looking forward to this visit,
and I again want to thank you and your
wife and the other government leaders for
welcoming me here to an occasion which
I've been looking forward to for many
many months.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 p.m. at
Heathrow Airport, where he was greeted by
Prime Minister James Callaghan. Following
his remarks, the President motorcaded to Win-
field House, the residence of the U.S. Ambassa-
dor to the Court of St. James, where he stayed
during his visit in London.
Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, England
Remarks at the Newcastle Civic Centre.
May 6, 1977
Ha'way-tha-lads! ¹
I'm very grateful to be a Geordie 2 now,
and I'm deeply grateful at the tremendous
welcome that you've extended to me and
1 A cheer for the Newcastle soccer team.
2 The citizens of Newcastle call themselves
Geordies.
to the other visitors who have come here
from the United States.
The last time, I believe, that an Ameri-
can was honored in this way was Dr. Stan-
ley in 1890, and I am very glad to see your
beautiful open spaces and the wonderful
progress that Newcastle has made. I un-
derstand that when this city was founded,
we still had 400 years to wait before the
Pilgrims came to our country. And the
merging of the old and the new is some-
thing that's exciting to me.
I have come here to be with your own
Prime Minister and the leaders of five
other great nations to deal with the prob-
lems that face our free world in the future.
We are very eager to see those who are un-
employed go back to work. We have a
special interest in young people who have
no jobs. And all the nations that will be
represented in the discussion this week—
from Japan, from Canada, from the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany, from Italy,
from France, from Great Britain, and
from the United States—will be deeply
concerned about how the economy of our
countries might be strengthened.
We have a special program in our own
nation that we are initiating this year for
young people. We'll have 1.1 million jobs
provided during the summer months for
young people. And we have 65,000 other
jobs in our open parklands and in the
cities, plus training jobs-130,000 of
those and one of the most intense com-
mitments that Prime Minister Callaghan
has discussed with me is the employment
of young people.
We also face a time of challenge for the
nations of the free world. We are very
deeply dedicated to strengthening the ties
of military strength which bind us to-
gether in NATO. And we are very proud
of the increasing common purpose that's
being expressed between Great Britain
and the other members of the European
Community.
811
