Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
curtail or to be in imminent danger of
curtailing natural gas supplies to resi-
dences, small commercial establishments
and other high priority users, so as to en-
danger life or health, and risk damage to
plant or other facilities.
Other interstate pipelines and distribu-
tion companies, however, have more than
adequate supplies of natural gas to meet
the needs of residences, small commercial
establishments and other high priority
users.
In light of the severe shortage of nat-
ural gas supplies available to some firms.
and the disparity of natural gas supplies
in various regions of the United States,
the exercise of extraordinary authority for
emergency deliveries and transportation
of natural gas pursuant to Section 4 of
the Emergency Natural Gas Act of 1977
is necessary to assist in meeting the re-
quirements of natural gas for residences,
small commercial establishments, and
other high priority users in the United
States or regions thereof. No measures
other than those authorized by Section 4
of the Emergency Natural Gas Act of
1977 are adequate to assist in meeting
the requirements of natural gas for resi-
dences, small commercial establishments,
and other high priority users in the
United States or regions thereof.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, including the Emergency
Natural Gas Act of 1977, do hereby pro-
claim and declare that a natural gas emer-
gency exists within the meaning of Sec-
tion 3 of said Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this second day of
February, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:02 p.m., February 3, 1977]
Administration of the Emergency
Natural Gas Act of 1977
Executive Order 11969. February 2, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including Sec-
tion 13 of the Emergency Natural Gas
Act of 1977 (Public Law 95-2), and Sec-
tion 301 of Title 3 of the United States
Code, and as President of the United
States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
SECTION 1. There is hereby delegated
to the Chairman of the Federal Power
Commission, hereafter the Chairman, all
of the authority vested in the President by
the Emergency Natural Gas Act of 1977,
except for the authority to declare and
terminate a natural gas emergency pur-
suant to Section 3 of said Act. Nothing in
such delegation shall be construed as
delegating such authority to the Federal
Power Commission as a collective body,
except insofar as the Chairman may fur-
ther delegate his authority under Section
3 of this Order.
SEC. 2. The Chairman shall, to the ex-
tent he deems appropriate, consult with
the Secretary of the Interior, the Admin-
istrator of the Federal Energy Adminis-
tration, other members of the Federal
Power Commission and the heads of other
Exective agencies in exercising the au-
thority delegated to him by this Order.
SEC. 3. All authority delegated to the
Chairman by this Order may be further
68
