Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
put it across by itself. Regional differences
are very significant. The differences be-
tween consumer and producing States is
inherently one of conflict and difference.
I come from a consumer State. Georgia
doesn't produce any significant quantities
of energy—nothing but a little hydro-
electric power. But now we've been very
aggressive in trying to find oil off the
coast. We have 600,000 acres of precious
marshland that belong to all the citizens
of Georgia. But we've already worked out
with environmentalists, with the oil com-
panies, with local and State officials and
so forth, five different places along the
coast of North and South Carolina and
Georgia where we would like to bring
oil ashore. We've already identified, with
the approval of environmentalists and
everybody else, five sites where oil re-
fineries would be welcomed if oil is dis-
covered. And we're trying to make plans
accordingly.
Other States up here, like New Jersey,
Maryland, and so forth, have said we
don't want any oil explorations off our
coast and, if it's discovered, we don't want
to bring it ashore and refine it. Well, that's
not a good attitude. So there is going to
be some give-and-take on both sides.
SOLAR ENERGY
Q. How about a crash program to de-
velop solar energy?
THE PRESIDENT. That's something that
we are pursuing. Dr. Schlesinger may
have told you, but yesterday we an-
nounced that the Center for the Solar
Energy Research Institute will be in
Colorado.
This is a recommendation that was
made by a group of scientists, I think, in a
completely nonpolitical way. And we will
be establishing two or three or four re-
gional centers around the country for the
actual additional solar research.
The only one that we know about the
location of will be in the New England
area. The reason for that is access to the
ocean to determine temperature gradi-
ents and so forth, the access to the very
large tidal movements in the Maine area,
and the high concentration of existing
knowledge and research capability in
Harvard, MIT, and so forth, the area
around Boston.
But we expect to have some other re-
gional centers in the future. And I think
that the percentage increases at least in
solar energy research will be the most
dramatic of all. We're going to cut back
drastically on the concentration involving
the breeder reactor and a plutonium
society.
ENERGY PROBLEMS
Q. As you were saying, there is a good
chance we will have a winter energy crisis
next year, too. Now what about bills and
people who are still paying off this year's
bills, fuel bills. Is there any provision for
helping people meet these bills, for the
very poor people in the Northeast, the
lower middle class who are not on welfare,
who are going to have trouble meeting
their bills?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's a question
you asked me that I forgot to answer. I
don't know how to answer that. The Con-
gress has put forward a proposal, I think,
of about $223 million attached to the
countercyclical aid program that would
let money go to help those very poor
families pay their fuel bills.
We feel that the $50 tax refund will be
a significant aid to families. And when
and if it's forthcoming about May-for
the family in the $10,000 bracket, this is
about a 30-percent reduction in their
1976 income tax returns. And for those
low-income families, that much of a cash
refund is a very significant amount. For
a person with an income level equivalent
520
