Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. He is here. I see him.
Senator RandolPH. Fine. Under the
program we are going into this subject
very deeply, and I want to commend the
Commission program in that area.
as I got in the automobile with Governor
Rockefeller, he brought up the same two
points. [Laughter]
I think that we have got now a Secre-
tary of Transportation who will be work-
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Jones, would you ing very closely with the legislature here
like to comment on that?
MR. JONES. Yes. I know that Ed Smith
and Arnold Miller and I wouldn't like to
work in any down-dip mines, 'cause we
don't want all of that water behind us.
THE PRESIDENT. Professor Lynsky,
thank you very much.
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
Q. My name is Alan Sussman, State
senator from Beckley.
Mr. President, I'm very pleased that
you're interested in West Virginia and
West Virginia coal, and some of the
things that I'd like to call to your atten-
tion that could aid in increased produc-
tion, number one, would be some accel-
eration of Federal dollars for our highway
program.
West Virginia is a very expensive State
in which to construct highways. Some of
our interstate programs need to be com-
pleted so we can get this coal out of the
mines to the various transportation points.
Next, Mr. President, is that some aid,
Federal aid for our housing program-
we just completed a study, just in south-
ern West Virginia, and approximately
20,000 homes are needed there on an
average cost of about $30,000 to $35,000,
which are modest costs for homes today.
You have a figure of something to $600
to $700 millions of dollars. And that far
exceeds the financial capacity of the fi-
nancial institutions in southern West Vir-
ginia. And if you would give those two
items some attention, it would help in the
production.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator, those are
very good points. I might say that as soon
and your congressional delegation and
your Governor. I would like very much-
I've already talked to Jay Rockefeller
about meeting specifically with the Direc-
tor of EDA, who is Secretary of Com-
merce Kreps, Juanita Kreps, and also
with Patricia Harris, who is the new Sec-
retary of HUD. I can see that as we put
an emphasis on increased coal production,
just to bring it back up to where it was
10 years ago in West Virginia, that you
are going to have to have better high-
ways and more housing.
So, that's a good point that you've
made. And I think that this discussion,
which has been focused today on just min-
ing techniques and reorganization and
long-range trends, has those practical ap-
plications. And I think your point is well
taken.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. We also have to
rebuild the trackage of the rail system.
Our coal is unable to move, perhaps 20
miles an hour in some instances, over the
tracks. And this is a program that Con-
gress and your administration certainly,
I believe, will attack.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
ENVIRONMENT
Q. Mr. President, members of the
panel, my name is Willis Farley. I am a
retired former coal miner, as well as a
former chemical production worker, Un-
ion Carbide, locally. I have lived in south-
ern West Virginia all my life, and I have
seen the coal industry go hot and go cold,
as circumstances seem to dictate from
time to time.
434
