Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. You want to know
what can be done about it, Cheryl?
MS. QUINN. Yes, I do.
THE PRESIDENT. She may have let her
time run out on the GI bill of rights.
That's probably what happened, the way
you describe it. I don't think we could
do anything about it, to be perfectly
frank with you, without changing the law
to make a special case for your mother
and those like her. I doubt that it could
be changed, Cheryl. When the law was
written, the Congress put into it that after
a certain period of years, I think 10 years,
that the GI benefits would be lost. But
I'll have someone on my staff check out
the case and see if there is something that
can be done about it, within the law it-
self. They'll give you a call back this
coming week. Okay?
MS. QUINN. Okay.
before I came into office, that said that a
commission would recommend pay levels
for the Congress and for others like the
Federal judges and Cabinet officers and
unless the Congress voted no, that the pay
raises would go into effect. In other words,
if the Congress does nothing, the pay
raises go into effect.
And that's what occurred. That law
has been on the books for quite a while.
MR. ANDERSON. Well, right, what I am
getting at, though, is with you trying to
lower the budget, why did you not try to
do something to stop that or if there was
anything that could be done to stop it?
Why couldn't in some way they be con-
vinced that it was against, you know, the
fiscal matters of the country to give them
this increase?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say that
I think that the salary increases were justi-
fied. One of the things that President
Ford asked me to do before I was in-
augurated, while he was still in office, was
to add my support to the increase in sala-
ries. I agreed not to object to the increase,
MR. CRONKITE. Let me remind you
that these calls are not being screened in
any way for content. There is no censor-
ship at all of the calls into us here in the
Oval Office of the White House.
Gerald Anderson, Denver, Colorado, is provided there was a strict law on ethics
the next caller.
MR. ANDERSON. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, Gerald.
CONGRESSIONAL PAY INCREASE
MR. ANDERSON. I'm wondering what
is the justification with you trying to re-
duce the Federal budget, the justification
behind the $12,000 pay increase for Con-
gress? How can you lower the budget by
giving them $12,000 a year and us $50
back?
THE PRESIDENT. Gerald, that is a hard
question for me to answer.
MR. ANDERSON. I'm sure it is. That's
why I thought I would throw it at you.
THE PRESIDENT. I think you probably
know that there is a law that was passed
by Congress and the previous Presidents,
tied to it to limit the outside income of
Congress Members and to remove the
conflicts of interest that exist between,
with them and also with people serving
in the executive branch of Government.
I do think the law ought to be changed,
Gerald, to make sure that in the future, if
any sort of salary increase goes into effect,
that it not go into effect until after the
following general election. I think this
would help a great deal to make all of us
more careful about it, and it would mean
that if the Congress doesn't veto an in-
crease, that they would not get an increase
in salary until after they had to face the
voters again in the next general election.
With that change, I would be in favor
of continuing the law as it is.
MR. ANDERSON. So, there was no way
you could have stopped this increase?
318
