Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
He will be home in about a week, Joan.
We will see him together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 p.m. in the
Sheraton Hall Ballroom at the Sheraton-Park
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Ellen Wadley, president of the Washington
Press Club.
National Prayer Breakfast
Remarks at the Annual
Breakfast. January 27, 1977
Jim Wright's comments made me proud
to be a brother with him, to be an Ameri-
can, to be a child of God. And I think
what he said exemplifies the finest aspira-
tions of those who are assembled here
this morning.
Jim, I thank you for what your talk
meant to me. The first time I came to this
prayer breakfast was in 1967. One of the
Christian attributes to which many have
referred this morning is one that I had
in great abundance then, more than I do
now-and that's humility. I had just been
defeated in my first campaign for
Governor.
I thought, in response to some of the
things Jim said, I would talk about hu-
mility this morning.
The first draft of my Inaugural speech
did not include the reference to Micah's
admonition about justice and mercy and
humility. But I had chosen instead First
[Second] Chronicles, 7:14, which Con-
gressman Wright quoted this morning:
"If my people who are called by my name
shall humble themselves and pray and
seek my face and turn from their wicked
ways, then will I hear from Heaven and
forgive their sins and heal their land."
When my staff members read the first
draft of my speech they rose up in opposi-
tion to that verse. The second time I
wrote my Inaugural draft I had the same
verse in it. And they came to me en masse
and said, "The people will not under-
stand that verse. It's as though you, being
elected President, are condemning the
other people of our country, putting your-
self in the position of Solomon and saying
that all Americans are wicked."
So, correctly or wrongly, I changed it
to Micah. And I think this episode, which
is true, is illustrative of the problem that
we face. Sometimes we take for granted
that an acknowledgment of sin, an ac-
knowledgment of the need for humility
permeates the consciousness of our peo-
ple. But it doesn't. But if we know that
we can have God's forgiveness as a per-
son, I think as a nation it makes it much
easier for us to say, "God, have mercy on
me, a sinner," knowing that the only
compensation for sin is condemnation.
Then we just can't admit an error or a
weakness or a degree of hatred or forgo
pride. We as individuals—and we as a
nation-insist that we are the strongest
and the bravest and the wisest and the
best. And in that attitude, we unconsci-
ously, but in an all-pervasive way, cover
up and fail to acknowledge our mistakes
and in the process forgo an opportunity
constantly to search for a better life or a
better country.
Paul Tillich said that religion is a
search for a closer relationship with God
and our fellow man, and when we lose
the inclination to search, to a great degree
we lose our own religion.
As those of us who are Christians know,
the most constantly repeated admonition
from Christ was against pride. Sometimes
it's easier for us to be humble as indi-
viduals than it is for us to admit that our
Nation makes mistakes.
In effect, many of us worship our Na-
tion. We politicians, we leaders, in that
sometimes excessive degree of patriotism,
24
