Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 6
The reorganization process which is set
into motion today will be an open one.
We intend to involve the Congress, State
and local governments, and individual
groups and citizens who will be affected
by change. We shall depend on public
awareness and participation to help us
pinpoint problems, to originate ideas and
solutions, and to provide reactions to vari-
ous options developed by reorganization
study teams which are already at work.
In fact, I have asked that a study of the
Executive Office of the President be
undertaken immediately, and the reorga-
nization project within the Office of Man-
agement and Budget is beginning that
project now.
The reorganization program will make
a searching examination of the entire Fed-
eral structure. The program will be di-
rected by Bert Lance who shares my en-
thusiasm for and serious commitment to
the goal of making government work
better.
I do plan to give my personal attention
and support to the entire reorganization
program. Reorganization of the Federal
Government is not a simple task. It will
take energy, time, and, above all, active
cooperation among the executive branch,
the Congress, and, most importantly, the
American people. We are here to serve
the public, and I intend that this Govern-
ment will be responsive to their needs and
provide services to them in as efficient a
manner as possible.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 626 is Public Law 95-17,
approved April 6.
fact sheet released on the same
day, the White House announced that recom-
mendations for reorganization of the Executive
Office of the President will go to the President
in early June, and that the project will be
headed by Harrison Wellford, Executive Asso-
ciate Director, Office of Management and
Budget, and A. D. Frazier, Jr., Project Director.
Consumer Protection Legislation
Message to the Congress. April 6, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
The task of helping consumers under-
stand and shape the powers of their gov-
ernment has become more difficult, and
more important, through the years. As the
Federal Government has grown, indi-
vidual citizens have found it harder to
learn how and where and when to go to
influence the many government decisions
which make a difference in their lives. As
the technology of our society has become
more complex, Congress and the Presi-
dent have delegated more responsibility
to regulatory technicians, whose activities
affect consumers profoundly but are diffi-
cult for average citizens to study, influ-
ence, and understand.
For several years there has been a
movement in Congress and among the
people to create a strong voice in govern-
ment to speak up for the consumer. Today
I am recommending measures which will
expand and accelerate that movement.
The first of these measures is the crea-
tion of an Agency for Consumer Advo-
cacy, which will bring to fruition eight
years of bipartisan effort in the Congress.
This Agency will be a small, effective
group; its purpose will be to plead the
consumer's case within the government.
It will not require major additions to the
government's size or operations; in sig-
nificant part, it can be established by
drawing together resources now scattered
throughout the government. It will not
be another regulatory agency. Its purpose
is to improve the way rules, regulations,
and decisions are made and carried out,
rather than issuing new rules itself. It
will help the Congress and help me search
out programs which are inefficient or
have outlived their purpose, and will help
us correct inequities in programs and pro-
573
