Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
by antiquated and overly restrictive voter
registration laws. We can take one imme-
diate step toward solving this serious prob-
lem by removing antiquated and un-
necessary obstacles which prevent voters
from participating in the electoral process.
I am proposing to remove the unneces-
sary and unfair barriers by creating a
method of universal voter registration.
Under the legislation I will propose to the
Congress, citizens qualified to vote under
state laws could go to their polling places
on the day of a Federal election and
register there after proving their eligi-
bility. The states would be encouraged to
adopt a similar system of registration for
state and local elections.
Under this plan, state and local offi-
cials will continue to administer voter
registration and elections, and will still
register as many voters as possible prior to
election day in the usual manner, in order
to avoid congestion at the polls.
We would offer financial assistance to
the states to employ additional registrars
and to help pay the cost of registration
by mail, traveling registrars, or any other
pre-election day registration efforts the
state might choose.
State and local officials would also have
the option of using the money they re-
ceive under the plan to modernize what
are often outmoded and poorly equipped
systems of election administration. A new
office within the Federal Election Com-
mission would distribute the Federal
funds and oversee the program.
I also propose that we enact very strong
safeguards to protect the integrity of the
election process. Willful fraud in register-
ing to vote should bear the strong crimi-
nal penalties of five years imprisonment
and a $10,000 fine already found in the
Voting Rights Act. Any person who takes
part in a scheme to falsely identify or
register voters should be similarly pun-
ished, and multiple convictions should
lead to even stiffer penalties. The govern-
ment should seek injunctive relief in Fed-
eral court to stop any patterns of fraudu-
lent activity which might arise.
States should be allowed to require all
persons registering at the polls to prove
their identity and place of residence by
approved forms of identification. All
registrants should be informed of the
state's qualifications for voting and be re-
quired to sign a statement, under oath and
criminal penalty, that they meet those
qualifications.
While these safeguards are important
and necessary, I am optimistic that they
will rarely be tested and the record sug-
gests that they will rarely be needed.
This system of election-day registration
is already employed in a number of states,
and the record shows that it has usually
increased voter participation without in-
creasing voter fraud. Four out of five
states with the highest voter turnout rates
in the 1976 election permitted citizens to
register and vote on election day.
Campaign Financing
My second recommendation deals with
the way in which we pay the costs of Con-
gressional campaigns.
In 1974, Congress took the historic
step of establishing a system of public
financing for Presidential primary and
general elections. I urge the Congress to
extend this important reform to cam-
paigns for both the House and the Senate.
The record of the first publicly fi-
nanced Presidential campaign has demon-
strated that public financing is workable
the Ameri-
and widely accepted by
can people. Public financing of candidates
not only minimizes even the appearance
of obligation to special interest contribu-
tors, but also provides an opportunity for
qualified persons who lack funds to seek
public office. It would be a tragic irony if
the 1974 law, which reduced the pressure
482
