Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
how to deal with the Panama Canal, how
to let the American people know first of
all the strength of our country, and sec-
ondly, how that strength might be used
for peaceful purposes and not to domi-
nate others.
We have a tremendous reservoir of in-
herent strength in our country over which
you have authority and for which you
have a measure of responsibility. That is
the open farmlands, fields, and forests
that God has given us. I want to be sure
they are used for peace and for humani-
tarian reasons and for the welfare of all
the people in future years. I am a part-
ner with you to make sure this hope is
realized.
There is no way that any other nation
can challenge us in our capacity to pro-
duce food and fiber, and there is no way
that we can ever be deprived of this tre-
mendous advantage. It is there perma-
nently. We are stewards of that tremen-
dous gift. This has been part of my life.
My people have been in this Nation
for more than 250 years. We have all
been farmers. We have all seen the spe-
cial relationship that must exist between
those who produce food and fiber and
those who consume it. In my opinion,
there is no incompatibility between the
two.
Other nations look to us for leadership.
So it takes a combination of technology, a
knowledge of agriculture, a knowledge of
the needs of consumers, and a knowledge
of government, of politics to bring it all to-
gether. And those are the characteristics
that Secretary Bergland has so well.
As you well know now, there will be
constant comprehension and support from
the White House. Our farmers in this
country, our ranchers in this country don't
want to be welfare recipients. They don't
want handouts. They want to be treated
with respect. They want to have a maxi-
mum degree of independence and auton-
omy, an ability to utilize their own land
resources and their own human resources.
Agriculture is our biggest industry in
this Nation. We provide the major items
of export. More than half the grain that
moves in international trade is produced
in our country.
So, your influence can be profound. We
will develop within the next few weeks, by
April the 20th, a comprehensive energy
policy. We have been needing it for a long
time. Again, your Department will be
deeply involved in those basic decisions.
You already are in many ways. I know
that in the future we will see much more
clearly what we can do individually to
to make our professional lives more effec-
tive and also to make sure that we con-
tribute our share to the resolution of prob-
lems that don't directly relate to the de-
partments in which we work.
Bob Bergland says he is new around
here. So am I. I have a lot to learn. With-
in this room and within this tremendous
Department there exists talent and intelli-
gence and experience and ability and
knowledge and sensitivity and concern
that touches the lives of almost everybody
in our country. How that talent and ability
is harnessed will determine whether or
not my own administration succeeds or
fails and whether or not our Government
succeeds or fails.
There are a lot of things that you can do
to help me to be a good President. I think
we have too much democracy bogged
down and circumvented with divisions,
bureaucratic regulations, unnecessary re-
ports, forms, constraints, guidelines, inter-
ference. If you will help me, we will cut
down those interferences and let our dem-
ocracy deal with people as though they
were human beings and not just statistics.
We will have to work together on that.
Last week or so, I told the public and
the Cabinet officers that I wanted people
who write regulations, who are responsible
168
