Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
standby gas tax were triggered. GNP
would still increase and the inflation im-
pact would still be small.
III. THE PRESIDENT'S ENERGY PROGRAM
The elements of the total program are
summarized in the pages that follow.
A. CONSERVATION
1. Transportation
a. Gas-guzzler tax and rebate (legisla-
tive) Because present law and regula-
tions are insufficient to assure that needed
conservation will take place in this sector,
a graduated excise tax would be imposed
on new automobiles and light duty trucks
whose fuel economy fails to meet the ap-
plicable fuel economy standard under
existing law. Graduated rebates would be
given for automobiles and light duty
trucks whose fuel economy is better than
the standard.
The tax schedule would be fixed by
statute, and taxes would begin in model
year 1978, increase each year through
1985, and remain constant thereafter. The
rebate schedule will be adjusted each year
in advance by the IRS so that total esti-
mated rebate payments will not exceed
the estimated tax receipts. The proposed
tax and rebate table is attached as Ap-
pendix A.
Electric vehicles will be eligible for the
maximum rebate. Rebates will be avail-
able for vehicles manufactured in the
United States and Canada. Rebates would
be available for vehicles manufactured in
other countries on the basis of treaties or
executive agreements entered into be-
tween these countries and the United
States. The President's Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations will work
with other nations to develop equitable
rebate agreements.
b. Auto efficiency standards (adminis-
trative): In order to continue the progress
made to date on automobile fuel effici-
ency, the Secretary of Transportation will
begin the analysis necessary to exercise his
authority to raise mileage standards above
27.5 mpg after 1985.
c. 55-mph speed limit (administra-
tive) The President has requested that
the national 55-mph speed limit be vigor-
ously enforced by States and municipali-
ties. The Secretary of Transportation
may, if he finds it necessary, withhold
highway trust fund revenues from States
not enforcing the limit.
d. Standby gasoline tax (legislative) :
A standby gasoline tax is proposed to go
into effect if targets for gasoline consump-
tion are not met. The targets take into
account the effects of the gas-guzzler tax
and compliance with mandatory fuel
economy standards for new cars, and as-
sume some additional reduction in con-
sumption through such items as observing
speed limits and more carpooling.
The goals, listed below permit limited
increases in gasoline consumption until
1980; from 1980 to 1987, the goal consti-
tutes an achievable reduction in gasoline
consumption despite increases in total
miles traveled.
If gasoline consumption nationwide in
1978 exceeds the target set for 1978 by
1 percent or more, a 5-cents-per-gallon
tax will be imposed on January 15, 1979.
In any subsequent year, the tax will
amount to 5 cents per gallon for each
percent that consumption in the prior
year exceeded the target, except that the
tax could not be increased or reduced
more than 5 cents per year. The tax will
rise, remain the same, or fall, depending
on the prior year's record. The cumula-
tive amount of taxes applicable in any one
year may not exceed 50 cents per gallon.
Any funds collected would be rebated
to the American people progressively
through the Federal income tax system
674
