Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Loyalty Day, 1977
Proclamation 4493. March 23, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Loyalty, however we may choose to de-
fine it, must dwell in our hearts as well as
our minds. If we are to rely only on what
the heart tells us about America, it will be
the United States on all Government
buildings on that day to underscore our
renewed sense of national purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-third day
of March, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
2:53 p.m., March 23, 1977]
Federal Trade Commission
easy to blind ourselves to those problems [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
that our Nation has yet to solve as it be-
gins its third century. If we are to rely
only on the mind, it will be easy to create
justifications that help us evade responsi-
bility for our errors. Loyalty ought not to
be a leash that prevents the mind from
searching for new ideas or from asking
new questions about old ones that have
long gone unchallenged. Rather, the
loyalty we feel in our hearts should be an
anchor that keeps us faithful to the ideals
of individual dignity and worth for which
so many Americans have fought and died.
To encourage the American people to
set aside a special day to reaffirm their
loyalty to the United States and to reflect
upon their heritage, the Congress, by joint
resolution of July 18, 1958 (72 Stat. 369,
36 U.S.C. 162), designated the first day
of May of each year as Loyalty Day and
requested the President to issue a procla-
mation calling for its appropriate observ-
ance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
call upon all appropriate organizations to
celebrate Sunday, May 1, 1977, as Loyalty
Day with such ceremonies as will encour-
age the American people to reaffirm their
loyalty to the United States of America.
I also call upon the appropriate officials
of the Government to display the flag of
Nomination of Michael Pertschuk To Be a
Member of the Commission. March 23, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Michael Pertschuk, of the
District of Columbia, to be a Member of
the Federal Trade Commission. The
President indicated that upon confirma-
tion by the Senate, Pertschuk would be
designated Chairman of the Commission.
Pertschuk is chief counsel of the Senate
Commerce Committee.
He was born January 12, 1933, in Lon-
don, England. He received a B.A. degree
from Yale University in 1954 and an
LL.B. from Yale Law School in 1959.
In 1959 and 1960, Pertschuk was a law
clerk for U.S. District Judge Gus Solomon
in Portland, Oreg., and from 1960 to 1962
he was an attorney with the Portland firm
of Hart, Rockwood, Davies, Biggs &
Strayer.
Pertschuk served as legislative assistant
to U.S. Senator Maurine Neuberger from
1962 until 1964, when he became chief
counsel of the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee.
486
