June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ing to their terms and as directed in this
proclamation, including the Annex
thereto.
(2) Subpart A, part 2 of the Appendix
to the TSUS is modified as set forth in the
Annex to this proclamation.
(3) The President's authority under
section 203 (e) (2) of the Trade Act (19
U.S.C. 2253 (e) (2)), to negotiate orderly
marketing agreements with other foreign
suppliers after import relief goes into ef-
fect is hereby delegated to the Special
Representative for Trade Negotiations
(hereinafter referred to as the "Special
Representative"). The President's author-
ity under section 203 (e) (3) of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2253 (e) (3)) to determine
that any agreement negotiated pursuant
to section 203 (a) (4) or 203 (e) (2) of the
Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2253 (a) (4) and
(e) (2)) is no longer effective is hereby
delegated to the Special Representative, to
be exercised in conformity with paragraph
(4) (a) below. In the event of such a de-
termination, the Special Representative
shall prepare any proclamations that
may
be appropriate to implement import relief
authorized by section 203 (e) (3) of the
Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2253 (e) (3)). The
President's authority in section 203 (g)
(1) and (2) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.
2253(g) (1) and (2)) to prescribe regula-
tions governing the entry, or withdrawal
from warehouse, for consumption of ar-
ticles covered by the orderly marketing
agreements and to issue rules and regula-
tions governing the entry, or withdrawal
from warehouse, for consumption of like
articles which are the product of countries
not parties to such agreements, has been
delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury
pursuant to section 5(b) of Executive Or-
der No. 11846. Such authority shall be
exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury,
upon direction by the Special Representa-
tive in consultation with representatives
of member agencies of the Trade Policy
Staff Committee.
(4) In exercising the authority dele-
gated in paragraph (3) above, the Spe-
cial Representative shall, in addition to
other necessary actions, institute the fol-
lowing actions:
(a) Should the export restraint levels
specified in the orderly marketing agree-
ments described in paragraph (1) above,
and in the Annex to this proclamation be
exceeded, or should imports from coun-
tries not parties to such agreements in-
crease in such quantities as to disrupt the
effectiveness of the orderly marketing
agreements, the Special Representative,
after consultation with representatives of
member agencies of the Trade Policy
Staff Committee, may make a determi-
nation that for the purposes of section
203 (e)(3) of the Trade Act the orderly
marketing agreements do not continue to
be effective.
(b) Beginning on June 28, 1977, if
during any restraint period the quantity
of imports of footwear of the types cov-
ered by the agreements, from countries
other than the Republic of China and the
Republic of Korea, appear likely to dis-
rupt the effectiveness of the provisions of
the orderly marketing agreements de-
scribed in paragraph (1) above, the Spe-
cial Representative may initiate consulta-
tions with those countries responsible for
such disruptions and may prevent further
entry of such articles for the remainder of
that restraint period or may otherwise
moderate or restrict imports of such
articles from such countries pursuant to
section 203 (g) (2) of the Trade Act. Be-
fore exercising this authority, the Special
Representative shall consult with repre-
sentatives of the member agencies of the
Trade Policy Staff Committee.
(c) Should the Special Representative
determine, pursuant to this proclamation,
to institute import restrictions on articles
1150
