May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q.—[inaudible]—individuals in other
nations in the next 7 years and 8 months.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
my Monday night speech on energy was
an exaggeration at all, Joe. The key
people who have studied the energy ques-
tion for years, some of the experts within
the Congress, world leaders in other na-
tions, the industries involved themselves,
and economists, all feel that unless we do
something we are going to have devastat-
ing consequences to our own economy, to
our balance of trade deficits and, ulti-
mately, to an increasing vulnerability if
foreign supplies are withdrawn for some
reason.
We have set goals for 1985 that are
achieveable. And it is hard to imagine the
concern that other nations in the world
feel about the gross waste of energy that
takes place in this country. I believe that
we have worked out-and I might say this
has been surprising-a means by which
we can reach those goals with a mini-
mum of sacrifice on the part of the Amer-
ican people, compared to what I thought
it was going to be when we began this
study.
Dr. Schlesinger has had a wide-ranging
background, and he has worked on this
full-time for the last 4 or 5 months. And
I don't think that I exaggerated the con-
sequences to our country if we are not
able to adopt and implement the com-
prehensive energy proposals that we put
forward, or solutions very close to those
that we did advocate.
JAPAN AND CHINA
Q. Mr. President, as a Japanese, I wish
to take this opportunity to thank you for
your wise decision to appoint Senator
Mansfield to Japan as the new American
Ambassador. The Japanese are all very
happy not only because we know he is a
man of character and duty but also be-
cause we've found that you value Japan
as a very important key country in capac-
ity and [inaudible]. At the same time,
however, we feel a little disappointed that
at the end of your 100 days, you will soon
be in Europe while you have no plans-
no definite plans to pay a visit to Asia, in-
cluding Japan or China.
In view of the importance of U.S.-
China relations as well as U.S.-Japan re-
lations, we strongly feel that you had bet-
ter visit Japan and China as soon as
possible. How do you feel about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's very gra-
cious of you to say that. As a matter of
fact, the last foreign country that I visited
was Japan. And I only intend to make one
trip outside our country this year and
that will be to the London Conference.
And while there, I'll go to Geneva to meet
with President Asad from Syria.
As you know, Prime Minister Fukuda
has had a very good meeting with me
here. So have, I think, 11 other leaders
of foreign countries. And he will be with
us in London.
I look upon our relationships with Ja-
pan as being crucial to peace on a con-
tinuing basis in the western part of the
Pacific. And my own hope is that with
careful prior consultation before we make
a decision that affects the world economy,
in which Japan plays such a large role, or
any matter that relates to political or dip-
lomatic or military affairs in the Western
Pacific, that this can strengthen our ties
with Japan.
I would like to see Japan play a much
more aggressive role in both economics
and politics. And one of the things that
we think can be accomplished in the Lon-
don meeting is to have a growing close-
ness between Japan and the European
Community-which we presently have,
both with Japan and the European Com-
munity nations.
792
