Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
in the past will improve the international
economic environment. It will create ad-
ditional volumes of trade. Certainly, the
stabilization programs will reduce infla-
tion. And through this improved inter-
national environment, and through the
commitment to meet those targets, the
overall situation is likely to be improved.
There was no effort on the part of the
heads of government to find a solution, to
find the formula for dealing with inflation
and for dealing with unemployment in
their individual countries. There was an
effort to see how they could work together
in order to make that situation for each
of them better.
FOREIGN TRADE
Q. Mr. Secretary, with respect to your
rejection of protectionism, you still reserve
the right to avoid significant market dis-
ruption. If any country can characterize
its problem as significant market disrup-
tions, wouldn't protectionism still grow
under that flag?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. I don't
really think so. We interpret that as a
reference, and it's generally interpreted
as a reference to the existing arrange-
ments that now exist and the rights that
exist under the GATT for countries who
face particular problems of disruption, to
get some relief, sometimes for temporary
periods of time. The GATT has specific
provisions for that. And this particular
paragraph merely calls attention to the
fact that as further liberalization takes
place, these rights, of course, are not
affected by them.
Q. Mr. Secretary, what is the difference
between the part of the communique em-
phasizing the readiness of the heads of
government to meet the targets they have
set themselves in sovereignty between that
old practice in the OECD to have repre-
sentatives talk in various groups about
targets and establishing when the govern-
ments are to meet those targets? I don't
see a difference. How do you see the
difference?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. In the past,
countries have indicated what it is that
they hope to do. In this particular in-
stance, the heads of government have not
only indicated what it is that they hope to
do but they have given a pledge that they
will, if they fail, fall short of it, take the
necessary measures to make sure that they
achieve their targets.
CONFERENCE ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Q. Mr. Secretary, given what you have
said here today, and Secretary Vance as
well, just how disappointed is the Ameri-
can delegation that something substantial
is not accomplished? [Laughter] Seriously,
how disappointed are you?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. We are not
at all disappointed. We are quite pleased,
because we believe that very substantial
results have been accomplished. There
have been a number of specific things
that have been done in the area of setting
targets and the commitment that they will
be met, in the commitment of all of us
to strengthen international institutions,
both the IMF and the World Bank, in the
decision to give a real impetus to the
trade negotiations which have been stalled
for some time, in finding a solution to the
nuclear problem
nuclear problem to which Secretary
Vance has referred, in the decision to col-
laborate and take some specific steps in
the North-South dialog, and to resolve to
make the CIEC ministerial meetings and
these discussions a success, in the matter
of illicit payments, and a variety of other
ways. We think that kind of complete
agreement, the way in which the leaders
got to know each other, that they worked
out these problems, represents a consid-
erable success. But perhaps Secretary
Vance would like to add to that further.
SECRETARY VANCE. NO.
833
