Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 29
Among the reasons for the Commerce
Department's favorable recommendation
are the timeliness and importance of the
theme of energy. The Knoxville area was
judged appropriate because of its energy
contributions in the past and the proxim-
ity of the Oak Ridge National Labora-
tories, the Tennessee Valley Authority,
and other energy projects.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. April 28, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
one new deferral of budget authority
amounting to $6.0 million for the anti-
recession financial assistance fund of the
Department of the Treasury. In addition,
I am reporting a revision in the basis for
and a reduction in the amount of a pre-
viously transmitted Department of Com-
merce deferral.
The details of each deferral are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
April 28, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the defer-
rals are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
May 4, 1977.
The message was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Agency for International
Development
Nomination of Frederick T. Van Dyk To Be an
Assistant Administrator. April 29, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Frederick T. Van Dyk, of
Potomac, Md., to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the Agency for International
Development. His area of responsibility
will be the Bureau for Interagency De-
velopment Coordination. Van Dyk is
president of Van Dyk Associates, a Wash-
ington public and governmental affairs
consulting service.
He was born on October 6, 1934, in
Bellingham, Wash. He graduated from
the University of Washington in 1955 and
received an M.S. in 1956 from the Colum-
bia University Graduate School of Jour-
nalism. He subsequently worked as a
reporter and editor for the Seattle Times
and United Press, and in private business
in Boston and New York.
After military service (Army Intelli-
gence) in Washington, D.C., he served
from 1962 to 1964 as a public affairs and
information representative there on be-
half of the European Communities (Com-
mon Market, Euratom, Coal and Steel
Community).
From 1964 to 1968, Van Dyk was assist-
ant to Senator and Vice President Hubert
Humphrey, serving as his chief speech-
writer, his National Security Council
and Cabinet staff assistant, and as direc-
tor of Cabinet task forces on travel and
textile policy chaired by Vice President
Humphrey.
In 1968-69 Van Dyk served as vice
president for public affairs at Columbia
University. In late 1969 he returned to
Washington to found Van Dyk Associates.
Van Dyk served as a member of the
Democratic Policy Council from 1969 to
1972, as a principal author of the 1968,
1972, and 1976 Democratic platforms,
and as an adviser to the Carter-Mondale
campaign and transition. He chaired the
domestic affairs session of the National
Democratic Issues Conference in 1975
and is vice chairman of the National
Democratic Forum.
739
