Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
tion know that the Government really
cares about them.
I was over yesterday to the Commerce
Department, and a man named Dr. John
Taylor, in the Statistical Division, intro-
duced me, who had gone to work in the
Commerce Department in 1929. He was
finishing 48 years of service this year.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The continuity of government is some-
thing that's ever present on my mind. As
I walk into the rooms and into the halls of
the White House where great Presidents
of the past have been, I have a sense of
history. I also have a sense of crisis and
challenge and disappointment, but, at the
same time, a realization that the Ameri-
can people have always been strong
enough to compensate for mistakes that
are often made by leaders of our Gov-
ernment.
As all of you know, in the last few years
there have been disappointments and
and embarrassments and, sometimes, even
shame, brought about not through any
fault of your own-the professional, qual-
ified civil servants of our Nation—but by
political leaders in making judgments
concerning Vietnam and Cambodia and
Watergate and the CIA revelations and
the FBI violations of the law.
Well, I think it's time for us to realize,
too, that our Government is a good gov-
ernment. It represents accurately, when
we do our best, what the American people
are and what the American people would
like to be.
And instead of being an embarrassment
and a source of alienation, I hope that in
the next few years, that we can provide a
sense of inspiration, a legitimate hope,
and a sense of partnership and mutual
appreciation between Pat Harris and my-
self and you on the one hand, and the
American people on the other.
I doubt that anyone has ever conducted
the kind of campaign for President that
I've experienced in the last 2 or more
years-constant walking the streets, meet-
ing people in their homes, standing in fac-
tory shift lines, listening to injured citi-
zens, visiting abandoned homes, deterio-
rating neighborhoods, hopeless people in
a nation that's economically the strong-
est on Earth.
And I hope to do all I can to repair the
suffering and to answer the difficult ques-
tions and to separate what's good in our
Government and ought to be preserved
from what is not good in our Government
and ought to be changed.
I'm not afraid of change. I know you
aren't either. You work in a department
that's constantly probing ways of correc-
tion of mistakes of the past.
I'm no better than you are,
and Patricia
Harris is no better than you are. And none
of us in this enormous room are any bet-
ter than the people that we serve. But
sometimes government officials, includ-
ing, obviously, the President, are tempted
to think that we have a position of lead-
ership because we deserve it. And we
therefore take a position that those that
we serve don't have the last voice, that
their claims are not legitimate, and that
we ought to ignore their criticisms and
suggestions.
This Department and the employees in
it, both in Washington and outside of
Washington, have a nationwide sense of
what our country's problems might be and
how they might be resolved.
We have an opportunity to make those
beneficial changes in the organizational
structure of the Government itself and in
the efficiency and capability and sensi-
tivity with which authorized services are
delivered. But it's a human thing. It's not
an autocratic thing. It's not a bureau-
cratic thing. It's not derived by regula-
tions or guidelines. It's not derived by a
133
