Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
The President issued the following
statement on signing the bill:
"This bill marks a step toward increas-
ing the availability of mortgage loans,
broadening the financial services and
pro-
tection available to consumers, and en-
couraging a more competitive financial
market.
"Toward these objectives, I note that
this measure permits credit unions to
make mortgage loans for up to 30 years
and to offer a broader range of consumer
services.
"The bill also extends Regulation Q for
912 months. This extension will permit the
administration to examine Regulation Q
in the context of our broader objectives:
increasing consumer services, facilitating
a steadier supply of mortgage credit,
broadening competition, and protecting
public confidence in the stability of finan-
cial institutions. In the weeks ahead, we
will work closely with the Congress to de-
termine the best approach to meet these
goals."
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 3365 is Public Law
95-22, approved April 19.
The statement was made available by the
White House Press Office. It was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Address Delivered Before a Joint Session of the Congress.
April 20, 1977
Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress, and distinguished
guests:
The last time we met as a group was exactly 3 months ago today,
on Inauguration Day. We have had a good beginning as partners in
addressing our Nation's problems.
But in the months ahead, we must work together even more closely
to deal with the greatest domestic challenge that our Nation will face in
our lifetime. We must act now-together-to devise and to implement a
comprehensive national energy plan to cope with a crisis that otherwise
could overwhelm us.
This cannot be an inspirational speech tonight. I don't expect much
applause. It's a sober and a difficult presentation. During the last 3 months,
I have come to realize very clearly why a comprehensive energy policy
has not already been evolved. It's been a thankless job, but it is our job.
And I believe that we have a fair, well-balanced, and effective plan to pre-
sent to you. It can lead to an even better life for the people of America.
The heart of our energy problem is that we have too much demand
for fuel that keeps going up too quickly, while production goes down. And
our primary means of solving this problem is to reduce waste and
inefficiency.
663
