Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the current shortage of natural gas and
put thousands of Americans back to work.
I have turned the thermostat down in
the White House and have ordered it re-
duced in all Government buildings. And I
ask everyone in the country to cooperate
so that no one will have to go without cru-
cial heat.
Finally, I must say to you quite frankly
that this is not a temporary request for
conservation. Our energy problems will
not be over next year or the year after.
Further sacrifices in addition to lowering
thermostats may well be necessary. But I
believe this country is tough enough and
strong enough to meet that challenge. And
I ask all Americans to cooperate in mini-
mizing the adverse effect on the lives of
our people.
Thank you very much.
I would like to introduce now Dr. James
Schlesinger, who is an assistant to me for
energy measures. He will answer ques-
tions concerning this legislation and other
questions concerning energy and energy
policy.
Dr. Schlesinger.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Washington Press Club Dinner
Remarks at the Annual Dinner Honoring New
Members of Congress. January 26, 1977
Mrs. Carter [laughter]-ladies and gen-
tlemen, and Madam President:
So far I have enjoyed very much being
in Washington. Many of the things I have
heard about it have turned out to be
true-[laughter-I am sorry to say.
I had been anticipating the Inaugural
ceremonies and parade for a long time. I
could see the burst of glory that would
come to me at the conclusion of the cere-
monies, and I could hardly wait. As we
entered the limousine at the conclusion of
the oath ceremony and got out on Consti-
tution Avenue, and all of us very quietly
left the limousine and I started walking
down the highway and streets and could
hear the vast crowd saying, "Look, look,
look"-and I was feeling very good until
they said, "There goes Billy's brother.”
[Laughter]
The next day, Mayor Washington, who
was born about 20 miles from where I
live, called and said he wanted to thank
me for restoring the faith in his city by
walking on the street unprotected and by
getting my brother back to Plains.
[Laughter]
I feel at home with these other new kids
in town. I know that some of them have
not been here before—Barbara Mikulski
and Jim Guy Tucker and others. I re-
member that when I went to the Naval
Academy, as a plebe I was a new kid
then, too. And they used to try to make
me sing "Marching Through Georgia."
I never would do it. [Applause] Two
months ago, nobody would have clapped.
[Laughter]
I always got a paddling with a long
wooden spoon. One advantage about be-
ing President is that you can watch Griffin
Bell take the punishment. [Laughter]
I went over today to administer the
oath of office in the Department of Jus-
tice, and we very ceremoniously swung
open the tremendous steel door that had
been locked since 1970. I made a little
talk for the benefit of the news media
about not separating the people from their
access to justice and to let our people
come in, even the demonstrators. And
Griffin later said, "Governor, I know you
want to be honest and always tell the
truth.” I said, “That is right." He said,
"Well, the truth is that is not why I
W
22
