Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 15
National Employ the Older
Worker Week, 1977
Proclamation 4487. February 14, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our prosperity as a nation rests on our
productivity as workers. Our happiness as
individuals begins with our ability to find
useful, rewarding jobs.
That is why I feel it so important that
jobs be available for all our people able
to perform them-people in every region,
of every religion and color, and of every
age. Time and again in our history we
have benefitted from the skill and dedica-
tion of our older workers. But too often
prejudices and stereotypes-not limita-
tions of ability-have kept older Ameri-
cans from fulfilling their full potential at
work.
and local officials, as well as labor, busi-
ness, veterans, farm, religious, scientific,
professional and other groups, to join
with older workers in making the Ameri-
can people aware of the value of em-
ploying older men and women. I urge all
Americans to observe this week with ap-
propriate ceremonies, activities and pro-
grams designed to promote employment
opportunities for older workers.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 14th day of Feb-
ruary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:07 p.m., February 15, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on February 15.
Nomination of Five Persons.
February 15, 1977
The law now recognizes our special re- Department of Justice
sponsibility to assure older workers an
equal chance for jobs and promotions.
Many private groups and organizations
are now working to improve prospects for
older workers. These efforts deserve our
vigorous support.
To encourage and support educational
efforts designed to make employers more
aware of the advantages of hiring older
workers, the Congress, by joint resolution
approved April 21, 1976 (90 Stat. 396),
has requested the President to issue a
proclamation designating the week begin-
ning March 13, 1977, as National Employ
the Older Worker Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby designate the week begin-
ning March 13, 1977, as National Employ
the Older Worker Week. I call upon State
The President today announced that
he will nominate five persons to positions
in the Justice Department. They are:
WADE H. MCCREE, JR., of Detroit, Mich., to
be Solicitor General;
BARBARA BABCOCK, of Palo Alto, Calif., to be
an Assistant Attorney General for the Civil
Division;
BENJAMIN R. CIVILETTI, of Baltimore, Md., to
be an Assistant Attorney General for the
Criminal Division;
DREW S. DAYS III, of New York, N.Y., to be
an Assistant Attorney General for the Civil
Rights Division; and
PATRICIA M. WALD, of Chevy Chase, Md., to
be an Assistant Attorney General for Legis-
lative Affairs.
Wade McCree is currently U.S. Cir-
cuit Judge for the 6th Circuit Court of
155
