June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ford also had separate discussions with
both Prime Minister Caramanlis and
Prime Minister Demirel. I believe both
governments now appreciate the depth of
our interest and determination to assist in
achieving a lasting Cyprus settlement.
We intend to work actively during the
summer months and into the fall toward
this end. I would hope it will soon be pos-
sible in these periodic reports to Congress
to record real progress toward the just
and lasting Cyprus settlement which the
United States seeks.
The White House,
June 22, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Withholding of Income or
Employment Taxes by
Federal Agencies
Executive Order 11997. June 22, 1977
WITHHOLDING OF DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, STATE, CITY AND COUNTY INCOME
OR EMPLOYMENT TAXES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Sections 5516, 5517 and 5520 of Title 5
of the United States Code, and Section
301 of Title 3 of the United States Code,
and as President of the United States of
America, in order to authorize the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to provide for the
withholding of county income or employ-
ment taxes as authorized by Section 5520
of Title 5 of the United States Code as
amended by Section 408 of Public Law
95-30, as well as to provide for the with-
holding of District of Columbia, State
and city income or employment taxes, it
is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Whenever the Secretary of
the Treasury enters into an agreement
pursuant to Sections 5516, 5517 or 5520
of Title 5 of the United States Code, with
the District of Columbia, a State, a city
or a county, as the case may be, with re-
gard to the withholding, by an agency of
the United States, hereinafter referred to
as an agency, of income or employment
taxes from the pay of Federal employees
or members of the Armed Forces, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall ensure
that each agreement is consistent with
those sections and regulations, including
this Order, issued thereunder.
SEC. 2. Each agreement shall provide
(a) when tax withholding shall begin, (b)
that the head of an agency may rely on the
withholding certificate of an employee or
a member of the Armed Forces in with-
holding taxes, (c) that the method for
calculating the amount to be withheld for
District of Columbia, State, city or county
income or employment taxes shall produce
approximately the tax required to be with-
held by the District of Columbia or State
law, or city or county ordinance, which-
ever is applicable, and (d) that proce-
dures for the withholding, filing of returns,
and payment of the withheld taxes to the
District of Columbia, a State, a city or a
county shall conform to the usual fiscal
practices of agencies. Any agreement af-
fecting members of the Armed Forces shall
also provide that the head of an agency
may rely on the certificate of legal resi-
dence of a member of the Armed Forces
in determining his or her residence for
tax withholding purposes. No agreement
shall require the collection by an agency
of delinquent tax liabilities of an employee
or a member of the Armed Forces.
SEC. 3. The head of each agency shall
designate, or provide for the designation
of, the officers or employees whose duty it
shall be to withhold taxes, file required
returns, and direct payment of the taxes
withheld, in accordance with this Order,
any regulations prescribed by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, and the new appli-
cable agreement.
1138
