May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tion results in Israel. I have a good hope
that we can work something out, in addi-
tion, to let our European allies know how
strongly committed we are to the strength-
ening of NATO and the cooperation with
them.
We've been successful in the recent
summit meeting, I think, and also in my
visit throughout England and Switzer-
land, in reestablishing a clear-cut concept
of what our Nation is, what it stands for.
And the outpouring of affection and ap-
probation that was demonstrated on this
recent trip was not, I don't think, for me
a personal thing but just an appreciation
of our European allies that the devastating
times for Watergate and Vietnam and
CIA revelations and Cambodia, and so
forth, are over, and that the United States
once again is a clean, admirable, strong,
competent entity.
We've got some results already, I think,
on economics. When I took office, we had
about an 8.1 percent unemployment. It
has dropped to 7 percent. I don't claim
credit for that, but I do think that this is
derived from a renewed confidence among
consumers in what our country is going to
be in the future. There has been an in-
crease in consumer spending, and we have
recent independent results from McGraw-
Hill, a very respected economic analyst
group, that investment plans by business
for the next year will be up about 18 per-
cent compared to this past year. Discount-
ing for inflation, it would still be above a
10 percent growth in business investment
plans. So, there's a general feeling of con-
fidence and hope, I think, in our country.
I've enjoyed being President so far be-
tween 3 and 4 months. We, I think, are
staying up quite well with this multi-
plicity of sometimes related and some-
times isolated challenges and develop-
ments. I think the best way for me to
spend my time now rather than continu-
ing to enumerate matters that come to me
for a decision, would be to answer your
questions.
QUESTIONS
CUBA
Q. Mr. President, today is Cuba's In-
dependence Day, May 20, so the question
is about Cuba. Will you, sir, insist on your
policy of human rights when dealing with
Cuba in the future? How far will you go
in that?
THE PRESIDENT. We have had no indi-
cation from Castro that Cuba is interested
in the restoration of diplomatic relations
with us.
When I was first in office and went
over to speak at the Agriculture Depart-
ment, a question was asked by one of the
employees there about what we hope to
achieve in the process of restoring those
normal relationships. One thing that I
pointed out was a demonstration by the
Cubans of their commitment to the hu-
man rights concept, particularly by re-
leasing some of the thousands of political
prisoners that they have had incarcerated
for a number of years, 15 or 20 years;
secondly, the abstaining by the Cubans of
their involvement in the internal affairs
of nations, particularly in Africa, and a
refraining on their part from disruptive
practices in the Caribbean, particularly
their insistence that Puerto Rico be inde-
pendent of us. Of course, we want Puerto
Rico to make their own decision about
what their status should be.
We have successfully concluded a fish-
eries agreement and a maritime agree-
ment with Cuba. And my guess is that in
the near future we will have some diplo-
matic officials in Cuba and some Cuban
diplomatic officials in Washington, not in
our own embassies, but just as observers.
I don't know what Castro's intentions
are. I have had no indication that he
wants to proceed any more rapidly than
we are proceeding, but those are elements
946
