Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
knowing what's going to come next, I
think the people will learn something and
I know I will learn a lot about what is of
interest to them. Also, I believe that if
there are tens of thousands of folks who
want to get through and can't do it, in
listening to the other questions that are
asked, they are likely to get an answer to
their questions. I am looking forward to
the 2 hours. And whenever you are ready,
I am.
MR. CRONKITE. All right, Mr. Presi-
dent, we're ready here, and I think that
Joseph Willman of Sterling Heights,
Michigan, is ready out there in Sterling
Heights with the first question. Go ahead,
Mr. Willman.
UGANDA
MR. WILLMAN. First of all, I'd like to
say good afternoon to President Carter
and Mr. Cronkite. My question right now
is, according to the UPI story in today's
Detroit News, Idi Amin has sent squads
that have killed 7,000 Christians. With
this and other happenings there, how can
we with good conscience trust a man with
such an ego [inaudible] and if the time
arises will we use force to get them out,
even though confrontation with this coun-
try is expected by Amin?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's hard to
know how to answer that question about
future events. As you know, we had what
was on the border of a crisis last weekend.
The attitude that we took was constantly
to monitor what is going on in Uganda, to
deal directly with Amin in a very forceful
way, to let him know that we were expect-
ing American lives to be protected.
We also got the help of several national
leaders who are quite close to Amin. Pri-
marily those are of the Moslem faith, and
they contacted him directly.
We also got the Federal Republic of
Germany, West Germany, who has diplo-
matic leaders in Uganda, in Entebbe,
Uganda, to contact Amin.
And he was constantly giving me as-
surance through cables that the Ameri-
cans would not be hurt. As you know, the
outcome of that weekend's tension was
that he eventually said that the meeting
with the Americans was called off, and
that anyone who wanted to leave or come
into Uganda from our country would be
permitted to do so.
I think that it's obvious that we'll do
whatever we can to protect American lives
throughout the world. We have in the
past, before I became President, informed
the American people in Uganda—and I
might say in several other countries
around the world-that there was a po-
tentially dangerous circumstance for
them and that if they were primarily con-
cerned with a peaceful life, they ought to
change countries.
We do know that most of the persons
who are Americans in Uganda are mis-
sionaries, deeply committed to their own
religious faith. They've got an option to
leave and they've decided to stay. So, I
think at this time I feel that the American
lives there will be protected.
We did act, I think, forcefully and ef-
fectively with Amin; we had a lot of help
from other nations. And I can't say what
I will do in the future except to try to
handle the situation similarly to what I
did last weekend.
MR. CRONKITE. All right, let's take our
next caller. It's Pete Belloni of Denver,
Colorado.
MR. BELLONI. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
MR. BELLONI. How are you?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
GASOLINE TAX
MR. BELLONI. Good. Mr. President,
your proposal of increasing the gasoline
292
