Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
old. She's in the fourth grade and goes
to a public school near here.
I haven't been all over the White
House yet; I haven't had a chance to see
it. So you perhaps, know more about it
than I. I haven't even been in the East
Wing at all. But it's a good, pleasant
place to work, and I am very glad to wel-
come you here to visit with me.
How long will you be in Washington,
do you know? Just today? And what have
you had a chance to visit so far? You can
spend a whole week just in the Smith-
sonian. That is great.
Well, I want to welcome you here.
Does anybody have a question or two?
B-I BOMBER
Q. Are you going to cut funds for the
B-1 bomber and other military expendi-
tures?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. I
had scheduled this morning-we've al-
ready had it—a National Security Coun-
cil meeting with myself, the head of the
Defense Department, the number one
military officer in the Nation-General
George Brown-the Secretary of State,
and my special adviser on national secu-
rity affairs.
The B-1 bomber is one of those items,
of course, that we will have to consider,
along with the cruise missiles and a new
kind of intercontinental ballistic missile.
My own hope as President is to explore
every possible way to work with the Soviet
Union and with other potential enemies
of ours, who at this point seem to be our
friends, to cut down dependence on weap-
ons of all kinds. And I would like for
our Nation to take the leadership role.
But before I make a decision on the
B-1 bomber, I will have to know more
about its capability, its cost, what we have
in the way of other weapons systems. And
also, I think, over a few months, after
my own Secretary of State meets with the
leaders in Russia and after, later on this
year, I meet with Mr. Brezhnev-who's
the head of the Soviet Union Govern-
ment at that point, I can see how much
they are willing to cut back on their de-
fense capabilities.
I hope that the Soviet Union and the
United States can take the leadership
among all nations of the world to cut
down dependence on weapons systems-
atomic weapons systems and new systems
like the B-1.
But I have not yet decided what to do
about the B-1. I will probably decide later
on this spring.
NATURAL GAS
Q. What are you going to do about the
natural gas shortage?
THE PRESIDENT. We now have, as you
know, the most severe winter in the his-
tory of our country, so far as I know.
I was informed by the Senator from
Maryland, yesterday, that the ice in some
of the little inlets around the Chesapeake
Bay area is 24 inches thick. They've never
seen it before, and fishermen's boats are
being crushed, and a lot of the docks are
being destroyed. The fishermen are out of
work. So I gave a special allotment of
your tax moneys to them to help them
have money to buy food.
We have submitted to the Congress a
special emergency legislation-that I hope
the Congress will pass very quickly—that
lets me have the authority to take natural
gas from areas of our country where there
lot of it and distribute it very quickly
to other areas of the country where there
is not very much of it. Under the present
law, the President does not have this
authority.
It also would give the gas companies
the right to sell additional natural gas at a
higher price. Now we have a very peculiar
law that says that if you sell gas within the
State where the gas comes from, you can
28
