May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Washington University School of Law,
1970-73.
Agency for International
Development
Nomination of John H. Sullivan To Be an
Assistant Administrator. May 5, 1977
Mr. Levin received his B.A. from the
University of Chicago, where he was
president of the student government. He
received an M.A. degree in international
relations from Columbia University in
1954 and an LL.B. from Harvard Uni-
versity in 1957.
The President announced today that he Department of State
will nominate John H. Sullivan, of Vir-
ginia, to be Assistant Administrator of
the Agency for International Develop-
ment (Bureau of Asia).
Mr. Sullivan has been a professional
staff member of the House Committee on
International Relations (formerly For-
eign Affairs Committee) since 1969 and
in 1975 was named senior staff consult-
ant.
Born May 25, 1935, in Toledo, Ohio,
Mr. Sullivan obtained a B.A. and M.A.
in journalism from Marquette University.
He received a Ph. D. in international re-
lations from the American University in
1968.
He is a former reporter for the Spring-
field, Ohio, Sun and Milwaukee Sentinel.
Nomination of George S. Vest To Be an
Assistant Secretary. May 5, 1977
The President announced today that he
will nominate George S. Vest, of Mary-
land, a Foreign Service officer of the Class
of Career Minister, to be Assistant Secre-
tary of State for European Affairs.
Mr. Vest, from 1974 to 1977, served as
Director of the Bureau of Politico-Mili-
tary Affairs in the Department of State.
The President today withdrew the
nomination of Mr. Vest as Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to Pakistan, to which post
he was nominated on April 7, 1977.
Agency for International
Development
Nomination of Sander Martin Levin To Be an
Assistant Administrator. May 5, 1977
The President announced today that he
will nominate Sander Martin Levin, of
Michigan, to be an Assistant Administra-
tor of the Agency for International Devel-
opment (Bureau for Population).
Born September 6, 1931, in Detroit,
Mr. Levin is counsel with Beer and Boltz
in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
Department of the Interior
Nomination of Robert H. Mendelsohn To Be
an Assistant Secretary. May 5, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert H. Mendelsohn, of
California, to be an Assistant Secretary
of the Interior (Management, Program
Development and Budget). Mr. Mendel-
sohn is a member of the board of super-
visors of San Francisco and is a real estate
consultant.
Born January 11, 1938, Mr. Mendel-
sohn is a graduate of the University of
California at Berkeley, where he received
804
