Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the various visits, messages that I brought
from foreign leaders, observations that I
made about different concerns to the
President, and did not involve future
pos-
sible missions.
ABU DAOUD
Q. Mr. Vice President, did you discuss
with President Giscard d'Estaing the re-
lease by the French court of the gentle-
man Abu Daoud?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Yes. I brought it
up briefly and mentioned our President's
concern, and then we talked about, in gen-
eral terms, the need to deal with terror-
ism.
TERRORISM
Q. Do you think that the subject of
terrorism followup should be a matter for
the summit to consider when it meets?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I would just as
soon not discuss particular topics at this
point, because I think the nations offering
the proposals did so in confidence.
GERMANY AND JAPAN
Q. Mr. Vice President, before this
trip, several of this administration's of-
ficials were expressing concern that the
Germans and the Japanese were not mov-
ing quickly enough to reflate their econ-
omies. Did you achieve any agreement
from these two governments in this area?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. We made very
clear, first of all, our belief that the
stronger economies-which you might call
the three great engines, the United States,
Japan, and Germany-that are now in
strong economic positions do so, should
stimulate their economies sufficiently to
assist other nations that are in difficulty,
so that they would have increased export
and, thus, employment opportunities as
the result of a heightened acceleration of
international economic activities, and that
our three nations, particularly because we
are strong economically, should assume
as much of that burden as possible.
We also pointed out that because of
OPEC surpluses, that we had responsi-
bility to try to assume part of that result-
ant world deficit in the planning of our
economic programs. We made that point
with great care and strength. And then, I
also reported in some detail on our own
economic stimulation package. The other
governments then reported on their plans.
There is complete agreement on the
part of their leadership, as well as our
own, on the need to stimulate. The size,
the proportion, the prudence, the relation
to inflation becomes exceedingly complex.
And what we've agreed to do is to pursue
our policies, to consult closely, to monitor
the economic indicators as we proceed, to
see if we're achieving our jointly agreed
objective on a stimulative policy that will
help these other nations and help bring
about a higher level of international eco-
nomic activities, bearing in mind the prob-
lem of inflation as well.
PAUL RAND DIXON
Q. Mr. Vice President, before you re-
turned, had the news of Commissioner
Dixon's statement about "dirty Arab" 1
reached overseas, and do you feel that
the Carter administration should apolo-
gize to the Arab nations for this?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I would like, if I
might, to stay with the ground rules that
my news secretary announced. I have just
returned from that long trip, and I'm not
up to speed on some of those matters.
FOREIGN NUCLEAR SALES
Q. Mr. Vice President, if both the Ger-
mans and, I believe, the French claim that
ยน On January 17, Federal Trade Commis-
sioner Dixon, while attending a convention of
the Grocery Association of America, referred to
Ralph Nader as a "dirty Arab." Mr. Nader,
head of Public Citizen, Inc., is of Lebanese
descent.
60
