Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 22
continent of Asia and also, of course, in
the Western Pacific.
We have strong treaty ties to Australia
and to New Zealand. And we look with
great sense of gratitude and commitment
to the maintenance of these ties, which
are unshakable and which have been of
long standing and which, of course, will
be permanent in the future.
When our nations have been endan-
gered because of war, our people have
stood shoulder to shoulder. Four times in
this century alone we have shared with
the great people of Australia a common
commitment to fight when necessary to
preserve a permanent peace.
These ties have strengthened our re-
solve to communicate with one another,
to consult with one another, and to share
the future with one another.
We now are exploring new ways to
preserve the peace. Under the leadership
of Prime Minister Fraser, Australia has
laid down the strictest possible regulations
to protect the world from the further pro-
liferation of atomic explosives.
They are setting an example for us and
other nations to emulate. And our own
Nation's commitments to nonprolifera-
tion will certainly be strengthened and en-
hanced by the fine example that has been
set by Prime Minister Fraser and his own
government in Australia.
This is a morning which brings honor
to our country, a chance to have this great
leader visit us.
As we leave this platform and go into
the detailed discussions of the future of
our two countries, it's with a sense of as-
surance that because of our past friend-
ships and sharing of challenge and oppor-
tunity that the future will bind us even
closer to one another.
Prime Minister Fraser, you are wel-
come to the United States.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
I would like to thank you very much in-
deed for your warmth and for your wel-
come this morning. It is indeed a great
pleasure to be in Washington again.
Mr. President, you have recognized and
stated clearly the need for the democra-
cies to consult more closely and work in
cooperation, one with the other, and to
show unity and strength of purpose. I
think we all have to realize the need for
increased communication, increased co-
operation between democracies.
Confidence in ourselves and the values
we share and the capacity and strength of
free people is essential if progress is to be
made in resolving problems faced by
mankind. These problems are of urgent
and fundamental importance to all of us.
We are faced by the inability of many
countries to escape from poverty, growing
world concern over the availability of
energy resources, the denial of fundamen-
tal freedoms to many people in many
countries.
The continued potential for conflict
and the possibility of nuclear proliferation
and arms races are problems to which you
have just referred again. These problems
demand greater attention-for too long,
words have been a substitute for effective
action. We have to act, I believe now,
with a sense of urgency and with a sense
of determination.
Millions of people throughout the
world want progress in the resolution of
these problems. This was reflected clearly
in the Commonwealth Heads of Govern-
ment Conference which I've just attended
in London.
Mr. President, as a near neighbor to
many developing countries, as a signifi-
cant source of many important commodi-
ties, as a country with an unswerving faith
in democracy, Australia is determined to
play her part in making progress towards
these ends.
Mr. President, you have shown that
you are determined to use the strength
1141
