Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
We now have literally thousands of
factories closed down, about 500,000
workers out of jobs, because of the natu-
ral gas shortage.
And this emergency legislation which
was passed just tonight will now be signed
into law. I'm very proud to have a chance
to sign this first law into being because
it's important to our people. And I hope
it demonstrates a good example of a close
harmony and close working relationship
that I can maintain with the Congress in
weeks to come.
After signing the act, which authorizes
emergency powers and action, it's also
necessary to sign an Executive order de-
claring that an emergency does exist. And
at this time, I'd like to proclaim and de-
clare that a natural gas emergency does
exist within the meaning of Section III
of this act and, with this signature, im-
plement the provisions of the act which
has just been passed.
The third document that has to be
signed is one directing the Chairman of
the Federal Power Commission to assume
the authorities granted to him in this act
and, also, to direct the other members of
the Cabinet-level agencies in government
to initiate action that will make possible
the orderly transfer of natural gas to
areas where it's needed.
I might add that last night the Presi-
dent of Mexico, my friend, Mr. López
Portillo, notified us that they were trans-
ferring large quantities of oil and natural
gas to our country. And just a few min-
utes ago, I had a call from Governor
Brown in California, saying that because
of very strict conservation measures that
had been initiated in California, even
though they don't have a severe winter
situation there, that 10 billion cubic feet
of natural gas would be diverted from
California to the eastern part of our
country where the shortage exists. And
without this legislation the transfer of that
gas, in an
in an efficient way, would have been
completely impossible. So, immediately,
this bill will be beneficial to us all.
By the middle of-I'd say by the 20th
of April-we hope to have a much more
comprehensive proposal on energy to pre-
sent to the Congress. And Dr. James
Schlesinger, who is assistant to me here
in the White House, will be in charge of
developing that new energy policy.
So, I'd like to thank all of you again
for being so helpful to me and to the
country, which is typical of the great atti-
tude that the Congress has always main-
tained.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 p.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Oval Office at the
White House.
As enacted, S. 474 is Public Law 95-2,
approved February 2.
Natural Gas Emergency
Proclamation 4485. February 2, 1977
DECLARING A NATURAL GAS EMERGENCY
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Abnormal weather conditions have
caused prevailing temperatures in the
United States, particularly in the East
and Midwest, to be well below normal for
the past three months. Many interstate
natural gas pipelines and local natural gas
distribution companies do not have suffi-
cient supplies of flowing or stored gas
to meet current demand. The shortage of
natural gas available to some interstate
pipelines and local distribution companies
has been so severe as to cause them to
67
