Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the recent efforts to organize the military
under a union. Other than legislation,
what incentives do you intend to pursue
with Congress to counter this effort to
unionize the military?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my own opinion,
which is strongly held, is that it would not
be advisable to have the military person-
nel unionized. And I think, because of my
own public expression of concern, this
might have a beneficial effect. Other than
my opinion as expressed, the support that
I would hope to engender among the
American people for this position, those
matters, combined with the congressional
action if necessary, would be adequate.
I don't know of any strong move in
that direction. And I believe that most
of the leaders of national and interna-
tional labor unions agree. I've never had
any of those leaders approach me with
the intention of going forward with this
effort.
I know it has been discussed in isolated
areas and by some responsible people, but
I think the national leaders, even in the
labor movement, have no commitment to
this proposition.
MILITARY PAY AND RETIREMENT SYSTEMS
Q. Mr. President, sir, what changes to
the military retirement system, if any, will
your administration be proposing to the
Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. The
Secretary of Defense, along with the Joint
Chiefs and myself and others, will be re-
assessing both military pay and other
privileges and also the retirement systems.
There are some inadequacies in fair treat-
ment of those who serve the Federal Gov-
ernment in the retirement pay system.
And I've been particularly concerned at
the excessive retirement benefits that are
available to those who served in the mili-
tary, who then retire and get full-time
jobs working for the Government itself.
This is too expensive.
My own guess is that there will be a
commission established by the Secretary
of Defense, and with my help, to go into
the whole question of pay and retirement
to be sure that we don't go back on com-
mitments that have been made to those
who enlisted in the Armed Forces and,
also, that it be controlled in the future.
Under present circumstances, by the
end of this century, our ability to defend
our Nation might very well be sapped
away by excessive personnel costs.
So, how to balance fairness on the one
hand among those who presently serve
and an end to the almost uncontrollable
and rapid increase in retirement benefits,
will be the challenge for us all.
So, I would guess that a so-called blue
ribbon commission, established by the
Secretary of Defense and myself, would
make a complete study of this, receive
testimony and advice from those who are
concerned, and then make a recommenda-
tion to the Congress.
Is that correct, Harold?
SECRETARY BROWN. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. Thank you.
MILITARY UNIONIZATION
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to follow up
on the unionization question that was
asked earlier.
Are you in favor of, and would you
sponsor legislation which would prohibit
new membership in so-called servicemen's
unions? And do you feel such legislation
would be constitutional?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
answer that question about constitution-
ality. I'm not a lawyer. That always get
applause. I don't know why. [Laughter]
I don't know how to answer your ques-
tion about specifics on legislation. I have
262
