Jan. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
agement and Budget] will take care of
that.
The Commerce Department is a major
avenue between us and the business com-
munity. And to the extent that we can
encourage all the business leaders to cut
down thermostats, to change workweeks,
to shift to alternate kinds of fuel, they
can work with the Federal Power Com-
mission and others in assisting with that
effort.
The Defense Department, Harold
[Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense],
with the Army and the Corps of Engi-
neers, with coordination between re-
serve units and also the National Guard,
can just offer your services to Governors.
I know they've got their hands full now.
And you might just take the initiative in
having someone call each Governor and
say, "What can we do to help you?" There
are only 11 States involved, and it
wouldn't take very long to do that.
Interior obviously has a great deal of
resources available to it—the Fish and
Wildlife Service, recreation personnel, Bu-
reau of Outdoor Recreation personnel,
national park systems. Cecil [Cecil An-
drus, Secretary of the Interior], in iso-
lated areas your people are very conver-
sant with how to travel about, and they
might make themselves available to Gov-
ernors who never had this in the past.
I would like to form kind of an execu-
tive committee to work directly under
Jack Watson and with Bert Lance. And
that group would be Jack Watson, repre-
senting me, Dr. Schlesinger, concerning
energy matters, the FDAA, working under
Pat, OMB, Labor, and Commerce. And
then the rest of you all can contribute to
that group and also work directly with
the Governors involved.
The last point is that I don't want any-
body to be unduly alarmed. I'd like for
the whole process to be done carefully,
thoroughly, and methodically, and coor-
dinate it through Jack Watson here in my
office. We will try to stay available, and
I will be maintaining personal contact
with the Governors either through Jack
Watson or myself. But I want them to
know-and all the people in these States
to know that we are available to help
them, that we're not waiting to be begged,
that we're taking the initiative to meet
them more than half way.
I've just outlined in very quick terms
some of the things that are illustrative that
we can do to help. But I'd like for all of
you to take the initiative and call your
parallel cabinet officer in the individual
States it would only require 11 phone
calls and say, "What can we do to help
you?" And let's make sure that there is
a minimum adverse effect on our people.
If anybody has any questions or sug-
gestions that might help the whole group,
I would be glad to have them now. And
then, when I leave, I'd like to let Jim
Schlesinger preside for a more thorough
discussion. Do any of the Cabinet mem-
bers have a question?
Pat?
SECRETARY HARRIS. Mr. President, the
policy development and research people
at HUD are going to be releasing sug-
gestions for ways in which citizens can
cope with this problem, either Monday or
Tuesday. So we're looking into this al-
ready.
THE PRESIDENT. I think, although we
don't want to preempt anybody acting on
your own, to the extent that we can co-
ordinate public statements, it would help,
instead of getting six or eight statements
all during the day, it would be easier for
you to put the statements together and
just come over here to the White House,
and, Pat, if you want to make a state-
ment, just make it to the national press
here. I think it might be better than hav-
ing groups of reporters run to different
places in Washington. Why don't you all,
36
