Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sumed, a little more than 10 million bar-
rels a day.
Another point is, when we carry out
the procedure that was mentioned in the
beginning of the question, to insulate
homes for instance, that is a highly labor-
intensive effort. It takes a lot of laborers,
minority enterprise, small enterprise to
blow insulation materials into attics of
homes. For a given $1 million spent to
save energy, you get a lot of jobs. To build
a power dam or to drill another oil well
or put in a new electric generation sta-
tion, if you spend $1 million, you don't
get very many jobs. So you have got a 10-
to-1 advantage in conservation compared
to new use of energy, and you've got
much more than 10-to-1 advantage in the
number of jobs derived.
Now, as far as minority business enter-
prises are concerned, the attitude of the
Small Business Administration, and par-
ticularly the minority enterprises aspect of
it, it is very important to me.
When I went home from the Navy in
1953, I didn't have a job. I didn't have a
home. I lived in the Government housing
project. I paid $31 a month. I didn't
make enough money the first year to pay
my rent. Later, I went to the Small Busi-
ness Administration, and they not only
gave me a loan but they gave me constant
annual advice and help. They would
send a distinguished retired business per-
son down to Plains to spend 2 or 3 days,
at no cost to me, to go through my ware-
house business, which was just getting
started, and to give me advice on how to
handle my accounts receivable, how to
keep my record, how to borrow money,
how to market my products better.
This is the kind of attitude I hope to
engender within the Small Business Ad-
ministration and also within the Com-
merce Department and also the other
agencies. It is not enough for us to just
hand out a grant or even give somebody
a job. We need to make sure that we have
a personal interrelationship with the
people being helped that continues, be-
cause in many instances, particularly with
foreign language speaking families or
black families, we have loaned them just
enough money to go bankrupt.
And it gives the Government a bad
name, and we deserve it when that hap-
pens. And it discourages quite often the
best people in the community that are
struggling to be a success. And when
others see their best people fail, it is espe-
cially discouraging to those that haven't
quite got the energy or the ambition or
the confidence to start a new business.
So, this is the kind of thing that must
be addressed. There are not any magic an-
swers to it, but I want to make sure that
in my appointments to these positions, that
the question that you raise, not only in en-
ergy but in minority business and other-
wise, that we put this on a personal basis,
dealing with people as individuals, not as
statistics, and making sure that there is a
permanent relationship between that in-
dividual and Government that is mutually
satisfactory.
SAFETY; GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dave
Snyder. I work for the National Fire Pre-
vention Control Administration.
THE PRESIDENT. Where are you, Dave?
Q. I am over on your right.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I didn't see the
microphone. Thank you.
Q. As a volunteer firefighter and as
someone who has the great good fortune
to be a public servant with the National
Fire Prevention and Control Administra-
tion and with the United States Depart-
ment of Commerce, I would like to know
what priority you will attach to the goal
of safety when that conflicts with goals
of antipollution and with goals of
118
