May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
There obviously are difficulties caused
by a change in the Israeli government.
But in the long run, as is the case in our
own country and in a democracy like Is-
rael, the government leaders fairly accur-
ately reflect the hopes and desires and
fears and purposes of the people whom
they are chosen to lead.
Mr. Begin will have to put together a
government. He'll have to deal with con-
flicting interests as he forms his cabinet
and brings in other groups to make sure
that he has a majority in the Knesset.
So, I don't look at this as an insuperable
obstacle. It does create a question. I think
a large part of that question can be re-
solved when I meet with him personally
and when he meets with the congressional
leaders and with the Jewish Americans
who are very deeply interested in this and
sees the purpose of our own country.
I think this may have an effect on him.
I have already seen some moderation in
his views as he's dealt with Mr. Yadin
and others, and I hope that this modera-
tion will continue.
Obviously, the Arab leaders also have to
be moderate. Some of the adamant stands
that they have taken in the historical past
will have to be abandoned. If they didn't,
there would be no hope for peace.
So, both sides of this-or rather all
sides of this discussion have to yield to
some degree to accomplish the purposes of
their own people.
MR. CORMIER. Thank
President.
you, Mr.
[President Carter's eighth news conference be-
gan at 10:30 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building and was broadcast
live on radio and television. Following the news
conference, the President remained in the room
to answer questions from reporters on an in-
formal basis, as follows:]
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I am
going as a guest of the Navy. I don't know
whether it will be possible to take any on
board or not.
Q. I am sure if you asked them, they
would say yes.
THE PRESIDENT. There's a limit to the
space there. There's also a problem with
very high security aspects on a nuclear
submarine. So, that's not something that
I have gone into. I've told Admiral Rick-
over and the commanding officer of the
ship that I would leave that question up
to them.
Q. Mr. President, what is the status of
the Australian CIA investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I don't
want to respond to any substantive
questions.
Q. Mr. President, do you think you
should go on a submarine for 9 hours, in
terms of safety, the country's security, and
so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I'll have ade-
quate communications from the sub-
marine with special Signal Corps people
with me, and will still be in command of
our Nation's affairs. Also, of course, the
Secretary of Defense and State and the
Attorney General and the Vice Presi-
dent all of them will still be available.
Q. Will you have a hotline?
THE PRESIDENT. The hotline will be
available to me, yes.
Q. I am not clear why you are going
there on the sub.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to learn at first
hand about our Armed Forces' strategic
capabilities. I'm not going to spend that
much time just talking about that sub-
marine and its design. I'll be talking to
the naval officials, including Admiral
Rickover, at some length, about the capa-
bilities and limitations of our strategic
submarine force, which is an integral part
of our defense mechanism. And as you
know, I've already been on the Air Force
command and control plane.
1024
