Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
to 1966, and Ambassador to Togo from
1967 to 1970. In 1968 and 1969, he was
also accredited as Ambassador to Equa-
torial Guinea.
Sherer was Ambassador to Guinea
from 1970 to 1972, and Ambassador to
the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic from
1972 to 1975. In 1974 and 1975, he was
Chief of the U.S. delegation to CSCE.
From 1975 to 1977, Sherer was Deputy
Representative of the United States in the
Security Council of the United Nations.
In 1975 he served as Alternate U.S. Rep-
resentative to the Seventh Special Session
and the Thirtieth Session of the U.N.
General Assembly, and in 1976 he served
as Alternate U.S. Representative to the
Thirty-first Session of the General Assem-
bly. Since 1977 he has been Head of the
U.S. delegation to the preparatory meet-
ing in Belgrade of CSCE.
Small Business Awards
Remarks at the Presentation
Ceremony. May 24, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I have to say that if
there's one group with whom I've met
since I've been President and with whom
I've felt at ease and at home and part of
it, it's this one here.
A number of years ago, about 10 years,
as a matter of fact, I was chosen the out-
standing small businessman of Georgia.
And when the review was sent in to the
Washington office, they realized that I
was running for political office that year,
for Federal office, and I was excluded
from the award. And I've always been
very regretful about that. So, now I feel
that I've had to take the second best posi-
tion, as President.
This is a group which quite often I
know serves as an inspiration for your
peers at home who study in more detail
than you might imagine the particular
achievements and problems and the inno-
vative approaches that have made you all
successful in being recognized for leader-
ship and for accomplishments.
This is a program that's very good and
inspiring, a renewed belief and confidence
in the free enterprise system.
We see a lot of very bad publicity about
the very few people, primarily in the
larger corporations, who have violated
laws or who have committed bribery
overseas or who've had an improper re-
lationship with political leaders and so
forth. But the great and broad tens of
thousands of small entrepreneurs who
have with a great deal of courage and
foresight and confidence started your
business or continued one that was there
is the backbone of our entire structural
society.
So, I'm proud to be with you. I've also
got something else in common with many
of you-my own background was not in
studying how to be a businessman. I've
studied how to be a Naval officer. I was
in the Navy for 11 years. And when I
came home, I began my own business life.
I couldn't make a go of it by myself. So I
went to the Small Business Administration
for a loan, and they not only gave me an
adequate loan in cooperation with the
local bank but they followed up that loan
with very good and sound and mature and
experienced advice.
We had a volunteer businessman who
had to retire because of a heart attack
who was in his late forties, and he would
come down to Plains about once a month
as a volunteer to represent the Small Busi-
ness Administration and to work with me,
to teach me about how to handle accounts
receivables, to look over the different
parts of my business to see which ones
were productive and profitable and which
ones were not, and to give me advice on
995
