Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 25
great majority of refugees will be entitled
to apply for permanent resident alien
status, the first step toward citizenship.
I want to thank the voluntary agencies,
the public and private institutions, and
the many individual families that have
contributed so generously to this program.
I am confident that with their assistance
we will bring this humanitarian effort to
a successful conclusion.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable James O. Eastland,
chairman, Senate Committee on the Judiciary;
the Honorable Peter W. Rodino, chairman,
House Committee on the Judiciary; the Hon-
orable John J. Sparkman, chairman, Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations; the Honor-
able Clement J. Zablocki, chairman, House
Committee on International Relations; the
Honorable John L. McClellan, chairman, Sen-
ate Committee on Appropriations; and the
Honorable George H. Mahon, chairman, House
Committee on Appropriations.
The report is entitled "Task Force for Indo-
china Refugees, Report to the Congress, March
21, 1977."
The letter was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Department of Agriculture and
Commodity Credit Corporation
Nomination of Robert H. Meyer To Be an
Assistant Secretary of Agriculture and a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation. March 25, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert H. Meyer of Braw-
ley, Calif., to be an Assistant Secretary
of Agriculture (Marketing Services) and
a member of the Board of Directors of the
Commodity Credit Corporation. Meyer
is owner of Bob Meyer Farms and is presi-
dent of Meyer Ranches and Cattle Co.
in Brawley, Calif.
Meyer was born February 24, 1933, in
Evanston, Ill. He received a B.S. degree
from the University of Colorado in 1954.
He is currently a member of the board
of directors of Cotton, Inc., the Western
Cotton Growers Association, the Imperial
Valley Conservation Research Center,
and the Colorado River Cotton Growers
Association. He was president of the latter
organization for 5 years.
He is a former vice chairman of the
Imperial County Agricultural Stabiliza-
tion and Conservation Service and a for-
mer vice president of the Imperial County
Farm Bureau. Meyer has served on the
advisory committee to the California
Safety and Health Standards Board for
Agricultural Safety.
United Nations
Nomination of James F. Leonard, Jr., To Be
Deputy U.S. Representative. March 25, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate James F. Leonard, Jr., of
New York, N.Y., to be the Deputy Rep-
resentative of the United States to the
United Nations, with the rank and status
of Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary. Leonard is president of the
United Nations Association in New York.
He was born May 30, 1920, in Osborne,
Pa. He received a B.S. from Princeton
University in 1942 and took courses in
Soviet studies at Harvard in 1952-53 and
in Chinese studies at Columbia Univer-
sity in 1963–64. Leonard speaks French,
Russian, and Mandarin Chinese.
He served in the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers from 1942 to 1946 and was an
engineer with the Army Map Service
from 1947 to 1948.
He entered the Department of State in
the Courier Service in 1948. From 1949
to 1951, he served as Economic and Po-
litical Officer in Damascus, and from
505
