June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and influence of the United States to
bring about a more secure and equitable
world, a world in which poorer nations'
economic development has accelerated, in
which deprivation is confronted and the
pernicious doctrine of one race's superi-
ority over another is banished for all time.
There are many obstacles on the way
to achieving these objectives. It is always
the case that the more important the goal,
the greater the barrier to achieving it. But
the barriers to achieving a better world
might well be insuperable if the greatest
democratic power were not playing an
active and enlightened international role
in leading towards a better result.
Mr. President, therefore, I believe your
Presidency has excited men's imagination
because it has appealed to the idealism of
free people, because it has focused atten-
tion and concern on issues which have
not previously attracted the urgent atten-
tion that they require, and because of the
stressful need for consultation and co-
operation amongst the world's democra-
cies. Free men, therefore, can have re-
newed faith in realizing the aspirations
that we share.
Mr. President, on behalf of my wife
and myself, the Australian party, may I
thank you again for the warmth of your
welcome.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, John.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
White House Fellows
Remarks to Fellows for the 1976-77 and
1977-78 Programs and Members of the
President's Commission on White
House Fellowships. June 22, 1977
Hello, everybody. I apologize for being
late; it's kind of a rare occasion in my
schedule when I am. But we had the
Prime Minister of Australia here, and the
discussions were very deep and penetrat-
ing, concerning matters in the southeast-
ern part of the Pacific, our relationship
with the People's Republic of China and
Japan, Korea, nuclear nonproliferation,
trade; he wanted to give me a report on
the Commonwealth meeting from which
he's just come. So, the discussions did go
little longer than we anticipated, but I
think it was well worthwhile.
I am very proud of you. This is a pro-
gram, as you know, that was established
in the early months of the Johnson ad-
ministration through the inspired leader-
ship and at the suggestion of John
Gardner. And I think it's a rare occasion
in our Nation's Government-history,
when a man who has a brilliant idea that's
innovative and constructive can come
back several administrations later and
help to keep the vigor and the quality of
the program and to observe how it has
continued beyond his own concept.
We've had a fine group of White House
Fellows who have spanned the transition
period between the administrations of
President Ford and myself. And I know
the trauma of that change was very diffi-
cult for some of you to assimilate it, but
you've done well.
I hope that this has been an exciting
experience for you to see the general
change in tone, either progression or retro-
gression, in your judgment-you'll have
to make that judgment. But I think it is a
very fine occasion for you to see how two
different administrations from two differ-
ent parties can deal with the same basic
questions that continue when Presidents
change.
We have now completed, as you know,
the selection of next year's White House
Fellows, who will begin their service in
September. They'll work for the members
of the Cabinet, the senior White House
1142
