Preface
series in which Presidential writings, addresses, and remarks of a public nature
could be made available.
The Commission's recommendation was incorporated in regulations of the
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register, issued under section 6 of the
Federal Register Act (44 U.S.C. 1506), which may be found in Title 1, Part 10,
of the Code of Federal Regulations.
The Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents was begun in 1965 as
a companion publication to the Public Papers to provide a record of Presidential
materials on a more timely basis. Beginning with the administration of Jimmy
Carter, the Public Papers series has expanded its coverage to include all material,
as printed in the Weekly Compilation. This expanded coverage now provides the
full text of proclamations and Executive orders, announcements of appointments
and nominations, as well as selected statements or remarks of senior administration
officials.
A second Public Papers book completing President Carter's first year in office
will be printed in early 1978. Volumes covering the administrations of Presidents
Hoover, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, and the first 2 years of
President Ford are also available.
This series is under the direction of Fred J. Emery, Director, Ernest J. Galdi,
Deputy Director, and Martha B. Girard, Director of the Presidential Documents
Division, Office of the Federal Register. Editors of this volume were Margaret M.
Donohoe, Richard L. Claypoole, Katherine A. Mellody, and Kenneth R. Payne.
White House liaison was provided by Walter W. Wurfel, Deputy Press Secre-
tary. The photograph used as the frontispiece was taken by Stanley Tretick, and the
photographs used in the portfolio were supplied by the White House Photo Office.
The typography and design of the volume were developed by the United
States Government Printing Office, under the direction of Thomas F. McCormick,
Public Printer, and John J. Boyle, Deputy Public Printer.
JAMES B. RHOADS
Archivist of the United States
JOEL W. SOLOMON
Administrator of General Services
December 1977
viii
