Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Yesterday, Vice President Mondale returned from his 10-day visit
with leaders of Western Europe and Japan. I asked him to make this trip
to demonstrate our intention to consult our traditional allies and friends
on all important questions. I have been very pleased with his report. Vice
President Mondale will be a constant and close adviser for me.
In a spirit of international friendship we will soon welcome here in
the United States the leaders of several nations, beginning with our neigh-
bors, Canada and Mexico.
This month the Secretary of State, Cyrus Vance, will go to the
Middle East, seeking ways to achieve a genuine peace between Israel and
its Arab neighbors.
Our Ambassador to the United Nations, Andrew Young, left last
night on a visit to Africa to demonstrate our friendship for its peoples and
our commitment to peaceful change toward majority rule in southern
Africa.
I will also strive to improve our relations with the Soviet Union and
the People's Republic of China, ensuring our security while seeking to
reduce the risks of conflict.
We will continue to express our concern about violations of human
rights, as we have during this past week, without upsetting our efforts
toward friendly relationships with other countries.
Later, on another program, I will make a much more complete re-
port to you on foreign policy matters.
I would like to tell you now about one of the things that I have al-
ready learned in my brief time in office. I have learned that there are
many things that a President cannot do. There is no energy policy that
we can develop that would do more good than voluntary conservation.
There is no economic policy that will do as much as shared faith in hard
work, efficiency, and in the future of our system.
now
I know that both the Congress and the administration, as partners
in leadership, have limited powers. That's the way it ought to be. But
in the months in which I have campaigned, prepared to take office, and
ow begun to serve as your President, I have found a reason for optimism.
With the help of my predecessor, we have come through a very diffi-
cult period in our Nation's history. But for almost 10 years, we have not
had a sense of a common national interest. We have lost faith in joint
efforts and mutual sacrifices. Because of the divisions in our country many
of us cannot remember a time when we really felt united.
76
