Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
which I don't intend to answer directly.
But I would like to say-
Q. You just answered it.
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
Q. Mr. President, my question relates to
the Federal career civil servant. Unfortu-
this: I mentioned earlier, the problem nately, in the last few years, it seems to be-
that was brought on our country by an
unpopular war. And as an aftermath of
that, there has been, I think, a deteriora-
tion in the esteem of military personnel
among American citizens. I feel, as Presi-
dent, a direct responsibility to do all I can
to honor the military persons and those
who serve in the Defense Department in
every possible way and to let our people
know the truth; and that is, that we de-
pend upon you, that the Nation depends
on you, and that the heroism is still there,
the dedication is still there, the self-sacri-
fice is still there, and that military persons
were not responsible for the mistakes that
have been made in the past in unpopular
wars.
And I believe that all of you can help,
as well. When there is a mistake made,
in my opinion, it ought to be faced
squarely. When there has been waste and
inefficiency, which exists in all branches
of the Federal Government and all State
governments, it ought to be rooted out
when detected. And we ought not ever to
be fearful about criticism or disclosure
when it's legitimate. But we ought not
ever to be reticent or timid in defending
ourselves when the criticism is not justi-
fied.
Now, this is a free country. And I was
attacked and criticized much more as a
candidate for President even than the cir-
cumstances you've just described. We're
in it together, and we'll just have to deal
with it together.
I think the American people have con-
fidence in us, and I'm going to do my part
to keep it that way. I know all the sub-
mariners will do the same.
come common for us in the career service
to hear our own leaders describe us as in-
efficient and wasteful, and the image of
the bloated bureaucrat who sucks the Pub-
lic Treasury dry and produces nothing is
heard:
And it's been demoralizing for the Fed-
eral civil servant. The fact of the matter is
that, by and large, the Federal civil servant
is one of the best educated, most patriotic,
most community- and civic-minded per-
son, wherever he is in this land.
Why is it that we don't hear more from
our bosses, our leaders, defending us in
public forums and not just here, today,
but in press conferences, so that we don't
feel that we're not recognized and appre-
ciated?
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed one of the
attributions that you didn't mention was
modesty. [Laughter]
Sometimes it is overlooked that people
like myself, who have had varied careers
in the military, in business, in agriculture,
or in State and local government, and who
comes to the Washington scene-we come
and go, and we quite often are the ones,
the political leaders, who shape the atti-
tude of American people.
You who are professionals have one life
to live, one career to give to our country.
And I know from experience in dealing
with the civil servants in Georgia, as Gov-
ernor for 4 years, as a member of the legis-
lature for two terms, how dedicated the
average civil servant is. It's a very rare
person who doesn't want to do a better
job of defending our Nation, of educating
children, caring for the ill, building high-
ways. And sometimes the confusion of the
bureaucracy and the lack of cooperation
among leaders at the Cabinet level pre-
265
