May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have any doubt that we all would like to
have a summit meeting about once a year.
But we thought rather than schedule it
on a particular date, we at first thought
we might just make it tentative and then
we would try to define why we should
have a summit in the future. And one
said, "Well, if we fail in our purposes, we
ought to get back together, or if the econ-
omy gets worse, we ought to get back to-
gether." Then we decided that that would
be an indication of a crisis. So, we finally
left out the date for convening another
summit.
Q. What is your hope for the meeting
with President al-Asad, tomorrow?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope that by the end
of this month, after I will have met with
the key leaders that are involved in the
Mideast question I started to say
"crisis”—that I will better understand
the areas of common agreement and be
able to define the remaining areas of
disagreement.
So far, most of the leaders have sug-
gested that when this round of discussions
is completed, that we might do our own
analysis of what should be done and then
go back to the leaders privately. And I've
already asked Secretary Cy Vance to do
that.
Following that second round of discus-
sions with the Secretary of State, as we've
outlined our hope for some agreement,
then our country would decide whether
or not to take a public position as to the
boundaries of agreement or the hope for
future progress.
All this is still conjectural. But I will
complete my meeting. We will have close
consultations following that, including a
trip by the Secretary of State to the na-
tions involved.
Q. Sir, what do you expect from tomor-
row's Four-Power meeting? Are you
going to take up the question of limiting
arms sales, or any other big questions that
haven't come up so far?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. This
is a meeting that's completely unstruc-
tured. I've never been to one before. But
my understanding is that the primary dis-
cussion will be about Berlin. I guess if
other leaders want to bring up some
point, they will be free to do it.
I understand that no one attends ex-
cept the leaders involved.
Q. Will that city always be divided? Is
that Berlin's fate forever?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
answer that. As you know, the Quadri-
partite Agreement says that the city is not
separated into two opposing political en-
tities. We maintain, as you know, Ameri-
can, French, British, and German-West
German patrols in Eastern Germany [East
Berlin], and according to the agreement,
the East Germans have access to Western
Germany [West Berlin] as well.
Q. But that wall makes a mockery out
of that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it does. I think
the wall is a very dramatic indication of
the hunger for freedom among people
who live in Eastern Germany. I don't
know how to express any hope that it
might be removed. Of course, we would
like very much to see the wall torn down.
Thank you.
Q. Did you call your mother?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm going to.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 8 p.m. upon
his return to Winfield House.
International Economic Summit
Meeting
News Conference of the Secretary of State and
the Secretary of the Treasury. May 8, 1977
SECRETARY VANCE. I thought I might say
just a few words first in the way of gen-
828
