Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, I gather the youth
employment program you just announced
is in addition to your economic stimulus
program. And I wondered how much
money this adds to the deficit in the 2 up-
coming fiscal years?
THE PRESIDENT. No, this is within the
overall economic stimulus package already
presented to the Congress.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, there has been a lot
of talk about defensible borders lately and
what that means in regard to the Middle
East. Could I ask you, sir, do you feel that
it would be appropriate in a Middle East
peace settlement for the Israelis to keep
some of the occupied land they took dur-
ing the 1967 war in order to have secure
borders?
THE PRESIDENT. The defensible border
phrase, the secure borders phrase, obvi-
ously, are just semantics. I think it's a
relatively significant development in the
description of possible settlement in the
Middle East to talk about these things as
a distinction.
The recognized borders have to be mu-
tual. The Arab nations, the Israeli nation,
has to agree on permanent and recognized
borders, where sovereignty is legal as mu-
tually agreed. Defense lines may or may
not conform in the foreseeable future to
those legal borders. There may be exten-
sions of Israeli defense capability beyond
the permanent and recognized borders.
I think this distinction is one that is
now recognized by Israeli leaders. The
definition of borders on a geographical
basis is one that remains to be deter-
mined. But I think that it is important for
the world to begin to see, and for the in-
terested parties to begin to see, that there
can be a distinction between the two; the
ability of Israel to defend herself by in-
ternational agreement or by the some-
time placement of Israeli forces them-
selves or by monitoring stations, as has
been the case in the Sinai, beyond the
actual sovereignty borders as mutually
agreed by Israel and her neighbors.
Q. Well, does that mean international
zones between the countries?
THE PRESIDENT. International zones
could very well be part of an agreement.
And I think that I can see in a growing
way, a step-by-step process where there
might be a mutual agreement that the
ultimate settlement, even including the
border delineations, would be at a certain
described point. In an interim state, may-
be 2 years, 4 years, 8 years, or more, there
would be a mutual demonstration of
friendship and an end to the declaration
or state of war.
I think that what Israel would like to
have is what we would like to have: a
termination of belligerence toward Israel
by her neighbors, a recognition of Israel's
right to exist, the right to exist in peace,
the opening up of borders with free trade,
tourist travel, cultural exchange between
Israel and her neighbors; in other words,
a stabilization of the situation in the Mid-
dle East without a constant threat to Is-
rael's existence by her neighbors.
This would involve substantial with-
drawal of Israel's present control over
territories. Now, where that withdrawal
might end, I don't know. I would guess
it would be some minor adjustments in
the 1967 borders. But that still remains
to be negotiated.
But I think this is going to be a long,
tedious process. We're going to mount a
major effort in our own Government in
1977, to bring the parties to Geneva. Ob-
viously, any agreement has to be between
the parties concerned. We will act as an
intermediary when our good offices will
serve well.
342
