May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Another thing that bothers the voters is THE PRESIDENT'S
an unwarranted reputation among Demo-
crats that we are fiscally irresponsible,
that we spend money that's not needed,
that we can't balance the budget even in
times of a healthy economy. Well, I want
to work with you in a give-and-take, equal
position to help correct these problems
that we might face in 1978.
I've had remarkable success in forming
personal friendships with Tip O'Neill and
Jim Wright, with Bob Byrd and Alan
Cranston, with the chairmen of the com-
mittees and with the Members of
Congress.
I think the American people now sense
that our country stands for things that are
decent and honest and upright; that we
have once again become a beacon light
for peace and for hope, for disarmament,
for human rights; that we stand for what
was envisioned by the great leaders who
200 years ago risked their lives to spell out
a unique dream in the world; that Ameri-
ca stands for something clean and worthy
of protection, yes; of pride, yes; but of
trust and emulation.
And I want our country and our Gov-
ernment to be worthy of the trust and
admiration of the rest of the world. These
are the kind of things that our Democratic
Party has stood for.
These are the kind of things that our
country and our party have stood for.
And I think this is a great forward step in
doing the American people a great favor
in November of 1978 by returning all you
Members of Congress to offer to work
with me again the next 2 years just as well
as you have and are working with me
these 2 years.
Thank you very much. We're in it
together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MAY 26, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I have a brief statement
to make and then I'll respond to
questions.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
I think that in this first 4 months the
cooperation between the Congress and the
President has been very good. We have
had a productive session so far. We have,
however, one potential problem that is
evolving that causes me some concern.
There is a high degree of fiscal budget
deficit that has been a problem for many
years. Since 1974 we have had $184 hil-
lion of Federal deficits. And the prospec-
tive deficit for fiscal year 1978, starting
next September, is about $60 billion. I
feel
very strongly and I expressed my be-
lief on many occasions during the 2-year
campaign for President and since I have
been in office—that in a normal economy,
with high employment, that the budget
ought to be balanced.
I am committed to that proposition,
and we are working to create both those
elements, a strong economy, high employ-
ment, working toward a balanced budget.
The main concern at this point on the
economic scene is the rate of inflation
which is tied directly to the degree of re-
sponsibility of the Federal Government in
handling excessive spending. There are
now several matters before Congress
which I hope very sincerely to work out
with them that put excessive pressures on
the ability to finance needed programs
in the future-welfare reform, tax re-
form, including substantial reductions,
adequate health care, defense needs-
and these we are discussing very thor-
oughly and constantly with congressional
leaders.
1016
