May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We've worked very closely with the
congressional leaders who have been con-
cerned about this question long before I
became President. And I think it's ac-
curate to say that this morning we will
disclose, and there will be proposed for
passage in Congress, legislation that will
successfully resolve this inherent conflict.
With very careful judicial review, with
the acquisition of warrants from the ju-
diciary, working with myself, the intelli-
gence agencies of our Government, the
Attorney General, and monitored closely
by Congress, I think we'll have a mecha-
nism in the future whereby our own coun-
try's security can be preserved, adequate
intelligence can be derived, and the rights
of our citizens and also foreigners in our
country can be preserved.
This is a very delicate question. It's one
on which almost complete unanimity has
been derived between myself and the in-
telligence groups, Attorney General, and
the Congress Members behind me. And
the Attorney General will now explain in
detail and introduce to you Members of
Congress who will go into some depth in
response to your own questions about how
this achievement has been reached.
My hope is that the Congress will pass
this legislation without delay. I think it
will be a major step forward in our coun-
try in resolving some of the questions that
cause so much dissension and so much
distrust in the months gone by.
Griffin, thank you very much for let-
ting me come out. I'll listen to some of
the presentation and then I'll have to
go.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Mr. Presi-
dent, Members of the Congress:
One of the great things that's happened
in our country in the past 25 years has
been the renaissance in the area of the
Bill of Rights, in particularly the refur-
bishment of the 14th amendment by the
Supreme Court in the sixties. They say
from every action there is always a re-
action. And the reaction was once we
started concentrating on vindicating in-
dividual rights—was the closer examina-
tion of some of the intelligence gathering
agencies of the Government and a good
deal of criticism about the way some of
the gathering was being carried on, par-
ticularly as it respected American citizens.
And it seems to me, it seems to the
President, that one of the prime duties of
the new administration and the new Con-
gress is to restore the confidence of the
American people in all of our institutions.
This is nowhere more true than in intel-
ligence gathering. And in that capacity,
we have some legislation now that's de-
signed to bring the judiciary into the proc-
ess. I think the American people trust the
judiciary, and they will have more con-
fidence in the system if we have the ex-
ecutive, the congressional and the judici-
ary all tied into the process so as to have
one check the other. That is essentially
what this bill, this legislation does. It
brings the judiciary in where they issue
the warrants and, in most instances, they
check to see if true foreign intelligence
is involved.
If this legislation becomes law, pro-
posed legislation, there'll be no American
citizen in the future who will ever be
electronically surveilled without a judicial
warrant.
And that's really the gist of the bill. It's
a technical piece of legislation. It's some-
thing that is sorely needed in our country.
And I want to introduce now, some of the
people in the Congress who have long
had an interest in this same subject, who
have introduced legislation in the past,
and call on each one of them to make
some short remarks.
922
