May 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
country and to ensure that our policies
overseas are carried out, that our obliga-
tions to our allies are met.
I've had a chance to see the submarine
operate in both surface and submerged
conditions, at top speed and under all
kinds of emergency situations, carefully
done, but simulating actual experiences
that might be facing our submarine force
under times of war.
I'm very proud of what I've seen. This
is the first time I've been on board a sub-
marine at sea since the early 1950's. And
it was a very exhilarating and gratifying
experience for me.
Admiral Rickover and Captain and
Admiral Williams, who commands our
submarine forces in the Atlantic, all gave
me a thorough explanation over a 5- or
6-hour period of the capabilities of our
submarine forces.
This happens to be an attack sub-
marine, the U.S.S. Los Angeles, commis-
sioned just this past November. It's de-
signed to destroy others ships and to act
as an escort in protecting our own surface
ships and on independent patrol. The
other basic kind of submarine that we
have, of course, is a nuclear strategic ship,
which can fire long-range missiles in a
war that we hope to avoid because of the
strength of our Armed Forces, as demon-
strated through their own operations and
through the knowledge that potential
enemies might have of us.
But I believe that with absolute cer-
tainty I can say that there is no finer ship
in the world than this one. It's the latest
developed by the greatest country on
Earth.
I'd be glad to answer just a couple of
questions or let Admiral Rickover answer
the questions. Would you like to say a
word?
Q. We noted that they didn't pipe you
aboard. Was that at your request or what?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think Admiral
Rickover had arranged ahead of time for
there not to be the pomp and ceremony
when I was on board. The crew acted as
though I was not there. They didn't stand
at attention when I went into compart-
ments. Rosalynn and I both ate with the
ship's crew for lunch and just had a
chance to share with the enlisted men and
officers what they knew about their own
stations, which was superb. But I didn't
go aboard to be treated as a high official,
but just to learn and let them know that
we share a common partnership in the
protection of our country.
Q. Mr. President, in view of the fact
that this is the kind of ship that could
carry cruise missiles, was your presence
here today in any way connected with the
SALT talks that are now going on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had a very
good briefing and a partial demonstration
about how this ship could utilize cruise
missiles in carrying out its basic purposes.
And I was highly impressed with what I
saw.
The cruise missiles, in my opinion, will
be an integral part of the future of our
defense forces. And this will be true
whether they are armed with nuclear
warheads or conventional warheads. I
think that this trip today on a ship that
can, as you say, use the Tomahawk cruise
missile is a very good learning experience
for me.
The basic questions on the cruise mis-
sile will be evolved in our interrelation-
ship with the Soviet Union and SALT
talks in the months ahead. The limits that
can be placed on the cruise missiles still
have to be worked out.
We recognize that this is a missile with
great potential. And whether it might be
launched from the sea, surface or sub-
merged, whether it might be launched
from land or from air, my own hope, as I
expressed in my Inaugural Address, is
that eventually we might find some oppor-
1038
