Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 6
consultant to the National Institute of
Education on research and development
funding policies of the Institute.
He has written numerous books, mono-
graphs, and articles in scholarly and pop-
ular magazines.
standing committees. In 1975 and 1976,
he headed a special Commission commit-
tee to evaluate and to propose internal
Commission reforms.
Interstate Commerce Commission
Designation of A. Daniel O'Neal as
Chairman. April 5, 1977
The President today announced that he
has designated A. Daniel O'Neal, of
Seattle, Wash., as Chairman of the Inter-
state Commerce Commission. O'Neal is
currently a member of the Commission.
He was born in Bremerton, Wash., on
May 15, 1936. He received a B.A. degree
in mathematics from Whitman College in
1959. After completing the Naval Officer
Candidate School program in Newport,
R.I., O'Neal served 4 years as an engi-
neering officer aboard destroyer-type ves-
sels. He earned his law degree from the
University of Washington School of Law
in 1965.
From 1967 to 1969, O'Neal served as
legislative counsel to Senator Warren G.
Magnuson. He served as surface trans-
portation counsel and then transportation
counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on
Commerce. In the latter position he had
principal staff responsibility for legislation
having intermodal impact. He also di-
rected a major staff study of the rail
industry.
In 1973 he became a member of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. He
served as Vice Chairman in 1975, a posi-
tion that is filled annually by vote of the
members.
O'Neal is a member of the Commis-
sion's Rate Division and Policy and Plan-
ning Committee this year and has served
on all of the Commission's divisions and
Reorganization Act of 1977
Remarks at the Bill Signing
Ceremony. April 6, 1977
I think of all the campaign speeches
that I made throughout the Nation, the
most consistent commitment that was
made to the American people was that I
would move as quickly as possible to im-
prove the efficiency and the effectiveness
and the sensitivity of the Federal Govern-
ment bureaucracy in dealing with the
needs of the American people. I believe it
was one of the campaign issues that in-
duced the American people to give me
their support.
And I'm very grateful at the over-
whelming expression of partnership that
has been derived from the congressional
leadership, the Representatives behind
me today, and the overwhelming votes to
give me the authority, as President, to
work closely with the Congress and others
in reorganizing the structure of the Fed-
eral Government.
It's going to be a long and very chal-
lenging undertaking. There are going to
be a lot of controversies. But I'm deter-
mined to do a good job with it.
And with these men standing behind
me, Chairman Abe Ribicoff, Chairman
Jack Brooks, and others who've worked so
closely with us, I believe that we've come
forward with legislation that gives me
adequate authority.
We'll begin the process as quickly as
we can. And as you well know, the Con-
gress will have a very tight and intimate
relationship with me and adequate con-
trol over the final decisions that are made.
571
