Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 14
The United States will take a positive
and an open attitude toward the negotia-
tion of agreements to stabilize commodity
prices, including the establishment of a
common funding arrangement for financ-
ing buffer stocks where they are a part
of individual and negotiated agreements.
We will actively pursue the multilateral
trade negotiations with your governments
in Geneva, Switzerland. We are com-
mitted to minimize trade restrictions and
to take into account the specific trade
problems of developing countries and to
provide special and more favorable treat-
ment where feasible and appropriate. We
believe that this is in our mutual interest
and that it will create important new
opportunities for Latin American trade.
Our own science and technology can
be useful to many of your countries. For
instance, we are ready to train your tech-
nicians to use more information gathered
by our own satellites, so that you can
make better judgments on management
of your resources and your environment.
Space communications technology can
also be a creative tool in helping your
national television systems to promote
your educational and cultural objectives.
I have asked Congress to meet in full
our pledges to the Inter-American De-
velopment Bank and the other multi-
lateral lending institutions which loan a
high proportion of their capital to the
relatively advanced developing countries
of Latin America.
And finally, we are directing more and
more of our bilateral economic assistance
to the poorer countries. We are also pre-
pared to explore with other nations new
ways of being helpful on a wide range of
institutional, human development, and
technological approaches which might
enable them to deal more effectively with
the problems of the needy. All of us have
a special responsibility to help the poorest
countries in the world as well as the
poorest people in each of our countries.
I would like to add a word about pri-
vate investment. Your governments are
understandably interested in setting rules
that will encourage private investors to
play an important role in your develop-
ment. We support your efforts and recog-
nize that a new flexibility and adaptability
are required today for foreign investment
to be most useful in combining technol-
ogy, capital management, and market
experience to meet your development
needs. We will do our part in this field to
avoid differences and misunderstandings
between your government and ours.
One of the most significant political
trends of our time is the relationship be-
tween the developing nations of the world
and the industrialized countries. We bene-
fit from your advice and counsel, and we
count on you to contribute your construc-
tive leadership and help guide us in this
North-South dialog.
We also hope to work with all nations
to halt the spread of nuclear explosive
capabilities. The States of Latin America
took the initiative 10 years ago when you
set up the first nuclear-free zone in any
populated area of the world. The Treaty
of Tlatelolco is a model worthy of our
own admiration. For our part, the United
States will sign, and I will ask the Senate
to ratify, Protocol I of the treaty, prohibit-
ing the placement of nuclear weapons in
Latin America.
However, banning the spread of nu-
clear explosives does not require giving
up the benefits of peaceful nuclear tech-
nology. We mean to work closely with all
of you on new technologies to use the
atom for peaceful purposes.
To slow the costly buildup of conven-
tional arms, we are seeking global policies
of restraint. We are showing restraint in
our own policies around the world, and
we will be talking to supplier nations and
613
