Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
has not always been the case in our Gov-
ernment in the past. So, we do have a
close working relationship so far, and I
think it's improving as time goes on.
I think now I'd like to answer your
questions.
QUESTIONS
MIGRATION OF AMERICANS
Q. Mr. President, within the last few
days you've been dealing with water.
Many in the Southwest, as I am, are very
concerned about that. There is a growing
concern or question about whether you,
as the head of the Government, are giv-
ing any thought to dealing with some of
the rumblings about inhibiting or trying
to slow down migration from the colder
weather areas to the drier, warmer areas.
And I'd like to have your comment on
that.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I'm not trying to
modify the movement of Americans from
one part of our country to another. I
don't think I could do it if I wanted to,
and I have no inclination to do it, and
I've never discussed this subject with any
member of my staff either before or after
inauguration.
Q. It's been suggested that may have to
be done, though, to solve part of the water
shortage problem.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree. Obviously,
there are some matters that will have to be
addressed in the future. I don't see any
particular problem with that yet. Obvi-
ously, the expenditure of $1 billion to $2
billion to transport large quantities of
water from one part of the Nation to an-
other-the result of which might be mas-
sive recruitment of additional population
concentrations-is something that is
there. Whether it's advisable, I don't
know.
My own general inclination is that
people will go, you know, where they
want to live, and I ought not to interfere
with it. But for the taxpayers all over the
country to make it possible for additional
heavy concentrations of people to live in
an area which can't naturally support a
large population, is something that I
doubt.
We've got about 328 [307] water proj-
ects now approved for the Department of
Interior, Bureau of Reclamation and the
Corps of Engineers. We are reassessing
the need for, I think, 31 [30] of them.
I'm trying to keep an open mind about
them. The reassessment will be completed
by April 15.
I have personal doubts about the need
for any
of those projects, but I'm not try-
ing to draw a conclusion yet. And I might
add that even if I do draw a conclusion
that a project is not needed, that's no
guarantee that the Congress will go along
with me on terminating funds. But the
effort that I've made in this area has not
been designed to control population at all.
Q. To clarify, you're saying water im-
portation is not practical at this point, at
least in
your view?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think either
practical or desirable.
FARM SUPPORT PROGRAMS
Q. Sir, in your farm program, why have
loan levels and target prices not met the
costs of production?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they have.
The loan the support price is not de-
signed to meet the cost of production. The
support price is designed to meet the in-
ternational competition for the same com-
modity, so that we can move our goods,
at the support price level, in international
trade. And that applies to wheat, corn,
soybeans; it also applies to cotton, to rice,
and to other commodities.
The income support level has been very
carefully analyzed by me and by Bob
514
