Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We've let those standards of preven-
tion emphasis deteriorate over the last
few decades. Recently, Joe Califano, who
is the new head of the Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare Department, was talk-
ing about this. And we decided to in-
crease the emphasis placed on the health
care for children.
In the past, the Federal Government
has paid 50 percent of the cost of identi-
fying young children who need health
care, and we had very slight response. So,
we decided in this next budget to increase
that to 75 percent, hoping that in this
way, within the school environment,
within the outpatient clinics, within the
county health centers, that we could
identify children who perhaps have not
had the good fortune that many of your
children and my child has had, and might
have potential problems observed and
corrected before they reach their forma-
tive years of life.
This tremendous new Children's Hos-
pital is designed to do several things. One
is to treat those children who have severe
health problems, particularly cardiac pa-
tients at a young age, below 18 or
so. Ninety percent of those kinds of pa-
tients in the whole metropolitan area are
likely to be treated here. And one-third
of all the children in the metropolitan
area of Washington will be treated here.
A great deal of thought has gone into
the design of this hospital to try to pre-
dict what the future might hold in energy
conservation, health care, and in the use
of brief periods of stay within a hospital
environment for those who are quite ill.
Another new or innovative change that
has been made in the design is that there
is a special place in every instance for the
parent of a child to stay here with that
child while the severe illness has not been
corrected. So, adjacent to each child's bed
there is a place for the parent to stay.
This hospital, I believe, is associated
with George Washington University and
its medical center. And it's close enough
so that Federal officials, as well, can both
teach, try new ideas, and learn. We, I
think, can receive rich benefits from this
center. And I believe that we can set a
standard for the whole country.
I know how much I love my own chil-
dren. Just a few minutes ago, Amy and I
were out in the front yard of the White
House designing a treehouse that's going
to be built for Amy, and it is one of those
many instances that I have to be close to
her. And I know that when she does get
ill in the future, I want her to have good
health care.
But I'm just as interested in a child
who lives in the oldest and most dilapi-
dated apartment house in the District of
Columbia. And I'm also interested in the
children that live in Atlanta, Georgia,
Detroit, or who live in other parts of our
country.
So, I'm here to represent the Govern-
ment, which quite often makes mistakes,
but which I hope always retains a heart,
attuned to loving care for those who are
able to care for themselves, yes, but for
primarily those whose care would be ne-
glected if those who do occupy major
political positions in the Congress and in
the White House didn't care for every-
one.
This is a good day for us. And I hope
that everyone who serves in this hospital
or who comes here for treatment or whose
family uses this facility will be blessed by
it and will be inspired with a sense of com-
passion and understanding and brother-
hood and love, to keep illness away from
our children and to correct those who are
afflicted with disease.
I want to congratulate those who have
come before me who had the foresight to
understand the need for this facility. And
328
