Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
A couple of other points and then I'll
have to leave.
By April 20, Dr. James Schlesinger and
I and almost every member of the Cabi-
net will be working to evolve a compre-
hensive, long-range energy policy for our
country. This is crucial. We are the only
developed nation in the world that
doesn't have such a policy established.
And the Government and industry and
others are floundering now, because there
is no predictable way to meet emergencies
when they arise, extended cold weather
periods when they arise, drought when it
arises. And we have seen our energy short-
age compounded by inappropriate admin-
istration of the Government itself.
The last 2 months, we imported over
half the oil that we used in this country,
more than 10 million barrels a day. We
presently waste more energy than we im-
port. I'm not talking about engineering
waste that's theoretically impossible to
stop. I'm talking about waste that can be
corrected.
And this needs to be changed. I
couldn't have chosen a better person than
Dr. James Schlesinger to head it up. He's
a man of superb intellect and strong will
and a good background. He's been the
Director of the Budget Bureau. He's been
the Secretary of Defense. He's been the
Director of the CIA. He's been the head
of the Atomic Energy Commission. And
he could very well have served as Secre-
tary of Defense or Secretary of State or
any other position in Government. But I
thought that the energy administrator was
the most important single appointment
that I had to make.
And his decision, mine, the Congress
and yours, will have a profound effect on
the future of the textile industry and the
life of our country. You ought to be think-
ing in your own area how you can mini-
mize waste and make more efficient use
of the energy available to you.
Just as a result of our emergency nat-
ural gas legislation, for instance, we've
just alloted 22 million cubic feet of nat-
ural gas to Dalton, Georgia. We've had
several thousand textile employees out of
work for a number of weeks now because
we couldn't get enough natural gas in
there to carry out the normal processes.
And I hope that this won't happen in the
future.
It's too late to have that many people
out of work and then have to pass legisla-
tion in 8 days-which is almost unprece-
dented and then start allotting nat-
ural gas where it belongs. But because of
the complexity of the regulatory agencies'
rules and the complexities of the laws on
the regulation of natural gas, the artificial
division between intrastate and interstate
natural gas, it was almost impossible to
meet the needs where they existed, even
though the natural gas was available in
other parts of the country.
So, I want to be sure that you have an
input into this process as well.
The last point that I might mention to
you very quickly is this: On the Multi-
fiber Trade Agreement, 3 or 4 months
ago, I was approached by a group repre-
senting you that asked my endorsement
for an extension of the existing agreement.
My reply was that if that was the will
of the textile industry, that you had my
promise of support. It's a very complex
subject, and I hope that you will work
very closely with the Special Trade Rep-
resentative when that person is selected—
and we are approaching that point now-
and with Mike Blumenthal to let your
views be known.
If there are amendments to the present
Multifiber Trade Agreement, I need to
know what your positions are on those
amendments. Once you open up the
agreement to amendments and debates, it
creates additional complexity.
123
