Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 27
equate love of others with love of our-
selves. We tend to say that, because I am
a Congressman, because I am a Governor,
because I am a Senator, because I am a
Cabinet member, because I am President
of the people, and because I love the peo-
ple and because I represent them so well,
then I can justify their love myself. We
tend to take on for ourselves the attributes
of the people we represent. But when the
disciples struggled among themselves for
superiority in God's eyes, Jesus said,
"Whosoever would be chief among you,
let him be His servant." And although we
use the phrase, sometimes glibly, "public
servant," it's hard for us to translate the
concept of a President of the United
States into genuine servant.
Another theologian that I read very
often, who could penetrate the pride of a
nation in the most effective way in trying
to analyze what democracy was, said a
kind of prideful thing. But I think it
brings to us a consciousness of our own
capability. He said: "Man's capacity for
justice makes democracy possible, but
man's capacity for injustice make democ-
racy necessary."
peo-
If we, as leaders of our Nation, can
search out and extract and discern and
proclaim a new spirit, derived not from
accumulated goodness or badness of
ple, which is only equal to individual
goodness or badness-not even to the
noble concept of our Nation, which is
superlative, without doubt-but from the
ultimate source of goodness and kindness
and humility and love-and that's from
God-then we can indeed be good leaders
and servants. We can indeed be strong
enough and sure enough to admit our sin-
fulness and our mistakes. We can indeed
be constantly searching for a way to rectify
our errors and let our Nation exemplify
what we as individuals ought to be in the
eyes of God. But that's a hard thing to do.
One of the books that made a great
impression on me was "The Ugly Ameri-
can," written a number of years ago,
about people from our own country who,
in a sense of unwarranted superiority,
would travel around the world and de-
spise others in an ostentatious way be-
cause they were not Americans.
I haven't traveled as much as I would
like-10 or 12 foreign countries. But I've
seen in my own travels a respect of us, a
respect for our Nation because of the
same vision of our forefathers that has in-
spired us, but at the same time, quite
often a deep sense of disappointment that
we don't live up to those original hopes
and expectations and ideals.
Not too long ago I was in South Ameri-
ca with my wife, and we had a chance to
learn at first hand about the deep sense
of religion there. We saw the impact of
our own missionaries, when people could
speak fluent English because missionaries
have been there. And an elevator opera-
tor in Manaus, Brazil, and I visited the
equivalent of their Speaker of the House,
and that evening in his home we spent
time on our knees worshipping the same
God.
I preached one evening in a church in
Rio de Janeiro, and a couple of years
later my wife and I were in what's
thought to be the tomb of Christ, by our-
selves, and a woman came up behind
me and looked at me in a strange way
and said, "Don't I know you from some-
where?" I said, "No, ma'am, I don't
think so." She said, "I think you preached
in my husband's church in Rio." It was
the pastor's wife.
A sense of communion that we can
have under God throughout the world
ought to convince us that we are not
superior, that we ought constantly to
search out national and human indi-
vidual consciousness and strive to be bet-
25
