June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the Idaho Foundation for Medicine and
Biology.
Vaughan was director of economic de-
velopment for the Western Idaho Com-
munity Action Agency from 1970 to 1971.
From 1971 to 1972, he was program co-
ordinator for the Department of Special
Services of the State of Idaho. From 1972
until 1977, he was special assistant to
Governor Cecil Andrus, and since 1972
he has been alternate and program direc-
tor for the Pacific Northwest Regional
Commission.
Federal-State Land Use Planning
Commission for Alaska
Nomination of Esther C. Wunnicke To Be a
Member. June 7, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Esther C. Wunnicke of
Anchorage, Alaska, to be a member of
the Federal-State Land Use Planning
Commission for Alaska. Ms. Wunnicke is
cocounsel and director of policy at the
Federal-State Land Use Planning Com-
mission in Anchorage.
She was born March 15, 1922, in Kline,
Colo. She received A.B. and LL.B. de-
grees from George Washington Univer-
sity and an M. Ed. from Adams State
College.
From 1950 to 1956, she was a partner
in the law firm of Crane and Koogler in
Aztec, N. Mex. She was an instructor at
Adams State College from 1957 to 1959
while in the M. Ed. program.
From 1967 to 1971, Wunnicke was an
attorney adviser to the Federal Field
Committee in Anchorage, and from 1971
to 1972, she was attorney general of the
State of Alaska. Since 1972 she has been
co-counsel and director of policy at the
Federal-State Land Use Commission.
Clean Air Act Amendments
Letter to Senator Edmund S. Muskie.
June 8, 1977
To Senator Ed Muskie
The amendments to the Clean Air Act
of 1970 which the Senate will soon con-
sider are of critical importance to the
success of our public health and environ-
mental programs.
My EPA Administrator, Doug Costle,
my Energy Advisor,
Advisor, Jim Schlesin-
ger, and I studied the issues associated
with these amendments very carefully
before submitting the Administration's
recommendations to the Congress last
April. We examined the auto emission
schedule proposed by Senators Griffin
and Riegle, and found it unnecessarily
lax from the technology and fuel econo-
my standpoints, and inadequate in view
of the need to protect the health of our
citizens in urban areas.
More than 96 million people in at least
48 of our cities breathe air which exceeds
the federal health-based air quality stand-
ards. Asthma, chronic lung disease,
respiratory illness, and cardiovascular at-
tacks are among the health impacts which
auto pollution can cause. These effects
are particularly severe in children and in
the elderly. We cannot hope to have a
successful public health program in this
country without a major effort to reduce
pollutant levels in our air.
Fortunately, however, auto emissions
are controllable without jeopardizing our
ability to meet fuel economy standards,
adding substantially to the cost of auto-
mobiles, or costing our economy the jobs
we so vitally need. While we have made
some progress in reducing auto pollution,
the technology is available to do better.
The proposal which I submitted to the
Congress, like the Committee bill, will re-
quire use of emissions clean-up technol-
ogy which is inherently more efficient than
1072
