Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 22
Proclamation 4357 of March 25, 1975,
is hereby superseded.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-second day
of March, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-seven, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:42 p.m., March 22, 1977]
National Teacher of the
Year Award
Remarks of the President and
Myrra Lenore Lee at the Presentation
Ceremony. March 22, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the most de-
lightful experiences in the life of any per-
son is to have a schoolteacher, at any level
of education, who forms a personal rela-
tionship with his student that serves as
a lifetime inspiration. I've had that expe-
rience in my own life, and I know that
when it comes time to choose from among
the hundreds of thousands of teachers in
our country, some one person to exemplify
the meaning of a good teacher, it's a very
difficult task. And to be chosen the Teach-
er of the Year in the whole Nation is an
extraordinary honor.
I know, though, that from the very be-
ginning of this ceremony, which has been
an annual occasion for many years, the
teacher chosen has represented all the
other teachers of our Nation who quite
often don't receive an adequate degree
of appreciation expressed to them.
It's with a great deal of pleasure that I,
as President, deliver this award to Mrs.
Lee of California. Her congressional
leaders are very proud of her and those
who are associated with her in the teach-
ing profession are very proud of her. I
know all the teachers of the Nation are
very proud of her. And the President of
the United States is proud of you, too.
I'm very grateful to have the honor to
present to you the award, and I know that
you represent many other teachers who
look on you with a great deal of admira-
tion and feel a kinship with you as you
serve the students who look to you for
guidance in their lives.
Mrs. Lee has served for 10 years as a
part-time volunteer teacher and 10 years
as a full-time teacher. You must be an
extraordinary woman to have received
this award. And I'm very honored to have
you here.
Would you like to say a few words?
MRS. LEE. Yes, I would.
Thank you very much, President Car-
ter. This is probably the most exciting day
of my life, as everyone probably realizes.
First I would like to-before I say any-
thing else I would like to present you
with a gift from the people of California.
This is a tray made by the crafts people
from Monterey. It's handmade, inlaid
with California poppy, representative of
the largest State of the Union, and from
you.
many people who admire
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. I've had the good fortune of hav-
ing your Governor last night as a guest
of ours at the White House.
MRS. LEE. Oh, I didn't know that.
THE PRESIDENT. He met with me and
the congressional leaders this morning.
I know that California has an ex-
traordinarily good education system, and
I am very grateful to have this beautiful
demonstration of handiwork in California,
and I'll use it. When I leave, I'll let it be
part of the White House furnishings so
that future Presidents can also enjoy it.
Thank you very much.
MRS. LEE. Thank you.
477
