Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
tax by 25 cents a gallon, won't that put
quite a burden on the people of this coun-
try who are already financially strapped
with higher taxes and fuel bills?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Belloni,
I've never proposed any such thing and
don't know where the story originated.
MR. BELLONI. It was in the paper
week, the Rocky Mountain News.
last
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe the
story was attributed to me in any way,
because I've never commented on that
at all and have never even insinuated to
anyone that I was going to raise the gas-
oline tax by 25 cents.
MR. BELLONI. Have you heard about it,
though?
THE PRESIDENT. I had one news ques-
tion about it and responded the same
way
I am to you, that I don't know any-
thing about the proposal and have no in-
tention of doing it. I might say that on
April 20 I will-if plans go the way we
have them now-make a speech to the
Joint Session of the Congress, probably in
the evening, and explain for the first time
in our country what our comprehensive
energy policy is. We don't have one at this
moment. And we've been working on it
ever since even before I became Presi-
dent. So, April 20 we will try to spell out
an approach to the energy problem that
will involve all aspects of it-oil, coal,
solar energy, obviously nuclear power,
hydroelectric, pricing, mandatory effi-
ciency, conservation, voluntary and so
forth. This may or may not involve any
changes in the price structure, but I cer-
tainly have not considered and have no
intention of any such increases you've
talked about this afternoon.
MR. BELLONI. Yes, sir, Mr. President.
Whoever brought out the story-do they
know who did it or anything or how it
leaked out or anything?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it didn't leak
anywhere from the White House because
that's not a decision that has been made
in the White House.
MR. BELLONI. I see. Well, thank you
very much, Mr. President. It's been an
honor.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Pete. I've
enjoyed talking to you.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you, Mr.
Belloni.
The next question, Mr. President, is
from Mark Fendrick of Brooklyn, New
York. Mr. Fendrick, go ahead.
RELATIONS WITH CUBA
MR. FENDRICK. Good afternoon, Mr.
President. What I'd like to ask is in rela-
tionship to the attempts for returning to
a normal relationship with Cuba. Now in
the paper the last couple of days here in
New York there's been talk about the
Yankees baseball team going to Cuba.
think that this is a possibility
in the near future, and do you think that
normal relations to Cuba are possible
with, again in the near future?
Do you
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are vary-
ing degrees of relationships with Cuba.
As you know, we have had some discus-
sions with them in the past; for instance,
on the antihijacking agreement which
expires this spring. And we now have no
visitation rights by American citizens to
go to Vietnam, to North Korea, to Cuba,
and one or two other nations.
We do have a procedure already in
effect whereby a limited number of Amer-
icans can go into Cuba without using a
passport because of a prior agreement
with the Cuban Government.
I would like to do what I can to ease
tensions with Cuba. It's only 90 miles, as
you know, from the Florida coast. And I
don't know yet what we will do. Before
any full normalization of relationships
can take place, though, Cuba would
have to make some fairly substantial
293
