Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
sources, access to the oceans, but above
all, the character of the American people,
I feel sure that our strength will be
adequate.
I think all of you know, as well as I do,
that there is always a limited amount of
financial capability for any nation to pro-
vide for military weapons and the per-
sonnel to use those weapons if necessary.
But within that limit, there is always an
opportunity for us to use those limited re-
sources in the most efficient and effective
and predictable way. And that's a chal-
lenge to us all.
But whatever might come in the future
while I'm President, while Harold Brown
is here as your Secretary, and General
Brown and the Joint Chiefs are working
with us, we will assure the American
ple with and through you that our mili-
tary strength and our capability to defend
freedom will be second to none in all the
world. And you can depend on that.
peo-
The last point I would make before I
answer some questions is this: We're part-
ners, and every one of you is important
in the process of ensuring our Nation's
safety. Whether you've been here to work
40 years or, like myself, not much more
than a month, we instantly share respon-
sibility. And I hope that every one of you
will reassess what you are presently doing
you are presently doing
in your own assignment and how you
might do it better, how you might pre-
serve the aspects of your career that is
being used in the most effective and opti-
mum way, and not ever be reticent to
suggest change when the change would
be an improvement.
I think there is a growing realization of
that determination. Our country has been
through difficult times in the last few
years-with an unpopular war in Viet-
nam and Cambodia, with the Watergate
revelations bringing disgrace on the White
House itself, with doubt being cast on the
legality of operations within our intelli-
gence community and within the FBI it-
self. But I think we've weathered those
challenges to our American system of gov-
ernment, because the unchanging char-
acter of the American people was there.
And when public officials have made a
mistake, we've always been able to fall
back on the honesty and integrity and the
truthfulness and the dedication of the
widely varying and different kinds of peo-
ple who comprise our great Nation.
I feel very strongly and personally the
responsibility on my shoulders as a leader
of our country, as Commander in Chief
of the Armed Forces. I'll do the best I can
not ever to disappoint you in any way.
And I think that we have now a good
working relationship among the major de-
partments of Government-the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, State Department, De-
fense Department, and others so that
we need not have any concern about dis-
agreements or schisms that separate us,
one from another.
We have a sense of open debate about
controversial measures-which weapons
systems should come first, the rate of
pro-
duction of it, from the change of research
and development to actual production,
the placement of our forces. But these
things are resolved as it ought to be in a
democracy.
So, I just want to say in closing that I
join with you today in a rededication of
my own commitment to serve the people
of our country, along with you, and to
make sure that we never disappoint those
who put their trust in us.
And now, I'd like to answer some ques-
tions, if you have them for me.
QUESTIONS
MILITARY UNIONIZATION
Q. Mr. President, as our Commander
in Chief, I'm sure you're concerned over
261
