Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 29
chief psychiatrist of St. Vincents Hospital,
New York City; and Donald X. Freed-
man, chairman of the department of psy-
chiatry at the University of Chicago.
The screening committee submitted a
small pool of names for final selection to
President and Mrs. Carter.
Although Mrs. Carter is serving as hon-
orary chairperson of the Commission, she
will be actively involved in all aspects of
the Commission's work.
The group of 20 people who will be
appointed to the Commission includes
8 women, 12 men, a member of Alcoholics
Anonymous, and a former patient who
serves on the National Patients Rights
Committee of the Mental Health Asso-
ciation. They are:
PRISCILLA ALLEN, 47, is a former patient from
San Francisco, who has been effectively in-
volved in the passage of legislation to bene-
fit the mentally ill in California. She serves
on the National Patients Rights Committee
of the Mental Health Association. She served
on a panel at the American Academy of
Psychiatry and Law on "The Role of Con-
sumer in Mental Health Service Advocacy"
in 1976, and is the author of an important
article published in Psychiatry Quarterly
called "Consumer's View of California Men-
tal Health Care System."
ALAN BEIGEL, M.D., 37, a practicing psychia-
trist, is director of the Southern Arizona
Mental Health Center in Tucson, Ariz. The
author of numerous articles on mental illness
and its treatment, he consults both the
American Psychiatric Association and the
Mental Health Association. He is the past
president of the National Council of Com-
munity Mental Health Centers and has
taught at Harvard, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, National Institute of Mental
Health, and the University of Arizona Col-
lege of Medicine.
THOMAS E. BRYANT, M.D., J.D., 41, has been
president of the Drug Abuse Council since
1971. Successively since 1965, he was in pri-
vate medical practice in Atlanta, a medical
consultant to the Job Corps, and Director
of Health Affairs for the Office of Economic
Opportunity. He has also served on the Pres-
ident's Committee on Mental Retardation,
the Committee on Health Care for the Poor
of the American Medical Association, the
Health Task Force of HEW, and was Chair-
man of the Federal Interagency Committee
on Emergency Food and Medical Service.
Bryant received both his medical and law
degrees from Emory University, in Atlanta.
JOSE CABRANES, 37, is the legal adviser and
director of government relations at Yale. He
has served for 10 years on the board of
Hudson Guild, a New York City settlement
house active in community mental health
programs, and on the board of directors of
the Yale-New Haven Hospital. He has been
especially concerned with the problems of
State and Federal regulation of hospital
costs.
JOHN CONGER, 55, author of 10 books on child
development, is professor of the division of
clinical psychology at the University of Col-
orado School of Medicine. He has also served
as dean of the University of Colorado School
of Medicine and is acknowledged as an ex-
pert in adolescent health problems and as an
effective policymaker in the mental health
field.
THOMAS CONLAN, 65, a member of Alcoholics
Anonymous and of the Ohio chapter of the
National Council on Alcoholism, is a trial
lawyer in Cincinnati, Ohio. He is also a
member of the Ohio Board of Regents and
general counsel and director of the Southern
Bank, Cincinnati. He is one of Ohio's lead-
ing citizen-volunteers and experts on the sub-
ject of alcoholism. He has also served on
numerous committees concerned with health
education and health services.
VIRGINIA DAYTON, 43, an active citizen-volun-
teer, is the chairperson of the board of direc-
tors of the Bach Institute, in Minneapolis,
Minn., which specializes in therapy, training,
and research, based on the family systems
theory. She is a member of the State Mental
Health Advisory Council and of the board of
directors of the United Way. Her chief in-
terest has been in intermediate care systems
and those services which help mental pa-
tients make the transition back to family and
community.
LADONNA HARRIS, 46, longtime crusader for
human rights, is founder and president of
Americans for Indian Opportunity, a na-
tional non-profit Indian organization now
based in Albuquerque, N. Mex. An active
member of the Comanche Tribe, she was
voted as one of the eight outstanding women
in the United States by the Ladies Home
Journal in 1969. She has served on the
boards of Common Cause, Urban Coalition,
529
