Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 21
joyment of life that transcends the politi-
cal realities of a modern, fast-changing,
technological world.
Of course, the technologies are impor-
tant as well. We are now beginning to see
that many of the things that we took for
granted the purity of water in the Great
Lakes, an unlimited supply of oil and gas,
security in our borders, free of possible
direct attack in a time of war-those
things are now no longer sure. And I
think, in a way, that's bound us even
closer together.
I know that on the other side of the
border, the Canadians feel what we are.
The last time Prime Minister Trudeau
came to our country, he said that being a
neighbor to the United States was like
sleeping with an elephant-[laughter]—
that you could very quickly detect every
twitch or grunt. Well, the elephants are
gone. The donkeys are here [laughter]—
and the donkeys are much more com-
panionable beasts, I think.
I do want to thank the Canadian peo-
ple and Prime Minister Trudeau for their
gracious offer during this time of energy
shortage for our people, for their offer to
help us. They exported some of their cold
weather, but they followed it up with all
the natural gas.
And we had a very delightful meeting
this afternoon to discuss some of the in-
ternational problems that face us both.
Tomorrow, we're going to talk about some
things that affect both Canada and us in a
bilateral fashion.
Prime Minister Trudeau's wife, Mar-
garet, came a couple weeks ago to visit
Rosalynn and to open up a display in
one of our famous art galleries of con-
temporary Canadian art. And I think this
indicated, first of all, that we are inter-
ested in the same things, but also, that
our nations are distinctive.
Although we live in close proximity,
we are quite different. And the differ-
ences are carefully preserved. There is an
understandable determination not to be
dominated and not to be pressured and
to be unique and to maintain individu-
ality. And that's a sign of strength on our
side and their side of the border that is
precious to us both.
I feel that we have approached an era
of recognition, of mutual purpose and
ideals and hopes and dreams and aspira-
tions and also, concerns and problems
that might bind us even closer together
now than in the past. And in a way, I'm
thankful for it. I'm proud of the per-
sonal friendship that was almost instan-
taneous when I met Pierre Trudeau this
afternoon. I had a sense of relaxation
and a sense of compatability that I hope
will be an accurate indication on a per-
manent basis of what our nations feel
towards one another.
I would like to close by saying that we
have been close in time of war. And quite
often, when our own Nation had made a
mistake because of an excessive depend-
ence on our own military strength, Can-
ada and its people have maintained kind
of a standard of ethics and morality and
commitment to unchanging truths that
were a subtle reminder to us to reassess
our own position.
So, we learn from one another. And
I'm very grateful to our visitors for com-
ing to honor us with their presence.
I'd like to propose a toast: To the
Queen of Canada, to the Prime Minister
of Canada, and to the people of Canada.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, friends:
I want to thank you, first of all, for
your very warm hospitality and for the
informality of the dinner that we are
attending tonight. The informality was
to be expected from a household where
you have a child of school age and a
puppy, I understand, and the hospitality
and the warmth of it was to be expected
211
