May 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tions and will honor our historic respon-
sibilities to assure the security of the State
of Israel. These controls will be binding
unless extraordinary circumstances neces-
sitate a Presidential exception, or where I
determine that countries friendly to the
United States must depend on advanced
weaponry to offset quantitative and other
disadvantages in order to maintain a re-
gional balance.
1. The dollar volume (in constant FY
1976 dollars) of new commitments under
the Foreign Military Sales and Military
Assistance Programs for weapons and
weapons-related items in FY 1978 will be
reduced from the FY 1977 total. Trans-
fers which can clearly be classified as
services are not covered, nor are commer-
cial sales, which the U.S. Government
monitors through the issuance of export
licenses. Commercial sales are already
significantly restrained by existing legis-
lation and executive branch policy.
2. The United States will not be the
first supplier to introduce into a region
newly developed, advanced weapons sys-
tems which would create a new or signifi-
cantly higher combat capability. Also,
any commitment for sale or coproduc-
tion of such weapons is prohibited until
they are operationally deployed with U.S.
forces, thus removing the incentive to
promote foreign sales in an effort to
lower unit costs for Defense Department
procurement.
3. Development or significant modifi-
cation of advanced weapons systems solely
for export will not be permitted.
4. Coproduction agreements for signifi-
cant weapons, equipment, and major
components (beyond assembly of sub-
components and the fabrication of high-
turnover spare parts) are prohibited. A
limited class of items will be considered
for coproduction arrangements, but with
restrictions on third-country exports,
since these arrangements are intended pri-
marily for the coproducer's requirements.
5. In addition to existing requirements
of the law, the United States, as a condi-
tion of sale for certain weapons, equip-
ment, or major components, may stipu-
late that we will not entertain any re-
quests for retransfers. By establishing at
the outset that the United States will not
entertain such requests, we can avoid un-
necessary bilateral friction caused by later
denials.
6. An amendment to the international
traffic in arms regulations will be issued,
requiring policy level authorization by the
Department of State for actions by agents
of the United States or private manufac-
turers which might promote the sale of
arms abroad. In addition, embassies and
military representatives abroad will not
promote the sale of arms and the Secre-
tary of Defense will continue his review of
Government procedures, particularly pro-
curement regulations which may provide
incentives for foreign sales.
In formulating security assistance pro-
grams consistent with these controls, we
will continue our efforts to promote and
advance respect for human rights in re-
cipient countries. Also, we will assess the
economic impact of arms transfers to
those less-developed countries receiving
U.S. economic assistance.
I am initiating this policy of restraint
in the full understanding that actual re-
ductions in the worldwide traffic in arms
will require multilateral cooperation. Be-
cause we dominate the world market to
such a degree, I believe that the United
States can and should take the first step.
However, in the immediate future the
United States will meet with other arms
suppliers, including the Soviet Union, to
begin discussion of possible measures for
multilateral action. In addition, we will
do whatever we can to encourage regional
agreements
agreements among purchasers to limit
arms imports.
932
