Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ways, the ocean, if you understand one
another's problems. So the comprehensive
nature of what is done is the responsibil-
ity of Secretary Brock Adams. And his
ability to let you know what we are try-
ing to face will let you do a better job for
all of us.
You also have an advantage in that 90
percent of the employees in this Depart-
ment are outside Washington, in other
parts of the Nation, seeing at firsthand
the delivery of services and care in the
transportation field. That will help a great
deal as well.
And the last point I want to make is
this: We are partners in this process. I'm
no better than you are. We're servants of
the American people, and we share a tre-
mendous opportunity and responsibility.
I want you to feel a part of that partner-
ship.
I think at this time it will be good for
me to answer your questions. I don't mind
getting wet a little if you don't. I think
this will show that democracy exists be-
tween the White House and the Trans-
portation Department.
QUESTIONS
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask
the question, what is the present status of
the EEO affirmative action plans in the
Federal agencies? In other words-
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. -that will enable women to move
up in the professional field and, also, what
you propose to do to see that these affirm-
ative action plans are factual statistics?
THE PRESIDENT. The question, I guess
everybody could hear, is about EEOC and
particularly about women. We have much
more than tripled the number of women
who have been selected at the top man-
agement levels of the various depart-
ments. We've not yet gone far enough. We
now have seven different Federal agencies
responsible for insuring equal employment
opportunities. We have a backlog of cases
that consists of 130,000 cases. It takes an
average of about 3 years to settle a com-
plaint.
I'm in the process now of choosing
someone to head up the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission, who I
think will be a person of nationwide stat-
ure and in whom you will have confi-
dence. But I'm totally dedicated, person-
ally, to rooting out the last vestiges of
discrimination against any human being
who works in the Federal Government
over whom we have any input because of
race or sex or religion. And I promise you
that this will be an undying and constant
commitment on my part. And every mem-
ber of the Cabinet, including Brock Ad-
ams, is committed to the same thing.
ZERO-BASE BUDGETING
Q. Mr. President, as a budgeteer, I'm
very interested in your zero-based budget-
ing plans for '79. We are now in the proc-
ess of preparing our multi-year plan, of
which the '79 is the base year.
When do you intend on releasing your
zero-based budgeting plan, and how do
you propose to get the information to the
levels where budgets are formulated; for
example, OMB circular or through sem-
inar, whatever?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we will initiate
zero-base budgeting in time to prepare the
fiscal year '79 budget in its entirety, using
this process.
The first stage of zero-base budgeting
will be for me to meet with the different
members of the Cabinet and other agency
heads, probably no later than April. And
in that session, we'll establish broad poli-
cies, delineations of priorities. And then
we'll follow that up with your participa-
tion between April and perhaps August.
During that period, we'll take every pro-
gram that this Department carries out,
232
