Apr. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
among the industry, labor, consumer,
and international interest involved:
1. The remedy would be highly in-
flationary and add substantially to con-
sumer costs, particularly those of low
and middle income purchasers of foot-
wear.
2. While some jobs would be saved
and some new jobs generated, the con-
sumer cost per job would be excessive
under the Commission remedy.
3. Imposition of a remedy as restric-
tive as that of the USITC would weak-
en U.S. leadership in international
efforts to reduce trade barriers and
would make it more difficult for other
governments to deny increased
pro-
tection to their industries that face
increased import competition.
4. The Commission's allocation of
its tariff rate quota among supplying
countries is inequitable and would be
particularly burdensome on developing
countries.
5. Adversely affected countries would
have the right to impose retaliatory
restrictions against U.S. exports. Retali-
ation is normally avoided by granting
compensatory U.S. tariff cuts on prod-
ucts of trade interest to the countries
affected. But this means that other
domestic industries and workers would
pay a large bill for the high level of
relief given to the shoe industry.
6. The USITC remedy would gen-
erate additional domestic production
and jobs but special adjustment pro-
grams would also be required to help
the weaker firms to become competi-
tive in the long run. The breathing
spell needed before the results of such
a special program could be realized
need not be as long as the five years
recommended by the Commission.
In order to provide a better balance
among the various elements of the na-
tional economic interest I have directed
the Special Trade Representative to seek
the necessary agreements with the appro-
priate foreign exporting countries to mod-
erate the problems caused to our industry
by rapid shifts in trade. This program is
designed to allow the domestic industry
to become more competitive. I have asked
the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor
to work closely with the Special Trade
Representative to ensure effective use of
the resources available under existing
law for the benefit of the shoe industry
and the communities in which shoe plants
are located.
In addition, I am ordering a full re-
view of the Government's trade adjust-
ment assistance programs, and will rec-
ommend to the Congress within the next
90 days any legislation which may be
warranted. This will coincide with the
Special Trade Representative's negotiat-
ing effort, and in accordance with the
law, we will present a detailed program
of relief no later than 90 days from today.
NOTE: The message was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
American Non-Rubber
Footwear Industry
Memorandum for the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations. April 1, 1977
Memorandum for the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Decision on Non-Rubber Foot-
wear Under Section 202(b) of the Trade
Act of 1974.
Pursuant to section 202(b) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (PL 93-618, 88 Stat.
1978), I have determined the action I
will take with respect to the report of the
U.S. International Trade Commission
552
