Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
responsibility in this country is not only
a statesman but a man of solid moral
principles who is brave enough to state
that God and the United States must
come close to Mexico, a man that loves
his wife, a man that believes in the institu-
tion of the family.
It is my conviction that with a man of
this nature, the role of the United States
in the history of humanity will be oustand-
ing and exemplary. That is why for me it
is a great honor to raise my glass and pro-
pose a toast to the health of the Carter
family, and so that wisdom will always be
a guiding light for the President of the
United States, Mr. Carter.
I thank you.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 9:22 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
President López Portillo spoke in Spanish, and
his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Zero-Base Budgeting for the
Fiscal Year 1979 Budget
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
February 14, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
During the campaign, I pledged that
immediately after the inauguration I
would issue an order establishing zero-
base budgeting throughout the Federal
Government. This pledge was made be-
cause of the success of the zero-base budg-
et system adopted by the State of Georgia
under my direction as Governor.
A zero-base budgeting system permits
a detailed analysis and justification of
budget requests by an evaluation of the
importance of each operation performed.
An effective zero-base budgeting system
will benefit the Federal Government in
several ways. It will
• Focus the budget process on a com-
prehensive analysis of objectives and
needs.
• Combine planning and budgeting
into a single process.
• Cause managers to evaluate in detail
the cost-effectiveness of their opera-
tions.
Expand management participation
in planning and budgeting at all
levels of the Federal Government.
The Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget will review the Federal
budget process for the preparation, analy-
sis, and justification of budget estimates
and will revise those procedures to incor-
porate the appropriate techniques of the
zero-base budgeting system. He will de-
velop a plan for applying the zero-base
budgeting concept to preparation, analy-
sis, and justifications of the budget esti-
mates of each department and agency of
the Executive Branch.
I ask each of you to develop a zero-base
system within your agency in accordance
with instructions to be issued by the Office
of Management and Budget. The Fiscal
Year 1979 budget will be prepared using
this system.
By working together under a zero-base
budgeting system, we can reduce costs and
make the Federal Government more effi-
cient and effective.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on February 15.
nounced that work had already begun, at the
On the same day, the White House an-
President's direction, to implement zero-base
budgeting in the White House, and that sub-
stantial budget reductions are anticipated.
Richard M. Harden, Special Assistant to the
President for Budget and Organization, is co-
ordinating White House implementation.
154
