May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Thank you very much for letting me
come. I look forward to this brief visit
with a great deal of anticipation and
pleasure and thanksgiving.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. He
was greeted by Albert Weitnauer, Secretary
General of the Department of Foreign Affairs,
and other Swiss officials.
Meeting With President
Hafiz al-Asad of Syria
Remarks of the President and President
Asad Prior to Their Meeting. May 9, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. It's with a great deal
of pleasure and hope that I come to Ge-
neva to meet with the great President of
Syria, President Asad. As a leader of one
of the great countries in the Middle East,
I look to him for guidance and advice and
for support as all of us search for progress
in achieving peace in that important and
troubled part of the world.
President Asad has a great role to play
because of his experience, the greatness
of his country, his interest in and sensi-
tivity about world affairs outside his re-
gion, and because of his ability to bring
together different peoples who in the past
have been unfriendly toward one another
and at odds.
This is a year when we are blessed with
strong and moderate leaders in the Mid-
dle Eastern region. I believe that it is a
year of hope for substantial progress, but
it can only be achieved with close con-
sultation, open minds, and a determina-
tion to succeed in spite of very difficult
obstacles. I have already met with the
leaders of Israel and Egypt and Jordan,
and this meeting with President Asad will
help me to understand the common
agreements that exist and the potentials
for the resolution of differences that still
remain.
The good will of President Asad has
already been demonstrated. For many
years he has been a strong supporter in
the search for peace, working closely with
my predecessors in the White House and
with Secretary Kissinger and others, as
efforts have been made.
We have no regional role to play in this
year's deliberations, but we hope to act as
an intermediary who can have influence
only to the extent that the other nations
trust us to be fair, to be objective, to be
truthful, to be determined.
Following my own meetings with these
great leaders, we will ask our own Secre-
tary of State, Cyrus Vance, to visit the
Middle Eastern region again to consult
more closely with the nations involved in
future deliberations. And I believe that if
I can learn from President Asad today,
that that will be another major step to-
ward the progress that we all hope to see.
There must be fairness; there must be
some flexibility; there must be a forget-
ting about past differences and misunder-
standings; there must be determination;
there must be a resolution of the Palestine
problem and a homeland for the Pales-
tinians; there must be some resolution of
border disputes; and there also must be
an assurance of permanent and real peace
with guarantees for the future security of
these countries, which all can trust. We
will add our good offices, as requested,
but I am very much aware that the agree-
ment can only be permanent and can only
be initiated if the parties who live there
reach an understanding with one another.
I want to express my deep thanks to
President Asad for being willing to come
to Geneva to meet with me, and I will try
to capitalize on the close friendship which
he and I have already established. And I
believe that the discussions will be fruitful
because of his good will, his experience,
842
