Mar. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
U.S. canned mushroom industry is not in
the national economic interest, and ex-
plaining the reasons for my decision.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 10, 1977.
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
MUSHROOMS
As required under Section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am trans-
mitting this report to the Congress setting
forth the actions I will take with respect
to mushrooms covered by the affirmative
finding on January 10, 1977, of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC) under Section 201 (d)
(1) of the Trade Act. As my action dif-
fers from that recommended by the
USITC, I have included the reasons for
my decision:
I have determined that import relief
for canned mushrooms is not in the na-
tional economic interest. As indicated
below, the principal reasons for that de-
termination include: (1) recent improve-
ments in the domestic mushroom indus-
try; (2) the high cost to U.S. consumers
of the import relief recommended by the
USITC and the relatively limited num-
ber of additional jobs such relief might
create; (3) the existing availability of
expedited adjustment assistance for work-
ers and firms in the industry; (4) the
potential retaliation against our own ex-
ports which import relief might engender,
as well as the adverse foreign policy re-
percussions; (5) the existing voluntary
export restraints agreed to by the princi-
pal foreign suppliers of canned mush-
rooms (the Republics of China and Ko-
rea); and (6) my intention to monitor
canned mushroom imports and consult
with the principal exporters, with a view
toward avoiding disruptive impacts on the
U.S. market.
The USITC reported that domestic
conditions for both mushroom canners
and growers have improved recently;
fresh and canned mushroom prices as
well as production, sales, and profits have
increased in response to growing U.S. de-
mand for mushrooms. The fresh mush-
room segment of the industry has bene-
fitted from these higher mushroom prices
and there is no evidence of significant
unemployment or idling of productive
facilities in this area. Employment in
mushroom canning plants has declined in
recent years but it is estimated that the
import relief recommended by the USITC
would create or save something less than
100 jobs and at an extremely high cost
to U.S. consumers.
U.S. demand for canned mushrooms
has increased and inventories are cur-
rently drawn down. Were the USITC
recommended tariff rate-quota system to
be implemented, consumers could be
faced with further large price increases
in both canned and fresh mushrooms.
The European Economic Community
has recently relaxed its import restrictions
on mushrooms. Since its market can now
absorb a larger share of world mushroom
exports, import pressures on the U.S.
market should be reduced.
Voluntary export restraints by the Re-
public of China (Taiwan) and the Re-
public of Korea will remain in effect until
their scheduled expiration on June 30,
1977. In addition, I intend to continue to
monitor mushroom imports and domestic
market conditions. Should exports of
mushrooms become a disruptive factor in
the U.S. market, I will request consulta-
tions with the exporting government(s)
involved.
NOTE: The text of the message was released
on March 11.
362
