Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
forget where our strength is derived-
from the American people who don't have
much influence, who can't come to Wash-
ington for a meeting, who can't partici-
pate at the highest levels of either politics
or business or the professions or diploma-
cy, but whose innate commitments in a
cumulative way best exemplify what our
Nation is and what it ought to be.
This morning, I'd like to mention just
a few items that concern business and
management and administration. I don't
believe that the government can be sen-
sitive to people's needs nor meet those
needs effectively unless it is administered
well. It's got to be efficient, economical,
competent. And the same principles that
apply to our own professions or your own
business, whether it's in real estate or
agriculture or manufacturing, apply to
government in my opinion.
I think we are making excellent prog-
ress with the Congress in giving me
authority to carry out my most important
and frequently expressed campaign com-
mitment, and that is to reorganize the
structure of the executive branch of Gov-
ernment. I want it to work, and I want
it to be so that it can be understood by
the American people. I want to root out
the influence of special interests. I want
to make sure that because someone is
powerful or rich or influential that they
occupy no special privilege in Govern-
ment. And in a complex, confused bu-
reaucracy, those who are most influential,
most knowledgeable, are the ones who
can derive unwarranted privilege or ben-
efit. That's not right.
I am looking forward to the oppor-
tunity to work closely with the Congress
and with you in getting our Government
arranged so that it can be both open and
administered well I am trying to cut
down on the number of regulations,
guidelines, directives that have always
afflicted my life as a farmer and a busi-
nessman and which I know afflict your
lives as well. And I am absolutely deter-
mined that you are going to be pleased at
the number of regulations that we elimi-
nate, simplify, and consolidate.
And there is a growing excitement, not
just at the Cabinet level but at the sub-
levels of departments that I am visiting
almost every day about the chance not
only to let your lives be freer and more
meaningful but also to reduce the tremen-
dous burden of unnecessary administra-
tive responsibilities that fall on the fine
civil servants in this Government who
have just one career, one life to live, like
yours, and who want to do a good job
of serving the American people but quite
often have been prevented from doing
that by the complexities of government.
And I think they are now ready to
change.
I've also directed all the Cabinet offi-
cers this week to assess thoroughly the
number of reports and surveys and forms
that come into the Federal Government
from you and others, and to eliminate all
that are not absolutely essential, to sim-
plify greatly those that are needed, to
make less frequent the reports that we
have to have on occasion, and to consoli-
date those reports across governmental
agency lines so that the number might be
reduced substantially.
We are going to put into effect com-
pletely for the fiscal year 1979 budget
zero-base budgeting, so that we can assess
every year not just programs that are
proposed for next fiscal year but on an
equal basis assess those programs that
have been in effect for the last 5, 15, 20,
sometimes 50 years, so we can make sure
that next year we spend the money that
we have and the human resources that
we have, both limited, in the most effec-
tive way to meet priorities and needs that
are obvious for next year, not what was
needed 25 to 50 years ago.
190
