Apr. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ated a long time ago, long before I be-
came President.
The fact is that the known world re-
serve supplies are much less than we had
thought earlier.
So, I believe that these things can be
done. And if it's an overall balanced pack-
age, then we have got a good chance to
convince the American people that they
are making some sacrifice, the oil com-
panies are making some sacrifice, the auto-
mobile manufacturers are making some
sacrifice, and that it is equitable. The oil
companies have been primarily the ones
so far, based on stories, some of which are
true, who have taken out full-page ads
and so forth, to criticize-
Q. Not in my paper.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Thank
you, Lou. [Laughter]
-to criticize. I might say it's one of
the most unpleasant and difficult subjects
that I have ever had to address. And I
know that when it comes out, anybody, a
Governor, a mayor, an oil company, or a
consumer can find something wrong with
it they don't like. I hope in balance,
though, that it will be assessed as fair and
equitable and necessary.
Q. Thank you,
sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I appreciate a chance to meet with you
and wish I could answer questions all
afternoon.
TAX REBATE
Q. Did you sleep well last night, Mr.
President, after having to make that de-
cision on the tax rebate?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I have slept bet-
ter than I have. I have been concerned
about that for a number of weeks. This
past weekend, in my own mind I decided
that I would make a change. I didn't
mention it to anyone until Monday at
noon when I talked to the Vice President,
and then, after talking it over with him,
we let the economic advisers start bring-
ing me information about trends in infla-
tion and increased consumer confidence,
retail sales, plans for business investment,
and I became convinced that it just sim-
ply was not necessary.
When I called the Senate leaders, pri-
marily, I found them to be almost unani-
mously in favor of the change. So far as I
know, Senator Muskie was the only one
that expressed to me any concern about
the decision, and Senator Humphrey who,
as you know, has a very liberal-deserv-
edly liberal-reputation, said it was the
best news that he had, that he had already
decided and had discussed it with his wife,
Muriel, the night before that he was going
to come back to Washington early this
weekend to get Senators Byrd and Long
to join him in coming to the White House
to ask me to withdraw the $50 rebate pro-
posal, that he didn't think it was necessary.
So, I feel good about it.
Q. Do you feel you have lost credibil-
ity? Does it bother you that you may have
lost some credibility with the public?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, I don't
like to lose any credibility. I am sure when
you change your mind about something
that you do lose some degree of credibility,
but I think I would have lost just as much
credibility to insist on an economic stim-
ulus element which was not actually nec-
essary. Circumstances now compared to
what they were in December are com-
pletely different. And I think the remain-
ing stimulus package, $20 billion to $23
billion, built primarily around job oppor-
tunities is the proper approach.
Q. Is there a chance that some of the
waterway projects, a significant number,
will be okayed?
THE PRESIDENT. A significant number
will be okayed; a significant number won't
be okayed. [Laughter]
650
