Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 27
tunity to completely eliminate atomic
weapons from all arsenals in the world.
But until that time, we'll have to be cau-
tious and careful, well-equipped, and
well-trained.
I have no doubt that this submarine
has demonstrated that to me today.
Q. Do you foresee long-range cruise
missiles for this kind of a ship or shorter
range?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it depends on
what you mean by the definition of "long"
and "short" range. Certainly, this ship
could very well handle cruise missiles now
that would have a range far beyond the
horizon.
The exact range limitations or defini-
tions will have to wait for future delibera-
tion. But I think it's accurate to say now
that the basic thinking would be that you
would need longer range cruise missiles
on the airplanes, the strategic airplanes;
short of range, but still adequately long,
on the surface and submerged ships.
Q. Admiral, how did he handle the
ship, please, and do you have a sense of
pride in how far one of your junior offi-
cers has come?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Well, it shows that
any sailor or officer in the Navy can
become President. There was a living
demonstration of that. It was an encour-
agement, and I am afraid we have have
introduced competitors to President Car-
ter at the next election because a lot of
the people are getting the idea that they've
got a chance, too.
But he did a superb job. He actually
piloted the ship at the stern plane, at the
bow and stern planes while the ship was
making high speed. He actually operated
the throttle of the plant when it was mak-
ing top speed. That speed was more than
20 knots. [Laughter] That is a figure
which, when Mr. Truman was President,
he authorized us to use for the highest
speed. And President Carter, being a
Democrat and an admirer of President
Truman, has emulated his example. Is
that correct, sir? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. Does the President still have his sea
legs, Admiral?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Sea legs? It shows
you're not familiar with submarines, be-
cause no sea legs are required for a sub-
marine. It's very quiet. You don't even
know you are underway. I excuse you
because of your ignorance. [Laughter]
Q. Did you convince the President that
we should build more nuclear subs?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. I don't think the
President is a man who can be convinced
except by his own convictions.
Q. Well, did you convince him?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. I don't believe the
President is a man who can be convinced
except by his own convictions, and I hope,
in view of the fact that there are other
members of the press,
that you
don't re-
peat that question because I will be com-
pelled to answer in the same way.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Let me make one
comment, Admiral. Let me point out to
the press a very interesting statistic, since
we are at Cape Canaveral where the first
manned space flight was made. The
amount of the United States money that
was spent to put the first manned space
flight into space exceeds the total amount
that has been spent under Admiral Rick-
over in the research, development, pro-
duction of all nuclear-propelled ships that
the Nation now owns.
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. It is about 10 miles
long.
THE PRESIDENT. He just pointed out
that it would be about 10 miles long if you
lined them up end-to-end and approach-
ing between 1,500 and 2,000 cumulative
years of operation.
I might point out, too, that the amount
of radioactive material that has been dis-
1039
