June 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
avenues of discussion that have been
very valuable to me and to the State
Department.
I'm very grateful also, that he will be
working for us in our Office of Drug
Abuse Policy, and he will be a great help
to me, to the State Department, to the
Congress, and to the other organizations
in our Government.
So, this is a morning when we are tak-
ing a great step forward in recementing
the relationship between scientific knowl-
edge, the probing of new areas of human
comprehension on the one hand, and the
political application of that knowledge on
the other, for the benefit of all mankind
and, Mary, and womankind. [Laughter]
I am very grateful that these men are
willing to serve, and now they will be
given the oath of office.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. In his
concluding remarks, he referred to Dr. Bourne's
wife, Mary E. King, Deputy Director of
ACTION.
Following the President's remarks, David L.
Bazelon, Chief Judge of the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, administered the oath of office.
Consumer Agency Legislation
Remarks at a Briefing for Representatives of
Consumer Groups. June 1, 1977
As you know, Esther Peterson is one
person that's impossible to scorn.ยน [Laugh-
ter]
For 8 years, the Congress of the United
States has been considering whether or
not to give the average people in our
1 The President was alluding to critical re-
marks which Richard L. Lesher, president of
the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States, had made about Esther Peterson, Special
Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs.
country, the consumers, a voice in gov-
ernment that's clear and concise, inexpen-
sive and effective.
We've still not been successful. When
we had a President who had promised to
veto the bill, the Congress was more in-
clined to give it support. Now when it's
sure that the White House will approve
this legislation to set up an agency to pro-
tect consumers, the lobbyists have come
out of the woodwork and the Congress is
under intense pressure.
I think the action of those who oppose
this legislation is ill-advised. I'm very
grateful that more than 100 major busi-
nesses in our country have seen the advis-
ability of supporting this legislation, be-
cause, individually, the business leaders
of our country are fair. They want to be
sure that their own customers are pro-
tected, and they are not afraid of compe-
tition in our free enterprise system.
Unfortunately, when business leaders
organize and hire a staff and hire lobby-
ists, they lose that individual commitment
to their customers, and the lobbyists' only
commitment is to their employers, to busi-
ness, corporations, themselves.
So, I think there's a separation here be-
tween what individual business leaders
want and know is fair and what their
spokesmen espouse on Capitol Hill.
This proposal is not earth-shaking. The
proposal is for a tiny agency, just to be a
focal point for equity and fairness. It's not
contradictory to the spirit of the free en-
terprise system-it's part of it; it exempli-
fies it; it strengthens it.
It satisfies an unmet demand in our
society for the quiet and the unorganized
and the sometimes vulnerable purchasers
of goods and services just to have a voice.
There is no authority granted-just the
right to speak and to be heard and to
join in the debate or discussion and to
probe for unfairness and let that unfair-
1048
