June 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sweat shops and when individuality in a
working person was not encouraged or
permitted. Even when I grew up on a
farm there was a common commitment
to a 16- or 18-hour working day. And this
left no time for the growth and the spirit
or the study or the encounter with the arts
or sciences or literature on the part of a
working class family.
We woke up at 4 o'clock in the morn-
ing with the ringing of a farm bell. And
we caught the mules and hooked up the
plows in the dark. And when the sunlight
came enough to see the rows of corn or
cotton or peanuts, we started plowing.
And this was a common, accepted thing
for the family of the landowner or for the
tenants or others, and we didn't quit until
the sun went down, and it took us that
long to get home. So, there was no way for
a person to stretch his heart and stretch
his mind and learn new things if he or she
belonged to a working class family.
So, I think the industrial revolution as
it is presently evolving does give the work-
ing family now much more recognition
with the organization of labor unions,
with the cutting down of the workweek to
an average now of about 36 hours a week.
There's more time to stretch one's mind.
And I think that one of the other great
breakthroughs, which I don't use myself,
is the observation of television. I don't
watch television much myself, but I think
that for many people just to see what the
outside world is has not only been an edu-
cational process but has raised expecta-
tions and the concepts of what one could
do.
And I know that quite often this
creates a disruptive effect when somebody
sees families eating rich foods and living
in a beautiful house and driving in a fancy
automobile. Their expectations are raised
above their possibilities of achievement. It
creates disharmonies.
But I think the industrial revolution, in
general, has been of benefit to the libera-
tion of human beings. And I think some
of those things that I described to you
about changes in our Constitution are a
result of greater awareness and greater
demands on the part of people who have
previously never spoken out.
To close my answer, I might say that
when I went home in 1953 in the winter,
I very quickly went on the local school
board. And we had separate but so-called
equal educational opportunities in the
South. They were separate, but they cer-
tainly were not equal. The white kids
rode to school on buses; the black kids
walked. And the white kids had fairly
modern buildings; the black kids went to
school in basements of homes, on the back
porch of private homes, and in dilapi-
dated churches.
But we maintained, even believing it
sometimes, a separate-but-equal school
system. And the black people in the South
didn't feel that they could demand equal
rights with impunity. It was only because
of the open and heroic expression of de-
mand from people like Martin Luther
King, Jr., that the white leaders slowly
began to realize how culpable they were,
or we were.
So, I think that the nationwide use of
the communications media, particularly
television, gave, as a result of the indus-
trial revolution, a chance to reach the
consciousness of people who otherwise
could not have been reached over a period
of decades or generations or perhaps even
centuries.
One of the things that we hope to do
in the developing nations of the world is
to provide them access to our communi-
cations satellites where they can reach
impenetrable areas and bind together
people in a common spirit, sometimes a
nationalistic spirit, but receive better edu-
cation and better knowledge. So, in gen-
1078
