May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have a quiet confidence in our own political system. Because we
know that democracy works, we can reject the arguments of those rulers
who deny human rights to their people.
We are confident that democracy's example will be compelling, and
so we seek to bring that example closer to those from whom in the past
few years we have been separated and who are not yet convinced about
the advantages of our kind of life.
We are confident that the democratic methods are the most effective,
and so we are not tempted to employ improper tactics here at home or
abroad.
We are confident of our own strength, so we can seek substantial
mutual reductions in the nuclear arms race.
And we are confident of the good sense of American people, and so
we let them share in the process of making foreign policy decisions. We
can thus speak with the voices of 215 million, and not just of an isolated
handful.
Democracy's great recent successes in India, Portugal, Spain,
Greece-show that our confidence in this system is not misplaced. Being
confident of our own future, we are now free of that inordinate fear of
communism which once led us to embrace any dictator who joined us in
that fear. I'm glad that that's being changed.
For too many years, we've been willing to adopt the flawed and
erroneous principles and tactics of our adversaries, sometimes abandon-
ing our own values for theirs. We've fought fire with fire, never thinking
that fire is better quenched with water. This approach failed, with Viet-
nam the best example of its intellectual and moral poverty. But through
failure we have now found our way back to our own principles and
values, and we have regained our lost confidence.
By the measure of history, our Nation's 200 years are very brief,
and our rise to world eminence is briefer still. It dates from 1945, when
Europe and the old international order lay in ruins. Before then, America
was largely on the periphery of world affairs. But since then, we have ines-
capably been at the center of world affairs.
Our policy during this period was guided by two principles: a belief
that Soviet expansion was almost inevitable but that it must be contained,
and the corresponding belief in the importance of an almost exclusive
alliance among non-Communist nations on both sides of the Atlantic.
That system could not last forever unchanged. Historical trends have
weakened its foundation. The unifying threat of conflict with the Soviet
956
