Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
side of the organization, lacking commit-
ment on the part of the leadership to fol-
low up on them and let them flounder
without follow-through.
I wonder, as you approach the ques-
tion of reorganization and reform in
Government, how you propose to avoid
these pitfalls and, specifically, how do you
propose to engage the career services in
the process of designing your reorganiza-
tion and reform?
THE PRESIDENT. I presume that other
than the things you mentioned you liked
the previous efforts, right? [Laughter]
You may be surprised to know that the
last three reorganization proposals for the
State Department I have studied myself.
And I agree with your analysis of them.
There were some excellent ideas in some
of those reorganization proposals. They
were not carried out for several reasons
that you have described very well.
In the first place, under the zero-base
budgeting technique, which I think all of
you will like and which will be used in its
entirety to prepare the next budget, you
will in a mandatory way be involved in
the evolution of the next budget, the es-
tablishment of priorities for expenditure
of your own human and financial re-
sources, the elimination of obsolete pro-
grams, the change and modification of
those that have been in effect for a long
time, and the promulgation of new ones
that might take place for the first time
next year.
At the foreman level-speaking in bus-
iness terms-an analysis would be made,
using one side of one sheet of paper, what
you think can be done to make your own
professional careers more effective. As a
result of those first studies, which will be
completed I would say no later than this
August, we will have a fairly clear picture
within this Department of what you think
your Department ought to be like. And
any sort of reorganization effort that Cy-
rus Vance recommends to me I would like
for you and him and the other leaders in
this Department to know that it ought to
start with you, so that you might say this
is what we think ought to be done and
work its way up in that fashion.
I am deeply committed to the princi-
ple that we ought to have an efficient,
economical, well-organized, well-man-
aged Federal Government, so that it can
be sensitive to our people's needs, so that
excessive secrecy might be stripped away,
and so that we can take maximum advan-
tage of your own talents and abilities.
So, with the zero-base budgeting and
that concept of reorganization, I think I
can assure you that the next reorganiza-
tion proposal that comes for the State De-
partment will be originated by you, it will
be well advised, and it will also be im-
plemented.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Q. Mr. President, speaking of reorgani-
zation, do you see a specific direction for
the U.S. foreign aid program or any new
emphasis on new programs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we do
need a substantial change in our foreign
aid programs. They are so diverse-some,
as you know, with institutional aid
through the World Bank and regional
banks, through IMF loans and so forth,
some strictly bilateral aid to individual
countries, some for a region, some with
loans, some with direct grants—that the
whole thing has gotten confused.
Cy Vance and I were talking about this
very subject on the way up on the eleva-
tor, and we are now going to the Congress
to ask the Congress Members to honor
this Nation's commitment for our pro
rata share of support for some of these
multilateral aid programs.
We have up until now defaulted on the
word of honor of our country. We have
promised in effect that if Great Britain
239
