Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
delegated, in whole or in part, by the
Chairman to any other officer of the
United States or to any Executive agency.
SEC. 4. The heads of all Executive
agencies shall cooperate with and assist
the Chairman in carrying out the author-
ity delegated to him by this Order.
SEC. 5. All Executive agencies shall, to
the extent permitted by law, provide the
Chairman on request such administrative
support and information as may be neces-
sary to carry out the authority delegated
to him by this Order.
The White House,
February 2, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:01 p.m., February 3, 1977]
REPORT TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
Remarks From the White House Library. February 2, 1977
Good evening.
Tomorrow will be 2 weeks since I became President. I have spent
a lot of time deciding how I can be a good President. This talk, which
the broadcast networks have agreed to bring to you, is one of several steps
that I will take to keep in close touch with the people of our country, and
to let you know informally about our plans for the coming months.
When I was running for President, I made a number of commit-
ments. I take them very seriously. I believe that they were the reason
that I was elected. And I want you to know that I intend to carry them
out. As you probably noticed already, I have acted on several of my
promises.
I will report to you from time to time about our Government-both
our problems and our achievements, but tonight I want to tell you how I
plan to carry out some of my other commitments.
Some of our obvious goals can be achieved very quickly—for exam-
ple, through executive orders and decisions made directly by me. But in
many other areas, we must move carefully, with full involvement by the
Congress, allowing time for citizens to participate in careful study, in
order to develop predictable, long-range programs that we can be sure
are affordable and that we know will work.
Some of these efforts will also require dedication—perhaps even
some sacrifice—from you. But I don't believe that any of us are afraid
to learn that our national goals require cooperation and mutual effort.
One of our most urgent projects is to develop a national energy
policy. As I pointed out during the campaign, the United States is the
69
