Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 14
local officials to issue similar proclama-
tions. I call upon individuals and organi-
zations concerned with transportation,
educators, the communications media,
and the American people to join with the
Department of Transportation in observ-
ing this day and week with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirteenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:55 a.m., April 13, 1977]
Organization of American
States
Address Before the Permanent
Council. April 14, 1977
Mr. Chairman, members of the Perma-
nent Council, Mr. Secretary General,
Permanent Observers of the OAS, Chiefs
of the Specialized Organizations and
Agencies, members of the press, distin-
guished guests:
Hace tres años, tuve el honor y placer
de hablar ante la Asemblea General de la
OEA celebrada en mi estado de Georgia.
Igual que en Atlanta, hoy seguiré el con-
sejo de mis compañeros, que opinan-
para el beneficio de buenas relaciones-
sería mejor que no hablara en español
hoy. [Three years ago I had the honor
and pleasure of speaking before the Gen-
eral Assembly of the OAS held in my State
of Georgia. As I did then in Atlanta, I
will today follow the advice of my friends,
who have the opinion that, in the interest
of good relations, it would be better for
me not to speak in Spanish today.]
Since I can also speak English, I will
shift to that language. [Laughter]
That day in Atlanta, 3 years ago, I
shared with you some of the thoughts
that my wife and I had brought back
from our visits to several of the American
States. I spoke particularly for the need
for constant cooperation, consultation,
and harmony among the nations of this
hemisphere. I believe that just as strongly
today as President of the United States as
I did 3 years ago as Governor of Georgia.
I am delighted to be with you in this
beautiful House of the Americas. For
nearly three decades the OAS has stood
for mutual respect among sovereign na-
tions, for peace, and the rule of law in
this hemisphere. The OAS Charter
pledges us to individual liberty and social
justice. I come here now to restate our
own commitment to these goals.
The challenge before us today, how-
ever, is not just to reaffirm those prin-
ciples but to find ways to make them a
reality. To do this, we must take account
of the changes in our relationships that
have taken place over the last 10 years,
and we must candidly acknowledge the
differences that exist among us. We must
adapt our current policies and institu-
tions to those changes so that we can
pursue our goals more effectively.
As nations of the New World, we once
believed that we could prosper in isola-
tion from the Old World. But since the
Second World War, in particular, all of
us have taken such vital roles in the
world community that isolation would
now be harmful to our own best in-
terests and to other countries. Our
joining in the International Monetary
Fund, the World Bank, and the General
Agreement on Trade and Tariffs are all
611
