Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
• Fiscal discipline to assure a balanced
budget by FY 1981 as the economy re-
turns to normal.
• An agreement with leaders of busi-
ness and labor to establish a framework
for consultation with government for
reaching our objectives for job creation,
inflation control, and other economic
priorities.
• Efforts by the Council on Wage and
Price Stability to analyze and provide in-
formation on inflationary conditions in in-
dividual markets and industries.
• An early warning system through the
Council on Wage and Price Stability to
forecast and prevent shortages and bottle-
necks.
• Effective incentives for business to
increase investment in new productive ca-
pacity as part of comprehensive tax re-
form.
self, and my chief economic advisers in an
effort to achieve better coordination of
monetary and fiscal policies.
• Full consideration of the economic
cost of major Government regulations,
through a more effective analysis of their
economic impact.
• Greater emphasis on achieving com-
pliance with regulations through incentive
and performance standards rather than
detailed specification of means, and efforts
to improve effectiveness and reduce red-
tape and delay.
•Reform of rate-setting regulation to
encourage increased competition within
regulated industries, including a major
effort to deregulate the airline industry
and other industries in which regulation
unnecessarily stifles competition.
Cooperation with other nations to re-
duce worldwide inflationary trends, in-
• A new program to restrain increases cluding support of the International
in hospital costs.
Monetary Fund.
Employment policies that stress job
skills training, improved job placement
services, and improved services to match
job openings with available workers.
Encouragement of increased produc-
tivity in business and agriculture.
• Initiatives to moderate the sharp fluc-
tuations in the supply of commodities,
which have triggered inflation in recent
years, through the following:
-Farmer-held food reserves to help
stabilize consumer prices and farm-
ers' incomes;
-Negotiations to reduce fluctuations
in the world price of sugar and grains,
and an open-minded look at price
agreements for other commodities;
-Working with Congress to assure that
raw materials from the Nation's stra-
tegic stockpiles are made available in
the event of supply disruptions dur-
ing peacetime.
Regular monthly meetings between
the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, my-
Using international trade policies to
help assure competitive prices to con-
sumers, while taking into account the
legitimate needs of particular American
industries and workers.
Development of procedures to elimi-
nate costly and unnecessary delays in con-
struction permit issuance by Government
agencies.
Strict enforcement of the antitrust
laws, including a crackdown on price fix-
ing and monopolistic practices.
Reorganization of the Federal Gov-
ernment to streamline the operations of
the Government, improve its efficiency,
and make it a more effective instrument
to achieve our national objectives within
budgetary constraints.
• More efficient Federal procurement
policies, including increased competitive
bidding and a stronger and more vigilant
Renegotiation Board.
Over the past year, the rate of inflation
has averaged 6 percent. Reducing that
623
