Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 21
We need your active participation in a
joint effort to move the reality of the
world closer to the ideals of human free-
dom and dignity.
As friends, you can depend on the
United States to be in the forefront of the
search for world peace. You can depend
on the United States to remain steadfast
in its commitment to human freedom
and liberty. And you can also depend on
the United States to be sensitive to your
own concerns and aspirations, to welcome
your advice, to do its utmost to resolve
international differences in a spirit of co-
operation.
The problems of the world will not be
easily resolved. Yet the well-being of each
and every one of us-indeed our mutual
survival―depends on their resolution. As
President of the United States I can as-
sure you that we intend to do our part. I
ask you to join us in a common effort
based on mutual trust and mutual respect.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President's remarks were video-
taped by the United States Information Agen-
cy for broadcast to 26 nations on January 20.
Presidential Proclamation of
Pardon
Proclamation 4483. January 21, 1977
GRANTING PARDON FOR VIOLATIONS OF
THE SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT, AU-
GUST 4, 1964 TO MARCH 28, 1973
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Acting pursuant to the grant of author-
ity in Article II, Section 2, of the Consti-
tution of the United States, I, Jimmy
Carter, President of the United States,
do hereby grant a full, complete and un-
conditional pardon to: (1) all persons
who may have committed any offense
between August 4, 1964 and March 28,
1973 in violation of the Military Selec-
tive Service Act or any rule or regulation
promulgated thereunder; and (2) all per-
sons heretofore convicted, irrespective of
the date of conviction, of any offense com-
mitted between August 4, 1964 and
March 28, 1973 in violation of the Mili-
tary Selective Service Act, or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder, re-
storing to them full political, civil and
other rights.
This pardon does not apply to the fol-
lowing who are specifically excluded
therefrom:
(1) All persons convicted of or who
may have committed any offense in viola-
tion of the Military Selective Service Act,
or any rule or regulation promulgated
thereunder, involving force or violence;
and
(2) All persons convicted of or who
may have committed any offense in viola-
tion of the Military Selective Service Act,
or any rule or regulation promulgated
thereunder, in connection with duties or
responsibilities arising out of employment
as agents, officers or employees of the Mil-
itary Selective Service system.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 21st day of Janu-
ary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:04 p.m., January 21, 1977]
5
