Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 30
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll answer this
question, and then we'll have to go.
Our country is one that desires peace.
And our country is one that desires dis-
armament. Our country is one that's ca-
pable of meeting our own defense needs
and of carrying out our obligation to our
allies and friends.
There is no doubt that we have a long
way to go in alleviating tension in the
world. I think it's accurate to say that the
evolution of the nuclear submarine, which
was Admiral Rickover's great accomplish-
ment, has helped to preserve that peace in
the last quarter century. We have had
long conversations today about safety and
about the hope that nuclear weapons can
be eliminated.
Admiral Rickover agrees with me that
if we could ever get other nations to agree
to that proposal, that it would be in the
best interest of ourselves and of the world.
So, I think it is very crucial that our
friends and potential adversaries under-
stand that our country is equipped to de-
fend ourselves, to maintain peace without
belligerence or threat, but with a quiet
confidence in the skill of our engineers
and the skill of our military people.
I think that we have a confidence in
ourselves and a determination to carry out
our Nation's purposes that will stand us in
good stead. There's no weakness. There's
no lack of will. There's no lack of confi-
dence. There's no lack of common pur-
pose. So, our will to do what's right, our
ability to do what's right in defending our
country and carrying out our foreign pol-
icy, in my opinion, is well understood by
all other countries in the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:03 p.m. on the
dock at Port Canaveral. In his remarks, he re-
ferred to Vice Adm. Joe Williams, Jr., Com-
mander, Submarine Forces, U.S. Atlantic Fleet,
and Capt. J. C. Christianson, Commander,
U.S.S. Los Angeles.
Following his remarks, the President re-
turned to St. Simons Island, Ga.
Rosalynn Carter's Trip to the
Caribbean and Latin America
Remarks of the President and Mrs. Carter
Prior to Her Departure From Brunswick,
Georgia. May 30, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I just want to say this
Rosalynn is able to go down to the Carib-
morning that I am very grateful that
bean and to Central and South America.
She and Mrs. Kay Vance, wife of the Sec-
retary of State, will be going to Jamaica
and also to Costa Rica, Ecuador, and
Peru, to Brazil and Colombia and to
Venezuela.
They have been well prepared for this
trip. It's a gesture of good will between
our own country and those nations in
Latin America, who have been so close to
us in years gone by, historically our friends
and allies. We share with them a common
purpose, a common culture, common in-
terests, problems, and opportunities.
In addition to this expression of friend-
ship, this small group will be discussing
subjects which are of interest to the lead-
ers of those countries, and Rosalynn will
be making daily reports back to me and to
the Secretary of State about the results of
the conversations with the leaders of those
countries.
She and Mrs. Vance and others have
been well briefed about the current status
of relationships between ourselves and the
people whom she will visit.
We have, I think, an opportunity to
strengthen these ties with our friends to
the south. We don't have a special slogan
for Latin America anymore, but we have
a commitment to treat them as individ-
uals.
One of the problems in the past has
been that we have looked on South Amer-
ica, Central America, the Caribbean as
parts of a homogeneous group of nations,
but we see much more clearly now that
1041
