May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
we should emphasize increased block
pay-
ments of welfare assistance or whether we
should emphasize massive job opportuni-
ties for those who are able to work and
who in the past have been dependent
upon welfare payments.
I don't know yet what the outcome will
be. But we want a simple system. We want
one that's fairer. We want one that is
much more uniform in its assistance to
people without regard to where they live
than we have had in the past.
We want one with a heavy emphasis
on work for those who are able to work.
We'd like to distinguish between those
who are permanently disabled or perma-
nently dependent upon government sup-
port who have small children or who
have some problem with age or health
on the one hand and let them have an
adequate support level with one simple
system, if possible, and a heavy encourage-
ment for other welfare recipients to go to
work.
But I can't describe any details of the
plan yet because we haven't decided the
details yet. I am trying to do it so it
doesn't cost the taxpayers more money.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. You said that you enjoyed your
Presidency so far.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. How have you gotten used to the
restrictive elements of it, such as the se-
curity, the swarm of photographers, et
cetera? What are your thoughts on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I had 2 years practice.
[Laughter] Well, that's not exactly true
because I would say I had about 4 or 5
months of practice following a year and
16 months of loneliness when I was look-
ing for photographers. [Laughter]
So, it's a fairly pleasant life. I can be by
myself when I want to. The White House
Mansion is private. We don't permit staff
members or anyone else to come up on
the second floor where we live.
The White House grounds are not open
to visitors except during certain carefully
prescribed hours. The Secret Service pro-
tection does not follow me in my living
quarters. And I have a private office off
the Oval Office where I can work in com-
plete isolation.
I have spent more time with my family
since I have been President than I have
in many years. Amy, who was only 2 years
old when I was elected Governor, I think
is as happy now as she has ever been in
her life. She is 9. She has been assimilated
within the public school system up here,
and she enjoys it, looks forward to going to
school every day.
I have a good opportunity late in the
afternoons to go swimming with Amy or
to play tennis on occasion. Harry Truman
put in a one-lane bowling alley in the
basement. So, in the wintertime we have
access to recreation. I stay in good physi-
cal shape, and I have been to Camp
David two or three times. It's in the Mary-
land mountains. And it's a very isolated
place to relax and to think and to work.
The other point that makes it attrac-
tive is it's highly diverse in nature. You
don't get bored. [Laughter] And this is
really kind of a form of recreation. In an
average day's work I have 10 or 15 differ-
ent kinds of questions to address.
The Secret Service have been with me
now since October of 1975. And when I
was Governor I had a State patrolman
who was required by law to stay with me
all the time.
So, I think those constraints on my per-
sonal life are more than offset by the chal-
lenge of the job and the interesting nature
of my responsibilities and the closeness of
my family.
It would be hard for any of you to real-
ize that haven't been involved in a long
952
