Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
a constant way, seeing at first hand how
circumstances change among people that
I am trying to represent. And you repre-
sent, every one of yourselves, a tremen-
dous, demonstrable leadership capability.
If you hadn't had that ability, you
wouldn't have the responsibilities that are
yours today. And I recognize that tre-
mendous reservoir of sound advice and
experience and sensitivity to the aspira-
tions and concerns of the American
people.
The Democratic Party is a means by
which you and I can stay close to one
another. It's also a means through which
you can stay close to the congressional
leaders and Governors and others. And
I hope you'll take full advantage of it,
because there's no way to get around the
fact that we share every decision made in
government and every decision made in
business, industry, agriculture, and the
other professions.
care or mental health problems or agri-
culture, I hope that you will talk directly
to my people in the White House or to
Ken Curtis and his people, because we
have a need for those kinds of services
from you.
And the characteristic that exemplifies
the lives of everyone in this room is that
you are always eager to give much more
than you ever expect to receive in return.
That's typical of Americans. It's typical
of the Democratic Party.
And I hope that in my own service, as
President in the next few years, that I
might live up to your expectations, and
I hope that those expectations will always
be very high.
Thank you very much. God bless every
one of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:58 p.m. in
the Presidential Ballroom at the Capital Hilton
Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to Kenneth
M. Curtis, chairman of the committee, and
Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations.
The depth of this partnership is what
is significant to me, and I hope that you
will always be free with your aid for the
Democratic Party itself, prepare ourselves
for presentatiton to the American people
in a frank and open way the issues that
must be debated before each election, that Energy Expo '82
you will join with me next year in having
a successful election campaign. And I am
always eager to learn from you and to
derive benefit from your support and
advice.
There's no way that I can repay all of
you. I have just made my selection for
Ambassador to Luxembourg. [Laughter]
I have to admit that for the first time in a
long time it was a professional diplomat.
That's not the case with all the appoint-
ments.
Many of you can help me and have al-
ready been called upon to help me with
specific assignments. If you have a special
interest in finance or taxation or health
Announcement of Federal Recognition for the
International Exposition. April 28, 1977
The President today announced that he
has granted Federal recognition to "En-
ergy Expo '82," an international exposi-
tion on energy to be held in Knoxville,
Tenn., from May to November 1982. The
President directed the Secretary of State
to notify the Bureau of International Ex-
positions for formal registration.
Pursuant to Public Law 91-269, the
Department of Commerce evaluated the
plans for the exposition and submitted a
report recommending that Federal recog-
nition be granted.
738
