Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 12
the American people, do have a special
relationship with our Government.
In coproduction-that's when we share
responsibilities for the production of a
certain weapons system or the sale of the
advanced weapons systems-Israel is one
of those countries. Yes.
TAX PROPOSALS
Q. Mr. President, there have been re-
ports that your administration is consid-
ering significant tax cuts for business in
your tax reform package. What is your
thinking along this line?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not had a
chance yet to meet with the specialists
who are working on the overall tax pro-
posal. I've been working on the summit
and the welfare proposal and others—and
social security and so forth.
This week will be the first time that I
will have met with them at all-that'll be
tomorrow-to go over the general frame-
work. I think it would be erroneous to
presume, however, that the major tax re-
ductions, if any, would fall to the business
community. I'm much more concerned
about alleviating the tax burdens on peo-
ple who are working families and those
that I think have been paying too much.
But there might be a change in the tax
structure relating to business.
But I can't answer your question be-
cause I have not yet decided. But I think
in general, there would be a well-balanced
assessment of tax burden, and I would
certainly not single out business for spe-
cial tax credits.
Q. Mr. President, is it your assumption
that the tax reform package would result
overall in a decrease in revenues?
THE PRESIDENT. No. My hope is that
we can make the analysis based on no
change in revenue, that its primary pur-
pose can be increased equity or fairness
and much greater simplicity. Then, if we
do have an opportunity to reduce taxes,
they will be done one increment at a time,
and the decreases in tax payments will be
allotted where they're needed, both to sell
the package to Congress and to the peo-
ple, and to provide increased fairness in
the overall concept.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
[President Carter's seventh news conference be-
gan at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450 of the Old Ex-
ecutive Office Building and was broadcast live
on radio and television. Following the news
conference, the President remained in the room
to answer questions from reporters on an in-
formal basis, as follows:]
Q. Have you got any jet lag?
THE PRESIDENT. I've gotten over it. I
went to see "The Barber of Seville" last
night. It was a remarkable performance.
Beverly Sills was nice enough to help me
out, you know, with the pre-inauguration
program. She performed without asking
for any kind of pay. And I want to go see
her.
But I feel pretty good. I'm going to get
a longer night's sleep tonight.
Q. We were all zonked out. How did
you have the energy to go see the opera
last night?
THE PRESIDENT. I have one ability to
change from one time zone to another,
even with a 5-hour difference. When I
got to London for instance-on the way
over, I went to bed at 11:30 at night,
London time, which was 6:30 Washing-
ton time. And I would guess that you
you did
not do the same.
Q. No. [Laughter] Mr. President, you
talked about coverups and confidence in
your formal portion of the news confer-
ence. Could you give us your reaction to
the Nixon television appearances?
THE PRESIDENT. I've only seen a small
part of the first one. I saw part of the first
part, and then the latter part of it. It
867
