May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
they would lose-this is kind of an aver-
age for the whole Nation-they would
lose $66.67 in AFDC payments! The
earned income tax credit-they would lose
$10; food stamps-they would lose $9.90;
housing assistance, where that is paid, lose
$8.25. So, they would lose, out of the $100
increase in check, salary, $94.82, which
$94.82, which
means that they would have a net reward
of only $5 out of an increase in earnings
of $100.
So, you can see there's very little incen-
tive to work your way off welfare.
I might point out that the legislative
leaders, particularly Congressman Ullman
and Senator Long, have been through
these proposals with us the last time this
morning. And this is going to require a
very close working relationship with the
committees involved.
It's one of those long-standing needs in
the Federal Government that has not yet
been addressed, and comprehensive wel-
fare reform is long overdue.
I think we have an excellent chance
to meet all the principles and goals that
we've described here. We will meet the
time schedule to present to the Congress
the complete legislative package by the
first part of August.
The first priority of the Congress, as far
as I am concerned, should be the rapid
passage of the energy reform legislation.
Later on this year, we will also present
to the Congress comprehensive tax reform
legislation. We will also have to present to
the Congress very shortly our analysis of
the needs for the social security package,
and there are many other major proposals
that are being evolved very carefully and
presented to the Congress in a timely way.
I'll have to depend upon, of course, the
congressional leaders to decide in which
order they will address these major efforts.
As most of you, I am sure, are aware,
these proposals that I have outlined fall on
exactly the same committees. The Ways
and Means Committee in the House, un-
der Congressman Ullman, will handle
most of the parts of energy that relates to
taxation-tax reform, social security, as
well as welfare reform.
And all of the subcommittees will begin
work immediately. The difficulty in ad-
dressing this many major proposals from
me and my administration is very difficult
for them to assimilate.
It's almost as bad in the Senate, in the
Finance Committee, where they handle
most of the same questions. But we're de-
termined to proceed expeditiously, and
Joe Califano, Ray Marshall, Mike Blu-
menthal, Charlie Schultze, Bert Lance,
and others are doing an extraordinarily
good job so far in putting together an
analysis of what we have and recommend-
ing what we ought to have in the future.
We've also had good response from the
Governors and local administrators in try-
ing to give us advice on how administra-
tion of the program could be improved.
I would like to ask Joe Califano now to
describe to you in more detail what we
will do specifically between now and the
first week in August and to answer your
questions about the principles that I have
outlined this afternoon.
Secretary Califano.
I'd like for Joe also to show you what
books and all they've presented to me. I
can't claim that I've read them all.
SECRETARY MARSHALL. Here is the
report.
SECRETARY CALIFANO. These are the
reports, Mr. President, so far of the work
that has been done, which we presented.
These reports are largely-
THE PRESIDENT. This will give me
something to do while I am over at the
summit meeting. This, by the way, does
not include the computer analyses that
have been run to show the impact of the
various proposals. And it's obvious that
there has to be a close relationship be-
774
