Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 31
attention, both because our Nation owes
them a debt of gratitude for their service
and because their employment problems
are so severe.
For Vietnam-era veterans between the
ages of 20 and 24, the unemployment rate
is 18%, compared to 12.5% for non-vet-
erans of the same age, with disabled and
black veterans hit even harder. More than
20% of young black Vietnam-era veterans
are now unemployed.
I am therefore proposing the creation of
92,000 jobs under Title III of CETA by
the end of fiscal year 1978 in a new pro-
gram called Help Through Industrial Re-
training and Employment (HIRE),
which will emphasize employment op-
portunities for Vietnam-era veterans
(Table 4).
Under the HIRE program, which
could be expanded to include non-vet-
erans, the largest corporations, through
Federally-funded initiatives, will be en-
couraged to make private sector job op-
portunities and training available to Viet-
nam-era veterans.
HIRE will initially focus on disabled
Vietnam-era veterans and then reach out
to include all Vietnam-era veterans. If
there are not enough Vietnam-era vet-
erans available in a community to fill job
openings, those jobs will be made availa-
ble to disadvantaged young jobseekers
and then to the long-term unemployed.
The government will pay a firm a vari-
able amount per Vietnam-era veteran
hired-depending on that persons' oc-
cupational level and job-for each day of
employment and training provided to
such a person, up to a maximum of twelve
months.
In order to insure that this program
creates new jobs, we will require, as a
condition of Federal assistance, that the
employment of target group members not
result in the displacement of any worker
who is currently employed by the firm,
who has been laid off, or who is on strike.
I
propose to increase the proportion of
Public Service Employment jobs held by
Vietnam-era veterans. Local goals will be
developed by individual prime sponsors
and keyed to the number of veterans
available in the area served.
I have also asked the Department of
Labor to establish outreach units, staffed
by disabled Vietnam-era veterans, in
State Employment Service local offices.
They will identify other disabled Viet-
nam-era veterans and guide them to spe-
cial programs, services, and available job
opportunities. Even before this program
is enacted, we will urge the CETA prime
sponsor to increase voluntarily the num-
ber of Vietnam-era veterans in the ex-
panded Public Service Employment pro-
gram.
d. Other Employment and Skill Train-
ing Programs. We must improve employ-
ment opportunities and skill training for
all disadvantaged groups, through inno-
vative approaches to training and private
sector employment.
Therefore I am proposing an increase
of 58,000 slots in the Skill Training Im-
provement Program and a doubling of
outlays for apprenticeship programs un-
der Title III of CETA (Table 3). In or-
der to better match our training pro-
grams to industry needs, I will instruct
the Department of Labor to establish a
skill training improvement program au-
thorized under Title III of CETA, to be
administered by CETA prime sponsors
with full involvement of the private sec-
tor.
Under the expanded apprenticeship
program which I have requested, appren-
tices will be allowed to continue develop-
ing their skills even during periods of un-
employment. A similar program will be
extended to workers at the journeyman
level.
53
