Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 18
Senator Kennedy has had a deep in-
terest in this matter for at least 2 years.
And he's going to introduce a bill in the
Senate. So, I want him to address us at
this time. Senator Kennedy.
SENATOR KENNEDY. First of all, I want
to congratulate President Carter and
General Bell for the very great support
and leadership that they have provided
in breathing new life into the 4th amend-
ment and protecting the liberties of the
American people. I think their leadership
in this important legislative achievement
will be extremely helpful to us in the
Senate and in the House of Representa-
tives in insuring the passage of this
legislation.
They have really built on a strong rec-
ord that was made by former General
Levi and by the leadership in the Senate
by Senator Nelson and Senator Mathias,
Senator Phil Hart, who have over the
period of the time that I've been in the
United States Senate, for some 14 years—
have really been the leaders in the United
States Senate.
I think all Americans, particularly in
recent times, have been very much aware
of the abuses in the area of the right to
privacy and the abuses of the electronic
devices in violating the privacy of Ameri-
can individuals.
And I believe that this important piece
of legislation can really remedy that par-
ticular abuse of the past. It will effectively
guarantee to all persons as the 4th amend-
ment prescribes, all persons, that their
rights of privacy will be preserved under
law. And I think that this will be an
important achievement in preserving
those particular liberties.
I again thank the President, General
Bell, for the very strong support and
leadership that they have given to us in
the Senate and in the House of Repre-
sentatives on this legislation.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Thank you,
Senator Kennedy. Chairman Rodino of
the House Judiciary Committee has had
a similar inerest in this legislation, and he
has agreed to introduce the bill in the
House. I'd like to call on him now for
some remarks. Chairman Rodino.
REPRESENTATIVE RODINO. Mr. Presi-
dent, General Bell, Members of Congress:
I'm delighted to participate in these
proceedings and to introduce the measure
which I'm sure is in keeping, Mr. Presi-
dent, with the pledge that you made to
the people when you were elected that
our Government would be as decent as
the people it serves. I think this is a de-
cent piece of legislation. This is a fair
piece of legislation.
And I want to commend you, Mr.
President, the Attorney General, the
Members of Congress, and all of those
who participated in the deliberations.
We've had to walk a fine line between
assuring that we would be free from the
abuses that we've seen in the past where-
by the rights of individuals were violated,
the constitutionally protected rights, and
the responsibility of government to insure
that it would be free from the terroristic
attacks that we have seen from espionage
and from the theft of information that is
necessary for the security of our Nation.
I think this is really walking the fine
line. And the people who have partici-
pated in bringing together this piece of
legislation are to be commended for their
ability to be able to recognize that the
American people are looking for us in
Government to assure that there is fair-
ness, that there is decency, there is justice,
even though we talk about protecting the
national security.
923
