Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 8
House. I think that the initiation for this
proposal was in the Congress and I cer-
tainly am glad to share the credit.
REPRESENTATIVE LLOYD MEEDS. Let us
return the compliment, however, and par-
ticularly to you and your staff, on the fast
action coming up testifying affirmatively
on it and helping us to get through some
of the maze of our own procedures.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, S. 925 is Public Law 95-18, ap-
proved April 7.
Drought Relief Bill
Statement on Signing S. 925 Into
Law. April 7, 1977
It is with great pleasure that I sign S.
925. This bill will provide temporary au-
thorities to the Secretary of the Interior to
take emergency actions to relieve the ef-
fects of the current drought.
The bill would authorize up to $100
million in financial assistance, principally
through interest-free loans to reclamation
projects and Indian irrigation projects, for
acquisition and reallocation of water sup-
plies, for drought-related studies, and for
certain other construction, management,
and conservation activities to alleviate the
drought. Portions of the authorized funds
are also specified for fish and wildlife
pro-
tection and for certain State and non-
Federal emergency programs.
The drought has lasted for 2 years in
many parts of the West and Midwest. In
some areas, 1977 will probably be the
driest year on record. The drought already
has caused significant economic losses and
human suffering and will likely continue
to do so in 1977.
Although Federal and State govern-
ments have already provided significant
aid in drought-stricken areas, we must do
more.
This bill represents several weeks of in-
tense and cooperative effort among Mem-
bers of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Department of the Inte-
rior, and the White House staff, to pro-
duce a workable program for drought
assistance. I wish to thank all of those in-
volved and particularly to note the lead-
ership of Senator Jackson and Congress-
man Meeds in the swift passage of this
legislation.
I hope that this bill, in conjunction with
other measures I have proposed in a com-
prehensive, $844 million drought assist-
ance package, will provide help to those
who have already suffered and reduce
further suffering from the drought. I
pledge every effort of this administration
to ensure effective administration and im-
plementation of S. 925 and other impor-
tant drought relief measures. Our work
has just begun. In commencing this work,
I feel it is important that I sign S. 925 into
law.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 925 is Public Law 95-
18, approved April 7.
Minority Bank Deposit Program
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments
and Agencies. April 8, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
The Government's minority bank de-
posit program has entered its seventh year
of promoting the development of minor-
ity-owned business enterprises by increas-
ing Federal and private sector deposits in
minority banks. When the program began
in 1970, there was $3.7 million of Govern-
ment-controlled funds on deposit in 31
minority banks. These have grown to
$86.6 million deposited in 81 minority
593
