Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 30
Swearing-In Ceremony
Remarks at the Swearing In of the
Administrator of the Agency for
International Development and the
Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations. March 30, 1977
Good morning, everybody.
We have another very important occa-
sion for our country and, I think in this
instance, in a unique way for the rest of
the world.
I have had a chance to know both these
men for a number of years. I met Jack
Gilligan when he and I were both elected
as Governors. He's an educator. He's a
man who served well at the local and
State levels of government. And I have
said many times I don't think ever
when he was present-that when I had a
chance to work with the other 49 Gover-
nors that he was the best one of all in
dealing with a complicated subject, dem-
onstrating superb management capabil-
ity, and having a sensitivity about the
needs of human beings. And now it's time
for him to be permitted to serve at the
national and the international levels of
government.
Our country is one that is humane and
compassionate about the needs of suffer-
ing people here and throughout the
world. At the same time, many people
have been discouraged in the last number
of
years that the good intentions of our
Government in providing help to those
who need it quite often are not carried
out in the delivery of opportunities to
people to have medical care and food and
a chance to live a decent life.
There are about, I think, 6,000 employ-
ees involved in our AID program around
the world, and I believe that Jack Gilligan
has a unique capability of bringing to this
bureaucratic entity, which is crucial,
proper management techniques that will
let the delivery of services be efficient and,
more importantly, effective, and main-
taining a good relationship with the Con-
gress where he served so well, and also
letting the rest of the world know the true
character of our country.
So, I am very proud that Jack Gilligan
will be the director of our AID program.
He has been working on this job quite ex-
tensively for the last number of weeks,
learning about it, studying it, and I am
sure that he will make the Nation proud
as he takes on this new and very important
assignment.
The other man I have also known a
long time. He's well prepared for one of
the most difficult jobs in Government.
When this post of Special Trade Repre-
sentative was created by the Congress, it
was created at the Cabinet level and that
indicates the importance attached to it
by the people of our Nation.
This is probably the second most diffi-
cult assignment that I know about. The
most difficult one was bringing order out
of chaos and bringing harmony within the
Democratic Party in the last 4 years.
[Laughter]
And if ever anyone has been to the cru-
cible of training for a very difficult ne-
gotiating job, Bob Strauss has been. I have
pretty well taken care of most of the im-
portant responsibilities of his job. I have
already handled mushrooms. And all he
has got to worry about now is shoes and
color televisions and sugar and a few other
incidentals like that, but I am sure he is
well qualified for it.
Again, Bob Strauss has a special insight
into the business world. He has worked
well with labor. He is acquainted with in-
ternational trade. He has a knowledge of
the workings of the executive and the
legislative branches of our Government.
533
