May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
MAJOR GENERAL SINGLAUB
Q. Why did you fire General Sing-
laub? 1 He claims that the officers there
have never been given a rationale on
withdrawal. And have you had any
soundings from North Korea as to the
possibility of improving relations?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place,
General Singlaub was not fired. General
Singlaub was informed that he was not
being fired; he was not being chastised or
punished. He was being transferred to a
new position at an equivalent degree of
responsibility and stature.
We have, however, considered very
carefully the question of our troops to be
withdrawn from South Korea, the Re-
public of Korea, ground troops. This is a
matter that has been considered by our
Government for years. We have been in
South Korea now more than 25 years.
There has never been a policy of our
Government evolved for permanent
placement of ground troops in South
Korea.
In 1970 and 1971, a full division of
troops was withdrawn. Many leaders in
our country and in the Republic of Korea
have advocated complete removal of
complete removal of
ground troops from Korea.
Melvin Laird, the former Republican
Secretary of Defense, is one of those.
President Park himself, the President of
the Republic of Korea, has called for the
removal completely of American troops.
The essence of the question is, is our
country committed on a permanent basis
to keep troops in South Korea even if they
are not needed to maintain the stability of
that peninsula? I think it is accurate to
say that the time has come for a very care-
ful, very orderly withdrawal over a period
of 4 or 5 years of ground troops, leaving
¹ Maj. Gen. John Singlaub, Chief of Staff,
U.S. Forces in Korea.
intact an adequate degree of strength in
the Republic of Korea to withstand any
foreseeable attack and making it clear to
the North Koreans, the Chinese, the So-
viets, that our commitment to South
Korea is undeviating and is staunch.
We will leave there adequate intelli-
gence forces, observation forces, air
forces, naval forces, and a firm, open com-
mitment to our defense treaty, so there
need not be any doubt about potential ad-
versaries concerning our support of South
Korea.
I think it is accurate to point out that
overall strategic considerations have
changed since the 1940's and early 1950's,
when the Korean question came into
most prominence in the international
scene. The relationship between the So-
viet Union and us, the People's Republic
of China and us, and the relationship be-
tween the People's Republic and the So-
viet Union have all changed, among other
things.
South Korea, because of their own in-
centive and deep dedication to progress,
now has one of the most strong economies
in the world. Their growth rate last year
in real terms was 15 percent. They have
massive, very healthy industry—in steel,
shipbuilding, electronics, chemical indus-
tries to make it possible for them to
grow into a position of defending them-
selves.
We have also a complete confidence in
the deep purpose of the South Koreans to
defend their own country. Compared to
the North Koreans, they have a two-to-
one advantage in total population, and
they have much greater access to the West-
ern industrialized democracies for ad-
vanced equipment and for technology.
So, for all of these reasons, I think it is
appropriate now for us to withdraw those
troops. A decision has been made. Presi-
dent Park has been informed. And we will
work
very closely with the South Koreans
1018
