Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 23
a strong Civil Service Commission to
vigorously prosecute employees who vio-
late regulations against this kind of
behavior.
The White House,
March 22, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: Following is the text of a letter from
Vice President Walter F. Mondale to Mem-
bers of Congress, as released by the White
House Press Office along with the President's
message:
Dear Member of Congress:
Attached is the President's message to the
Congress containing several recommendations
dealing with election reform. I was privileged
to participate in the preparation of the message
together with a number of your colleagues. I
wanted you to know that the proposal for elec-
tion day voter registration, which is our prin-
cipal recommendation, was developed with the
excellent assistance of Rep. Frank Thompson,
Sen. Howard Cannon, Sen. Alan Cranston,
Sen. Edward Kennedy and others, and the
President and I are very grateful for their
cooperation. We believe it will serve as an
example of how the Administration and the
Congress can work together in developing
needed legislation. We hope you will read the
message carefully and, needless to say, we hope
also we will have your support for its recom-
mendations.
Sincerely,
WALTER F. MONDALE
Urban and Regional
Development Policies
Memorandum to the Heads of Certain
Departments. March 21, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of Treas-
ury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Sec-
retary of Labor, the Secretary of Health,
Education and Welfare, the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, the
Secretary of Transportation
During my campaign, I pledged an
urban and regional policy based on mu-
tual trust, mutual respect and mutual
commitment between State and local gov-
ernments on the one hand and the fed-
eral government on the other. Although
we do not have as yet a national urban
and regional policy, the first step toward
achieving that goal must be coordination
among federal departments and agencies.
I would like you to form a working
policy group on urban and regional de-
velopment. The purpose of the group will
be to conduct a comprehensive review of
all federal programs which impact on
urban and regional areas; to seek perspec-
tives of state and local officials concern-
ing the role of the federal government in
urban and regional development; and to
submit appropriate administrative and
legislative recommendations.
Under Executive Order 11297, Pat
Harris has the responsibility to convene
such a group and will do so shortly. I
want to emphasize that development of
an urban and regional policy should be a
joint project with full participation by
each of your departments, as well as from
other Federal agencies where appropriate.
This is a high priority for my Adminis-
tration, and I have asked Jack Watson
and Stu Eizenstat to facilitate and sup-
port your collective efforts in every way
possible.
I look forward to receiving a prelimi-
nary report on your progress and findings
by early summer.
JIMMY CARTER
cc: Heads of Executive Departments and
Agencies
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was
made available by the White House Press Office
on March 23. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
485
