Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 23
We've also initiated with directions to
the members of the Cabinet and other
agency heads a new program to cut down
on the extremely great overload of paper-
work with a requirement that those who
prepare Government regulations, who are
responsible for the preparation, sign
them.
I've asked my Cabinet officers to read
the regulations that are forthcoming from
their departments each week until they
see the volume and the complexity of
them. And we hope to eliminate unneces-
sary regulations, abbreviate those that are
necessary and express them in a language
so that we can all understand them.
I've also asked major elements of our
society, the university professors and the
State officials, in this last week to give me
their suggestions on how the regulations
might be improved.
We've done the same thing with reports
required by the Federal Government. And
I hope to reduce drastically the number
of reports, the frequency of those reports
and the complexity of them.
We will complete the proposed legisla-
tion on creating a new Department of
Energy this week. The proposed legisla-
tion is now on my desk. It will be sub-
mitted to the Congress for action the first
of next week. And we've consulted very
closely with the key leaders in the Con-
gress. And I believe there is going to be a
rapid creation of this new department and
a heavy emphasis on the importance of
energy questions to our people.
We will also present to the American
people, probably at a joint session of the
Congress speech by me, about April the
20th, a comprehensive energy policy
which will involve all the complexities of
the energy question that's something
that's long overdue—and it's going to be
quite profound on its impact on the
American consciousness and our society.
And I hope it will be comprehensive
enough so that it can be well-balanced
and fair to all.
We are quite concerned about the
pressures of inflation. The advisers to me
on economics are trying to assess all Gov-
ernment programs and private actions
that contribute to inflationary pressures.
When this analysis is done, I will use
every means that I have available to me
to express these concerns and possibly
corrective actions to the American people
as well.
And the last point is that we will have
a complete analysis underway now on de-
regulation. And the first question is the
deregulation of the airlines. Legislation is
in the Congress now. We will be submit-
ting a message to Congress very shortly
on that subject. We will not submit ad-
ministration legislation because the Con-
gress has already moved substantially for-
ward in dealing with this important issue.
And now I'd like to answer questions.
Mr. Frank Cormier [Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
DEFENSE EXPENDITURES
Q. Mr. President, you told the Demo-
cratic Platform Committee that you
thought present defense expenditures
could be reduced by 5-to-7 billion dollars.
I think you may have modified your posi-
tion somewhat since then. Obviously, in
your short time in office you didn't find
the opportunity to make cuts like that in
your predecessor's budget. But isn't it also
likely that next year's budget for defense
will exceed this year's?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, because of in-
flationary pressures and because of an im-
possibility of assessing the potential threat
to our country from other nations, it's
hard to predict exactly what the level of
defense spending will be.
In the short time that we had available
to work on the previous administration's
217
