Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
to our drastic cut proposals to the Soviet
people, but I do feel encouraged about it.
As far as the the other part of your
question?
Q. I asked, did you see any reason to
change your proposals and also, do you
plan a summit meeting with Brezhnev,
and will you be having them from time to
time?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no reason to
change our proposals. We had two, as you
remember. One is to ratify the basic agree-
ments of the Vladivostok discussions, and
the other one is a much more drastic re-
duction in overall weapon capability. I see
no reason to change those proposals.
I would welcome a chance to meet with
General Secretary Brezhnev on a continu-
ing basis, annually at least, and I hope
that later on this year that he and I might
meet in our own country. I think it's good,
though, not to predicate each meeting
with the belief that some dramatic con-
clusion might be reached or some dra-
matic agreement might be reached.
I hesitate and am reluctant to work
under the pressure of having to come up
with an agreement each time. I think it
makes too much of an inclination for us
to agree to things that might be counter-
productive for our own Nation's benefit,
just in order to have some publicity de-
rived from the agreement itself.
ENERGY POLICY PROPOSALS
Q. Mr. President, can you offer any as-
surances that your energy program, com-
ing in a few more days, won't, on balance,
be inflationary?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The energy policy
proposal which will be made next week
will be inflationary in nature. There have
been some news reports that it would con-
tribute 2 or 3 percent to the rate of infla-
tion. These reports are completely erro-
neous. We are going to try to come out
with an energy policy package which will
minimize the effect of inflation which
we've already felt so severely.
As you know, there has been a 500 or
600 percent increase in the price of oil
since 1972. And the price of energy, as it
becomes scarcer and scarcer, is going to
go up.
We hope to be able, within the energy
policy that I present, to hold down the
impact on inflation to less than 2 percent
by emphasizing wherever possible volun-
tary conservation. A termination of un-
necessary waste of energy is anti-inflation-
ary in itself. The inevitable increases in
the price of energy as it becomes scarce are
inflationary. So, we're going to try to bal-
ance those two to minimize the impact on
the inflation rate of any energy policy,
or absence of energy policy. But I think
it's accurate to say that there will be some
adverse impact in the future because of
energy prices.
ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE
Q. Mr. President, your withdrawal of
the $50 tax rebate left a lot of Democrats
in Congress who had supported the rebate
even though they had reservations about it
looking as, maybe, if they had a little polit-
ical egg left on their faces. What do you
offer them in the way of recompense; and,
secondly, how would you feel if Congress
should pass the Republican alternative,
which is an across-the-board permanent
tax cut now?
THE PRESIDENT. If the Congress should
pass the Republican alternative, which is
a permanent tax cut, I would veto it. I
don't think the Congress is going to take
that action, which would be irresponsible.
It would mean that over a long period of
time we would have an inability to have
comprehensive tax reform, and it would
be permanently inflationary in nature and
is not necessary.
I think the recompense for the Demo-
crats who have approved the economic
631
