May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
proving as we have gotten to know one
another. The first time I was ever in the
House of Representatives was Wednesday
night when I made my speech. I had
never visited there before. But I believe
that within the Democratic leadership
now, there is a growing sense of mutual
understanding and trust and consultation
that has gotten to be a habit—and a good
one.
I think the business community has be-
gun to recognize that my own background
as a businessman will help to color the
decisions that I make about economics,
and I think that I have a fairly good re-
lationship with labor, as well.
So, in general, as a completely unbiased
observer, I have been pleased. [Laughter]
We have got a long way to go. I have a
lot to learn. And we are studying how to
restore normal relationships with govern-
ments where those relations have been
strained in the past. We are exploring
some possibilities for the resolution of the
historic conflict in the Middle East. We
are trying to work closely with Great
Britain's leaders in describing a proper
role for us in southern Africa. And I
think we have got a possibility at the
meetings in London to more strongly es-
tablish my personal friendship and under-
standing with the European leaders as
well. So I feel good about the administra-
tion so far.
RELATIONS WITH EUROPE
HENRI PIERRE [Le Monde, Paris] Can I
ask
you a general question about Europe?
Since you took office, we have the feeling
in Europe that the relationship between
the United States and Europe are now
getting the same priority as the American-
Soviet relationship. What is your general
approach regarding Europe and, more
precisely, regarding the European Com-
munity? Some of your predecessors, we
feel, seemed to fear that a united Europe,
if it comes to be, might be a competitor,
might be going against the political and
economic American interests. Do you
share those fears?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think within
100 hours of my becoming President, the
Vice President had begun consultations
with the leaders of many nations in Eu-
rope. I have already met with Prime
Minister Callaghan, with the leaders of
Portugal, with the European Community,
NATO. I will meet with the other leaders
within the next 2 weeks. And this will
likely be the only trip I shall take outside
our country this year. I have no other
plans at this time.
I think all these items describe my deep
concern about good relationships with
Europe. I see no way that we can have a
successful resolution of East-West prob-
lems without the full comprehension,
understanding, participation with our
allies and friends in Europe.
We have, in addition to that, demon-
strated, I think, in my own budget pro-
posals to the Congress, an increasing
emphasis on military capability within
NATO. And I intend to stay over after
the conference with the heads of state, to
meet with the NATO leaders as well.
The people of our country, regardless
of who happens to be President, have a
natural sense that our historical ties and
our future are intimately related with the
European countries.
The other part of your question is that
I strongly favor, perhaps more than my
predecessors, a close interrelationship
among the nations of Europe, the Euro-
pean Community, in particular.
We have a legitimate reticence about
trying to interfere, but I will do every-
thing I can within the bounds of propriety
to strengthen those natural ties-eco-
nomically, politically, militarily—that do
exist now among the countries of Europe
776
