Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sure the House, when we go to confer-
ence, will accept it.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator, that's an
excellent question, because there's an-
other area that I don't want to get into
this afternoon because of time. When you
set emission standards on automobiles at
one level of stringency and you have a
completely different level of stringency
for stationary powerplants, that's not
logical, either.
So, I think to look at the whole realm
of air pollution and water pollution
standards at one time, from one view-
point, we'll make some adjustments both
ways that might make it more logical in
the future. There's no way to give you a
logical answer to your very excellent
question.
Q. If you can bring logic to the Fed-
eral Government, we'd be very pleased.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't promise
that.
ENVIRONMENT; REVIEW OF ENERGY
PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, we're certainly glad
to have you here in our State. And in case
you need a place to spend the night, my
husband and I would be glad to have you.
If not this time, maybe another.
One of the points I wanted to bring up
was the one addressed by Ms. Stephenson
just a minute ago and by yourself, was
how are we going to protect some of the
really valuable natural areas we have in
our State under your new energy pro-
gram.
We are very much concerned that these
not be sacrificed to energy. We under-
stand the need for both energy and a de-
cent natural environment, and we hope
that there will be very clear sections and
regulations on how certain watersheds in
our State can be protected; specifically,
the Schaffer's Fork and the Cranberry
area, which has already been mentioned.
Another comment I have, a question,
is that since there are several energy in-
efficient projects now pending before our
regulatory and licensing agencies that do
have significant implications for our nat-
ural environment, and in light of your
recent actions to review the cost-benefit
of several water-related projects in the
country, and since you do plan to change
our country's energy use and production,
I wonder if you plan such a review for
pending energy-related projects?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think Dr.
Schlesinger can answer that better than
I, but-in fact, I think I'll defer to him
to answer both parts of your question.
The difficult matter that hasn't been
addressed is how do you draw a line be-
tween local and State authority on the
one hand and the Federal authority on
the other?
My own feeling is that within the State
of West Virginia, your own government,
the legislature and the Governor, ought
to decide which areas ought not to be
disturbed.
In Georgia, for instance, we've got
600,000 acres of marshlands, and we
passed a law so no matter what's under
those marshlands, nobody can touch
them. And I hope a thousand years from
now those marshlands will be just exactly
the way they are now.
That's something that the Federal
Government ought not to get into. It
ought to be a decision made by the State.
Now, on the other hand, you've got
areas of lands, sometimes two-thirds of a
State out west, that are owned by the Fed-
eral Government. And Cecil Andrus and
his successor will have control over which
parts of those lands can be disturbed for
strip mining and other purposes.
440
