Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Council on Wage and
Price Stability
Appointment of Eight Members and Four
Adviser-Members and Designation of
Chairman. April 25, 1977
The President has appointed the fol-
lowing persons to be members and
adviser-members of the Council on Wage
and Price Stability:
Members:
CYRUS VANCE, Secretary of State
W. MICHAEL BLUMENTHAL, Secretary of the
Treasury
JUANITA M. KREPS, Secretary of Commerce
RAY MARSHALL, Secretary of Labor
PATRICIA R. HARRIS, Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development
THOMAS BERTRAM LANCE, Director of the
Office of Management and Budget
CHARLES SCHULTZE, Chairman of the Coun-
cil of Economic Advisers
tary of Housing and Urban Development
for Administration. Medina is Chief of
Executive Development and Training at
the Office of Management and Budget.
He was born on October 28, 1935, in
Washington, D.C. He received B.A. and
M.A. degrees in history from George
Washington University. He received a
University in 1976.
Ph. D. in political science from American
Medina began his Federal service with
the Corps of Engineers in 1960 and later
served in the personnel office at NASA.
From 1963 to 1971, he served with the
Civil Service Commission, serving as Di-
rector of Training, Manager of the Finan-
cial Management and PPBS Training
Center, and then as manager of a research
and development group.
After joining OMB in 1971, Medina
worked on program analysis relating to
intergovernmental affairs, ADP system
Stuart Eizenstat, Assistant to the President development, and personnel legislation,
for Domestic Affairs and Policy
Adviser-members:
GRIFFIN B. BELL, Attorney General
CECIL D. ANDRUS, Secretary of the Interior
JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR., Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare
ROBERT S. STRAUSS, Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations
In addition, the President designated
W. Michael Blumenthal as Chairman of
the Council on Wage and Price Stability.
Department of Housing and
Urban Development
Nomination of William A. Medina To Be an
Assistant Secretary. April 25, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate William A. Medina, of
Takoma Park, Md., to be Assistant Secre-
and was the Spanish-speaking coordinator
for OMB. He later served as director of
a policy analysis and implementation
group concentrating on development of a
Government-wide strategy for executive
development.
Medina has been active in the Ameri-
can Society for Public Administration
(ASPA), serving as president of the Na-
tional Capital Area Chapter and member
of the National Council. He is also a trust-
ee of the National Academy of Public
Administration.
A member of the board of directors of
the United Black Fund, Medina is also
treasurer of the Federal Executive Insti-
tute Alumni Association and will serve as
that organization's next president. He is
a founder and associate editor of the Bu-
reaucrat, a quarterly journal for public
administrators.
712
