Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
a government structure that is embedded
in concrete and can't be changed, it cir-
cumvents the hope that people have in us.
So, I want you to be aggressive and dy-
namic and individualistic and working as
a team.
I am no better qualified than you are
to address the problems of our country.
We are partners in a process. And as we
go through the next few months with the
reorganization effort, I don't want any of
you to be afraid of change, because I
hope, working closely with you, to bring
about a structure of government-the
evolution of regulations and policies and
guidelines and purposes and instructions
and an organizational setup-to make
your one life-like mine, which is very
valuable in the eyes of God-be mean-
ingful, because each career represented
here can either be fruitful or it can be
wasted.
I know that all of you quite often work
at some financial sacrifice in the Federal
Government structure. I want to be sure
that every year that you and I spend in
government is spent well. I am not going
to impose on you from above some instant
change that might disrupt your life and
make your effectiveness lessened. I want
the ideas that come to me to originate
with you. And all of my Cabinet members,
including Ray Marshall, understand that.
So, don't be fearful of change. The change
will be initiated by you and will let you do
a better job.
I also want us to realize that we are no
better than anyone else. Just because I am
President and because you work for the
Federal Government or hold, even, an ex-
alted job, doesn't make you any better
than the unemployed American in Dal-
las, Texas, that you serve. But quite often,
without our knowing about it, people who
are not so fortunate as we have a great fear
of those who work for the Federal Gov-
ernment. It is almost as though our own
Government is our enemy or is foreign to
our lives.
I want to be sure that there is always a
willingness on your part to reach out and
say, "I am here to give you a helping
hand," not "I am here to enforce a regu-
lation that changes your life against your
wishes."
We are here to serve and not to be
served. And we are not masters of anyone,
for we represent a government that wants
to make other people more independent,
more free, more able to make the most of
their own talents and abilities.
That is all I have to say to you. Now I
want to answer some questions. I see a
hand up over here. I hope I can hear the
question.
QUESTIONS
DAY CARE CENTERS
Q. Do you propose any changes for day
care?
THE PRESIDENT. On day care?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. As you may or may not
know, I have been a Governor for 4 years,
and I have tried as best I could to provide
adequate day care services for our people.
We, by the 1st of May, will evolve a com-
prehensive reform recommendation, re-
lating to the broad range of welfare. And
I believe that adequate day care centers,
with a reasonable ratio between attend-
ance and children being served, can pro-
vide a crucial element in the ability of
able-bodied Americans to find fruitful
work and not be tied to the home.
If the day care services are too costly, or
if the regulations imposed on the day care
structure are too strict, it is cheaper just to
pay a mother to stay home and take care
of her own children.
So, the practical interrelationship be-
tween the Federal Government, the State,
103
