May 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We're determined in the United States
to use our great economic and social and
political and military strength so that we
can never be successfully challenged by
any competing philosophy, and we are
very eager to combine with our allies and
friends to make sure that this resolve is
clearly understood by all.
We have an eagerness to compete in an
ideological way around the world because
we know that our own commitment to
human freedoms, to human rights, to dem-
ocratic principles and to the compassion
that we feel toward those less fortunate
than we, will prevail.
This is a commitment that we share
with you, and I also want to say that there
is a sense of special friendship and a com-
monality of purpose, and historical, and
ties of kinship that exist between the
United States and Great Britain.
Last year we celebrated our 200th birth-
day as a nation. And Her Majesty the
Queen came to pay her own tribute to us.
It was a gesture of friendship and sensi-
tivity that everyone in the United States
deeply appreciated.
And I'm very proud to return to visit
this year on the 25th anniversary of her
own leadership of your great country. My
family will be represented here later on
next month as the birthday time ap-
proaches.
And we were very honored last month
to have Prime Minister Callaghan come
to submit his ties with me of friendship
and to share a common commitment of
our two great nations.
In closing, let me say that I am par-
ticularly glad that the first visit that I
have made as President was to Great Brit-
ain and particularly to this area around
Newcastle.
As
your mayor has said, I made a brief
stop last night to rest on the way in one
of the smallest cities of England, and you
have to have these intermediate stops be-
fore you come to the important places.
But I want you to know that I'm also
aware that my own ancestors, more than
300 years ago, came from England. And
later on today I'll be visiting Washington,
where our first
first President's ancestors
resided.
I think it's important for us to realize
that sometimes we face difficult times in
war, sometimes we face difficult times in
the change of government structures,
sometimes we face difficult challenges in
economic progress. But there's a sense of
commitment, there is a sense of inner
strength, there is a sense of common pur-
pose that never changes.
And I've always felt in times of chal-
lenge for our own great country a sense
of support and confidence because of the
unshakable friendship between the people
of the United Kingdom and the people of
the United States of America.
I'm determined, as President, that these
ties of common purpose will be even
stronger in years to come. Our system of
government, our system of law, our com-
mitment to the individuality of human
beings, our promise of constant freedom
has all been derived from the social and
political structure of England. And we
are proud of this heritage which we share
with you.
And I believe that we ought always to
remind ourselves, when there are tempo-
rary problems that we face, that the ulti-
mate meeting of those challenges, the ulti-
mate answering of difficult questions lies
not in the identity of political leaders, but
in the hearts and souls of the citizens of
our nations, who never change in our
basic commitments and who believe that
strength that comes from human freedom
cannot be denied.
Thank you for your wonderful wel-
come to me. I'm proud to be presented
the freedom of your community. I feel as
812
