Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sense of superiority. It can only be sensed
by you, and it only can be served by rec-
ognizing the human needs that exist.
I want to make sure that you feel a
partnership with me. We're going to get
authority, I believe, to reorganize our own
Government. It will be done with your
full participation.
No Federal employee will be discharged
because of reorganization. No Federal em-
ployee-none will be demoted because of
reorganization. There might be some who
need to transfer people from one job to
another without any loss in your pay or
seniority status. If you have to be trans-
ferred to another different job, you will
be given training to meet the needs of that
new job, commensurate with your ability,
at the Government's expense. There may
be occasions when those vacancies exist
that won't immediately be filled.
But what we want to do through this
whole process is have a melding of a part-
nership between you and me, through the
Cabinet officers, of course, to make your
lives more meaningful.
Presidents come and go-4 years at a
time. So do Secretaries of major Depart-
ments. But the professionals like your-
selves stay here.
I know that I have had and, perhaps,
even will have, different careers to pursue.
You have one basic career, and you serve
the Government quite often in a sacrificial
way. Just wanting to have people live in
better homes and live in better communi-
ties-it's a very worthy pursuit.
I want to make sure that whatever I
do as President of our country in chang-
ing the structure or the priorities in our
Government, it makes your lives and your
professions more meaningful. If I fail in
that, then I've not only insulted you and
your integrity as an individual, but I've
also caused to suffer the people who
elected me to office and whom I love very
deeply as do you. So, this has got to be
a common pursuit. We've got many broad,
multiagency problems.
One announcement that was made to-
day concerns an organization committed
to the saving of energy. Vice President
Mondale will be a cochairman, along with
former President Ford, and this will per-
meate the entire country. It will require
some sacrifices among people. Particu-
larly, if we are not wise, those sacrifices
will be exaggerated. But if homes are
properly insulated, which is a highly
labor-intensive effort, then the suffering
can be minimized, and the waste of energy
and the waste of money and the waste of
human resources can be minimized as
well.
It costs $1.50 a barrel to save oil. It
costs $15 a barrel to use oil. And if there
is one agency in Government that can be
responsible for the saving of more energy,
it's you. So, just because James Schlesin-
ger is responsible for energy in general,
detracts in no way from your direct, per-
sonal responsibility to join in this effort on
a nationwide basis.
You might be interested in knowing
that Saudi Arabia has come forward to
offer to help finance this citizens-type ef-
fort, along with Israel, and along with the
consumer groups, along with the business
groups, along with the Governors, along
with the oil companies. It's to the advan-
tage of all of us to save energy. You have
such a tremendous opportunity to restore
confidence in Government and to partici-
pate in an exciting administration that all
of us, I think, can be bound together
through that hope and anticipation of
success.
I'm going to make mistakes. I don't
claim to know all the answers. But the
success of my own administration-and
I'm determined that it will be successful-
depends on you. And if I should fail, to
134
