Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 4
So, if we can help to bridge that gap
on a permanent basis and a very friendly
basis, I'm sure it will be productive for us
all. But I certainly would not neglect,
ever, the growing importance of Japan.
And as you well know, within 3 or 4 days
of the time I was inaugurated, the Vice
President, Vice President Mondale, left
here and went on a tour of just a few na-
tions, one of which, of course, was Japan.
So, I thank you for your interest in my
visiting your great country. I hope I can
get back there maybe within the next year
or two.
SOVIET WEAPONS DEVELOPMENT
Q. Mr. President, this is Dave Broder
from the Washington Post. The front
page news here this morning was the re-
port that the Soviet Union had made a
breakthrough that could lead to develop-
ment of a high-energy weapon against
U.S. ballistic missiles. Is there any such
development, and does it threaten the
U.S. strategic deterrence?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no evidence,
David, that the Soviets have achieved any
major breakthrough in the kind of weapon
described in the news today. We have con-
ducted experiments along with the Soviets
and others—they've been published in sci-
entific journals-concerning laser beams,
the use of charged particles, and so forth.
But as far as their evolution into a major
weapon capability, we believe that the So-
viets are many years away from that
possibility.
And I think that this is, first of all, a
report that's based on some inaccuracies.
Secondly, the assessment of the report in
the aviation magazine has been exagger-
ated. So the answer, to summarize, is that
we do not see any likelihood at all, based
on our constant monitoring of the Soviet
Union as best we can, that they have any
prospective breakthrough in a new weap-
ons system that would endanger the secu-
rity of our country.
Q. Aloha, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. How are you doing?
Did you ask a question?
Q. I said thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Aloha to you. Thank
you very much. I used to live in Hawaii.
And tell Tom that I look forward to see-
ing him when he gets back. I think he was
on the panel last year. And I have always
enjoyed talking to him and the folks of the
Boston Globe, and particularly the Macon
Newspapers and the Washington Post,
and also, of course, the Japanese news.
And I look forward to seeing all of you
when you get back to the mainland. And
next year, I hope that I can be with you in
person.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:03 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to the
convention, which was held in Honolulu,
Hawaii.
Civil Service Commission
Nomination of Jule M. Sugarman To Be a
Commissioner. May 4, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Jule M. Sugarman, of At-
lanta, Ga., to be a Civil Service Commis-
sioner. The President indicated that if con-
firmed by the Senate, Sugarman would be
designated Vice Chairman of the Com-
mission. Sugarman is currently assistant to
the Chairman of the Civil Service Com-
mission, a temporary position established
to facilitate the transition to a new
Commission.
He was born on September 23, 1927, in
Cincinnati, Ohio. He received a B.A. from
American University in 1950 and did
graduate work there in municipal admin-
793
