Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
changes in their attitude. I would like to
insist, for instance, that they not interfere
in the internal affairs of countries in this
hemisphere, and that they decrease their
military involvement in Africa, and that
they reinforce a commitment to human
rights by releasing political prisoners that
have been in jail now in Cuba for 17 or
18 years, things of that kind.
But I think before we can reach that
point we'll have to have discussions with
them. And I do intend to see discussions
initiated with Cuba quite early on re-
establishing the antihijacking agreement,
arriving at a fishing agreement between
us and Cuba, since our 200-mile limits do
overlap between Florida and Cuba, and
I would not be averse in the future to
seeing our visitation rights permitted as
well.
MR. FENDRICK. In relationship, though,
to the Yankees playing an exhibition game
there, I've noticed that Secretary Vance
has backed this idea. Do you think that
that's a possibility this season?
THE PRESIDENT. It's a possibility, yes.
MR. FENDRICK. Okay. Thank you, Mr.
President.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, may I
ask, it seemed that Secretary Vance indi-
cated just the last day or so that there
would be no preconditions in discussions
with Cuba. Are you now saying that there
will be?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The precondi-
tions that I describe would be prior to
full normalization of relationships, the
establishment of embassies in both our
countries, the complete freedom of trade
between the two countries.
But you couldn't possibly arrive at a
solution to some of those questions with-
out discussions. So, we will begin discus-
sions with Cuba if they approve the idea
fairly shortly on the items that I have
described-increased visitation of Ameri-
cans to and from Cuba, the fishing rights
question that has to be resolved for the
protection of our own fishermen, and also
the antihijacking agreement which has
been in effect in the past, but is about to
expire.
MR. CRONKITE. This is "Ask President
Carter" on the CBS Radio Network. Now
to call the President here in the Oval
Office in Washington, let us remind you
of the telephone number again. It's 900-
242-1611. 900-242-1611.
The next call, Mr. President, is from
Miss Cheryl Clark of Paris, Kentucky.
Miss Clark?
MISS CLARK. Mr. President, Miss
Clark, a student at the University of
Kentucky.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
EMPLOYMENT
MISS CLARK. Let me ask, do you con-
sider it possible for government to create
jobs similar to the WPA and the CCC in
the Depression years in order to reduce
unemployment, or do you want the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the first major
proposal that I made to the Congress,
which was worked out with the congres-
sional leaders even before I was inaugu-
rated, was to put the American people
back to work or to start that process.
think this is one of the primary respon-
sibilities that I have as President.
We've asked for a so-called stimula-
tion package to our economy over the
next 2 years this one and next year-of
about $31 billion, a major portion of
which is either reducing people's taxes or
providing direct jobs. The jobs can be
provided in a number of ways, including
the one that you described for young
people, similar to the CCC program we
had during the Depression years back in
the thirties.
294
