Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 23
at which time he will be head of that
department.
James, I am thankful to you and hope
you will come up now with your wife,
Rachel.
The next man who I would like to in-
troduce to you was selected for a Cabinet-
level position in spite of the fact he is from
Washington, D.C. And we have come to
know each other over the last couple of
years. As I have seen him on numerous
occasions take a very complicated, very
confusing, very combative discussion
about economics and summarize in very
clear terms the basic questions to be de-
cided and give a practical answer to com-
plicated questions. He is a man with whom
I have a very close friendship already, and
he will help our country to resolve one of
its greatest challenges, and that is in eco-
nomics where we can hold down inflation,
put our people back to work, and at the
same time give American people confi-
dence in the tremendous strength that our
Nation has.
I would like to ask now Charles Schultze
to come forward with his wife, Rita.
Dr. Schultze will be the Chairman of
the Council of Economic Advisers, and
within the White House environment he
will be my closest person in shaping basic
economic policy.
The last person I would like to intro-
duce to the audience and to the Nation
is the one who, among all others, has
helped me most to learn about foreign
policy. He has written 8 or 10 books
himself. He has been an incisive analyst
of the international field. He will be my
closest adviser in tying together our eco-
nomics, foreign policy, and also defense
matters. He will be my adviser for the
National Security Council. He will put
together the most intimate preparations
for any kind of crisis that affects our
Nation.
He is one who has caused a great deal
of consternation already among the type-
setters of our country. [Laughter] I would
like to introduce to you Dr. Zbigniew
Brzezinski, whose name I can spell and
all my staff are now learning how, and I
am very proud of Dr. Brzezinski and his
wife, Muska.
Before Chief Justice Burger adminis-
ters the oath of office to all these fine
leaders, I would like to say that I made a
commitment to the American people that
I intend to honor. In fact, I intend to
honor all my commitments. But one was
to turn over the responsibilities of their
Departments to the Cabinet officers them-
selves.
There will never be an instance, while
I am President, when the members of the
White House staff dominate or act in a
superior position to the members of our
Cabinet. When a directive is relayed from
the White House to the members of the
Cabinet, it will indeed come directly
from me.
I believe in a Cabinet administration
of our Government. And although the
major decisions will be made ultimately
by me as President, which is my consti-
tutional prerogative and responsibility,
the Secretaries will run their Depart-
ments. And this is the way it ought to be.
It puts a heavy responsibility on me,
because this is a departure from previous
policy. It also puts a heavy responsibility
on them. And because I recognize this
great challenge to them, I was particu-
larly careful in my own selections. I am
very proud of all of them.
Standing here now on the stage, with a
few exceptions among the three or four
who still wait to be confirmed by the
Senate, you see the leadership of our
Nation. And I feel quite confident that I
can do a good job as President because
of the superb quality of those who have
15
