Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
care was in a different agency. They did
not even communicate with one another.
They quite often take care of the same
people. The certification of good health
care was in another agency.
So, the reorganization of the Govern-
ment first, which we can do very shortly,
holds down in a mandatory way the in-
crease in the total amount of expendi-
tures of hospitals, makes sure that we
have an emphasis on prevention of dis-
ease, particularly among young people-
we've already moved on all of these items.
And the last thing is to develop a com-
prehensive health care system.
I think if we expend not much more
money than we are spending right now
on health care, if it's done in a compre-
hensive and proper way, we can have
good health care for our people. We
might shift the way it's paid for. But I
think we can have good health care with-
out spending much more money on it.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
I might say, since he's here, that Sena-
tor Kennedy has been the leading Mem-
ber of Congress in many of the items that
I've discussed tonight. And I've been
blessed so far with very close and very
good cooperation from the Members of
the Congress, and that's making it much
easier for me to do some of the things
that I promised to do during the cam-
paign.
Yes, sir?
ZERO-BASE BUDGETING
Q. Bill Clinley, 26 Cotchelay Street. I'd
like to welcome you to Clinton, Mr.
President, and tell you that we consider
you one of us, a man of the people whose
energies are directed toward the welfare
of the average citizen.
We ask that despite the many pres-
sures which are exerted upon you to mold
your programs to conform to special in-
terest groups, whether they be labor, busi-
ness, energy, insurance, environmentalists,
consumer advocates, and the like, we have
faith that you will always place our inter-
est above all of these.
Briefly, our concerns are like those of
most other working Americans-inflation,
the loaf of bread that cost us a dime in
1939 and costs almost $1 today. You know
that.
Unemployment, you know, the people
who have worked their whole lives and
have lost the jobs can no longer find a
decent job or, if they can, they are asked
to accept $2.30 per hour-a total of $92 a
week.
Another concern is welfare. What
started out in the thirties as a stop-gap
measure to keep people from starving has
developed into a way of life for many
people.
Taxes, right now we're paying almost a
third of our salaries to Federal and State
taxes.
THE PRESIDENT. Bill, do you have a
question?
Q. Yes, I do. I want to commend you
on your zero-based budget concept, and
I'd like to suggest that when you propose
a piece of legislation or sign a bill into
law that you issue a people-impact study
to tell us honestly and clearly what we
are receiving and how much it's costing
us. And, in conclusion, I'd like to tell you
that we trust you, we pray for you, and
we'll follow you in your efforts to make
the country a better place than it was
when you were elected President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. That was kind of a long statement,
but I liked it. [Laughter]
I might say that I found out at first-
hand when I got to the White House how
much food costs were. We have to pay,
of course, all of our food bills in the White
House ourselves, and they keep a separate
394
