Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Containment Act of 1977 to hold down
rising health care costs, and the Child
Health Assessment Program (CHAP) to
improve health services for children of
low-income families.
-Provide an exceptions process for the
small percentage of hospitals which will
undergo extraordinary changes in patient
loads or major changes in capital equip-
ment and services. The program will re-
I. Hospital Cost Containment Act of quire the Department of HEW to respond
1977.
First, I am today proposing legislation
which will limit the growth of the major
component of health cost increases-ris-
ing hospital expenditures. The Hospital
Cost Containment Act will restrain in-
creases in the reimbursements which hos-
pitals receive from all sources: Medicare,
Medicaid, Blue Cross, commercial insur-
ers, and individuals. The limit will be set
using a formula which not only reflects
general inflation, but also extends to hos-
pitals an additional allowance for im-
proving their quality of care. Based on
current trends, the limit for fiscal year
1978 will be approximately nine percent.
The legislation will also impose a limit
on new capital expenditures for acute
care hospitals. The program will fix a na-
tional level for such expenditures below
that of recent years and allocate new cap-
ital spending among the states by for-
mula. With the assistance of local plan-
ning agencies, each state will determine
which facilities merit new capital expend-
itures.
Specifically, the Hospital Cost Contain-
ment Act of 1977 will:
-Limit the in-patient reimbursements
of acute care hospitals, excepting new
hospitals, federal hospitals and Health
Maintenance
(HMO)
hospitals.
Organization
Organization
-Provide an automatic formula to ad-
just the nine percent limit for moderate
changes in expected patient load. The
formula will contain strong incentives to
discourage unnecessary hospitalization.
-Include an adjustment for hospitals
which provide wage increases to their
non-supervisory employees.
to any application for an exception with-
in 90 days.
-Disallow in the computation of a
hospital's base cost any unwarranted ex-
penditures made in anticipation of the
implementation of the program.
-Allow states which operate cost con-
tainment programs, and are capable of
meeting the federal program's criteria, to
continue their own regulatory approaches.
This program will save about $2 billion
in fiscal year 1978-over $650 million in
the federal budget, over $300 million in
state and local budgets, and almost $900
million in private health insurance and
payments by individuals. In fiscal year
1980, total savings will exceed $5.5 billion.
These savings will show a devastating
inflationary trend, which doubles health
costs every five years. This year health
care will cost an average of over $700 for
every man, woman, and child. Each work-
er's share of our Nations health bill will
require more than a month's work.
For the federal budget, rising health
spending has meant a tripling of health
outlays over the last eight years. Without
immediate action, the Federal govern-
ment's bill for Medicare and Medicaid-
which provide health care for our elderly
and poor citizens-will jump nearly 23
percent next year, to $32 billion.
Rising health costs attack state and lo-
cal governments as well. State and local
Medicaid expenditures have grown from
$3 billion in 1971 to $7 billion in 1976,
forcing cutbacks which harm the low in-
come recipients of the program.
Unrestrained health costs also restrict
our ability to plan necessary improve-
ments in our health care system. I am
718
