May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. How do you see the coming meeting
with President Asad of Syria and your
meeting with Mr. Allon of Israel?
SECRETARY VANCE. The question was:
How do I see the forthcoming meeting
with President Asad, which we will have
tomorrow, and also my meeting with For-
eign Minister Allon?
The President and I are looking for-
ward very much to our meeting with
President Asad. He is one of the key
figures, of course, in the Middle East and
in the solving of the Middle East ques-
tion. We have had the opportunity to
meet with most of the other Arab leaders,
but this will be our first meeting with him,
at least the President's first meeting with
him.
His views are going to be extremely
important in the development of our final
views with respect to the proposals which
we may choose to make in connection
with the settlement of the Middle East
question.
I met with Foreign Minister Allon on
last Middle East trip. A good deal has
my
happened since that time, and we have
had these meetings with the other Arab
leaders during that period. Therefore, I
thought it was time for us to meet again,
where I could review with him what had
come out of the conversations with the
other Arab leaders and get the latest
thinking of the Israelis on the Middle
East question.
Q. Mr. Secretary?
JAPAN
SECRETARY VANCE. One or two more
questions.
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. Japan, along
with the other countries, committed itself
to meet its growth targets and to meet its
targets that had previously stated. And it
did accept the notion that the strong
countries must make a particular effort so
that the surpluses in the world can be
taken care of. So, in that sense, the Japa-
nese took full cognizance of their position
and promised to act accordingly.
SECRETARY VANCE. One final question.
FOREIGN NUCLEAR SALES
Q. Is the United States willing to
modify its nuclear policy if the result of
the 2-month study should request, and
especially in terms of the condition, or
requirement, of the approval for doing
the reprocessing in foreign countries—or
do you know if the United States expects
to store the nuclear waste inside the
United States in the future?
SECRETARY VANCE. The 2-month study
will be a preliminary analysis, as I indi-
cated, which will develop the terms of
reference for the longer study which will
go into the kinds of question which you
are talking about. Of course, what comes
out of that will be very important, not
only to the United States in determining
what its policy should be in the future,
but to all the other participants who will
be involved in it.
Thanks very much.
NOTE: The news conference began at 8:20
p.m. in the press center at the Churchill Hotel,
London.
Message to the Congress. May 9, 1977
Q. Excuse me; one followup. You did Social Security System
mention the trade surplus of Japan to the
European Economic Community, but was
it resolved? Did Japan make any over-
tures at reducing trade surplus and help-
in these economic deficits in Europe?
To the Congress of the United States:
The Social Security system affects the
lives of more Americans than almost any
836
