May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
everywhere looking for confidence and
sometimes for money.
Don't you think there is a danger to see
the economic crisis leading to political
crisis in Europe, and what could be really
done during the London summit in order
to restore some confidence in the govern-
ments?
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the
things that we need to keep in mind is not
to expect dramatic solutions to all of the
economic problems of the world. Another
thing that we need to keep in mind is that
the crisis atmosphere that existed a couple
of years ago has been alleviated to some
degree. I think that most of the nations
now are much better off than they were 2
years ago.
A reassuring thought, in addition to
that, is that among all our people, par-
ticularly those in this country, there's a
sense of assurance and confidence that's
derived from the fact that I will be co-
operating with the leaders of France and
the Federal Republic of Germany and
Italy and Great Britain and Japan and
Canada and others in making plans for
the future.
So, I don't think the crisis is something
that needs to be a matter of intense con-
centration or the search for magic an-
swers. The problems that we have had in
the past among our own nations are much
better resolved than those that exist
among nations who are destitute, who
have no economic base, who don't have
a high standard of living, and who don't
have any energy reserves of their own.
We are much better off than most coun-
tries, and I think that the strength that we
can show among the developed, free, in-
dustrial nations in harmonizing our efforts
together and dealing with the more un-
fortunate nations is a great step forward
in itself.
MR. WEISS. Speaking of North-South,
Mr. President, how far do your views dif-
fer from the views of the European Com-
munity as far as establishing of a common
commodity fund is concerned?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard for me to
answer that question without knowing
what all the other nations feel. We think
that on an individual commodity basis,
after negotiations have been completed,
that a common fund is the best approach.
I think that in my own exchange of
letters in several instances with Chancellor
Schmidt we've arrived at a fairly com-
patible approach to this basic question.
We strongly favor, my own administra-
tion does, strengthening of the European
Community itself. And I think that as we
deal with individual commodities that
are either in short supply or those which
have a history of wildly fluctuating prices,
then I think we can more fairly treat our
own consumers and also more fairly treat
the producers of those raw materials
where quite often a very poor country is
heavily dependent upon stable prices for
a particular commodity.
So, we favor the stabilization of prices
with a commodity fund, but we prefer
to deal with it on an individual com-
modity basis.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
MR. DIMBLEBY. Can we turn to your
energy policies, which you say you are
going to discuss at London? You talked
about the energy program being "the
moral equivalent of war," but to some
people it has given the impression of be-
ing rather strong on rhetoric and preach-
ing and rather light when it actually
comes to the measures.
I mean I saw an American humorist
actually took the four letters m-e-o-w and
said the policy amounted to "meow," that
in other words it's all talk and there isn't
very much there compared with what
happens in Europe on controlling energy.
762
