Feb. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Office of Drug Abuse Policy
Nomination of Peter G. Bourne To Be Director
and Lee I. Dogoloff To Be Deputy
Director. February 7, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Peter G. Bourne and
Lee I. Dogoloff to be Director and Dep-
uty Director, respectively, of the Office of
Drug Abuse Policy.
The Office of Drug Abuse Policy was
created by Public Law 94-237 of March
19, 1976. These two individuals are the
first to hold these positions.
Bourne is presently Special Assistant to
the President for Mental Health and
Drug Abuse. In 1965-66 he was chief of
the neuropsychiatry section for the U.S.
Army Medical Research Team in Viet-
nam. In 1966-67 he was a consultant to
the Southeast Asia Health Branch of
AID.
Bourne was director of the mental
of Management and Budget's Federal
Drug Management Division. He has had
extensive experience with drug programs
at the local, State, and Federal levels of
government.
In addition, he has represented the
United States Government at interna-
tional conferences and has provided tech-
nical assistance to a number of countries
including Iran, Venezuela, and Thailand,
as they develop their own drug programs.
He previously served as the Director
of the Division of Community Assistance
at the National Institute on Drug Abuse
and, prior to that, was Director of Gov-
ernmental Assistance in the Special Ac-
tion Office for Drug Abuse Prevention.
Dogoloff has also served as the deputy
administrator of the Narcotics Treat-
ment Administration in Washington,
D.C., and coordinator of community
services for the District of Columbia's
health unit at the Southside Comprehen- Department of Corrections.
sive Health Center in Atlanta in 1969-
71, and founder and director of the At-
lanta South Central Community Mental
Health Center from 1970 to 1971. In
1971-72 he was director of the Georgia
Office of Drug Abuse.
From 1972 to 1974, Bourne was Assist-
ant Director of the White House Special
Action Office for Drug Abuse Preven-
tion. Between 1969 and 1972, he was an
assistant professor in the department of
preventive medicine and community
health at Emory University, and in 1974
he was a visiting lecturer in the depart-
ment of psychiatry at Harvard Medical
School.
He was mid-Atlantic campaign coor-
dinator for the Jimmy Carter Presidential
campaign in 1975 and 1976. He is the
author of "Men, Stress and Viet Nam"
(Little, Brown, 1970).
Lee Dogoloff is presently the Deputy
for Drug Abuse Prevention in the Office
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
FEBRUARY 8, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. As some of you know,
this is my first press conference since I
became President 212 weeks ago. My in-
tention is to have press conferences like
this twice a month, and I look forward
to those confrontations with the press to
kind of balance up the nice and pleasant
things that come to me as President.
I am eager to answer your questions. I
don't have any earth-shaking announce-
ment to make this afternoon. I want to
spend a maximum amount of time each
press conference to answer your questions.
So, Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Asso-
ciated Press].
92
