Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 10
Visit of Prime Minister
James Callaghan of
Great Britain
Remarks of the President and the
Prime Minister at the Welcoming
Ceremony. March 10, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It is with a great deal
of pleasure personally, and on behalf of
the American people, that we welcome
to our country and to our National Capi-
tal our good friends from the United
Kingdom, Prime Minister Callaghan and
his wife, Audrey.
I think it is not an exaggeration to say,
nor is it any reflection on our other friends
and allies to say, that we enjoy a special
relationship with Great Britain, with the
other countries of the United Kingdom.
They are our closest allies and friends.
We share security agreements with them,
trade agreements with them, that are not
shared with any other country.
There has been an intimate relation-
ship for decades and generations with the
people of Great Britain that has carved
out between us an unshakeable friend-
ship and mutual commitment.
We are honored today to have the
Prime Minister with us because of his
superb leadership capability, demon-
strated in having held the three highest
positions in the Government of Great
Britain, even before he became Prime
Minister.
He also comes here with a special
honor, paid to him by the other nations
of the European Community. He is the
President of the European Community,
and in my own discussions with him to-
day and tomorrow and tonight, we will
be talking about matters that are bilateral
in nature, that involve our security based
on the NATO interrelationships, and also
he will represent the European Commu-
nity itself, nine nations, there.
We have just celebrated last year our
200th birthday, and the people of the
entire United Kingdom participated in
an extraordinary degree in helping us re-
confirm our commitments to the essence
of the American spirit.
This is a silver jubilee for Great Britain,
for the United Kingdom, and we will be
honoring the Queen, who has served so
well over the last 25 years.
There has not been a visit by an Ameri-
can President to Great Britain since, I
believe, 1970. But because of our own
interest in strengthening ties and because
of the leadership capabilities of Prime
Minister Callaghan, I and the leaders of
several other nations will assemble in
London in May to talk about matters of
great mutual interest. I look forward to
going back to my own mother country.
Although we have people in our Nation
from many, many nations, I think that all
of us recognize that, historically and po-
litically, Great Britain is still America's
mother country.
So, I look forward to going to London
in May. I am very grateful to have Prime
Minister Callaghan come here. I look
forward tonight to a banquet. I am going
to ask the Prime Minister and the Vice
President to sing a duet for us as they did
when the Vice President visited London
not too long ago.
And I think that this combination of
very serious security matters, very im-
portant economic matters, a spirit of his-
torical friendship and, also, personal
friendship, will exemplify this visit of our
most distinguished visitor.
Thank you very much.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President
and Mrs. Carter:
353
