May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. Is that good intentions only, then?
SECRETARY VANCE. No, I don't think
it's good intentions only, at all. These dec-
larations were reached, and as I indicated
earlier, these are not simply pious words;
they are going to be followed up on.
Plans are to be developed and will be
carried out. We'll be seeing the results of
the actions with respect to the North-
South issues to which both Mike and I
have referred in the CIEC meeting which
will come up at the end of this month.
Insofar as the illicit payments are con-
cerned, the fact that this declaration is
made, I think, is going to have a very im-
portant effect on the action that has been
going forward in the United Nations to
try and complete the study in that par-
ticular area. It will give impetus and
strength to it. And I could go on through
many of the other issues. Yes.
Q. There was a great deal of discussion
of the communique from the various lead-
ers about how they had influenced each
other, and the President said that he had
learned a great deal. Does that mean that
any of his views that he had before com-
ing into this session on these various mat-
ters were modified or changed?
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes. I think that
that was not only true of the President
but of all of the participants. They really
did listen to each other and learned from
the listening process.
Q. Can you give us some examples of
how the President's view may have been
changed, for instance, on the nuclear
issue, if it were modified at all there?
SECRETARY VANCE. On the nuclear
issue, I think that this was primarily one
in which we were trying to explain what
our suggestion was about. And in the
process of doing that, there was a full ex-
change which, I think, sharpened the
view of all of us with respect to the prob-
lems of the other nations who are not
quite as fortunate as we are in terms of
the resources which we have. And in that
sense, I think it was useful to us.
I think they also learned from the
proc-
ess, and therefore, we were very much
encouraged when they were willing to
agree to go forward with these studies to
which I have referred.
Q. Does this year or more of study of
the nuclear problem, Mr. Secretary, rep-
resent a retreat from President Carter's
position on the nuclear proliferation?
SECRETARY VANCE. Not at all, no. This
is wholly consistent with it. This is what
he has proposed before.
Q. What's the policy going to be on ex-
port of enriched uranium during that year
or year and a half?
SECRETARY VANCE. You say you've got
copies in the room?
MR. POWELL. The statements of the
President's policy that were delivered 2
weeks ago are available in the back of the
room for anyone who wants them.
SECRETARY VANCE. Did you get the an-
swer to that?
Q. I was asking you what the policy is
going to be.
SECRETARY VANCE. It's laid out in some
detail. It's rather long and complicated.
There are two or three sheets in the back
of the room on it.
UNDERDEVELOPED COUNTRIES
Q. The common fund will be invited to
join in aid for the underdeveloped coun-
tries. Which form will this invitation
have?
SECRETARY VANCE. I think the public
announcement of this is the form which
it will take.
JAPAN
Q. Mr. Secretary, there's a notable lack
of reference to Japan's involvement in tri-
lateral issues. Could you please explain
how Japan was involved in the discussions
and also whether or not it was talked
834
