Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
stimulus package when it was evolved in
Plains last year and who passed it with,
I think, approximately a 2-to-1 majority
in the House and passed it through the
Senate Finance Committee, the Senate
Budget Committee-I think they can de-
rive satisfaction out of knowing that we
still have intact a stimulus package in
excess of $20 billion designed to do two
things: One is to stimulate the economy
through job opportunities-public works
jobs, public service jobs, training pro-
grams, anticyclical allotments to local
governments.
The other part of it is the first step to-
ward comprehensive income tax reform
which will greatly simplify the income tax
laws and tax returns for next year by in-
creasing the personal exemption. That
package is still beneficial and, because
of improving economic indicators and
increasing inflationary pressures,
adequate.
is
Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Jr.,
Christian Science Monitor].
ECONOMIC POLICY
Q. Mr. President, how would you dis-
tinguish your basic approach toward eco-
nomic problems from that of the Ford
administration? You are leaning, aren't
you, in the conservative direction?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think there is
a sharp distinction. I would like to an-
swer the question without criticizing the
previous administrations, Mr. Ford or
Nixon. I think their basic approach to
controlling inflation was to deliberately
dampen the economy and to accept in the
process, again deliberately in my opinion,
a very high, permanent unemployment
rate. We've tried to address this in a com-
pletely different fashion by deliberately
stimulating the economy with the $20
billion or $23 billion package still intact
and also addressing directly the unem-
ployment rate which has dropped now
from about 8 percent, I think, in Decem-
ber, to about 7.3 percent and, at the same
time, attacking the direct causes of infla-
tion. I refuse to connect the two. I think
that if you deliberately accept unemploy-
ment as a means to control inflation,
that's wrong. And that's the basic
distinction.
ILLEGAL ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, for many weeks now
you had officials of your administration
studying the problem of illegal aliens
coming to this country from Mexico. Can
you tell us when you will have a policy
in place to deal with that and what its
main features will be?
THE PRESIDENT. My guess is that I will
have a message to present on the illegal
or undocumented aliens probably within
the next 2 weeks. I would rather get a
specific date from the Attorney General
and the Secretary of Labor who have led
this task force, but my understanding
from them is that within the next couple
of weeks they'll be ready for this recom-
mendation. I can't tell you the features
of it yet, not having approved the recom-
mendations that they present to me.
FOOD PRICES
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask
you about food prices. In your message,
you referred to farmer-held food reserves
to help stabilize consumer prices. To the
housewives who are the shoppers of
America, what encouragement can you
give them as to a target date, as best you
can?
THE PRESIDENT. The food prices in
1976 actually decreased about 1 percent,
as you remember. Food prices in the first
3 months of this year have increased at
an annual rate of about 19 percent; 19.3
percent, I believe. This is a matter that
632
