Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 1
ness be revealed. There's nothing wrong
with that.
We have seen over the historical times
in our Government regulatory agencies
established. And if you read the legisla-
tion and the title, it says to protect con-
sumers to protect customers. But over a
period of time, because of the disorga-
nized disarray and the absence of intense
focusing of attention on the part of con-
sumers-to protect customers. But over a
on too many occasions, protectors of and
sometimes even servants of the industries
that were supposed to have been regu-
lated.
Quite often, decisions are made in se-
cret and decisions are made without the
public understanding the consequences of
technicalities. It's impossible for a Presi-
dent to understand them. It's impossible
for Congress to understand them, because
the average Member of Congress-cer-
tainly all Presidents-have such a widely
diverse list of responsibilities in any given
day that we can't focus on a technical
ruling that might result in people being
cheated. So, we need some small group
just to watch and to listen and to discuss
and to speak.
I've asked Bert Lance, the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget,
to give me an estimate on how many dif-
ferent agencies in the Government could
be eliminated if this tiny agency is formed
and how much money would result in
savings if they could be channeled into
this small agency. There are 13 that have
been identified by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, leaving intact those
that serve a unique purpose. This involves
about 180 people with an annual budget
of $10.4 million. So, for anyone to cloud
the issue by maintaining that this is an-
other major agency piled on top of a bu-
reaucratic mess, that's a simply mislead-
ing statement.
There would be no increase in the bu-
reacracy; there would be a reduction in
the bureaucracy. There would be no con-
fusion created; there would be an elimi-
nation of confusion. There would be no
increased cost at all; as a matter of fact,
as this agency functions and probes the
workings of Government, it in itself would
reveal functions that were no longer
needed and agencies that were duplicative
of others' functions.
I think in the long run, the savings
would be substantial and the simplifica-
tion of Government would be very
gratifying. The total cost could be
saved through reorganization. Even if it
couldn't, the cost of the agency for con-
sumer protection equals the amount of
money that the Defense Department or
HEW spends in one hour. So it's a
tiny amount involved, but it's very, very
important.
I hope that all of you from labor and
from business, from consumer organiza-
tions, from local government, from State
government who have an interest in better
government will act aggressively during
the coming weeks, because we've per-
mitted misinformation put forward by
special interest groups who are selfish to
capture the consciousness and the atti-
tudes of the public almost by default, in
spite of the intense commitment and the
self-sacrificial effort by people like Esther
Peterson.
I'd like to add my voice as President to
something that I think would contribute
to renewed trust among people in their
Government, would improve the openness
of government to public scrutiny, would
save the taxpayers money, would reduce
the complications of a bureaucracy, would
increase competition in our free enterprise
system.
I know that a lot of businesses are here
that see the wisdom of this action. One of
my favorites is the Levi Strauss Com-
1049
