Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 14
Council, created by the Drug Abuse
Office and Treatment Act of 1972, be re-
vitalized and serve as the government-
wide advisory committee for this problem
area. Also, I am adding the Secretary of
the Treasury and the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget as
fully participating members of the Coun-
cil. The Director of the Office of Drug
Abuse Policy shall serve as Executive Di-
rector of the Council.
The Council shall be supported by
Working Groups for supply control and
demand reduction, and be composed of
personnel from each of the concerned
agencies.
I am confident that you will provide
your full support to ODAP and the Strat-
egy Council in the performance of their
tasks.
JIMMY CARTER
United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
Remarks at the Swearing In of
Paul C. Warnke as Director. March 14, 1977
So far, I've had an opportunity to pre-
side at some very important ceremonial
installations of major officials—Cabinet
officers and others.
I doubt, though, that there is a more
significant appointment that can be made
than the one that we are consummating
this afternoon with the swearing in of
Paul Warnke as the Director of the Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency.
During very few times in the history of
human beings has there been an oppor-
tunity for progress toward peace that
affected every single person on Earth or
which had the good will and good wishes
of so many people in every nation on
Earth, as we witness this afternoon.
For 30 years now, we've had with us
the destructive power of atomic weapons,
and we've almost become complacent
about the terrible nature of the threat
that exists.
I was very concerned about this threat
and also hopeful about the opportunity
to lessen the threat. And I thought and I
prayed a lot about who ought to be chosen
for this position. There was no doubt in
my mind that Paul Warnke is the best
man in this country to represent our Na-
tion in dealing with the Soviet Union and,
later, with all nuclear powers in reduction
of nuclear threat to us.
I asked him to take the job a couple of
times before he finally agreed. And I can
say that he's been well trained for tough
negotiations by some of the distinguished
Senators behind me and their fellow
Senators.
I appreciate what they've done in the
Senate. He was confirmed for this posi-
tion with, I think, 78 votes, just a few
against him, and for the even tougher and
more controversial job of negotiator for
us, by a lesser vote, but still with a strong
demonstration of confidence in him.
I think it's accurate to say that the 40
Senators who voted against Paul Warnke
for negotiator share with me and with
him, with Cy Vance, with Vice President
Mondale, and with all the other Ameri-
might be productive in negotiating with
cans, hope that this year and later
years
the Soviet Union and others a new per-
spective of how we might alleviate the
threat against us from atomic weapons.
I want to express my personal thanks
to those Senators behind me who helped
so much, and my mutual partnership with
other Members of the Senate who did
oppose this particular appointment, but
who combined their efforts with mine in
the future and with those of Paul
Warnke to reach a successful negotiation
with the Soviet Union.
379
