Feb. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
2. Amends the reorganization plan pro-
cedure to permit the President to amend
or withdraw a plan within 30 days of the
date of transmittal to Congress. Amend-
ments would not affect the 60-day period
for Congressional review.
3. Allows the President to transmit
more than one plan every thirty days.
4. Adds a requirement that a reorgani-
zation plan specify the expected improve-
ments in management, efficiency, and de-
livery of Federal services to result from
the plan and deletes the provision which
requires the enumeration of potential
savings.
5. Deletes the provision which requires
a plan to be limited to one logically con-
sistent subject matter.
Government reorganization during my
Administration will be a joint Executive-
Congressional effort. I fully expect that
the result will be real and substantial im-
provement in the way the Federal Gov-
ernment works for our citizens. Therefore,
I urge prompt action by Congress to
approve this legislation so that we may
begin this important work.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale,
President of the Senate.
Reorganization Plan Authority
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. February 4, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit to the Congress pro-
posed legislation which will restore the
President's power to submit reorganization
plans to the Congress.
It will revive, with certain modifica-
tions, the system through which reorgani-
zation plans are developed, under the Ex-
ecutive Reorganization Act of 1949, as
amended. Until the authority for this sys-
tem was allowed to lapse in 1973, it pro-
vided an efficient way for Congress and
the President to work together to stream-
line our government.
The reorganization authority which I
am proposing is essentially the same au-
thority which has been available to every
President since Harry Truman.
Under the authority I seek to have re-
newed, the President would again be able
to submit reorganization plans to the Con-
gress. The plans would automatically be-
come effective after Congress had been in
continuous session for sixty calendar days,
unless either House of Congress adopts a
resolution opposing the plan.
It would also renew the basic provisions
of the Act that limit the types of reorga-
nization plans the President can submit.
The President would again be permitted
to propose plans to accomplish any of the
following:
1. Transferring all or part of an agency
or its functions to another agency;
2. Abolishing all or part of the functions
of an agency;
3. Consolidating, or coordinating, all or
part of an agency;
4. Authorizing an officer to delegate his
functions; or
5. Changing the name of an agency or
the title of its head, as well as the head for
any agency resulting from reorganization.
The President would again not be per-
mitted to propose plans to accomplish any
of the following:
1. Creating a new Executive (Cabinet
level) Department;
2. Abolishing or transferring an existing
Executive Department;
82
