Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
!
pursuant to Sections 5516, 5517, or 5520
of Title 5 of the United States Code, with
the District of Columbia, a State, or a
city, as the case may be, with regard to
the withholding, by an agency of the
United States, hereinafter referred to as
an agency, of income or employment
taxes from the pay of Federal employees
or members of the Armed Forces, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall ensure
that each agreement is consistent with
those sections and regulations, including
this Order, issued thereunder.
SEC. 2. Each agreement shall provide
(a) when tax withholding shall begin,
(b) that the head of an agency may rely
on the withholding certificate of an em-
ployee or a member of the Armed Forces
in withholding taxes, (c) that the method
for calculating the amount to be with-
held for District of Columbia, State or
city income or employment taxes shall
produce approximately the tax required
to be withheld by the District of Colum-
bia or State law, or city ordinance, which-
ever is applicable, and (d) that proce-
dures for the withholding, filing of re-
turns, and payment of the withheld taxes
to the District of Columbia, State or city
shall conform to the usual fiscal practices
of agencies. Any agreement affecting
members of the Armed Forces shall also
provide that the head of an agency may
rely on the certificate of legal residence
of a member of the Armed Forces in
tary of the Treasury, and the applicable
agreement.
SEC. 4. The Secretary of the Treasury
is authorized to prescribe additional regu-
lations to implement Sections 5516, 5517,
and 5520 of Title 5 of the United States
Code, and this Order.
SEC. 5. Executive Order Nos. 10407 of
November 6, 1952, 10672 of July 9, 1956,
and 11863 of June 12, 1975, are hereby
revoked. However, all actions heretofore
taken by the President or his delegates in
respect of the matters affected by this Or-
der and in force at the time of the issu-
ance of this Order, including any regula-
tions prescribed or approved by the
President or his delegates in respect of
such matters and any existing agreements
approved by his delegates, shall, except as
they may be inconsistent with the provi-
sions of this Order, remain in effect until
amended, modified, or revoked pursuant
to the authority conferred by this Order,
unless sooner terminated by operation of
law.
The White House,
January 31, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:11 p.m., February 2, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
determining his or her residence for tax Federal Energy Administration
withholding purposes. No agreement shall
require the collection by an agency of
delinquent tax liabilities of an employee
or a member of the Armed Forces.
SEC. 3. The head of each agency shall
designate, or provide for the designation
of, the officers or employees whose duty
it shall be to withhold taxes, file required
returns, and direct payment of the taxes
withheld, in accordance with this Order,
any regulations prescribed by the Secre-
Nomination of John O'Leary to be Admin-
istrator. February 1, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate John O'Leary as Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Energy Admin-
istration. He is presently administrator of
the Energy Resources Board of the State
of New Mexico.
Mr. O'Leary was born on June 23,
1926, and received an A.B. degree in eco-
56
