Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
and hearts of the American people in their
long overdue concern about a large group
of Americans, about 36 million, who in the
past have too often been ignored.
This is the first White House Confer-
ence on the Handicapped. I know that
this is a tremendous assembly of leaders
who have fought a long and sometimes
discouraging battle to arrive here in
Washington tonight. But this is not the
first meeting. There have been dozens and
dozens of meetings, attended by thousands
of people in the 50 States of our country,
and you have already brought to the con-
sciousness of local and State officials an
awareness of potential change for the bet-
ter and many improvements that have al-
ready been made.
Labor, industry can work together with
government to make sure that, jointly, our
efforts are successful. There is hardly a
national leader on Earth in all the 150
nations that span the globe, who are not
now thinking about two words: human
rights. And now we in our own country
are applying those two words to the handi-
capped people of our country. It's long
overdue.
For too long, handicapped people have
been deprived of a right to an education.
For too long, handicapped people have
been excluded from the possibility of jobs
and employment where they could sup-
port themselves. For too long, handicap-
ped people have been kept out of build-
ings, have been kept off of streets and
sidewalks, have been excluded from pri-
vate and public transportation, and have
been deprived of a simple right in many
instances just to communicate with one
another.
When I was inaugurated Governor of
Georgia in January of 1971, I made a
speech. And I said, in that southern State
the time for racial discrimination is over.
And I say to you tonight the time for dis-
crimination against the handicapped in
the United States is over. [Applause]
Thank you very much.
It would be a mistake for the rest of
America to think that the benefits are only
going to the handicapped, because when
you get freedom, we share that freedom,
and when the handicapped get benefits of
education and a job and a purposeful life,
we all share in the benefits of that educa-
tion, that job, and a purposeful life.
The bill of rights for handicapped
was spelled out in Title V of the Re-
habilitation Act of 1973, and we are going
to enforce the regulations that are speci-
fied in that bill. We're going to enforce
the regulations that tear down the barriers
of architecture, and we are going to en-
force the regulations that tear down the
barriers of transportation.
I know you have heard the announce-
ments made by Secretary of Transporta-
tion Brock Adams about the Trans-Bus.
We've spent millions of dollars-the Fed-
eral Government has spent millions of
dollars investing in the kind of public
transportation that would serve your
needs. And I am going to really enjoy in
the future-as soon as those buses can
come off the assembly line, and all of the
new ones are going to be these kinds of
buses when they come up to you on the
sidewalk and kneel down to let you get in.
As you know, section 504, of which I
am sure you have all heard and of which
I am sure now that Joe Califano has also
heard, has provided a framework for the
regulations that have now been adopted.
And Joe Califano assures me and he
assures you that these regulations are go-
ing to be enforced.
They require that when programs are
made available to the public that those
programs are made available to the
handicapped public; the employers will
give a handicapped person a fair chance
to correct the handicap and to become
qualified for an available job.
989
