Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 12
and secondly, I want to let you know that
I appreciate your willingness to work with
me and Bert Lance and the Vice President
and the Congress, Sam and Mary, in mak-
ing this agency more effective.
So, thank you from the bottom of my
heart. We are forming a partnership that
I think will pay rich dividends, and your
expert knowledge and background and ex-
perience and your wide diversity of inter-
est will be a tremendous resource for us.
So, thanks again. I'm willing to work
with you as best I can.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. His re-
marks formally started a 6-week citizen review
project of the ACTION Agency which involves
volunteers from accounting firms and communi-
ties throughout the country as well as ACTION
employees.
Radiation Control for Health
and Safety Act
Message to the Congress Transmitting an
Annual Report. April 12, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith the 1976 annual
report on the administration of the Radia-
tion Control for Health and Safety Act
(Public Law 90–602), as prepared by the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare for a period of time prior to the
commencement of my term.
The report's only legislative recom-
mendation is that the requirement for the
report itself, as contained in P.L. 90-602,
be repealed. All of the information found
in the report is available to Congress on
an immediate basis through congressional
committee oversight and budget hearings.
The Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare has concluded that this an-
nual report serves little useful purpose and
diverts agency resources from more pro-
ductive activities.
The White House,
April 12, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "1976 Annual
Report-Administration of the Radiation Con-
trol for Health and Safety Act of 1968, Public
Law 90-602, April 1, 1977" (Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, 90 pp.).
The text of the message was made available
by the White House Press Office. It was not
issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Commutation of G. Gordon
Liddy's Prison Sentence
Announcement of the Commutation, With the
Text of the Order. April 12, 1977
The President has today commuted the
sentence of G. Gordon Liddy from the 20-
year sentence which he received to a sen-
tence of 8 years. This will make Mr. Liddy
eligible for parole July 9 of this year. This
will also make his mandatory release date,
with credit for good time, September 30,
1980.
The President took this action in the
interest of equity and fairness based on a
comparison of Mr. Liddy's sentence with
those of all others convicted in Watergate-
related prosecutions.
ORDER OF COMMUTATION
To all to whom these presents shall come,
Greeting:
WHEREAS George Gordon Liddy was
convicted in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia on an
indictment (Doc. No. CC 1827-72)
charging violation of Sections 371 and
2511, Title 18, United States Code, and
Section 1801 (b), Title 22, District of
609
