Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 26
The farm bill, as passed by the Senate,
has a very high cost, much greater than
I think is necessary, much greater than
the House has passed. Expenditures con-
ceived for water projects amount to about
$3 billion more in total cost than I have
advocated.
The House has tentatively approved
the Appropriations Committee adding
about a dozen other projects with a total
cost of almost a half billion dollars.
We advocated, as have all the Presi-
dents since Eisenhower, the elimination of
impact aid for very wealthy communities
where military installations exist, $32
million [billion].
The Congress so far has decided not
to eliminate this very costly project. I say
this not in criticism of the Congress, be-
cause no decision has yet been made, but
to point out to the American people a
potential problem. I respect the Congress
and I will work day and night to reach
an agreeable solution to these potential
threats to harmony. But I have to reserve
the right and the duty to say no when
spending is excessive.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
SALT TALKS
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us where
you would like to go from here on SALT
with particular reference to cruise and
Backfire, and how do you assess the up-
beat words we got from Secretary Vance
in Geneva and the downbeat words we
got from Foreign Minister Gromyko on
the same?
THE PRESIDENT. Compared to the
Moscow meeting, the Geneva meeting
was very upbeat. There was a great deal
of harmony there. There was a sincere
effort on the part of the Soviets and our-
selves to explore conflicting positions and
to seek for some framework on which we
could agree.
There are three basic elements, I think,
of a SALT II agreement. One is an agree-
ment that would last through 1985, rati-
fying in effect those elements from Vladi-
vostok on which agreement was reached
without dispute,
without dispute, and hopefully encom-
passing significant reductions below the
Vladivostok levels.
Second would be a protocol, in addi-
tion to the basic agreement, that would
last for a briefer period of time, 2 or 3
years, in which temporary solutions to the
controversial issues might be included,
giving us more bargaining time. This
would include the very heavy missiles of
the Soviets which caused us great con-
cern. It would include some constraints
on the cruise missiles. And the overall
agreement would also include some con-
straints on the Backfire bomber.
And the third element of the agree-
ment which we hope to achieve, would
be a mutual commitment in writing to
pursue the drastic substantial reductions
which we advocated as an alternative in
Moscow, leading toward a much more
comprehensive, much more effective,
much more needed SALT III agreement.
So, I think there are substantial remain-
ing differences between ourselves and the
Soviet Union. No firm proposals were put
forward on either side. It was an explora-
tory meeting. But the tenor of the meet-
ing, the obvious attitude of the Soviets
toward being willing to assess our posi-
tions and to modify their own, I think was
reciprocated by us, and in that way it was
an upbeat meeting as described by Secre-
tary Vance.
When you emphasize the differences
that still remain, however, there is cause
for some concern.
1017
