June 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Act will enable us to continue to expand
and improve bilateral relations with coun-
tries subject to subsection 402(b) of the
Act, which I believe to be in the national
interest. In the case of Romania, the
extension would permit continuation of
the U.S.-Romanian Trade Agreement of
1975.
I am convinced that continuation of the
U.S.-Romanian Trade Agreement will
serve to further promote mutually bene-
ficial growth in two-way trade between
the United States and Romania and will
buttress the favorable political relations
between our countries.
The reasons for retaining good com-
mercial and political relations with Ro-
mania remain as valid as in the past. Such
relations have contributed to a continua-
tion and strengthening of Romania's in-
dependent policies, many of which have
proven beneficial to U.S. foreign policy
interests. Romania has continued to pur-
sue friendly relations with countries of dif-
fering political and economic systems-
with the United States, the People's
Republic of China, the developing world,
and with Israel as well as Arab countries.
Romania's participation in international
organizations, including the IMF and
World Bank, shows a high degree of inde-
pendence in economic matters that paral-
lels its relative political independence.
More than half of Romania's trade is with
noncommunist countries, and it is taking
part in the Multilateral Trade Negotia-
tions as a GATT Contracting Party.
I believe that a further expansion of
U.S.-Romanian economic relations can
help to promote a continuation of such
independent policies and that the Trade
Agreement, nondiscriminatory tariff treat-
ment and authority to extend Commodity
Credit Corporation and Export-Import
Bank credits are essential to maintain
and expand our present overall bilateral
relationship with Romania.
Such an expanded bilateral relation-
ship will also improve the prospects for
continued American access to Romanian
leaders and will enhance our ability to
discuss frankly and, judging from past
contacts, fruitfully, such important and
sensitive subjects as emigration, divided
families and marriage cases.
Emigration from Romania to the U.S.
has kept up this past year at about
the same pace as during the preceding
year on which the previous favorable
Presidential recommendation was based.
Romanian performance with regard to
emigration to Israel has been somewhat
inconsistent and uneven, but overall emi-
gration has risen markedly since imple-
mentation of the U.S.-Romanian Trade
Agreement. Extending the waiver author-
ity for Romania should provide an incen-
tive to bring about a more consistent and
forthcoming performance on emigration
by Romania. For my Administration's
part, we intend to monitor closely com-
pliance with the objectives of section 402,
and should performance not accord with
the intent of this provision, I would want
to reconsider my recommendation; more-
over, we will bring to the attention of the
Romanian Government any actions or
emigration trends which do not seem to
conform to the assurances which they
have provided in the past to treat emigra-
tion matters in a humanitarian manner.
Taking account of all factors, however,
I recommend to the Congress, pursuant to
subsection 402(d) (5) of the Act, that the
waiver authority granted by subsection
(c) of section 402 of the Act be further
extended for a period of twelve months.
NOTE: The text of the message was released
on June 3.
1056
