May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have enjoyed being President so far-
[laughter]—I tried to say that without
laughing myself.
We started out sharing the same respon-
sibilities together, and my first action was
to nominate people to the Congress for
confirmation. As you know, I didn't have
complete and immediate success.
I did go to England the other day,
though, and I went to the northern part of
England, to Newcastle and had tens of
thousands of people line the highways
and cheer me as I went by; a true demon-
stration, I think, of the British affection
and friendship and respect for our coun-
try. It was a very moving experience.
I recognize that my influence in Great
Britain might be even greater than it is in
Washington. So, Sunday morning I went
to early church service at Westminster
Cathedral, and I nominated Dylan
Thomas for entry into the Poets Hall of
Fame. I felt sure that they would take ac-
tion at the next meeting. As a matter of
fact, the Bishop there assured me they
were going to do so. I didn't find out until
I got back home that the next confirma-
tion meeting is in 1989. [Laughter]
There are farmers on both sides of the
ocean. As a matter of fact, I didn't wear
a tuxedo tonight. I'm wearing a suit that
I've acquired in my role as President.
There are some perquisites to the office.
My good friend, the Prime Minister of
England, had a suit made and had his
initials on the suit. And he cast about to
find out what to do with some of the
leftover cloth. His name is Jim Callag-
han, and I was the only head of state who
qualified. [Laughter] I told him I couldn't
accept gifts, so I agreed to pay him $5
for the cloth. And I sent it down to Geor-
gia to have a suit made out of it. They
charged me $73.50 to make the suit. Then
I found out when I got it back, got the
suit back, the protocol officer said that I
couldn't take this suit when I left the
White House. So, I've been trying to wear
it as often as I could. [Laughter]
I don't know what's going to happen
if I don't wear it out before my term ex-
pires. I kind of hate to try to get the U.S.
Constitution changed to require that a
President be 35 years old, a United States
citizen, and wear a 39-regular coat.
[Laughter]
These affairs of state that I've just de-
scribed to you illustrate the problems that
face a President. And I was hoping that
you would feel a little more sympathy for
me than you have exhibited so far.
[Laughter]
I would like to say, seriously, that I
have appreciated the fine support that the
Members of Congress have given me, and
the fine advice that you've given me, and
the very frank criticism that you've never
been reluctant about putting forward.
This creates, I think, a good way for a
President to learn. My daughter and I
went to the supper table tonight-this is
a true story. She was teaching me about
the War Between the States, and it was a
completely new subject. I didn't recognize
any of the people she was referring to as
heroes. [Laughter] She goes to the Thad-
deus Stevens School.
I think that this whole experience of
mine in Washington has been one of great
exhilaration and challenge and learning
and commitment and friendship, and to
be perfectly honest with you, a realization
of partnership.
The success of this banquet, I think, il-
lustrates vividly not only the qualities of
the people who were responsible for it but
a sense among the American people that
we have a government that is worthy of
support. And we have a government that
can work together on major problems that
face our people and that we have a future
that inspires confidence.
I've embarked very rapidly on sending
to the Congress legislation that fulfills the
1014
