Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
earlier is the business investment plan,
which is up 11 percent above last year.
I think it's accurate to say that early this
week, when I was deciding on the $50 tax
rebate, that every economic indicator was
favorable except the stock market prices,
and I think that's improving this week.
So, this means that the business invest-
ment plans, in my opinion, will not be
adversely affected by the withdrawal of
the $50 tax rebate proposal.
TAX REBATE PROPOSAL
Q. Mr. President, what do you say to
the family of four that had counted on,
indeed may have already borrowed
against, the $200 rebate that you had
promised them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's a hard
question to answer, and it's obviously the
most difficult part of the decision about
withdrawing the $50 tax rebate. I think,
though, that the resurgence of the econ-
omy, which had already been brought
about by improved attitudes and in-
creased spending, just had to be balanced
against the direct benefit to a family of
the $50 tax rebate.
We will leave intact the increased per-
sonal exemption, which will help people
on their income tax returns. And had we
been able to get immediate action on the
$50 rebate and let it be in the mail, say,
this month, in April, which we first
thought, I would have gone ahead with it.
It was a close call primarily because of
that factor, but you just have to make a
judgment, and I believe my judgment
was proper.
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us why
you feel determined to cut back several
of the waterway projects which you say
are undesirable. In particular, could you
tell us why you would like to stop the
Tennessee Tombigbee Waterway, which
is the favorite of some of your friends
in the deep South?
THE PRESIDENT. I finished my work
on the waterway projects today, and my
staff is now preparing an analysis to pre-
sent to the public on my decisions, the
reasons for my decisions. This weekend
we'll be notifying the affected Governors
and Members of Congress, other leaders,
about the decisions, and I would guess
quite early next week, perhaps Monday,
we'll make a list of my decisions public.
We've tried to do this in a very careful
and methodical way. Combined with it,
we will publish and adhere to a very strict
list of criteria in the future for approval
of projects.
We had many factors involved, but I
think you'll be well pleased when we
make our list public after the weekend
is over.
WHITE HOUSE STAFF
Q. Mr. President, in your fireside chat
you said you would reduce the size of the
White House staff by nearly one-third,
but several days ago one of your aides said
actually the size of the White House staff
has grown and he said it would be im-
possible to reach this goal of a reduction
of about 30 percent. What goal have you
set now for reducing the staff, and what's
your deadline for meeting it?
THE PRESIDENT. The reason for the
apparent increase, or the actual increase
in the size of the White House staff right
now is primarily-it's temporary. We've
been getting last week I think I got
87,000 letters. The normal number of let-
ters that Mr. Ford got was about 15,000
to 20,000 letters a week.
And it just takes more people to come
in, I believe on a temporary basis, to
manage this enormous influx of mail. We
can't leave those letters unanswered.
637
