June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
goals that we have established-a reduc-
tion in overall oil consumption, a reduc-
tion in the excessive consumption of na-
tural gas, a shifting toward increased
consumption of coal, and an equitable
means of pricing oil and gas to encourage
additional exploration on the one hand
and to protect the interests of consumers
on another—those cumulative effects of
not meeting these goals would be cata-
strophic.
We now see a rapid escalation in con-
sumption of gasoline. I think this summer
we will see the highest use of gasoline in
the history of our country. Imports are
growing by leaps and bounds. Our trade
balance, negative trade balance, is going
to be very excessive this year—$25 billion.
We'll probably-possibly import $45 bil-
lion worth of oil. And unless we reverse
these present trends by strict conservation,
brought about by voluntary means, by
pricing structures, by tax incentives, the
cumulative effect of this absence of ade-
quate leadership on the part of me and
Congress will be catastrophic.
But each individual component part of
this complete plan can't be equated with
catastrophe. I might say that we don't
consider ourselves to be infallible. Over
the 3 or 4 months that we considered this
plan before it was presented to the Con-
gress, there were a lot of differences of
opinion. Some of the judgments made
were quite closely called ones.
And the Congress is now finding an
equal difficulty in dealing with this con-
troversial issue. So, I don't say that every-
thing we've proposed has got to be passed
just as though we put it forward. But I
think cumulatively, if we don't take strong
and active action, the economic and po-
litical consequences will be catastrophic.
Q. Mr. President, Senator Byrd, Satur-
day, when he made his comments and
suggested that maybe you should cool it
with the rhetoric, suggested that one rea-
son that you didn't have a very good show-
ing on Capitol Hill last week was because
of the ineffectiveness of your own lobbying
organization. So, I would like to ask you,
do you plan to beef that up or are you
planning some sort of new strategy? You
say the public has to be aroused. What do
you plan to do from here on out about
this? Perhaps you will make some com-
promises with Congress on other issues,
for example?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that our efforts
have been adequate. I noticed that one of
the comments from a congressional lead-
er-I have forgotten which one it was-
in response to my criticism of the oil and
automobile lobbies, was that the most ef-
fective lobby on Capitol Hill was the one
from the White House. I think we are
presenting our views to the Members of
the Congress in an adequate fashion.
The agenda for the Congress this year
is extraordinarily complex and diverse not
only in ethics legislation, reorganization
legislation, the construction of a new De-
partment of Energy and energy policy,
social security, but also many things con-
cerning air pollution standards, welfare
reform to come, and I believe that our
presentation of our views in a forceful and
fair and objective way to the Congress
through my own congressional relations
group is adequate. I am proud of them.
And I think the differences of opinion that
arise between the Congress and myself are
not caused by a failure to present ideas.
It's just a result of an honest difference
of opinion about what ought to be done
about these controversial issues.
THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, you were attacked
rather savagely in the Soviet press last
week as "James Carter, an enemy of dé-
tente." From your vantage point, do you
feel there can be any U.S.-Soviet détente
1106
