Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And as we seek authority to reorganize
our government structure, that authority
would never make your own professions
less viable. No one will be discharged as a
result of reorganization. No one will lose
your seniority or pay status. And the
ideas that eventually will be consum-
mated by final decisions made by me and
the Congress will originate among you.
Presidents, as you know, come and go.
Cabinet Secretaries come and go. But the
professional, competent civil servants are
the ones who provide the stability, the
integrity, the usefulness, and the accom-
plishments to government. And I want
every change that's made to be designed
to let your own professional careers be
more effective, and to let the one life
that you and I have to live on Earth be
expended in a maximum, beneficial way
toward others.
I hope that you won't be reticent and
that you will join with me and Joe Cali-
fano and many others to make these
changes in a careful, methodical, but
aggressive fashion to let our own service
be more beneficial.
A couple of other points very quickly,
and then I'll answer a few questions.
We have, I think, a good attitude
among the people of our country toward
our own administration. I'm going to put
into effect for the 1979 fiscal year budget
preparation a new concept called zero-
base budgeting. I've used it for 4 years
in Georgia. It works. It does two things,
among others. One is it assesses for the
limited amount of money we have to
spend, all programs on the basis of pri-
ority, whether they've been in effect 5
years or 20 years or 50 years, or whether
they'll go into effect for the first time next
year. Nothing that's been established in
the past will any longer be sacred or
hidden when the budget for next fiscal
year is evolved.
And we can be sure to the maximum
extent that human beings can perform,
that when we spend the limited human
and financial resources of our Nation in
fiscal year '79, that they'll be spent in the
most effective way.
The second thing that zero-base budg-
eting does for you is to let you be part of
the evolutionary process. The decisions.
will no longer be made in OMB and the
White House or in the Secretary's office
here. The decisions will be made by you
and with a one-page, one-side-of-one-
sheet-of-paper analysis of what your own
functions are, the number of people in-
volved, the amount of money to be spent.
We'll ask you how can you do your job
better; what ought to be expanded; what
ought to be phased out; what ought to
be maintained as it is. I think this will
go a long way to making sure that we do
have an effective government.
One final point. I have a great respect
for you and for the work that this Depart-
ment has done. I've issued a directive
today that might be somewhat controver-
sial. And last week, you know, I asked
that the people who prepare regulations
read them and sign them so that we
know who's responsible. I've asked Sec-
retary Califano to read all the regulations
that you write, personally. It might take
the whole weekend [laughter]-I don't
object to that. But I think at least for a
few weeks, the Cabinet officers themselves
ought to be aware of the simplicity of
regulations, the brevity of regulations, the
elimination of unnecessary regulations, so
that the people that have to carry them
out can perform better.
And I've also asked all the members of
the Cabinet with a letter today-that they
haven't received yet to cut down on the
number of reports required to come in to
the Federal Government.
I think that HEW has approximately
800 different repetitive reports required
160
