Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 26
him. How do you square that with the
claims of your administration that it's an
open administration where dissent is en-
couraged? Isn't there a double standard
between your treatment of him and your
treatment of Andrew Young, the United
Nations Ambassador, who has dissented
several times from American policy and
yet has not been transferred from his job?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I know of no
instance when Andy Young has violated
a policy you described. In the case of
General Singlaub, as I said earlier, he was
not punished. We evolved the policy for
South Korea over a long number of years.
And I finally made a decision after con-
sultation with the intelligence commu-
nity, the military leaders, a formal meet-
ing of the National Security Council, that
we would withdraw our ground troops
over a period of 4 or 5 years.
A member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Bernie Rogers, went to South Korea to
meet with our own military leaders and
some of the South Korean military lead-
ers, as well. Our policy was explained.
General Singlaub was one of those.
An announcement was made publicly
that a representative of the State Depart-
ment, Phil Habib, and the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Brown,
would go to Korea to explain this policy
to the Korean officials and also, of course,
to the American military officials.
After that announcement was made is
when General Singlaub made a comment
publicly that if this policy was carried out,
it would result in war. In my opinion,
that was a very serious breach of the
propriety that ought to exist among mili-
tary officers after a policy has been made,
and I think to some degree it was an in-
vitation to the North Koreans to believe
that South Korea was not able to take
care of themselves, which we think they
are. I think it was an invitation to the
world to expect an inevitable war. And I
certainly don't agree that there is any
cause for a war to be expected.
In addition to that, I think it is im-
portant to remember that we are now in
the process of carrying out this policy.
And I don't believe that General Sing-
laub, being our negotiator with the
North Koreans, by the way, and also be-
ing the third person in command in South
Korea, could have effectively carried out
this policy when he had publicly been
identified as being opposed to it.
The other point is I think his presence
in South Korea on a continuing basis
would have been a disturbing factor. He
would have been the focus of admiration
and attention from those who do not want
to carry out our policy. And I think it
would have made it very difficult for his
superiors to carry out the policy in har-
mony and cooperation with the South
Korean Government.
PRESIDENCY'S FINANCIAL BENEFITS
Q. Mr. President, some people have ex-
pressed concern about former Presidents
making millions of dollars by in effect sell-
ing the Presidency with television inter-
views and memoirs. What are your own
intentions as to what you will do after
you complete your term or terms?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't answer
that question yet. I might say what I have
done so far. I wrote a book in the winter
of 1975 called "Why Not the Best," which
has now sold several million copies. Any
receipts that have come in from that book
since the end of May last year have not
come to me or my family in any way. They
have been put into a special reserve fund
to finance a future library to hold the pa-
pers that might be derived from my own
administration.
Shortly, there will be another book
published of excerpts from my speeches
since the time I became Governor of
Georgia. That book has been given in its
1021
