Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 18
ministration have supported it with one
voice. With it, we are bringing the United
States back in line with the decisions of
the Security Council and with our obliga-
tions under the United Nations Charter.
H.R. 1746 effectively reinstates an em-
bargo against the importation of Rhode-
sian chrome and other minerals, as well as
any steel mill product containing Rhode-
sian chromium. As a matter of equity,
however, I am issuing an Executive order
[11978] which authorizes the Secretary of
the Treasury to exempt shipments now in
transit to the United States.
Our country is committed to the con-
cept of rapid transition to majority rule in
Rhodesia under nonviolent conditions. I
view this measure today as an appropriate
and positive step toward that goal. We
have consistently stated our belief that a
peaceful solution in Rhodesia depends
upon negotiations that involve a full spec-
trum of opinion among its leaders, both
black and white. With the enactment of
this measure, there can be no mistake
about our support for that principle.
Trade Involving Southern
Rhodesia
Executive Order 11978. March 18, 1977
RELATING TO TRADE AND OTHER TRANS-
ACTIONS INVOLVING SOUTHERN RHODESIA
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 5 of the United Nations Par-
ticipation Act of 1945, as amended (22
U.S.C. 287c), and Section 301 of Title 3
of the United States Code, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, Sec-
tion 4 of Executive Order No. 11419 of
July 29, 1968, is hereby amended by add-
ing thereto the following subsection:
"(c) The Secretary of the Treasury may
exempt from the provisions of this Order,
and Executive Order No. 11322, as
amended, any shipment of chromium in
any form which is in transit to the United
States on March 18, 1977.".
The White House,
March 18, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
I hope that the present Rhodesian au-
thorities, as well as the black African na-
tionalist leaders, will accurately assess the
vote of the Congress and this administra-
tion's stand on Rhodesia. The solution
rests in their hands, not ours. Further de-
lay in negotiations will invite more vio-
lence and increase the prospect of outside Water Resource Projects
intervention-an outcome which every
person of good will wishes to avoid.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:51 p.m., March 18, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
With the cooperation of the Congress,
we have taken a step of great importance
in our southern African policy. I want to
thank the leadership of both Houses for
their initiative in bringing about this en-
couraging development.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 1746 is Public Law 95-
12, approved March 18.
Letter to Members of Congress.
March 16, 1977
To Members of Congress
I have heard from many members of
Congress about my decision to review wa-
ter projects and to delete funding for some
of them. I want you to know that I am
aware of your concerns and I sympathize
with them.
453
