May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
yet or what their policies might be after
they are ultimately evolved.
So, that is not encouraging or discour-
aging. But it's much more difficult to pre-
dict at this point.
Q. Could you tell us how your views
have evolved on the Palestinian homeland
as a entire state or as part of the Jorda-
nian state?
THE PRESIDENT. No, my views are not
firmed on what the composition of the
Palestinian homeland might be. But all of
the United Nations resolutions have con-
templated a homeland for the Palestin-
ians. And this is obviously something that
will have to be accommodated.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
Advisory Committee Review
Memorandums to Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. May 24, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tives Departments and Agencies
Subject: Advisory Committee Review
Your recommendations for the con-
tinuation or termination of advisory com-
mittees, in response to my directive of
February 25, 1977, have been received
and are being reviewed by the Office of
Management and Budget.
I believe more can be done, and I have
asked OMB staff to carefully review your
recommendations. When that review is
complete later in May, senior OMB staff
will meet with your Departments and
agencies for a critical zero-based analysis
of committees you wish to continue. How-
ever, I urge you not to wait for those ses-
sions to rethink the need for your commit-
tees. OMB would be happy to receive
further recommendations for committee
terminations during their review.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Director, Office of
Management and Budget, Chairman,
Council on Environmental Quality,
Chairman, Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy, President, Export-Import
Bank of the United States
Subject: Advisory Committee Review
Your recommendations for the con-
tinuation or termination of advisory com-
mittees, in response to my directive of
February 25, 1977, have been received
and are being reviewed by the Office of
Management and Budget.
I am pleased that you have recom-
mended the termination of all committees
advising your Departments and agencies.
You have made an important contribu-
tion to our effort to improve the organi-
zation and effectiveness of government.
Efforts such as yours, and our continued
attention to the establishment and con-
tinuation of committees, will make it a
success.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The texts of the memorandums were
released on May 25.
Included in the White House press release
was a breakdown of recommendations from
Cabinet departments for numbers of commit-
tees to be eliminated, which read as follows:
1012
