T
Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 25, 1977
Visit of Prime Minister
Takeo Fukuda of Japan
Remarks of the President and the
Prime Minister at the Welcoming
Ceremony. March 21, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I'm going to say just a
few words and then give you a chance to
do the same.
As an indication of the friendship that
we have toward the great nation of Japan,
we have arranged this weather for the
Prime Minister this morning.
First of all, I would like to express my
deep thanks to Prime Minister Fukuda
for the hospitality that he showed to Vice
President Mondale on his trip to Japan in
January.
When I was in Japan less than 2 years
ago, Prime Minister Fukuda, who was
then Deputy Prime Minister, received me
with equal hospitality.
One of the most remarkable and en-
couraging developments on the interna-
tional scene has been the constant growth
in close relationships, constant consulta-
tion, and the sharing of mutual purpose
and friendship between Japan and the
United States of America during the last
30 or more years.
We have nations with greatly different
historical and cultural background and
characteristic. But we also have discerned
very clearly the many things which we
have in common. We're both powerful
and beneficial and peaceful presences in
the Pacific region. Japan has become one
of the world's great economic powers.
And with a careful sensitivity to world
affairs and to the hopes and dreams of
mankind, Japan has been able to draw a
sharp distinction between economic influ-
ence and power on the one hand and non-
nuclear weapon capability on the other.
belligerency, peace, the renouncement of
In world trade, all the nations of the
world recognize the almost preeminent
position that has been carved out by the
hard work and dedication, the innovation
of a Japanese economy.
We have in our own National Capital
since 1912 been reminded every spring-
time about the close relationships that
potentially could exist and which now do
exist between Japan and our people. The
cherry trees are now preparing to blos-
som forth with beauty and as a reminder
tions together.
of the friendship that binds our two na-
Last year on the 200th anniversary of
our own Nation's founding, the Japanese
people gave a major contribution to the
Kennedy Center for arts and culture. And
they also gave to the American people 53
bonsai trees, one of which is in the Oval
Office today, ranging from 50 or 60 years
old to more than 350 years old, which
467
