May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
runaway costs of people to get health care
in hospitals. These are just the first steps
toward a continuing commitment of my
own administration.
I do not consider these moves-to help
people to go back to work and have a
good life-to be incompatible with a bal-
anced budget before my own term of
office is over. We consider the realization
of the objective of a balanced budget to
be tied very closely with the right of peo-
ple to have a job.
If we're going to have high unemploy-
ment, we're not going to have a balanced
budget. So, I don't think the criticism was
jutsified, and I'm very thankful it was
confined to one person.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. May I get back briefly to Helen's
question? It seemed to us, traveling with
you, that you and the people in your party
were a bit more upbeat on the question of
the Middle East this week than perhaps
a couple weeks ago after the Hussein visit.
I just wonder, do you have indications
now that the Palestinians are ready to
recognize the right of Israel to exist? And
also, do you have-in reference to the
question Helen brought up-do you have
some indication that Israel is ready to
recognize the need for a Palestinian
homeland?
THE PRESIDENT. We have had no con-
tact with the Palestinians, with PLO. But
I have concluded meetings with the Prime
Minister of Israel, the President of Egypt,
the President of Syria, and the King of
Jordan. At the conclusion of this series of
meetings, I feel better than I did before.
At the end of the Hussein meeting my
own hopes were improved.
I don't want to mislead anyone. The
chances for Middle Eastern peace are
still very
much in doubt. We have a long
way to go. But I do believe that there's a
chance that the Palestinians might make
moves to recognize the right of Israel to
exist. And if so, this would remove one of
the major obstacles toward further
progress.
Our Government, before I became
President, promised the Israeli Govern-
ment that we would not recognize the
PLO by direct conversations or negotia-
tions, as long as the PLO continued to
espouse the commitment that Israel had
to be destroyed.
I would like to see this resolved. There's
a chance that it will be done. We are try-
ing to add our efforts to bring this about.
But I have no assurance that it will be
accomplished.
ILLEGAL GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES
Q. Mr. President, a former FBI official
now faces prosecution for his role in al-
legedly ordering illegal FBI surveillance
on various groups. I'm curious, on the
basis of your information, can you tell us
whether you feel that Mr. Kearney does
in fact deserve to be prosecuted, and
whether or not you feel that other FBI
officials, present or former, should face
similar prosecutions for similar alleged
actions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you are presup-
posing guilt before a trial. It's obvious to
me that members of the Government, in
the military, the CIA and the FBI and the
Oval Office, if a crime is committed, need
to have that crime investigated. And if
they're determined to be guilty, they
should be punished. No special excuse
should be given for officials in the FBI. I
don't know the details of the case. I've
not been briefed on it and have no reason
to be. I have encouraged Attorney Gen-
eral Griffin Bell, who needs no encourage-
ment, to enforce the law enthusiastically.
And there's been a great deal of pres-
sure put on Griffin Bell not to prosecute
this case or to continue with the investiga-
tion of the case. I think he's doing the
862
