Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
eral background, and then both Mike and
I'll be glad to answer any questions which
you may have on the details of the docu-
ment which was issued, and the appendix
to it.
There are about three points, I think,
that are important to make at the outset.
First of all, I think the summit was very
important because it dealt with substan-
tive matters in a way which was unique. I
talked to one person after the summit
who had been to all three of the summits,
and he said that there was more substance
dealt with in this summit than any of the
others which had been held.
This came about as a result of a process
of frank exchanges between the partici-
pants. The atmosphere was friendly, yet
people were willing to put their differ-
ences out on the table. They listened to
each other and, as a result of this, were
able to develop common ground even
though they may have started with
differences.
Unlike the past, there will be a follow-
on for this summit, and each of the coun-
tries will establish one or more individuals
who will have the responsibility to follow
up and make sure that the pledges which
were made and the recommendations
have a number more, and Mike and I will
divide up answering the questions. Mike
will take primarily those dealing with the
economic issues and trade. I will cover
those dealing with the nuclear matters
and with the North-South dialog.
So, who has the first question?
Q. Who will follow up for the United
States?
QUESTIONS
GERMANY/BRAZIL NUCLEAR TRADE
Q. Mr. Secretary, I would like to know
about the positions, precise
precise positions
about the deal between Germany and
Brazil about the nuclear question. Could
you elaborate this problem?
SECRETARY VANCE. That subject was
just mentioned in passing. It did not come
up as a subject for any real discussion.
The subject matter was much broader
than that in dealing with the nuclear
issues.
Q. Who will follow up with the United
States?
SECRETARY VANCE. Henry Owen, who
is sitting right there and who is respon-
sible for the preparation work insofar as
the United States is concerned, will be the
one who did that. I might say, inciden-
which had flowed from these meetings tally, that another reason for the success
will be carried forward. I think this is a
very important step.
Thirdly, I think it is important because
it gave, for the first time, a number of the
participants a chance to meet with each
other and to establish a close personal
working relationship. It was interesting to
observe this and to see the closeness de-
velop as the days went on. I think in this
respect it was a great success, and overall
I would evaluate it as a very useful and
constructive set of meetings.
The Prime Minister covered a number
of the questions which you've had with
respect to the various pledges made and
the individual items. But I'm sure you
of this summit, I think, is the excellence
of the preparation work that was done by
Henry and the others representing their
various countries.
Q. How will that work exactly?
SECRETARY VANCE. The details have
not yet been worked out.
Q. But there are counterparts for Mr.
Owen?
SECRETARY VANCE. There are. Yes,
indeed.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
Q. When the communique speaks of
additional resources for the IMF, is that
beyond what the interim committee has
829
