May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Trade Commission (USITC), would not
be in the overall national economic inter-
est, including that of both consumers and
producers.
These actions were announced today
by Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, the
President's Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations.
In the past year sugar prices have fallen
sharply to a point less than the costs of
production for many U.S. growers.
Therefore, the President has instructed
the Secretary of Agriculture to institute
an income support program which would
provide supplemental compensation to
growers of up to 2 cents a pound for sales
at market prices below 13.5 cents per
pound. 13.5 cents is the estimated average
break-even price for domestic sugar
growers. This would be an interim meas-
ure, pending the negotiations and imple-
mentation of a new ISA and would not
raise costs to consumers.
The President noted that the United
States is actively participating in negotia-
tions now underway in Geneva for an
ISA, which if successful would provide
long-term assurance of greater stability in
world prices and supplies. Successful im-
plementation of an ISA would make fur-
ther consideration of unilateral measures
by the United States unnecessary.
The President's decision is based on an
interagency review of a report by the
USITC, which found that imports were
a substantial cause of a threat of serious
injury to the domestic industry and rec-
ommended a 5-year import quota of 4.275
million short tons, raw value, for sugar
imports, to be allocated among supplying
countries.
The interagency review considered the
USITC report on the basis of overall na-
tional economic interest criteria spelled
out in the Trade Act of 1974.
The President determined that a rem-
edy involving import restraints, achieved
either through import quotas or tariff
increases, would not be a desirable course
of action. It would raise prices to con-
sumers without the promise of offsetting
price stabilization benefits. Import relief
would also adversely affect the export
earnings of a number of developing coun-
tries which depend on sugar exports for
their economic growth and prosperity.
The United States strongly believes that
the economic development of these coun-
tries is in the mutual interest of them-
selves and the United States.
The President also directed the Special
Trade Representative to continue to fol-
low the sugar import situation closely and
to advise him in consultation with the
Secretary of Agriculture of any need for
consideration of further actions.
In connection with his decision on the
USITC report, the President also con-
curred with the determination of the In-
teragency Trade Policy Staff Committee
(TPSC) that sugar will continue to re-
ceive duty-free treatment from eligible de-
veloping countries under the Generalized
System of Preferences (GSP). A petition
submitted to STR by the American Farm
Bureau Federation, requesting that sugar
be withdrawn from the list of GSP-eligi-
ble products, was therefore denied.
The TPSC found that imports of sugar
under GSP account for a relatively small
percentage (17 percent) of total sugar im-
ports, and more importantly do not sig-
nificantly affect the U.S. price level. Re-
moval of sugar from GSP would also be
contrary to the U.S. policy of encourag-
ing mutually beneficial development of
the economies of less-developed nations.
Major developing country suppliers of
sugar exports to the United States have
not been, and will not be, eligible for GSP
798
