Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment, in my judgment, went into a nuclear
energy policy last year when TVA was
authorized to sell $10 billion worth of
bonds to almost double their energy ca-
pacity. They had 21,000 megawatts in
their system, almost all of that to be
spent
on nuclear; zero dollars to be spent on
further development of coal energy-pro-
ducing facilities. And the thing that
bothers me about the nuclear-I have
strong reservations totally about it-and
that is, that energy self-sufficiency is an
admirable goal for this country and one
I am sure that you will try to get to at
some point. But as I understand, TVA
has already said that when these new
units come on line that they'll have to
import uranium to fuel them. Now, it
seems to me we're going both ways around
the barn. It doesn't make much sense.
At the same time, the TVA basically is
supposed to be an innovative body. It was
created back in the thirties, 1933, the Sen-
ator says that I think development of
solar energy as an electrical-say space
platforms and this type of thing, that can
produce 10,000 megawatts at a single
crack, get it on line sometime within the
next decade-which is what I've read is
possible that it could be environmentally
sound, could replace the uranium econ-
omy or energy thing of TVA, which is
presently planned, and I think solve ma-
jor problems.
THE PRESIDENT. One thing that I be-
lieve ought to be corrected: I don't see
any prospect nor need for our own coun-
try to be energy self-sufficient anytime in
the future. It might very well be that the
oil that we purchase now at say $15 a
barrel is a very good bargain, and the oil
and gas that we leave in our own grounds
at this point for use later on might be one
of the most precious deposits that we
have.
So, I don't think that we are going to
set in an overall energy policy a goal of
complete self-sufficiency from imported
oil or even liquid natural gas. But obvi-
ously we could cut down on the amount
of oil that we import.
Our native production of oil has been
dropping off an average of about 6 per-
cent per year. I think natural gas is about
the same percentage.
MR. SCHLESINGER. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. So, we need to kind
of stabilize it. But I don't think we can
have a crash program just to extract oil
and gas from our own supplies to replace
totally what we do import.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kilpatrick, and
then I'll get you next, Mr. Lloyd.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
MR. KILPATRICK. Mr. President, let me
say this. I have spoken to both TVA Com-
missioners personally. I've watched the
West Virginia Legislature destroy the
economic arguments in favor of nuclear-
of Chairman Wagner. I've spoken to res-
idents in western Kentucky, Tennessee,
and Alabama. My first son was born in
Catoosa County, Georgia, which is a
TVA-served county. I would say this, the
TVA appointment that you have now in
your hands, thanks to the Senate's defeat
of several nominations by your predeces-
sor, is probably
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Two.
MR. KILPATRICK. —right—is prob-
ably the most critical appointment and
bellwether to coal people in Appalachia
that you can make. If that appointment
is overtly or covertly going to continue to
allow TVA to start on one more generat-
ing unit for nuclear power, an awful lot
of people are going to feel thoroughly be-
trayed. Additionally, the cost factors-as
Chairman Wagner admitted, he had not
422
