Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
and by direct payments to people who
do not pay taxes.
e. Expand use of Highway Trust Fund:
By reducing gasoline consumption, State
revenues from gasoline taxes would also
be reduced. These funds are used by the
States for repair and maintenance of
highways. The administration will de-
velop a program which will reduce their
hardships and, to insure adequate high-
way maintenance, will compensate them
for this loss through sources such as the
Highway Trust Fund.
f. Efficiency standards for light duty
trucks (administrative): The Secretary
of Transportation is authorized under the
Energy Policy and Conservation Act to
promulgate efficiency standards for trucks
weighing 10,000 pounds or less. He is cur-
rently in the process of promulgating
standards for trucks weighing 6,000
pounds or less. The President has directed
the Secretary to commence a proceeding
to cover trucks weighing more than 6,000
pounds.
g. Removal of 10-percent excise tax on
intercity buses (legislative): Since buses,
like railroads, are fuel-efficient forms of
transportation, the current 10-percent ex-
cise tax on intercity buses would be re-
moved to encourage expansion in use of
this form of transportation.
h. Tax on aviation and marine fuel
(legislative): The existing Federal excise
tax preferences for general aviation and
motorboat fuel would be eliminated. This
change would not affect commercial air-
lines or commercial fishermen. The tax
on aviation fuel would increase from 7
to 11 cents a gallon. The current 2 cents
rebate for motorboat fuel would be col-
lected and transferred to the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
i. Federal Energy Management Pro-
gram
-The President will direct Federal
agencies to alter their auto purchasing
practices so that new cars purchased by
the Government will, on the average, ex-
ceed the average fuel economy standard
under the EPCA by at least 2 mpg in 1978,
and by at least 4 mpg in 1980 and there-
after (administrative).
-Legislation will be proposed to initi-
ate a Federal van pooling program. This
program will demonstrate the energy con-
servation and pollution control potential
of this form of commuter transportation
by the largest employer in the Nation.
About 6,000 vans will be purchased by
the Government and made available for
use by Federal employees. All costs of the
program will be repaid to the Federal
Government by the riders (legislative).
2. Buildings
a. National Residential Energy Conser-
vation Program for Existing Buildings
-Homeowners will be entitled to a tax
credit of 25 percent of the first $800 and
15 percent of the next $1400 spent on ap-
proved conservation measures. The credits
will be available for measures undertaken
between April 20, 1977, and December 31,
1984 (legislative).
-State public utility commissions will
be required to direct utilities to offer their
customers a residential energy conserva-
tion service performed by the utility and
financed by loans repaid through monthly
utility bills. The utilities must also inform
customers of other available residential
conservation programs and how to obtain
financing, materials, and labor to perform
residential conservation themselves. Other
fuel suppliers would be encouraged to
offer similar programs, with the help of
their State energy offices (legislative).
-The Federal Government will remove
the barriers to opening a secondary mar-
ket for residential energy conservation
loans through the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation and the Federal
National Mortgage Association. This ac-
tion should help to ensure that capital is
675
