Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), and the Flood Dis-
aster Protection Act of 1973 (Public Law
93-234, 87 Stat. 975), in order to avoid
to the extent possible the long and short
term adverse impacts associated with the
occupancy and modification of flood-
plains and to avoid direct or indirect sup-
port of floodplain development wherever
there is a practicable alternative, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Each agency shall provide
leadership and shall take action to reduce
the risk of flood loss, to minimize the im-
pact of floods on human safety, health
and welfare, and to restore and preserve
the natural and beneficial values served
by floodplains in carrying out its respon-
sibilities for (1) acquiring, managing,
and disposing of Federal lands and facil-
ities; (2) providing Federally under-
taken, financed, or assisted construction
and improvements; and (3) conducting
Federal activities and programs affecting
land use, including but not limited to
water and related land resources plan-
ning, regulating, and licensing activities.
SEC. 2. In carrying out the activities de-
scribed in Section 1 of this Order, each
agency has a responsibility to evaluate the
potential effects of any actions it may take
in a floodplain; to ensure that its planning
programs and budget requests reflect con-
sideration of flood hazards and floodplain
management; and to prescribe procedures
to implement the policies and require-
ments of this Order, as follows:
(a) (1) Before taking an action, each
agency shall determine whether the pro-
posed action will occur in a floodplain
for major Federal actions significantly
affecting the quality of the human envi-
ronment, the evaluation required below
will be included in any statement pre-
pared under Section 102 (2) (C) of the
National Environmental Policy Act. This
determination shall be made according to
a Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (HUD) floodplain map or a
more detailed map of an area, if avail-
able. If such maps are not available, the
agency shall make a determination of the
location of the floodplain based on the
best available information. The Water
Resources Council shall issue guidance on
this information not later than October 1,
1977.
(2) If an agency has determined to, or
proposes to, conduct, support, or allow an
action to be located in a floodplain, the
agency shall consider alternatives to avoid
adverse effects and incompatible develop-
ment in the floodplains. If the head of the
agency finds that the only practicable al-
ternative consistent with the law and with
the policy set forth in this Order requires
siting in a floodplain, the agency shall,
prior to taking action, (i) design or mod-
ify its action in order to minimize poten-
tial harm to or within the floodplain, con-
sistent with regulations issued in accord
with Section 2(d) of this Order, and (ii)
prepare and circulate a notice containing
an explanation of why the action is pro-
posed to be located in the floodplain.
(3) For programs subject to the Office
of Management and Budget Circular A-
95, the agency shall send the notice, not to
exceed three pages in length including a
location map, to the state and areawide
A-95 clearinghouses for the geographic
areas affected. The notice shall include:
(i) the reasons why the action is proposed
to be located in a floodplain; (ii) a state-
ment indicating whether the action con-
forms to applicable state or local flood-
plain protection standards and (iii) a list
of the alternatives considered. Agencies
shall endeavor to allow a brief comment
period prior to taking any action.
(4) Each agency shall also provide op-
portunity for early public review of any
plans or proposals for actions in flood-
plains, in accordance with Section 2 (b) of
999
