Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
in California, they only get 30, and some
of the big cars only get 8, where out of
town they would get as much as 13 around
the city.
What is it going to do for us in this
State that the market has been depressed
tremendously in the past 2 weeks? Since
the statement that you made about the
taxes on automobiles, people are afraid
to buy new cars, and they are afraid to
buy used cars.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that all our
projections show that at the end of the
next 7 or 8 years, up until 1985, that there
will be no reduction in the purchase or
use of American automobiles. In fact,
there is a steady growth in the use of the
automobiles. The average car now in our
country only gets 14 miles per gallon. It
weighs 4,100 pounds. The average car in
Europe gets almost twice that much on an
average per gallon and also weighs, I
think, about 2,700 pounds.
No matter who is in the White House,
no matter what the Congress does, in the
next few years we're going to have to have
more efficient automobiles and also ones
with exhausts being cleaner.
So, the point is: How do you accom-
modate the needs of our people and how
do you make this transformation so it
doesn't cost people money that don't have
it? If we do put on the 5-cent per gallon
gasoline tax, assuming that our people
don't conserve enough to prevent it, then
the money would be refunded to those
families all over the country.
I would guess that if all this money
could go back to the individual families,
that someone who had a fairly efficient
car, say 20 miles per gallon, and he used
it, say, 10,000 miles per year, it wouldn't
cost him anything because it would get
as much taxes back as they've paid on in-
creased gasoline tax. But we've got to start
having more efficient cars.
As you know, the Congress has man-
dated, even before I got in the White
House, that the average gas mileage of
an automobile in 1985 must increase up
to 27 miles per gallon. And this means
that the average car at that time, count-
ing old ones and new ones, too, would be
about 18 miles per gallon.
So, I think that we'll have a tax incen-
tive for those who have efficient automo-
biles. We will phase it in slowly enough
so it won't work any hardship on anyone
and if several people share an automobile
instead of having one person per car, then
the cost per person would be much less.
I think, though, that in general there
won't be any adverse effect on our econ-
omy. It's got to come anyhow, and by
careful planning ahead of time, whatever
adverse effect does come will not make
our people suffer.
Q. Yes, but as I said, Mr. President,
even some of the economy vehicles that
you were talking about that do get like 42
miles per gallon outside of California only
get maybe 29 in California. Even some
of the smaller economy cars only get 15
and 18 because of the California pollu-
tion. Now this is car country. There are a
lot of poor people here that depend on
automobiles to get to work. We have no
mass transit. So you're asking these peo-
ple, whether they have a large or small
car, to pay a 5-cent tax, which many of
these people cannot afford.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we've
discussed it about all the time we have. I
think you're exaggerating the effect of the
control on automobile emissions. You're
assuming that a car gets 50 percent less gas
mileage just because is has a clean exhaust.
But the fact is that in the years to come,
there's going to be a much closer relation-
ship between national standards on auto-
mobile exhaust and the standards in Cali-
fornia.
897
