Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But I'm not trying to force my will on
yours. What I would like to do is to un-
derstand what your position is and then
make a judgment accordingly. But you
have my promise, which I will maintain,
that if it is your decision just to extend
the present agreement, I will certainly
back that agreement. If you propose
changes, then, of course, I'll have to assess
the changes one by one. But you know
more about your industry than I do. And
within the bounds of realization that
you
have to have both imports and exports to
carry on trade that is beneficial to us all,
I'll do the best I can to protect your
industry.
I want to say this: I wish I had time to
stay here for you, a half hour or an hour.
I don't have the time to do it. But I did
want to come by and speak to you briefly,
because your industry is so important to
Georgia and to South Carolina and North
Carolina and Tennessee, particularly—
where I've lived and grown up, but it's
important to the whole country as well.
And I hope that you will feel free to
let me have your ideas and your sugges-
tions, your advice, and also your criti-
cisms. I'm going to make mistakes. I am
going to have to make decisions on taxa-
tion and on energy and on welfare pro-
grams with which you might not be in
complete agreement. I recognize that. But
I'll try to make my decisions only after I
have assessed your position.
I've got a lot to learn. I don't claim to
know all the answers. And we, you and I,
are kind of partners in making sure that
our Government does perform properly
and that there is a constant, mutually
supportive relationship that exists between
the business community on one hand and
the Government of our Nation on the
other.
I'll try to do the best I can to be a good
President, and I thank you for having me
come over and to give me this chance to
express a few thoughts to you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. in the
Family Theater at the White House. The meet-
ing was the first in a series of conferences
planned for various areas of industry.
Conflict of Interest and
Financial Guidelines
Announcement of Two Exceptions Published
by the Carter-Mondale Transition Group,
With the President's Letters to the Two
Nominees. February 9, 1977
An exception was granted to Navy
Secretary-designate W. Graham Claytor,
Jr., under President Carter's conflict of
interest and financial guidelines, the
President announced today.
The exception was necessitated by
Mr. Claytor's retention of a concentra-
tion of one particular stock (Southern
Railway) placed in a blind trust. In addi-
tion, the portfolio held by Mrs. Claytor
contains concentrations in three stocks.
Mrs. Claytor has agreed to place her
portfolio in a trust with blind features,
in that the trustee will be truly independ-
ent of the Claytors. Mr. Claytor has
agreed to disqualify himself on all mat-
ters relating to Southern Railway and to
the three firms concentrated in Mrs.
Claytor's portfolio.
To date, two exceptions to the conflict
of interest and financial guidelines have
been granted
granted to administration ap-
pointees. The first was to Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense Charles W. Duncan, Jr.,
who was permitted by the President to
retain his Coca-Cola stock.
Under the President's guidelines, which
were released by the Carter-Mondale
Transition Group January 4, the Presi-
dent intends that any exceptions to the
guidelines be made only with his express
124
