Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
extra work for us and sometimes is costly
in a political sense.
I think the best thing for me to do now
would be to answer your questions. I've
tried to outline as briefly as I could some
of the things that are important to me,
and I'll just kind of go around the table
and get the ones in the back.
QUESTIONS
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. How would you characterize your
relationship with Congress 100 days into
your term, in view of the budget decision
of yesterday and the energy proposals
they're now going over?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm pleased with it.
There have been some problems, because
when you change past procedures it
creates controversy. I think it's better for
me, though, to express myself clearly on
matters like the water projects, which I
think are a complete waste of money, than
it is to stay silent and have additional
projects approved that have no economic
or environmental justification for them.
It would again be obvious to anyone-it
was to me that this would not be a
popular thing among congressional lead-
ers or Members whose districts are
affected.
I've got an excellent relationship with
the Speaker, with the majority leader in
the House, obviously, with the Vice Presi-
dent, majority leader in the Senate, and
all those who work with them. I can't be
a quiescent or a timid leader. I wasn't
when I was Governor. I wasn't when I
was a candidate. I don't intend to be
when I am President.
I think that it's completely legitimate,
for instance, once we put forward a pro-
posal on the defense budget matter, to
maintain our commitment to that pro-
posal unless some circumstance changes
that causes us to have an alteration in our
own opinion.
We asked for a $120 billion spending
level on defense, which was about $2.8
billion reduction. I think this is necessary,
and I also think it's adequate.
The House and Senate Appropriations
Committees and Senate Budget Commit-
tee, all three, agreed with our figure al-
most exactly. The House Budget Com-
mittee cut that figure, I think by $4.1
billion. And I didn't try to go behind the
back of anyone. I discussed this openly
and freely. And when Congressman
Burleson, without my knowledge, offered
an amendment that would just restore
what we had advocated, then I think
Secretary Brown properly espoused that
amendment and the House overwhelm-
ingly adopted it.
It's a very difficult thing to pass a budg-
et resolution. I understand that. A lot of
negotiation and balancing has to be done
within the House. But I think that these
matters are inevitable. It's also inevitable
that quite often the administration is go-
ing to get blamed for some failure that
takes place in the Congress. And at times,
the difference of opinion is a cause of the
confusion. But I think it's better for me
to maintain my position, even though it
might create some disharmony within the
Congress, if I think I'm right.
GASOLINE TAX
Q. Mr. President, if the gas tax feature
of your policy, energy policy, fails in the
Congress, how important is the gas tax
feature to your overall energy policy, and
do you have an alternative to the gas tax
proposal that would accomplish the same
end if it should fail?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't have any
alternative. I think it is very important
and hope it won't fail. I think that we've
got to have some way to encourage a re-
750
