Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 6
though I'm one of you. And I will never
forget the wonderful welcome that you
have extended to me.
Good luck to you. We share a great
future together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m.
Prior to his remarks, he was presented with the
honorary freedom of the city by Councillor
Hugh White, Lord Mayor of Newcastle.
Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, England
Remarks on Departure From Woolsington
Airport. May 6, 1977
Thank you very much, Mr. Prime
Minister.
To my good friend, Jim Callaghan, and
to Ernie, and to all those who made this
visit so memorable in my life, I want to
say thank you. And to the tens of thou-
sands of people who have come out to see
me on the sides of the highways, in the
Newcastle Square, at Washington, I
want to say thank you.
There's no way that I can express the
sense of friendship and common heritage,
common commitment to the future that
I feel with the people of Great Britain.
And I believe that this visit, as viewed on
television and as read about in the news
back home, will assure, again, the people
of the United States of America that our
common heritage that has bound us to-
gether in the past will be continued even
stronger in the future.
There have been many people who
have shaken my hand this day, hands of
strength, hands with callouses from hard
work. And the sense that I've felt of quiet
determination and a spirit of hope and
confidence, has been an inspiration to me.
My only suggestion to Jim Callaghan
for improving this visit is to bring the
leaders of the other five nations up here
to northern England instead of going
back to London for the summit confer-
ence. Perhaps next time we come we can
make those kinds of arrangements, be-
cause I think to see here in the industrial
region of England the quiet competence
to produce goods that go around the
world is a symbol of the strength of Great
Britain.
The last point I want to make is this:
My wife and I have initiated an exchange
of American citizens. We hope that dur-
ing the next 4 years that we might send a
planeload of people from the different
States in our own country to different na-
tions of the world and to take back to our
own Nation a couple hundred citizens to
exchange ideas and knowledge about one
another. And completely as a coincidence,
the first trip from our own country to a
foreign country will be from Atlanta,
Georgia, my own State capital; and coin-
cidentally, the first destination of that
flight will be to Newcastle. We hope that
this will be an additional indication of the
sense of personal friendship that has been
initiated on this fine visit.
So, to all of you, thank you. God bless
you. I'm proud that you've become my
new friends.
Thank you very
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in
response to remarks of Prime Minister Cal-
laghan. Following the departure ceremony, the
President returned to London.
London, England
Exchange With Reporters Following a Dinner
Hosted by Prime Minister James Callaghan.
May 6, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, can you tell us
something about your evening?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the evening was
delightful. I enjoyed having a chance to
know the other heads of state. I believe
813
