Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
CONCORDE SST
MR. DE LA TAILLE. Mr. President, be-
fore we go farther, I feel obliged to ask
you a question about Concorde. You
know that it has been largely misinter-
preted in Europe and the problem of
Concorde is spreading anti-American
feelings in Europe, especially in France,
as you know. What's your position on the
"political noise" of Concorde and the way
it could be solved? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. My position is very
clear. I support the decision made by
President Ford and his administration in
authorizing a 16-month trial period for
the Concorde, both at Dulles Airport,
which the Federal Government controls,
and also at the John F. Kennedy Airport,
which is controlled by local authorities in
New York.
As you know, where the Federal Gov-
ernment has had that authority, the test
flights are now being conducted by Con-
corde at Dulles, near Washington. I have
no authority at all over the New York
Port officials-
MR. DE LA TAILLE. People in Europe
don't know that are not familiar with
that.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. That is the
crux of the misunderstanding, because in
our own Nation, the Executive leaders-
even the President has absolutely no
authority over the judicial system or the
courts, and to try to exert that authority
would be a very serious breach of our
constitutional processes.
We also have a similar constitutional
division of authority between local gov-
ernments, that is, the State and the city
on the one hand compared to the Presi-
dent. I have no authority at all to tell the
Governor of New York State or the mayor
of New York City nor the New York Port
Authority what to do about the Concorde.
We have made our Federal position clear,
that we prefer to see John F. Kennedy
Airport open to the Concorde for the 16-
month period.
HUMAN RIGHTS
MR. DIMBLEBY. Mr. President, can we
turn to one area of foreign relations which
perhaps made the greatest impact in the
last 3 months, which is your stand on hu-
man rights and its effect on American for-
eign policy. I think people may be a bit
puzzled now about quite where this is
leading and wonder also why you've con-
centrated so very much on Russia and
human rights there, where you are not
actually able to do very much, and
haven't apparently done anything, for
instance, in Iran, a country which you
have very close links with and where you
could presumably very much influence
what in fact went on?
THE PRESIDENT. My stand on human
rights is compatible with the strong and
proven position taken by almost all Amer-
icans. We feel that the right of a human
being to be treated fairly in the courts, to
be removed from the threat of prison, im-
prisonment without a trial, to have a life
to live that's free is very precious. In the
past this deep commitment of the free
democracies has quite
quite often not
been widely known or accepted or
demonstrated.
Our policy is very clear. It doesn't re-
late just to the Soviet Union. I've always
made it clear that it doesn't. It relates to
our own country as well. It relates to all
those with whom we trade or with whom
we communicate.
It's an undeviating commitment that I
intend to maintain until the last day I'm
in office. And through various means,
either public statements or through pri-
vate negotiations, through sales policies,
765
