Mar. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Among my closest friends in the world
are two people who mean a lot to me, and
I think in the past and in the future will
mean a lot to our country. One of them
is Dr. Peter Bourne, who helped me in
Georgia to set up one of the finest drug
treatment programs in the Nation. He's
recognized as the foremost expert on alco-
holism, drugs, their impact, and the way
to control them properly. His wife, Mary
King, is also one who has been very close
to me. When I was campaigning for
President, whenever I came to Washing-
ton, not having enough support or fi-
nances to afford a hotel room, I always
slept on their folding bed and they always
took me in.
And I'm very excited to know that
Mary King, who is an expert on health
care in all its forms, on the proper utili-
zation of volunteer Americans, who has a
sensitivity and a courage that's absolutely
superlative, is willing to serve in an agency
that will spread this kind of knowledge
throughout the world.
The ACTION program is one that's in-
volved with the Peace Corps, with
VISTA, and with the recruitment and
use of Americans-sometimes outside
Government itself who are willing to
serve this country and other nations who
are friends of ours.
I'm very grateful that Mary King is
going to be the Deputy Director of
ACTION. And when I asked her to serve,
she said that she would do it if I would
be present at her swearing-in ceremony.
Nothing could have kept me away. Mary,
I'm very proud of you. And I know this is
going to be a great experience for you
and for me both.
Another very crucial agency, as you
know, is the Environmental Protection
Agency. This is one that, in a practical
way, administers the laws evolved by the
Congress and the President to make sure
that the agencies of Government and busi-
ness world, as well, are oriented toward
the protection of the quality of life. There
are many aspects of it: environmental im-
pact statements, enforcement of quality
of air and water.
And this requires men and women in
administrative positions who are knowl-
edgeable about law, who are thoroughly
familiar with the rules that have been laid
down in an administrative way, and who
can deal with forcefulness and under-
standing with the State and local govern-
ments and with private industry to make
sure that in the face of progress, which is
inevitable, that we don't destroy what's
precious to us.
Doug Costle has had broad experience
in this field and will be the Director of
this agency, and another very close friend
of mine, Barbara Blum, who helped me
get many of the Georgia laws passed
against formidable opposition because of
her courage and tenacity and because of
her knowledge of environmental questions
while I was Governor of Georgia.
And I'm very grateful that they are
willing to serve as the two top leaders in
this important agency, the Environmental
Protection Agency. It's with a great deal
of pleasure that I welcome them into the
Government circles, and it's also with a
great deal of pleasure that I thank them
for being willing to serve.
This is going to be a competent, dedi-
cated, courageous, tough partnership.
And I believe that the people of our coun-
try can rest assured that in the years to
come, that our quality of life will never be
abridged nor will it deteriorate. And I
hope that we can set a standard in this
country that will be emulated by other
nations around the world as we deal with
kind of an unexplored opportunity to
protect the things that are precious to us.
376
