Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
will be interviewed by the Attorney Gen-
eral, investigated thoroughly, and then I
will interview them personally. And the
chances are that the next FBI Director
will be from those five, although it's not a
certainty.
will reverse some of the setbacks that were
suffered last week.
I have confidence in the sound judg-
ment of the Congress, and I believe that
they and I are on test. And if we are not
successful in coming forward with an ade-
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United quate program, we will be deserving of
Press International].
QUESTIONS
ENERGY PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, Senator Byrd says you
overreacted on early defeats to your en-
ergy program. And you said that the
American public is not aroused enough
against the oil and auto lobbies. One, do
you think you overreacted? Two, why do
you think the public has not been aroused
in view of your avid campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that my
statements concerning the votes both in
the commerce committee subcommittee,
under John Dingell, and the Ways and
Means Committee were moderate and ac-
curate. I am deeply concerned about the
inordinate influence of the lobbyists and
representatives of the oil companies and
the automobile manufacturers.
I've never criticized the Congress as a
whole. As a matter of fact, I believe that
Al Ullman and John Dingell did an ex-
traordinarily good job in trying to protect
the recommendations that I had made to
the Congress.
It's important that the American people
be aroused to the fact that unless they are
deeply involved in helping the Congress
and me to come up with a substantive,
comprehensive, fair, and adequate energy
policy, that the special interest groups
will
prevail.
I've never attacked the Congress on this
matter at all. I believe that it's a good like-
lihood that the full commerce committee
and the Members of the House of Repre-
sentatives on the floor debates and vote
legitimate criticism by the American peo-
ple for timidity and for an absence of con-
cern about what I still consider to be the
gravest domestic issue that I shall face
during my own term as President.
U.S. INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES
Q. Mr. President, are you now consid-
ering unifying the direction of all the
intelligence agencies under a single in-
dividual, and if so, when might that come
about?
THE PRESIDENT. Shortly after I was
inaugurated President, I asked the Na-
tional Security Council to begin a study
about the organizational structure of the
intelligence agencies. I have no predisposi-
tion about what that decision might be.
This study has been going on now for more
than 4 months, and I think a recommen-
dation to me is imminent.
There obviously will be differences of
opinion. I would hope that these differ-
ences could be ironed out among the State
Department, the national security ad-
viser, the present Director of the CIA, the
director of the intelligence community,
Stan Turner, and the Secretary of
Defense.
But those matters on which they still
disagree, when the recommendation
comes to me, I'll resolve them without
hesitation. I think that there is a need to
protect the very important aspect of a
diversity of opinion in making assessments
of intelligence, the proper collation of
data to be presented to me and other con-
sumers. And I think it's important that we
move very strongly away from a past pro-
cedure and let those who use the intelli-
1103
