Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in the Soviet Union. What, if anything,
do you plan to try to do to help victims
of political repression in these countries?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, without my
trying to take credit for it, there has been
a substantial move toward concern about
human rights throughout the world. I
think this has taken place in probably a
dozen or more different countries. There
is an arousing interest in the position that
our own Government here and our free
country does take. Obviously, there are
deprivations of human rights, even more
brutal than the ones on which we've
commented up till now.
In Uganda, the actions there have dis-
gusted the entire civilized world, and as
you know, we have no diplomatic rela-
tionships with Uganda.¹
But here is an instance where both
Ambassador Andrew Young and I have
expressed great concern about what is
there. The British are now considering
asking the United Nations to go into
Uganda to assess the horrible murders
that apparently are taking place in that
country, the persecution of those who
have aroused the ire of Mr. Amin.
I've expressed my concern about im-
prisoned political prisoners in South Ko-
rea, in Cuba, in many countries—in sev-
eral countries rather-in South America,
and I will continue to do so. I have never
had an inclination to single out the Soviet
Union as the only place where human
rights are being abridged.
We have, I think, a responsibility and a
legal right to express our disapproval of
violations of human rights. The Helsinki
1 The White House Press Office later issued
a correction which stated:
While the United States has withdrawn its
mission from Uganda and has no direct diplo-
matic representation there, U.S. affairs in the
Republic of Uganda are carried out through
the West German Embassy, and the Republic of
Uganda has an operating embassy and chargé
d'affaires in Washington.
agreement, the so-called basket 3 pro-
vision, ensures that some of these human
rights shall be preserved. We are a signa-
tory of the Helsinki agreement. We are,
ourselves, culpable in some ways for not
giving people adequate right to move
around our country, or restricting un-
necessarily, in my opinion, visitation to
this country by those who disagree with
us politically.
So, I think that we all ought to take a
position in our country and among our
friends and allies, among our potential
adversaries, that human rights is some-
thing on which we should bear a major
responsibility for leadership. And I have
made it clear to the Soviet Union and to
others in the Eastern European Commu-
nity that I am not trying to launch a uni-
lateral criticism of them; that I am trying
to set a standard in our own country and
make my concerns expressed throughout
the world, not singled out against any
particular country.
CIA DISCLOSURES
Q. Mr. President, the other day-get-
ting back to the Hussein thing-when
that story broke, your Press Secretary,
when he issued what amounted to a no
comment by the White House, someone
asked him if this story had broken back
during the campaign when you were
running for President would you have
given a similar response. And he said,
"Well, I don't know." So, can I ask
you,
what would have been your response?
Would it have been the same?
ter]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. [Laugh-
Q. Mr. President, on the same subject,
you said earlier that your review of CIA
activities had found nothing illegal or
improper, and you later said that these
activities are legitimate and proper. Isn't
that a value judgment that the American
public might like to share, but how can
220
