Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
think this is a good overall proposal, but
we think something could be done
differently.
The oil companies say that there is not
an adequate incentive for production. I
think it's completely adequate and very
generous. We have offered the oil com-
panies the equivalent of world energy
prices for newly discovered oil. I think
this is enough. And when they demand
more, perhaps that's a bargaining
position.
I haven't gone yet to meet personally
with the oil executives to ask them if they
would espouse the program in its entirety
as a patriotic gesture. I think it would be
very good for them and the country if they
would.
I think our own analysis of the impact
on the automobile manufacturing busi-
ness shows that it won't be a bad blow to
them.
Our own projections on computer
models, which are quite often not com-
pletely accurate, show that by 1985, the
number of cars will increase somewhat;
that the economic impact of the program
will not be adverse, and the inflation rate
will go up about a half percent because of
the energy change.
So, in general, I'm pleased with it. The
test is in the Congress. And I'll just have
to keep the details of the proposal before
the public, because if I don't, the highly
focused opposition from the special inter-
est groups can cause a distortion here in
Washington about the opinion of the peo-
ple in the country. And I'll have to moni-
tor this, and I and the congressional
leadership will just have to let the people
know the benefits to be derived from tak-
ing an action that a special interest group
may oppose.
I think, though, we've had good re-
sponse so far, much better than I had
anticipated.
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. I promised I would
get to you.
Q. Yes. If we could get back to water
for just a second?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. From the intermountain part of the
West, Utah, where I am from, the Central
Utah Project, what was to have been a
very vital project in water development or
water diversion-it's a semi-arid State,
which you may or may not be aware of—
what alternatives in such an area where
ground water is rapidly dropping because
of the drought-the only other water that
seems to be available is that that's on the
eastern slope to be brought over to the
western slope. What can happen if energy
is to be developed in that part of the State,
and so on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have to say
that all of the recommendations that were
made concerning reclamation projects—
and that's a reclamation project—were
worked out by the Secretary of Interior
and his people. And the Central Utah
Project was one that was cut back along
with the Central Arizona Project and the
Garrison Diversion Project in North
Dakota.
I believe that the decisions that we
made are the proper ones. We did not
eliminate, as you know, all portions of the
Central Utah Project. There were some
left intact that we think are adequate. I'm
sure local people think not.
It comes down to two questions: one
is the limit of growth in inherently arid
regions, and the second thing is the degree
of strict conservation that would be im-
posed voluntarily over a period of years, as
water supplies dwindle compared to the
population demands.
754
