Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
will be involved in the evolution of this
policy.
But I want to leave the American peo-
ple with a clear concept that what every
person in this country does-to wear
warm clothes indoors, warm underwear,
a sweater; to cut down the thermostats
very low, even as low as 50 degrees in
some instances if the house has an open
fireplace that might be substituted-is a
very strong contributing factor to the res-
olution of this problem.
We waste more energy in this country
that doesn't have to be wasted than the
total amount that we import. And just in
homes alone, if we can hold down the
temperature and everybody works to-
gether, we can meet at least half our
needs for natural gas alone.
This trip was very helpful to me. I was
able to talk directly with workers who
were just about ready to be laid off
against their wishes. And I have learned
at first hand that we can prevent further
unemployment in our country and further
suffering if we work together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:23 p.m. on
the South Portico at the White House.
United States Representative
to the United Nations
Remarks at the Swearing In of
Andrew J. Young. January 30, 1977
I can see that I may have made the
wrong choice. Andy is the first Cabinet-
level officer who has gotten more applause
than the President. [Laughter] But I'm
not surprised, nor disappointed. I think
that is an indication that all of you recog-
nize, along with me, the superb qualities
that come to major government service
with Andrew Young. Andy has heard me
say this many times, and I have never
said it about anyone else—of all the peo-
ple I have ever known in public service,
Andy Young is the best.
He exemplifies to me a very rare com-
bination of inner strength and quiet self-
assurance, deep religious faith, superb
personal courage, sensitivity to other peo-
ple's needs who are not so influential or
well known or powerful as he is, an ability
to work with others, a way to assess a com-
plicated question and divulge his accu-
rate but sensitive and simple analysis to
other people, an ability to work with his
own peer group. That is really a combi-
nation that is rare.
I think all of you know Andrew
Young's background. Some of you in the
audience were there with him where he
saw what was wrong with our Nation and
knew what was right and had the courage
to suffer personally-and in many in-
stances in a subordinate position, with
Martin Luther King and others—and
change the consciousness, I think, not only
of our own country but the whole world.
And he did this in a way that made us all
proud of him.
He did not want or ask for this job. I
wanted Andy to be the Ambassador of
our country to the United Nations for a
long time. And it was only with the great-
est reluctance on his part that he finally
agreed to do it for me and for our coun-
try. But his reluctance was not an unwill-
ingness to serve the United States. It was
a belief, because of humility, that he
wasn't quite ready for it. He said that
when he was quite a young man that he
wanted to be the Ambassador to the
United Nations because of the unique
contribution that could be made there.
But he thought that the time might be 4
years or 8 years in the future. So, our Na-
tion's gain is Georgia's loss. And Andrew
Young has agreed to occupy this very im-
portant position.
46
