Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Fact Sheet on the Proposed Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Policy Act of 1977.
April 27, 1977
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy
Act of 1977, the domestic nuclear policies
announced by the President on April 7,
and the additional policy decisions in-
cluded in this fact sheet, are key com-
ponents of the administration's nuclear
non-proliferation policy. The President's
policy decisions include:
-new conditions we will require for
the granting of nuclear export licenses;
-additional new conditions we will
require in new U.S. Agreements for
Cooperation. These agreements are the
formal, bilateral undertakings which form
the basis for civil nuclear interactions with
other nations;
-policies the executive branch will
follow in making recommendations to the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission on the
export of sensitive items such as plu-
tonium and highly enriched uranium (the
weapons usable form of uranium, known
as HEU);
-policies the executive branch will
follow in deciding whether to approve a
request by another nation to retransfer
U.S.-supplied fuel to a third nation for
reprocessing;
-policies to improve U.S. reliability as
a nuclear fuel supplier by introducing
greater clarity and predictability into the
export licensing process.
Together, all these policies will place
the United States in a leadership position
among nuclear suppliers, and will estab-
lish a strong and effective non-prolifera-
tion policy. These policies have been de-
veloped, and must be evaluated, as a
complete package. They are intended as a
delicately balanced blend of:
-Denials for those items, such as re-
processing plants, which we believe create
such a large risk that their export should
be avoided whenever possible;
-Controls over those items and tech-
nologies, required by ongoing programs,
where improved safeguards and conditions
for physical security will substantially re-
duce the risk. These controls will be
backed up by stiff sanctions which would
be imposed on violators;
-Incentives-the United States fully
recognizes that there is no such thing as
an effective unilateral non-proliferation
policy. We must gain the support of other
nations-both suppliers and recipients-
if we are to reach our common goal of
limiting the spread of nuclear weapons.
Hence the administration's program in-
cludes substantial elements of incentives,
particularly in the areas of: uranium re-
source assessment; guaranteed access to
non-sensitive, low enriched uranium
(LEU)
(LEU) nuclear fuel; and spent fuel
storage.
The following are key features of the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Act of
1977, and related administration policies.
1. The bill establishes for the first time
a statutory requirement forbidding the in-
dependent Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion (NRC) from granting a license to
export nuclear materials or facilities until
it has been notified by the executive
branch of its judgment that the issuance
of a license "will not be inimicable to the
common defense and security." This judg-
ment will be reached by the Departments
of State, Defense, Commerce, the Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency, and
the Energy Research and Development
Administration.
In arriving at these judgments, the ex-
ecutive branch will adhere to the follow-
ing policies not detailed in the act:
-continue to embargo the export of
enrichment and reprocessing plants;
-avoid new commitments to export
significant amounts of separated plu-
730
