Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
THE PRESIDENT. We only have about
15 minutes in all left. And I'd like to
maybe take two quick questions from the
audience and then let the panelists, if you
have some last, not more than two sen-
tences, to wrap up what you'd like to
say, and then we're going to close out.
AIR POLLUTION
Q. My name is Samuel Kucik, I'm
minority leader of the West Virginia
Senate. And my people ask me, one, is
there hard data that SO₂ emissions are in
fact bad enough to take out of the air;
and, two, what is the rationale since we
are one United States, that West Virginia
coal which is mined in West Virginia can
be burned in Pennsylvania in one EPA
region out of Philadelphia? It can't be
burned in the State of West Virginia, but
it can be burned in the other EPA region
in the State of Ohio. So, it's rather para-
doxical that we can burn West Virginia
coal in Ohio and Pennsylvania, but we
can't burn it here in West Virginia.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. It's
hard to draw the logic. I could give you
an answer. But I'll see if Doug Costle can
give you a logical answer.
MR. COSTLE. The evidence on the
health effects of sulfur is, I think, pretty
hard, and it gets harder as time goes on.
The question of how much and how high
a level of sulfur coal can you burn in any
one place, whether it's Virginia or Ohio,
depends almost exclusively on how much
total sulfur is going into the air in that
region.
If you've got a lot of sources of sulfur
in one place, then you're going to have to
bring the levels down from all of those
sources even more stringently than you
would if you only had a handful of
sources, because what we set the health
standard on is the ambient levels, that is,
what total burden of sulfur in the air.
And that's why it's so difficult, particu-
larly in industrialized parts of the country,
to meet these health standards, because
we've concentrated our industries and our
populations in such a way that some parts
of the country require more stringent con-
trols in order to get the total burden in
the air down to that health level.
Q. We understand that. But it's rather
difficult when you're standing in West
Virginia and you see a powerplant sitting
here and then you see the Ohio River and
you see a powerplant sitting there.
MR. COSTLE. Absolutely. Now there
should be no unevenness-I mean, the air
pollution problems don't fall neatly or
aren't broken neatly by State lines. And
one of the things that Senator Randolph
and the Committee and myself have been
worrying about are how we bring real
equity to the situation so that contiguous
States in fact have comparable require-
ments. That is something we will address.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator, one point I
would like to make in a highly nonparti-
san way is, it is hard to correct in 8 weeks
the mistakes of the last 8 years. But we're
trying.
Senator Randolph, I think, pointed out
earlier part of the answer to your ques-
tion, and perhaps you'd repeat it.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Yes. I would like
to indicate that Ohio is in the Chicago
EPA region and West Virginia is in the
Philadelphia region. And of course, the
winds don't blow west to Chicago from
Ohio, you know. They blow east across
the river into West Virginia.
THE PRESIDENT. Didn't you comment
on the amendment that was adopted
yesterday?
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Yes. It was passed
yesterday as we had the markup on the
Clean Air Act amendments, and it will
be in the bill as brought to the Senate
floor, and it will be passed. And we're
439
