Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and to separate you from us. But I hope
that you might do an extra amount of
thinking and work to supplement my
weaknesses and hers, to make sure that
we have a well-coordinated effort to make
HUD an effective Department.
There have been a lot of criticisms of
the Housing and Urban Development De-
partment. I think some of them are jus-
tified. Part of them have been derived
from constantly changing policies and
procedures and guidelines and regulations
and laws. Many of them have caused you
to be frustrated and disappointed.
I hope that we can provide long-range
policies that are predictable and fair and
that we can carry out. I can promise you
that most of those policies will be derived
not from the White House, but from you,
yourselves. And I hope you will feel an
integral commitment to join with me and
Pat Harris and others, in making possible
a restoration of the esteem which your
own work has deserved, but which your
Department quite often has not earned or
realized.
So, we're in it together. We are partners
serving the people in the finest govern-
ment on Earth.
I'll try to do the best I can to be a good
President. I know that you will join me
in realizing the hopes of the American
people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:20 p.m. in the
cafeteria at the Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
The Jimmy Carter Personal
Assets Trust
Text of the Trust Agreement.
January 20, 1977
THIS TRUST AGREEMENT is made as of
the 20th day of January, 1977, by and
between JIMMY CARTER of Plains, Georgia
as "Grantor" and CHARLES H. KIRBO of
Fulton County, Georgia, as "Trustee."
1. Purpose.
This trust is created so that the Grant-
or, while he is serving as President of the
United States, will be isolated from those
of his assets which are most likely to be
affected by actions of the federal govern-
ment and its agencies. The Trustee will
control, manage, invest and reinvest all
assets of this trust in his sole discretion
and without consulting the Grantor or in-
forming him about any specific trust prop-
erties in any respect. The Trustee is di-
rected, however, to proceed with judicious
deliberation to arrange the assets of the
trust so that the trust's income will not be
substantially affected by federal legisla-
tion such as price supports for peanuts
or other agricultural products. A net
lease of any property at set rental amounts
unrelated to future profits or an invest-
ment in government securities or com-
mercial savings accounts will always be
considered to be consonant with the pur-
pose of this trust.
2. Trust Property.
The Grantor has simultaneously with
the execution of this Trust Agreement,
transferred and delivered to the Trustee
the property described in Schedule "A"
attached hereto, which the Trustee agrees
to hold in trust in accordance with the
terms, conditions, and purposes of this
Trust Agreement. Such assets are trans-
ferred to the Trustee subject to any loans
for which they may be pledged. The
Trustee acknowledges receipt of the
property shown on Schedule "A" and ac-
cepts the trust upon the terms set forth
in this Agreement. Additional property
may be added to this trust by the Grantor
or other persons at any time provided that
the Trustee agrees to accept such addi-
tional property and provided that all such
140
