Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment counseling services to people seeking
to enter or reenter the labor force.
-We will intensify our efforts to elim-
inate job discrimination based on race,
sex, or age.
-I
-I have instructed the Secretary of
Labor to develop improved job placement
services and computerized job banks to
help workers find and employers fill job
vacancies.
(8) International Trade Policy. Co-
operation with other industrialized gov-
ernments is vital to the reduction of
worldwide inflation.
This administration will balance the
benefits to consumers of international
trade with the need to moderate disrup-
tive influences on American workers and
firms. Trade can play an important role
in the fight against inflation. It is an ef-
fective means of improving efficiency and
maintaining competition within Ameri-
can industry. We get the benefits of
lower prices and greater productivity
when we expand our production in those
industries where we have a competitive
advantage compared to other countries,
while trading for those goods which we
find more costly to produce. Tariff and
quota protections may sometimes result
in foreign retaliation against our own
products. They cause our export indus-
tries to lose sales and employment and
consumers to pay higher prices.
We will emphasize the benefits of a
freer trade system in international ne-
gotiations. In particular, the United
States will push for a successful conclu-
sion of the Tokyo round of trade
negotiations.
At the same time, it is important that
we develop better means to prevent im-
port competition from severely disrupting
individual domestic industries and to im-
prove the efficiency and competitive po-
sition of affected industries.
(9) Medical Care Costs. The cost of
hospital care is increasing at more than
twice the overall rate of inflation. We
shall announce specific details of a hard-
hitting hospital cost containment pro-
gram later this month.
(10) Antitrust Laws. Resolute enforce-
ment of the antitrust laws helps insure
that products will be available in the mar-
ketplace at competitive prices. The
Justice Department will vigorously en-
force the laws against those who fix their
prices at artificial levels. The recent policy
of intervening in regulatory agency ac-
tions will also continue in order to inject
competition into regulated industries
wherever that is feasible.
(11) Federal Procurement Policies. My
administration will implement many of
the recommendations of the National
Commission on Procurement Policies for
streamlining and simplifying Federal pur-
chasing practices. We will also insist upon
strengthened Renegotiation Board
which bears down hard on excessive
profits in Government contracts.
I intend to play an active role in assur-
ing that the measures I have outlined re-
ceive the highest priority in Government
agencies. I am prepared to make the diffi-
cult choices that will inevitably arise in
every one of these areas.
C. VOLUNTARY COOPERATION AMONG
BUSINESS, LABOR, AND GOVERNMENT
The combination of prudent economic
and fiscal actions that I have proposed
will guard against the risk of a renewed
upsurge in inflation and also insure that
the Government itself is not a major
force in sustaining inflation. But to be
successful in reducing the current rate of
inflation and moving towards price sta-
bility, the private sector must also play
an important role.
In part, we have inflation today be-
cause we had it yesterday. Each group
628
