Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 7
BREEDER REACTOR PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, does your change in
the domestic program mean that you will
not authorize building the Clinch River
breeder reactor in Tennessee?
THE PRESIDENT. The Clinch River
breeder reactor will not be terminated as
such. In my own budget recommenda-
tions to the Congress, we cut back-I
can't remember the exact figure about
$250 million out of the plutonium breeder
reactor-the liquid metal fast breeder re-
actor program.
I think that we would continue with
the breeder reactor program on an exper-
imental basis, research and development,
but not move nearly so rapidly toward any
sort of commercial use.
We also, obviously, are concerned about
the adverse economic impact of these
changes. And in the areas that would lose
employment that was presently extant, as
we increase our capacity for producing
nuclear fuels, even using new techniques,
other than gaseous diffusion like centri-
fuge and laser beam use, then we would
try to locate those facilities over a period
of time—it's a very slow-moving proc-
ess-in areas like Clinch River where they
might be adversely affected.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. Mr. President, does this mean that
Canada selling nuclear power equipment
to France and others, and France selling
to others does this mean that we will
supply those other countries so that they
won't make more power?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say that
the two countries that most nearly share
our commitment and even moved ahead
of us in this field have been Canada-
perhaps because of their unfortunate
experience with India and Australia.
Both those countries, along with us,
have substantial supplies of nuclear fuel
themselves.
I would hope that we could develop
an interrelationship with other countries
to remove the competitive aspect of re-
processing itself. There is obviously going
to be continued competition among our
own Nation, Canada, France, Germany,
England, in the selling of atomic power-
plants themselves. It ought to be a clearly
drawn distinction between the legitimate
and necessary use of uranium and other
enriched fuels to produce electricity, on
the one hand, and a prohibition against
the use of those fuels for explosives.
It would be impossible, counterproduc-
tive, and ill-advised for us to try to pre-
vent other countries that need it from
having the capability to produce elec-
tricity from atomic power. But I would
hope that we and the other countries
could form an alliance that might be fairly
uniform in this respect. I know that all
the other countries share with us this
hope.
The one difference that has been very
sensitive, as it relates to, say, Germany,
Japan, and others, is that they fear that
our unilateral action in renouncing the
reprocessing of spent fuels to produce plu-
tonium might imply that we prohibit
them or criticize them severely because of
their own need for reprocessing. This is
not the case. They have a perfect right to
go ahead and continue with their own re-
processing efforts. But we hope they'll
join with us in eliminating in the future
additional countries that might have had
this capability evolve.
FOREIGN NUCLEAR WEAPON CAPABILITY
Q. Mr. President, is it your assessment,
sir, that some of the smaller nations that
are now seeking reprocessing technology
585
