Apr. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I would rather not say
that before we ever had normal relations
with Cuba they would have to withdraw
every Cuban from other nations on Earth.
We don't do it. I think we have got prob-
ably 1,200 different places around the
world where we have some American
troops. But the withdrawal of Cuban
troops is a dominant factor in Angola and
other places around Africa. They have
troops in a lot of other countries besides—
people, rather, I don't know about
troops in a lot of other countries.
I just rather would not be pinned down
so specifically on it. But the attitude of
Cuba to withdraw its unwarranted intru-
sion into the affairs of Africa and other
nations would be a prerequisite for nor-
malization, yes.
CHINA
in a negotiating session that we consider
to be of a confidential nature, we cer-
tainly don't tell the Chinese about it. But
we tell them our basic position. And I
think we have as good a relationship as
one could have with China short of full
diplomatic relations.
Q. Mr. President, in your press con-
ference this morning-on the campaign
out in Iowa you said that in your farm
bill you would try to keep support and
target prices at levels to guarantee farm-
ers would at least break even on their
crops, and yet your bill that has gone to
Congress-most analysts say that those
levels are too low, including your own
Secretary of Agriculture. How do you
reconcile that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, don't forget
there are two different kinds of price
levels. One is the support level, which is
predicated not on how much it costs to
Q. Do you maintain contact with the produce a crop but on what the interna-
Chinese on SALT or the Korean with-
drawal?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we do. I have met
with the Chinese Special Representative
here, who, as you know, is an Ambassador,
for an extended conversation once. Cy
Vance talks to him on a routine basis, in-
cluding one substantial conversation since
Vance came back from Moscow. We try
to keep the Chinese informed about our
own attitudes, and, although we don't
have diplomatic relations with them di-
rectly, with exchange of Ambassadors, we
do have a friendly relationship with them.
There have been numerous congres-
sional delegations going to China. There
is one over there now. And I thought it
would be good to let a member of my
family go. So I asked my middle son,
Chip, to accompany the congressional
leaders when they went over.
We exchange ideas with the Chinese
on SALT. We try not to violate confi-
dences. If the Soviets tell us something
tional market price is. I think in the case
of wheat, for instance, that is $2.25. The
other figure is one called income support
maintenance level.
We analyzed as best we could the
actual cost of production of wheat. The
figures that Bob Bergland gave me were
that on out-of-pocket expenses it was
$2.20 a bushel. This is a nationwide aver-
age. We allotted 17 cents a bushel for a
so-called management fee-that includes
everything that the farmer has to do to
manage a crop-and then we took the
average cost of land throughout the Na-
tion and figured that 1/2 percent per year
of the value of land ought to be allotted
as a cost of production. That's an arbi-
trary decision.
In my opinion, you could very well
argue that when land increased in value
that that, in effect, was an increase in in-
come for the farmers. It has kept a lot of
farmers financially alive to have their
land values go up.
648
