May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. What are you going to do with the
rest of the day?
THE PRESIDENT. I have got about a
half day's hard work to do, paperwork. I
have been putting it off until after Rosa-
lynn left. She has been studying for sev-
eral weeks in meetings with State and
National Security Council experts on
Latin America. She has also read volumes
of special briefing papers on the different
countries. And she had accumulated a
group of questions in a notebook. And so,
last night she and I went over those ques-
tions and I gave her the special perspec-
tive of a President. [Laughter]
Q. Did you answer them all?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I tell you, she
knows more about a lot of those countries
than I do, their history and their particu-
lar attitude toward multinational treaty
arrangements, and so forth. She has really
done a lot of homework. And I haven't
specialized on Latin America yet, and she
has.
I will see you all later.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10 a.m. at the
Brunswick Golden Isles Glynco Jetport.
Plains, Georgia
Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters. May 31, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best thing to
do would be to just respond to questions.
I don't have any statement to make.
Q. Do you have any feelings about your
reception this time?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm always
grateful to come back to Plains and to see
the people with whom I grew up. I be-
lieve it is accurate to say that the recep-
tion has been good. But I'm not surprised.
I love them just as much as they do me.
Q. What about how the town has
changed since you first began to-
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very pleased at
the way the town has been kept as it was.
It's almost more than 600 people can do
to handle literally thousands and thou-
sands of tourists and still be friendly and
hospitable and to preserve the basic na-
ture of this tiny community.
But I think they have done an excellent
job, and I am very proud. I hope that
when I'm out of my present position as
President and come back home to Plains,
it will still be just like this. I am very
proud of it.
Q. President Carter, have you appoint-
ed a trustee yet for the peanut business?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kirbo is the trus-
tee for my whole estate, including the
peanut business.
Q. There is not going to be any change
in that?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not that I know
of.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't asked
Mr. Kirbo what he has in mind. My in-
structions that I gave to him before Janu-
ary 20 was to handle it as he saw fit
without consulting with me.
Q. Now that you are back in Plains,
is there anything that you would like to
do that you can't do because you are
President?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think that I can
do almost anything that I would like to,
not with very much privacy. But I believe
that the tourists and the press have been
very accommodating this morning in let-
ting me go into the stores and speak to my
friends and my relatives.
I'm going to have lunch with my
mother. Amy made a list of the people
that she particularly wanted to see, some
of her classmates and friends. And they'll
be at the Pond House to play with Amy
this afternoon.
And then Billy and I are going over to
one of our farms during the afternoon.
1044
