Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 12
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, do you think that
Israel should accept the Palestinian home-
land if the Palestinians or PLO accept the
fact of Israel? And also, as a result of
your talks today, are you persuaded that
we should share arms technology and co-
production with Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to both
those questions is yes. I don't think that
there can be any reasonable hope for a
settlement of the Middle Eastern question,
which has been extant now on a continu-
ing basis now for more than 29 years,
without a homeland for the Palestinians.
The exact definition of what that home-
land might be, the degree of independ-
ence of the Palestinian entity, its relation-
ship with Jordan, or perhaps Syria and
others, the geographical boundaries of it,
all have to be worked out by the parties.
involved. But for the Palestinians to have
a homeland and for the refugee question
to be resolved, is obviously of crucial
importance.
We have a special relationship with
Israel. It's absolutely crucial that no one
in our country or around the world ever
doubt that our number one commitment
in the Middle East is to protect the right
of Israel to exist, to exist permanently,
and to exist in peace. It's a special
relationship.
Although I've met with the leaders of
Egypt, Syria, Jordan, and had long hours
of discussion, I never found any of those
Arab leaders who objected to that spe-
cial commitment of ours to the protec-
tion of the integrity of Israel.
And obviously, part of that is to make
sure that Israel has adequate means to
protect themselves without military in-
volvement of the United States. I have
no objection about this arrangement. I'm
proud of it. And it will be permanent as
long as I'm in office.
DOMESTIC POLICY
Q. Mr. President, while you were away,
a number of liberal Democrats-thinking
especially of Senator McGovern-sug-
gested that your economic policies are
hard to differentiate from those of your
Republican predecessor. What's your re-
sponse to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would not re-
fer to Senator McGovern as "a number
of liberal Democrats." [Laughter]
I don't know that Senator McGovern's
speech to the ADA was mirrored in the
objections by any other Democrats. Ob-
viously, we have a firm belief in the char-
acter of the Democratic Party, that we're
the ones who are responsible more than
any other party in this country's existence
for the provision of jobs for our people,
a better life for those who are afflicted,
who are poor, who are disadvantaged,
who need education and need security in
their old age. These kinds of programs
have been put forward by me to the Con-
gress in a very strong and continuing
way.
I will make one of my few speeches
later on this month in California to a
labor convention. And I will try to spell
out in kind of an inventory fashion what
we have proposed and what we do intend
to do this year. But I'm very proud of
what has been done up to date and the
attitude of Congress.
Tomorrow, I'll be signing a $4 billion
jobs bill. Appropriations have already
been approved for countercyclical help
for local governments. We are providing
over 1 million jobs for young people this
summer. We proposed to the Congress a
resolution of the very serious question in-
volving the integrity of the social security
system. We've asked for a control of the
861
