Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
capped, to understand the needs of other
handicapped people.
It's not a time for hatred or lashing out
or recrimination or condemnation of the
nonhandicapped for the long delays in
meeting your needs, because many people
who are not handicapped can't under-
stand those special needs. So, it's a time of
education both ways, and for a realization
that only when we work together the
handicapped who are leaders, the handi-
capped who will always be dependent,
the potentially handicapped child who
wants to have that prevented and the non-
handicapped adult leader-when we
work together, we can continue to make
even greater progress.
I know that in my own life I have been
inspired by the courage that exists among
many of you. One of my most proud mo-
ments was when we administered the oath
of office to Max Cleland, a young man
who now heads up a tremendous Federal
agency, the Veterans Administration.
When he was a tiny child he used to al-
ways ask God some day to let him work
for his country and serve other people. He
went to Vietnam as a volunteer after he
was qualified, having finished college for
his own professional career. He stepped
out of a helicopter one day and saw a
hand grenade on the ground, and trying
to protect his fellow servicemen, he lost
two legs and one arm.
He stays in a wheelchair. But I have
never been around Max Cleland when I
realized or thought that he had any handi-
cap that constrained the full realization
of his early prayers, because he serves in
Government and he serves his fellow hu-
man beings. He's an inspiration to me, and
his is an exhibition of constant courage
which many of you also exhibit so well.
When I made my inauguration speech
just a few weeks ago, I quoted a school-
teacher of mine, Miss Julia Coleman. She
was a principal in a tiny school where I
attended when I was a country boy. She
taught me above and beyond the class-
room how to write themes and how to de-
bate and how to appreciate works of art
and how to understand good music and
how to read books that I would otherwise
never have known to exist.
She was crippled, and she couldn't
see the children in her classroom. I think
she would have been a good teacher had
she not been handicapped, but I think that
knowing about her own shortcomings in a
physical way gave an extra dimension and
depth to her caring about other people.
Your conference is important. You're
intelligent, courageous leaders. But be-
cause you have experienced suffering
and because you have overcome it, I
think the recommendations that will be
coming from you that will affect the lives
of many millions of people now and in the
future will have that same extra
dimension.
Our country needs you, and I know that
you will never disappoint those who look
to you for leadership.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:05 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
Visit of Crown Prince Fahd
of Saudi Arabia
Remarks of the President and the Crown
Prince at the Welcoming Ceremony.
May 24, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It is with the greatest
degree of pleasure and pride that on be-
half of the people of the United States I
welcome to our country a good friend who
represents a nation that has through the
years grown closer and closer to us, His
Royal Highness Crown Prince Fahd from
Saudi Arabia.
991
