Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
Now, I would never permit anything
that was either illegal or improper. And
we've got a very good arrangement that
was primarily set up by President Ford to
prevent abuses. The Intelligence Over-
sight Board is made up of three distin-
guished men appointed by President
Ford, who have complete access to any
operation conducted by the intelligence
forces.
Senator Inouye's committee in the
Senate and, I think, six committees in the
House also have access to this informa-
tion. Of course, I'm monitoring it myself.
And I think Admiral Turner's integrity is
also a guarantee that there will be no fu-
ture abuses.
But that doesn't mean that everything
that we do in gathering intelligence on
which our security might very well depend
has to be revealed to the public. And
drawing of that distinction is one that's
my responsibility, and I think I can han-
dle that.
PAUL WARNKE
Q. What effect in your mind, if any, is
the extent of debate in the Senate over
Mr. Warnke's qualifications to be the
chief SALT negotiator going to have
eventually on our negotiating position?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
the exact vote in the Senate on Mr.
Warnke's confirmation will have a major
effect on future negotiations with the So-
viet Union on SALT.
The obvious impression that concerns
me is a demonstration of lack of confi-
dence of the Senate in my own ability and
attitudes as a chief negotiator. Obviously,
as President, any decisions made with the
Russians on reduction of atomic weapons
would have to be approved by me.
I have promised the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, who in the past perhaps have been
bypassed in the process, that they will al-
ways know ahead of time what our posi-
tion will be at the negotiating table. I've
not promised the Joint Chiefs of Staff
that they would have the right to approve
or disapprove every individual item in
negotiations.
But I hope that the Senate will give Mr.
Warnke a strong vote. I think many of
the people that oppose Mr. Warnke just
do not want to see any substantial reduc-
tions in atomic weapons, even though
they are agreed to mutually by us and the
Soviet Union or even if they are designed
to reduce the threat of nuclear destruc-
tion of the world.
I feel very deeply that we ought to pur-
sue with every possible means, an agree-
ment with the Soviet Union for substan-
tial reductions in atomic weapons. I think
Mr. Warnke agrees; most of the Senators
agree.
So, there are a wide range of reasons
for not voting for Mr. Warnke. I have
complete confidence in him. And I might
say there is one more very significant
guard against any error that I and Mr.
Warnke and the Secretary of State and
others might make. The Senate has to
approve, by a two-thirds vote after com-
plete open debate, any agreements signed
with the Soviet Union. So, I think that
the attacks on Mr. Warnke are primarily
by those who don't want to see substan-
tial reductions in nuclear weapons in the
world.
RICHARD HELMS
Q. It is widely reported that a grand
jury in Washington may be investigating
Richard Helms, the former CIA Direc-
tor, to see whether to move forward on a
case. It is reported that perhaps the jury
will want to see certain CIA documents.
And I presume you would be the final
arbiter. Have you been asked for those
documents, and what will be your policy
if you are asked for them in this case or
any other case?
345
