Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 9
you do go back home that you'll be both
incisive, questioning, critical, and, at the
same time, constructive.
I believe that our Government is the
best on Earth. I believe that our country
exemplifies the finest human commit-
ments, ideals, and aspirations. And I
think in domestic and foreign matters, we
are reestablishing ourselves in the view of
the world commensurate with what I've
just said.
The ideals that existed 200 years ago
are still alive. And whether or not we are
dealing with world hunger or basic hu-
man rights or freedom or disarmament or
peace or an end of nuclear proliferation,
these questions are a combination of
morality and political practicality. It's
very hard to tie these things together, but
I think it's crucial for our own Nation's
good.
I'm determined that not only should
the world think well of us but that our
people should think well of our own Gov-
ernment. We've had some serious mis-
takes in the past, and the mistakes have
alienated our people, in some instances
legitimately so.
In the Vietnam war, the attacks on
Cambodia, the Watergate revelations, the
CIA revelations, our country, our Gov-
ernment, our leaders have been embar-
rassed. You've lived through a time when
these crises have afflicted our country, its
reputation, and its own consciousness.
Most of you were born perhaps about
the time that John Kennedy was killed,
and it's hard to remember back in those
days when we were filled with idealism
and hope and high aspirations and self-
confidence that our country did accu-
rately represent what our people are in
the finest sense.
But I think together our people can
restore those legitimate feelings of quiet
pride and confidence, not in an autocratic
or abusive way but in a humble way,
seeking constantly to reaffirm what our
country ought to be.
I hope that the openness that we try to
institute in Government will be construc-
tive. We don't want to conceal any mis-
takes. We don't want to cover up any im-
proprieties or illegalities. We're eager to
root them out. I think this is something
with which you can be of great help.
We only have a couple of minutes, but
I thought instead of making a further
speech, you might have a question or two
that I could answer for
you.
I'm very proud of you. In the past
when I was Governor, I've been very in-
terested in seeing the finest young people
of our country come into the government,
both in Washington and in our own State,
to learn about it and to be intensely
critical.
You have an advantage over adults in
many ways. You have an idealism that's
not been assuaged or tempered, which is
good. And you have a fresh approach to
questions that causes you to be, perhaps,
sometimes even excessively inquisitive and
critical. And you also have a freedom
that won't last very much longer, to act
in an unrestrained way against the status
quo.
As you progress a few more years and
get a family and get a job and get obliga-
tions that cause you to cherish security
more than anything else, you lose the un-
constrained ability to let your own hearts
and your own souls be devoted to neces-
sary change, and particularly young peo-
ple like you who will inevitably almost
enjoy a privileged status in our society.
With a higher degree of privilege comes
a greater commitment not to change any-
thing. Because with change, your degree
of privilege might be diminished.
But I hope that you'll see through gov-
ernment a sense of study and understand-
ing of those who are less fortunate than
you and I.
1075
