Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to take on those moral duties which, when assumed, seem invariably to be
in our own best interests.
You have given me a great responsibility to stay close to you, to be
worthy of you, and to exemplify what you are. Let us create together a
new national spirit of unity and trust. Your strength can compensate for
my weakness, and your wisdom can help to minimize my mistakes.
Let us learn together and laugh together and work together and pray
together, confident that in the end we will triumph together in the right.
The American dream endures. We must once again have full faith
in our country-and in one another. I believe America can be better. We
can be even stronger than before.
Let our recent mistakes bring a resurgent commitment to the basic
principles of our Nation, for we know that if we despise our own govern-
ment, we have no future. We recall in special times when we have stood
briefly, but magnificently, united. In those times no prize was beyond our
grasp.
But we cannot dwell upon remembered glory. We cannot afford to
drift. We reject the prospect of failure or mediocrity or an inferior quality
of life for any person. Our Government must at the same time be both
competent and compassionate.
We have already found a high degree of personal liberty, and we are
now struggling to enhance equality of opportunity. Our commitment to
human rights must be absolute, our laws fair, our national beauty pre-
served;
the powerful must not persecute the weak, and human dignity
must be enhanced.
We have learned that more is not necessarily better, that even our
great Nation has its recognized limits, and that we can neither answer all
questions nor solve all problems. We cannot afford to do everything, nor
can we afford to lack boldness as we meet the future. So, together, in a
spirit of individual sacrifice for the common good, we must simply do our
best.
Our Nation can be strong abroad only if it is strong at home. And we
know that the best way to enhance freedom in other lands is to demon-
strate here that our democratic system is worthy of emulation.
To be true to ourselves, we must be true to others. We will not behave
in foreign places so as to violate our rules and standards here at home, for
we know that the trust which our Nation earns is essential to our strength.
The world itself is now dominated by a new spirit. Peoples more
numerous and more politically aware are craving, and now demanding,
2
