Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
fuel for the same level of the quality of life
that exists say in West Germany and
Sweden, and other European countries,
Japan.
We use about twice as much energy per
person. So, we have a tremendous means
to implement a good energy program just
because we've been so wasteful in the past,
but the detail of how we could realize sub-
stantial improvements yet remains to be
seen.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I've enjoyed it. I hope you have a good
stay here.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Roosevelt Room at the White House.
The transcript of the remarks was released
on March 26.
the attainment of our development objec-
tives. This proposal is consistent with the
United States position at the UNCTAD
IV Conference, which urged aid donor
nations to provide the relatively least de-
veloped countries on the UNCTAD list
with assistance on a grant rather than a
loan basis. The bill creates separate au-
thorizations for population planning and
health programs, and a requirement that
all development assistance programs be
reviewed to assure that proper attention is
paid to the relationship of these programs
to worldwide population growth. The bill
also contains an authorization of $200 mil-
lion for a long-term multidonor develop-
ment plan for the Sahel. U.S. contribu-
tions to this program will be based on
equitable burden-sharing with other donor
countries.
Enactment of this legislation will be an
Foreign Development Assistance important step in demonstrating our con-
Letter to the Speaker of the House
and the President of the Senate Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. March 28, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
I am transmitting today a bill to au-
thorize foreign development assistance
programs for the fiscal years 1978 and
1979.
Enactment of this legislation will en-
able the United States to carry out an
efficient and effective bilateral develop-
ment assistance program which our inter-
national position and objectives require.
This bill also authorizes appropriation of
voluntary contributions to International
Organizations whose programs are fo-
cused on the developing world.
The bill provides that development as-
sistance shall be made available to the
poorest countries on a grant basis to the
maximum extent that is consistent with
cern for the economic problems of the de-
veloping world. I urge its early passage.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
Security Assistance Programs
and the President of the Senate Transmitting
Letter to the Speaker of the House
Proposed Legislation. March 28, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
I am transmitting today a bill to au-
thorize security assistance programs for
the fiscal years 1978 and 1979. I consider
these programs essential to the attainment
522
