Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
a restoration of the sense of patriotism
and the quality of the Reserve supplies
and training to build up that recruitment.
And I hope that this in itself will be ade-
quate. But in the long run, if needed, I
would recommend a restoration of the
draft.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
THE TRUCKING INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, my name is George J.
Olberg. I am vice president of New
England Independent Trucking Associa-
tion.
Mr. President, you ran for office on a
platform probably based on ending the
mountainous and burdened and outdated
regulation which force higher taxes and
consumer costs, such as restrictions in
transportation which force tens of thou-
sands of trucks to criss-cross the country
empty, thus wasting millions of gallons of
fuel and millions of valuable man-hours.
In order to avert justifiable criticism of
your administration and head off more
turmoil in trucking and correct a tremen-
dous injustice in transportation which
favors the monopolies, would you there-
fore actively engage in promotion of
House bill 2443 and then vote in favor of
it when it appears on your desk for your
signature? Or will you instead allow a
transportation policy to be dictated by
your Secretary of Transportation who
has not yet agreed to allow independent
truckers to compete for freight on equal
footing with the monopolies, a policy
which ignores the wishes of shippers, in-
cluding the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration, and more than 100 pages of con-
gressional testimony by the Independent
Trucking Association. In short, Mr. Presi-
dent, the question is not what should be
done, but when.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Thank you. I
always like to get the completely objec-
tive question. [Laughter]
My staff has begun to assess the need
for deregulation of the transportation in-
dustry as much as possible.
The first step in that process has now
been completed. And I've already sent to
the Congress a message which supports
Senator Kennedy's bill and Senator Can-
non's bill to deregulate to a major degree
the airline industry.
The next one on the list will be the
surface transportation industry, which
would certainly have the trucking indus-
try as a major factor.
In the energy considerations, it's obvi-
ously a gross waste to have trucks re-
quired to haul a load a long distance and
then, because of unnecessary constraints
by the Government bureaucracy, have to
come all the way back home empty. I
think that we need to do away with that
particular requirement, at least.
And I would also like to have your
name and address given to one of my staff
persons, because within the next few
weeks, we will have completed our assess-
ment of the regulation of the motor truck-
ing industry, as we have already done in
the airline industry. But I think that in
general, I and the Secretary of Transpor-
tation, Brock Adams, favor substantial
deregulation of all aspects of the trans-
portation industry. And I believe that's
something that you would favor.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Ol-
berg.
DEFENSE SPENDING
Q. Sir, my name is Robert Curley, 10
Fall Street, presently, sir, stationed down
near Fort Devens. I would like to know
your stand on this issue, and also since
I've been in the service, I've noticed a
tremendous amount of waste. What is
389
