Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
week with 10 hours per day instead of a
5-day workweek with 8 hours per day.
Now, there are plants that have a con-
tinual production line, that shutting
down and starting a plant up would be
very, very wasteful. But in general, on
piece-type work, on assembly plants only,
where the chemical processes are mini-
mized, this 4 days of heating a plant,
even 2 hours longer per day, is much
more efficient on energy consumption
than is the 5-day week with 8 hours per
day. But that is something that I cannot
do now with the Federal Government be-
cause of a legal prohibition. But that is
the kind of thing that ought to be avail-
able to us as an option in the future.
But short of changing the law which
would give me that authority for Federal
installations, I would like to urge, when
appropriate, private businesses to con-
sider going to a 4-day workweek, 10 hours
per day, and that would also apply to
State and local governments when there
is no legal prohibition against it.
COAL
Q. Mr. President-[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, there have been
some decisions already made by the En-
vironmental Protection Agency that on a
temporary basis only, coal can be burned
at the present time. This has been author-
ized, for instance, in Ohio already. As
part of a comprehensive energy policy,
we will move very strongly in research
and development to learn how to burn
coal again without violating our air qual-
ity standards. And I would shift a very
heavy emphasis on research to learn how
we can do that.
In some States where natural gas is
very plentiful, like, for instance, in Texas,
they have already begun to shift to other
sources of fuel for stationary power pro-
duction like electric powerplants. They
still use natural gas. They are shifting to
lignite and coal, and, in some instances,
fuel oil. We have got to start shifting our
stationary heat production centers, like
electric power production plants that
drive these generators in the background
that use more plentiful supplies of fuel,
the most notable of which is coal.
Maybe one more question and then I
will need to go back.
Q. We would like to have the presi-
dent of the AFL-CIO say goodby when
you leave.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Yes, sir?
NATURAL GAS SHORTAGES
Q. Will you be going to other areas?
There is some belief that some suburban
neighborhoods, they say, will probably
run out of gas this week.
THE PRESIDENT. That is the projection
now, yes. We have been informed by local
gas-distributing companies that suburban
areas, perhaps even here in the Pittsburgh
region, will be deprived completely of
natural gas later on this week unless we
have an alleviation of the weather. And
if that should occur, we will try to let
the local officials know a day or so ahead
of time, so that those families might be
encouraged to share homes with friends
in other areas of the community and also
provide emergency housing in National
Guard armories and school buildings for
families that have to leave their own
homes.
I would like to repeat my urging of
American families all over the country,
even in areas that are not afflicted with
excessive snow and so forth, in order to
keep people at work in this country, to
cut their thermostats down as much as
possible, even as low as 50 degrees, par-
ticularly in homes where there are open
fireplaces that can be used.
And I would also like to urge people
to wear heavier clothes in their homes,
including heavy underwear and sweaters,
44
