Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
We are also working to resolve in amicable negotiations the future
of the Panama Canal.
We will continue our efforts to develop further our relationships with
the People's Republic of China. We recognize our parallel strategic inter-
ests in maintaining stability in Asia, and we will act in the spirit of the
Shanghai Communique.
In Southeast Asia and in the Pacific, we will strengthen our associ-
ation with our traditional friends, and we will seek to improve relations
with our former adversaries.
We have a mission now in Vietnam seeking peaceful resolution of the
differences that have separated us for so long.
Throughout the world, we are ready to normalize our relationships
and to seek reconciliation with all states which are ready to work with us
in promoting global progress and global peace.
Above all, the search for peace requires a much more deliberate effort
to contain the global arms race. Let me speak in this context, first, of the
U.S.-Soviet Union relationship, and then of the wider need to contain
the proliferation of arms throughout the global community.
I intend to pursue the strategic arms limitation talks between the
United States and the Soviet Union with determination and with energy.
Our Secretary of State will visit Moscow in just a few days.
SALT is extraordinarily complicated. But the basic fact is that while
negotiations remain deadlocked, the arms race goes on; the security of
both countries and the entire world is threatened.
My preference would be for strict controls or even a freeze on new
types and new generations of weaponry and with a deep reduction in the
strategic arms of both sides. Such a major step towards not only arms
limitation but arms reduction would be welcomed by mankind as a giant
step towards peace.
Alternatively, and perhaps much more easily, we could conclude a
limited agreement based on those elements of the Vladivostok accord
on which we can find complete consensus, and set aside for prompt con-
sideration and subsequent negotiations the more contentious issues and
also the deeper reductions in nuclear weapons which I favor.
We will also explore the possibility of a total cessation of nuclear
testing. While our ultimate goal is for all nuclear powers to end testing,
we do not regard this as a prerequisite for the suspension of tests by the
two principal nuclear powers, the Soviet Union and the United States.
We should, however, also pursue a broad, permanent multilateral
agreement on this issue.
447
