Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I think that if this is omitted from an
overall stimulus package, it would be
grossly imbalanced against the people who
need it most. So, my own approach to
government is that when we do have a
windfall of unexpended funds, plus in-
creased tax collections, that the best ap-
proach would be to give it back to the
taxpayers.
Q. But it isn't consumer confidence
that's been staying low, it's business in-
vestment that has―[inaudible]—confi-
dence.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't debate all the
economic aspects of it, because I'm sure
you are much more qualified than I am to
do that. But I do feel that there is some-
thing to be said for giving consumers an
opportunity to make extra purchases.
As you undoubtedly know, the GNP
has shown favorable signs the last 2
months; so has the unemployment rate
gone down somewhat. But consumer sales
have still remained dormant. And people
have been digging into savings recently
to maintain even a limited level of con-
sumer purchases.
I think to give them their part of their
1976 taxes back would be a good way to
buy goods that would then cut down on
inventories and allow the manufacturing
plants to continue to manufacture goods.
But I don't know enough about it to say
that that's the only possibility. In my
opinion, it's the best approach.
INCOME TAX REBATE
Q. [Inaudible]-prospects for passage
on the Hill of the rebate plan?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have a
good chance to pass the rebate, yes.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's hard for me
to say because I haven't had any accurate
count on the attitudes of the Members of
the Senate. I've talked to a number of
the Senators in the last 2 days, whom I
had heard were against the tax refund,
and have found them to still have an open
mind.
I believe that if they are presented with
a factual picture about the need for a
balanced program, the commitment of
the Democratic leadership which was con-
firmed when they came down before
Inauguration to meet with me in Plains,
and the desire to give our economy some
assured growth and consumers a chance
to make purchases, to keep our factories
going-I think with all these arguments
in place, plus the $11 billion shortfall and
tax collection that I described, I think all
these arguments would pay off.
Also, the, I think, Michigan State pub-
lic opinion poll has shown that about 78
percent of the American people favor the
tax refund. And this always, of course,
makes a good impression on Presidents
and Members of Congress.
I think we've got a good chance to pass
it, but it's not going to be easy. Obviously,
its interrelated with a lot of other things
that relate to specific Congress men and
women's interests.
The water project question is going to
be involved. I would like to keep them
separated, but I'm sure that there will be
some reaction there.
The low levels of minimum wage that
I advocated, compared to what labor
wanted, will be a factor. The relatively
low levels of farm price supports com-
pared to what the farmers wanted, will
be a factor.
But I think that we ought to maintain
the concept of nonlinkage in domestic
602
