Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
taken place ever since 1913 or whenever
it was that the income tax laws went into
effect.
And that's why I am so interested in
having the American people not only be-
lieve that I am acting for them but let
them understand what's going on. That's
the reason for this radio broadcast.
MR. CRONKITE. The next caller who is
on the line, Mr. President, is Mrs. Harlan
Schnuhl of Brandon, Wisconsin. Go
ahead, Mrs. Schnuhl.
MRS. SCHNUHL. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
FARM ECONOMY
MRS. SCHNUHL. I would like to com-
pliment you on giving the opportunity to
the American people to participate in this
question-and-answer period.
As a wife of a dairy farmer, my question
relates to a problem concerning many
such farmers. What can be done about
improving the public relations between
the consuming public and the U.S. ag
department in regard to the price in-
creases for farm commodities at our farm
level and the explanation to the public
that we as farmers receive a small amount
of these widely acclaimed increases?
THE PRESIDENT. I have got two quick
suggestions. One is to put a farmer in the
White House as President, and another
one is to put an actual dirt farmer in the
Department of Agriculture as Secretary.
And we've already done those two things.
Also, I think the next step is to let the
American public know the truth about
agriculture and the farm and ranch fami-
lies of our Nation. I think that the interest
of consumers and the interest of the aver-
age farm family are exactly the same.
I have studied the Wisconsin dairy
farm industry quite at length myself dur-
ing the Wisconsin primary last year. The
average Wisconsin dairy family only
makes about $7,000 a year, and that is
with all the members of the family work-
ing on the farm-maybe three, four, or
more adults.
There is an average investment in the
Wisconsin dairy farm of about $180,000.
So, if the farmer sold and the money was
put in a savings account at 5-percent in-
terest, the Wisconsin dairy family would
have an income of $9,000 a year just
from interest, which is $2,000 more than
they get from working full time on the
dairy farm.
MRS. SCHNUHL. Correct.
THE PRESIDENT. And if the American
consumers who drink milk and who eat
cheese and other dairy products know for
a fact that the farmers are not making ex-
cessive profits, that they work very hard
7 days a week, and that the return on
their investment is extremely low, like 3 or
4 percent, I think they would appreciate
what the farmers do.
And I think a stable farm economy
where the prices of milk are at least equal
to production costs would guarantee that
you don't have the wild fluctuations up
and down and milk and wheat and cot-
ton and beef and poultry and pork. Be-
cause when the prices fluctuate wildly
because the market is uncontrolled, when
they go up, the consumers pay the high
price; the farmers have already sold their
products to a middleman. And when the
prices go down for the farmer, for the
consumer they stay up.
So, what we are trying to do is to have
a stable farm economy with predictable
production as well as the weather will let
us, with prices that don't fluctuate wildly,
and with the truth being told to the con-
sumers that what's best for them is almost
always what's best for the average farm
or ranch family.
So, I think we are making some prog-
ress in that.
298
