Feb. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I hope the Congress will act soon on
this legislation so our work of reorganiza-
tion can begin.
The White House,
February 4, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the draft bill was included
in the White House press release.
I will answer other questions about this
and other subjects when I see you
Tuesday.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Reorganization Plan Authority
Remarks on Transmitting
Proposed Legislation to the
Congress. February 4, 1977
I am looking forward to my first full-
scale press conference on Tuesday.
Today, I just have a brief statement to
make about a subject that is of impor-
tance to me, to the Congress, to the en-
tire Government, and to the people of
this country.
I have submitted to the Congress a
message—which is available to the people
of our Nation to examine-calling for au-
thorization for myself, as President, to re-
organize the executive branch of Govern-
ment. This is a commitment that I made
Department of Transportation
Nomination of Four Persons.
February 4, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate four persons for po-
sitions in the Department of Transporta-
tion. They are:
ALAN A. BUTCHMAN, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be Deputy Secretary of Trans-
portation;
TERRENCE L. BRACY, of Virginia, to be Assist-
ant Secretary of Transportation for Con-
gressional and Intergovernmental Affairs;
CHESTER DAVENPORT, of Maryland, to be As-
sistant Secretary of Transportation for Pol-
icy, Plans and International Affairs; and
LINDA HELLER KAMM, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be General Counsel of the De-
partment of Transportation.
in hundreds of speeches around the coun- Railroad Retirement Board
try during the 2-year campaign. It was
one of the major reasons that I was
elected. It requests the same sort of reor-
ganization authority granted to every
President from Franklin Roosevelt, in the
early thirties, through the administration
of Richard Nixon.
If given this authority, I will move ag-
gressively but also carefully, work closely
with Congress, and make changes that
will be of benefit to all of us in adminis-
tering the affairs of the people of this
country.
Message to the Congress Transmitting an
Annual Report. February 4, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit the Annual Report
of the Railroad Retirement Board for fis-
cal year 1976.
The Report gives a summary of the
Board's operations under the Railroad
Retirement and Railroad Unemployment
Insurance Acts. During the year, retire-
ment and survivor benefit payments
amounted to about $3.5 billion and went
to 1,100,000 railroad workers and depend-
84
