Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
Q. I'm in experimental psychology.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine. I think that
it's going to be a very good chance for
you to have employment.
Q. I hope you're right. I am not fishing
for a job.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we're going to
shift more and more in the future looking
at matters from the historical perspective
towards the sciences that deal with hu-
man beings and with the quality of life,
and with expansion of the enjoyment of
existence and with better health oppor-
tunities, the assimilation of more knowl-
edge and the working of the human mind.
I think no matter what happens, that's
going to come to pass.
So, I think that we also are going to
see that our country has gone too far in
letting other nations get ahead of us in
basic research and also, of course, in ap-
plied research. And I personally have had
a background in conventions, maybe we
ought to move in the other direction, not
only in the human sciences that you re-
ferred to and that I have talked about but
also in the earth sciences for the preser-
vation of the quality of the environment,
and the dealing with the energy shortages.
So, I think that as we explore persons'
interrelationships in the future that
there's going to be a heavier emphasis on
research and development than there has
been in recent years.
Q. Can I just ask-
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q.—do you see research needs being
so closely coupled to college enrollments
in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we've
done a very good job in the past in trying
to interrelate the graduates of college with
prospective job opportunities. Obviously,
when you go into a graduate program like
your own, which probably took 3 or 4
years above the undergraduate level, you
have to guess 4 years in the future what
the opportunities are going to be and what
the needs are going to be.
Although it's never going to be an ex-
act science, I think we've got to go a long
way in higher education institutions and
also in the Government, particularly the
Department of Labor and so forth, De-
partment of HEW, in trying to match in
a predictable way the jobs that are going
to be available, and that graduates are
going to be coming out of our colleges,
so the jobs will be there when you get
ready to graduate. It's not an exact sci-
ence, obviously, but I think we'll be better
off in the future than we have been in
the past.
Good luck to you, by the way.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. You have a beautiful
smile.
Q. So do you. [Laughter]
RETIREMENT
Q. Welcome to California, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. Margaret Myers. My question is in
regard to the 55- or 65-year-old American
who is forced to retire at this age with a
very small income. My question is, would
you sign and support Congressman Claude
Pepper of Florida in his bill to eliminate
forced retirement in the public and the
Federal sector? And thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I presume that you
mean the forced retirement that exists
below the age of 65? I think I would sup-
port that. I'm not familiar with the de-
tailed legislation, but it seems to me
unfair
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. to force retire-
ment from the public sector until you
reach the age when you can retire on so-
cial security. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
911
