May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And twelfth, local administration
of public jobs programs should be
emphasized.
Now, we have varying estimates on the
number of jobs required to carry out
all these programs depending upon the
analyses and the basic premises. For in-
stance, to provide this kind of service, we
estimate that about 2 million total train-
ing and public jobs would be required.
We now have plans for about 925,000
public service jobs.
There's no doubt in my mind that with
a restoration of the work ethic in our
country and with a close relationship with
those who need additional employees, in
prisons, as teachers' aides or helpers for
extensive service workers, those who work
in Federal parks, in private industry,
among the aged, in recreation centers,
that jobs cry out to be filled that are non-
competitive with present employees, and
we are determined that these should be
administered as much as possible in the
community where the jobs take place.
We believe that these principles and
goals can be met. There will be a heavy
emphasis on jobs, on simplicity of admin-
istration, on financial incentives to work,
on adequate assistance for those who can-
not work, on equitable benefits for all
needy families, and close cooperation be-
tween private groups and officials at all
levels of government.
It's obvious that the more jobs that are
made available by private industry and
public regular employment and in public
service jobs and training jobs, then the
less cash supplement will be required.
We will work closely with the Congress
and with State, local, and community
leaders, and we'll have legislative propos-
als completed by the first week in August
prior to the summer homework session of
the legislature, of Congress.
Every State has a separate and distinct
and unique set of welfare laws, and al-
though we've already started having pub-
lic hearings, we will go back now when
the basic principles have been established,
based on the work that Joe Califano and
his groups have already done, and work
out the final legislative proposals to ac-
commodate the special and unique needs
and commitments of each individual
State.
If the new legislation can be adopted
by the Congress, early in 1978, it will take
an estimated 3 additional years to imple-
ment the program. The extremely com-
plicated changes will be made carefully
and responsibly.
Congressional hearings are already
scheduled. Jim Coleman will begin his
hearings Wednesday; Secretary Califano
will be there to testify on behalf of the
administration; and in the Senate the
hearings will be conducted by Senator
Moynihan.
We'll use these hearings which are
already scheduled to permit accurate de-
scription of the nature of the task ahead
and to permit the proposals to be both ex-
plained and debated.
In the meantime, a very important and
necessary step has been taken and that is
in the administration's proposed reform
for the Food Stamp Program to limit the
level of assistance based on income and to
cash out the Food Stamp Program, or
rather to eliminate the mandatory pay-
ment for food stamps. We hope the Con-
gress will go ahead with this without
delay.
Some of the problems that have been
apparent for many years are described on
these charts on my left. The widely vary-
ing Federal contributions to welfare re-
cipients around the Nation are illustrated
very vividly here.
There's a factor of 500 percent or more
between the lowest payments in some of
the States colored in green compared to
772
