Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
While off-road vehicles provide enjoy-
ment and recreation for many, their in-
discriminate use poses a threat to our pub-
lic lands. Uncontrolled, they have ruined
fragile soils, harassed wildlife, and dam-
aged unique archaeological sites.
In 1972, federal agencies began to con-
trol the use of such vehicles on the public
lands under Executive Order 11644.
While these regulations have achieved
some measure of protection for the soil,
vegetation, and other values of the public
land, environmental damage has contin-
ued in certain areas. Accordingly, I am
today amending this Executive Order to
exclude off-road vehicles from certain
portions of the public lands where their
use has caused (or seems likely to cause)
considerable environmental damage.
V. THE NATIONAL HERITAGE
In its land and its history, a nation
finds the things which give it continuity.
By preserving places that have special
natural, historical, cultural, and scientific
value, we can ensure that our children
and grandchildren have a chance to know
something of the America that we-and
our ancestors-simply took for granted.
More than 300 such places have al-
ready been set aside in our National Park
System. I have already demonstrated my
support for the National Park Service by
submitting to the Congress an acceler-
ated, five-year, $759 million program to
develop new and existing parklands, and
to increase the park staff so that these
irreplaceable resources can be better
pro-
tected and seen by more visitors.
This step, though clearly needed, must
be supported by a thorough re-examina-
tion of existing federal programs dealing
with our natural and historic heritage.
These have proliferated in a way that
serves neither efficiency nor effectiveness,
and they have sometimes impeded the
preservationist efforts of states and pri-
vate citizens. I believe we should establish
a comprehensive federal program, to be
known as the National Heritage Trust, to
identify, acquire, and protect these re-
sources; to provide for rapid acquisition
of the most significant and endangered
areas and examples of natural ecosystems;
to protect areas already within federal
jurisdiction; and to coordinate federal
programs within states and private citi-
zens more effectively. I have directed the
Secretary of the Interior to develop a Na-
tional Heritage Trust proposal within 120
days.
ALASKA
While my National Heritage Trust pro-
posal will focus on small but important
areas, the Congress now has an opportu-
nity of historic dimensions to conserve
large unspoiled sections of the American
wilderness in Alaska. Under the terms of
the Alaska Native Claims Act, the Con-
gress is to consider designation of major
additions to the National Park, Forest,
Wildlife Refuge, and Wild and Scenic
River Systems. We can double the size of
the Wildlife Refuge and the Park Sys-
tems, as well as add to the Forest and
Wild and Scenic River Systems, at no ac-
quisition cost. No conservation action the
95th Congress could take would have
more lasting value than this. But if Con-
gress fails to act by December 1978, the
opportunity will be automatically lost. In
the near future, my Administration will
submit detailed recommendations for
these Alaskan lands.
WILDERNESS
When the Congress passed the Wilder-
ness Act in 1964, it established a land-
mark of American conservation policy.
The National Wilderness Preservation
System created by this Act must be ex-
panded promptly, before the most deserv-
979
