Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 30
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. They're talking about the language
that was in the Vladivostok agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Exactly.
Q. Did the Russians have a counter-
proposal on SALT that they offered us, or
were they content simply to listen to our
proposals?
THE PRESIDENT. They listened to our
two proposals. Of course, their proposal
has been to ratify their understanding of
the Vladivostok agreement, which in-
cludes their capability of developing the
Backfire bomber and our incapability of
developing cruise missiles. That's an agree-
ment that we never understood to be part
of the Vladivostok agreement.
Q. Mr. Carter, if necessary to achieve
any progress, are you willing to modify
your human rights statements-
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q.
out?
or will you continue to speak
The President. No. I will not modify
my human rights statements. My human
rights statements are compatible with the
consciousness of this country. I think that
there has been repeated recognition in
international law that verbal statements
or any sort of public expression of a na-
tion's beliefs is not an intrusion in other
nations' affairs.
The Soviets have, in effect, ratified the
rights of human beings when they adopted
the United Nations Charter. The Helsinki
agreement, which will be assessed at Bel-
grade later on this year, also includes ref-
erences to human rights themselves. So,
I don't intend to modify my position. It is
a position that I think accurately repre-
sents the attitude of this country.
I don't think that it's accurate to link
the human rights concept with the SALT
negotiations. I think that's an incorrect
linkage. The SALT negotiations, I hope,
will be successful as we pursue in laborious
detail those discussions the rest of this
year. They will be successful only if the
Soviets are convinced that it's to their ad-
vantage to forego a continued commit-
ment and a very expensive commitment
and a very threatening commitment to the
arms race, and only if our own people be-
lieve that we derive the same advantage.
That's what we hope for.
Q. Mr. President, how would you char-
acterize what happened today? How se-
rious a setback is this? Did we expect that
the Soviets might be more receptive to our
positions?
THE PRESIDENT. We had no indications
either in direct or indirect communica-
tions with Brezhnev that they were ready
to accept our positions. We carefully pre-
pared over a period of 5 or 6 weeks what
we thought was a balanced and what we
still think is a balanced proposal with
drastic reductions.
I might say that there is a unanimous
agreement among the key Members of
Congress, the State Department, my own
staff, the Secretary of Defense, the Joint
Chiefs that this is a good and fair pro-
posal. I have hopes that the substance of
our proposal will be accepted by the Soviet
Union in the future, because it's to their
advantage and ours to do so.
But I'm not discouraged at all. Cy
Vance sent back the word that he was
disappointed that we didn't reach imme-
diate agreement, but that he was not dis-
couraged. And I think the fact that a joint
communique has been prepared and will
be released tomorrow morning spelling
out the fact that our nations will continue
without interruption these discussions is
very encouraging.
Q. Mr. President, would it be fair to
say that the talks broke down because the
United States is now not prepared to ac-
cept restrictions on cruise missiles?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. Isn't that the heart of it?
541
