Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 18
special three-judge court of review and
ultimately to the Supreme Court.
Approval of a warrant application
under this bill would require a finding by
the judge that the target of the surveil-
lance is a "foreign power" or an "agent of
a foreign power." These terms, defined
in the bill, ensure that no United States
citizen or permanent resident alien may
be targeted for electronic surveillance un-
less a judge finds probable cause to be-
lieve either that he is engaged in clandes-
tine intelligence, sabotage, or terrorist ac-
tivities for or on behalf of a foreign power
in violation of the law, or that, pursuant
to the direction of a foreign intelligence
service, he is collecting or transmitting in
a clandestine manner information or ma-
terial likely to harm the security of the
United States. The judge would be re-
quired to find that the facilities or place
at which the electronic surveillance is to
be directed are being used or are about to
be used by a foreign power or an agent
of a foreign power.
As a safeguard, approval of the war-
rant would also require a finding that pro-
cedures will be followed in the course of
the surveillance to minimize the acquisi-
tion, retention, and dissemination of in-
formation relating to United States per-
sons which does not relate to national
defense, foreign affairs, or the terrorist
activities, sabotage activities, or clandes-
tine intelligence activities of a foreign
power. Special minimization procedures
for electronic surveillance targeting en-
tities directed and controlled by foreign
governments which are largely staffed by
Americans are also subject to judicial
review.
Finally, the judge would be required to
find that a certification has been made by
the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs or a similar official, that
the information sought by the surveillance
is "foreign intelligence information" nec-
essary to the national defense or the con-
duct of foreign affairs of the United
States, or is necessary to the ability of the
United States to protect itself against the
clandestine intelligence, terrorist, or sabo-
tage activities of a foreign power. Where
the surveillance is targeted against a
United States person, the judge can review
the certification.
The bill creates two different types of
warrants. A special warrant which will not
require as much sensitive information to
be given to the judge is only available
with respect to "official" foreign powers-
foreign governments and their compo-
nents, factions of foreign nations and
entities which are openly acknowledged
by a foreign government to be directed
and controlled by that government. The
other warrant is applicable to all U.S.
citizens and permanent resident aliens.
The judge could approve electronic sur-
veillance for foreign intelligence purposes
for a period of 90 days, except where the
surveillance is targeted against the special
class of foreign powers and, in such cases,
the approval can be as long as one year.
Any extension of the surveillance beyond
that period would require a reapplication
to the judge and new findings as required
for the original order.
Emergency warrantless surveillances
would be permitted in limited circum-
stances, provided that a warrant is ob-
tained within 24 hours of the initiation of
the surveillance.
For purposes of oversight, the bill re-
quires annual reports to the Administra-
tive Office of the United States Courts and
the Congress of various statistics related to
applications and warrants for electronic
surveillance. The President is committed
to providing to the appropriate commit-
929
