Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I
Projects would include improving neigh-
borhoods and communities and main-
taining and restoring natural resources on
publicly owned land. Rural as well as ur-
ban governments would be eligible; both
would submit applications to the Depart-
ment of Labor through the CETA sys-
tem. We would concentrate these projects
where the need was greatest, but they
would be open to all unemployed youth.
Between now and October of 1979 [1978]
we plan to spend a total of $250 million
for 30,000 jobs.
Third-Comprehensive Youth. Em-
ployment and Training Programs,
through the CETA system to enlist a full
range of employment services in states
and local communities to provide young
people with jobs and training.
As with our current CETA program
community-based organizations and other
local agencies would be eligible to operate
job programs.
This plan would be aimed at disadvan-
taged or low-income Americans between
the ages of 16 and 21 who are out of
school and out of work.
Half the funds would be allocated to
the 466 prime sponsors under the CETA
system. The allocation formula would be
based on the unemployment rate and pro-
portion of poor people in each area.
The other half of these funds would be
used by the Secretary of Labor to encour-
age innovative and experimental pro-
grams. Three-quarters of the money
would be spent through the CETA sys-
tem on the basis of applications to the
Secretary. These applications would be
judged by the standards of local need,
program quality, and the prime sponsor's
record. The Secretary would use the rest
of the money to carry out and test inno-
vative projects.
We are planning to spend $900 million
for 138,000 such jobs.
While implementation can proceed
promptly under the existing authority of
Title III of CETA by April 1 of this year
I will submit to the Congress a new title
to the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act, embodying these three new
youth initiatives. In developing this leg-
islation I have directed the Secretary of
Labor to work with interested members
of Congress and the public.
In March 1933 in a message to Con-
gress proposing the Civilian Conservation
Corps, President Roosevelt said: "It (the
C.C.C.) will conserve our precious natu-
ral resources. It will pay dividends to the
present and future generations. . . . We
can eliminate to some extent at least the
threat that enforced idleness brings to
spiritual and moral stability. It is not a
panacea for all the unemployment but it
is an essential step..."
It is in that spirit that I send this mes-
sage to Congress on our youth employ-
ment programs.
The White House,
March 9, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Director of Central Intelligence
Remarks at the Swearing In of Admiral
Stansfield Turner. March 9, 1977
A long time ago at the Naval Academy,
I shared the responsibility of being a mid-
shipman with Stan Turner. I didn't
know him personally; rather, I knew him
but he didn't know me. [Laughter] He
was the leader of our class. He was super-
lative in everything he did-in athletics
and military bearing and leadership cap-
abilities and academics. He was a source
350
