Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 18
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:25 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on April 16.
Water Resource Projects
Statement Announcing Administration
Decisions. April 18, 1977
Today I am announcing my decision
on Federal water resource programs:
-I am recommending the deletion of
funds for 18 projects, at a total savings of
over $2.5 billion.
-I am recommending modifications of
5 projects, at a total savings of almost
$1.5 billion.
-I am recommending the continua-
tion of 9 projects without modification.
-I am recommending the develop-
ment of major policy reforms in the fol-
lowing areas:
1. more realistic project evaluation
criteria;
2. dam safety;
3. cost sharing for Federal projects;
4. water conservation; and
5. redirected public works programs.
In balancing the budget, cutting back
on inflation, and making the Federal Gov-
ernment more responsive to the needs of
the people, difficult choices have to be
made. Activities which are wasteful, un-
safe, or economically or environmentally
unsound simply cannot be pursued. Water
resource development programs of the
Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Recla-
mation, and the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority are a case in point.
In my budget recommendations to the
Congress last February, I initiated a
major review of ongoing water resource
projects. The review is now complete, and
I have specific recommendations for the
Congress on the 32 projects which were
subject to public hearings. They are based
on reviews by the Interior Department,
the Corps of Engineers, and the Tennes-
see Valley Authority, with assistance from
the Office of Management and Budget
and the Council on Environmental
Quality.
My decision on individual projects was
a difficult one. I have tried to be fair and
to give the benefit of the doubt on some
projects which would certainly not be
justified if they were proposed today.
However, I have not hesitated to recom-
mend termination or modification of proj-
ects which appeared justified when they
were originally authorized.
In consultation with the Congress,
State, and local governments, and the
public, I intend to develop detailed policy
recommendations to insure that our
water-related needs are met in the best
manner and to use realistic criteria for
water project evaluation. The review
process I started during the first days of
my administration is not going to stop
here; further work needs to be done and
fundamental improvements need to be
made in our water policies and programs.
The drought in the West and recent
severe flooding in the East have shown us
that despite the massive numbers of fed-
erally funded water projects in existence,
we are still as susceptible as ever to the
ravages of the weather. Instead of pro-
ceeding down the same road of more and
bigger structural projects, we need to
rethink our policies.
In particular, I will work with Con-
gress to develop policy reforms in the fol-
lowing areas:
1. Realistic assessment of both eco-
nomic and environmental costs and
benefits
I will work with Congress to establish
more realistic criteria and procedures to
651
