Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
you thought they were being pessimistic.
So, am glad to hear that really you as-
sume 3 million is too much.
THE PRESIDENT. I think any abortions
are too much.
Q. Bless you. Thank you.
MENTAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Janet
Verstina and I'm a registered nurse, live
in Fullerton. I work at Canyon General
Hospital.
My concern is: What are your views on
the direction of the mental health move-
ment, the cost to the country of decentral-
izing, reducing the number of State-run
facilities and moving the patient back into
the community? How do you feel about
that movement?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best way to
answer your question is to describe very
briefly what we did in Georgia. My wife
kind of headed up the program in Georgia
just as a volunteer. And she is doing the
same thing for me now that I'm President.
We've established a Commission on Men-
tal Health that will make a report to me
next September.
When I became the Governor of our
State, there was a standard procedure
that if someone was afflicted with a prob-
lem of any kind concerning mental ca-
pability, that they were put in a State in-
stitution at enormous expense to the pub-
lic and with very little treatment for the
children of all
ages.
We changed that and shifted the pa-
tients out into the communities, created
community centers. We employed retired
school teachers; the mothers of some of
the, for instance, retarded children taught
those young people how to live a useful
life at much less expense to the taxpayer.
This is the thrust that I think we should
institute throughout the country.
I think the children should stay close
to home. If they have the capability, they
should be taught to do simple chores
around the home. They should be given
the feeling that they have some use in
their life, and I think that they should be
trained to such an extent that they can
provide an actual help to their parents.
But I think to incarcerate those young
people or old people who have mental
problems in institutions ought to be done
only as a last resort, and when they are in
the institutions that they ought to actually
get some treatment and not just be ware-
housed and have the attendants just make
sure they don't hurt themselves.
Q. Do you approve of California's pro-
gram of reducing the number of our State
hospitals? And we are doing that in Cali-
fornia right now.
THE PRESIDENT. I favor that very
strongly. I think when I went into office
we had about 12,000 patients in our cen-
tral hospital in Milledgeville, Georgia.
When I went out of office, we had about
5,000. We created in the meantime 75 or
80 community mental treatment centers.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Shall we take some-
body in south Los Angeles?
AMERICANS AND FOREIGN JUSTICE
Q. Mr. President, I am one of the Ar-
kansas Carters. I'd like to make a sugges-
tion, I suppose, rather than ask a ques-
tion. I'd like to address myself to the
plight of the 600 or so young people in
prison, in Mexico prisons, on drug
charges.
Last Friday night, I don't know
whether you know this or not, but one of
those fellows died. He was 26 years old.
His name was John Wesley Calhoun from
Bartonsville, Oklahoma. For the last
3
years-our son was arrested in October
of 1973-my wife and I have spent a
good, considerable part of our personal
funds and a great deal of time getting
together parents and concerned people
899
