Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
THE WILMINGTON 10
Q. Mr. President, within the past 10
days the White House has reemphasized
its commitment to campaign on behalf of
human rights activists persecuted in for-
eign countries.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. In Wilmington, North Carolina, the
Reverend Ben Chavis and nine others
have been convicted and sentenced to
prison terms totaling 282 years for what
they contend are human rights activities.
The Reverend Mr. Chavis and his sup-
porters, including now the NAACP and
several prominent business and political
and elected leaders in North Carolina,
have implored you for your intervention
and comments in their behalf.
What comments do you have regarding
the Reverend Ben Chavis and the Wil-
mington 10 and their charges of political
imprisonment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the only com-
ment that I am free to make under our
own system of government is that I hope
that justice will prevail; that the ones
who are accused of a crime will be given a
fair trial; if they are found guilty, that
not people who were doing business with In-
terior. Only two of the contributors had any
connection with Interior at all and that was
judged to be so remote as to be insignificant.
There was, in addition, an allegation that
Mr. Mendelsohn has a poor environmental
record. Suffice it to say during the entire course
of the commitee hearings, not one environ-
mental leader raised any objection whatso-
ever to his appointment to this office by the
President.
The Secretary of Interior happens to be in
California today, and I think he is making a
similar statement there.
I might also say it is my understanding that
the members of the committee who considered
this appointment in fact were complimentary
in the way in which the fundraiser and the
contributions were handled by the nominee and
by the Department of Interior.
they will be punished in accordance with
normal procedures for an equivalent
crime committed.
There is a very strict prohibition, as
you know, against the encroachment of
the executive branch of Government on
the judicial branch. The Attorney Gen-
eral is concerned about this particular
case in that he wants the same thing I
want, and that is that justice be done.
This has been a matter of long-standing
controversy, both on the domestic scene
and internationally as well, and I trust the
system in its entirety. If there ever is a
mistake made at a lower level in our judi-
cial system, there's always a right to ap-
peal. And I believe that the history of our
judicial system is that ultimately they
make the right decision.
But I am not trying to evade the ques-
tion. I think that it would be improper for
me to try to impose what I think should
be a judgment in a case that I have not
heard tried. I don't have any direct fa-
miliarity with the evidence. I believe that
justice will prevail.
ENERGY PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, when you unveiled
this energy program to the American
people, you said that the alternative to
your proposals might be a national
catastrophe.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I want to know exactly what pro-
posals you had in mind. If you lose the
standby gas tax, you lose the rebates on
fuel-efficient automobiles, if you should
lose the deregulation of new natural gas—
are those the ones that you had in mind?
Or is it the wellhead tax and the coal con-
version that you really think are the heart
of
your program?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think you
could single out any one particular point
and equate it with a national catastrophe.
But unless we take action to meet the
1105
