May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
with wildlife habitat, agricultural and
forest products, stable ecosystems, and
park and recreation areas. However, un-
wise use and development of our riverine,
coastal, and other floodplains not only de-
stroy many of the special qualities of these
areas but pose a severe threat to human
life, health, and property.
Since the adoption of a national flood
control policy in 1936, the Federal Gov-
ernment has invested about $10 billion in
flood protection works. Despite substan-
tial efforts by the Federal Government to
reduce flood hazards and protect flood-
plains, annual losses from floods and ad-
verse alteration of floodplains continue to
increase.
The problem arises mainly from unwise
land use practices. The Federal Govern-
ment can be responsible for or can influ-
ence these practices in the construction of
projects, in the management of its own
properties, in the provision of financial
or technical assistance including support
of financial institutions, and in the uses
for which its agencies issue licenses or per-
mits. In addition to minimizing the dan-
ger to human and nonhuman communi-
ties living in floodplains, active floodplain
management represents sound business
practice by reducing the risk of flood
damage to properties benefiting from Fed-
eral assistance.
Because unwise floodplain develop-
ment can lead to the loss of human and
other natural resources, it is simply a bad
Federal investment and should be
avoided. In order to avoid to the extent
possible the long- and short-term adverse
impacts associated with the occupancy
and modification of floodplains and to
avoid direct or indirect support of flood-
plain development wherever there is a
practicable alternative, I have issued
an Executive order on floodplain
management.
Off-Road Vehicles on
Public Lands
Executive Order 11989. May 24, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
order to clarify agency authority to define
zones of use by off-road vehicles on public
lands, in furtherance of the National En-
vironmental Policy Act of 1969, as
amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), Exec-
utive Order No. 11644 of February 8,
1972, is hereby amended as follows:
SECTION 1. Clause (B) of Section 2(3)
of Executive Order No. 11644, setting
forth an exclusion from the definition of
off-road vehicles, is amended to read
"(B) any fire, military, emergency or law
enforcement vehicle when used for emer-
gency purposes, and any combat or com-
bat support vehicle when used for national
defense purposes, and”.
SEC. 2. Add the following new Section
to Executive Order No. 11644:
"Sec. 9. Special Protection of the Pub-
lic Lands. (a) Notwithstanding the pro-
visions of Section 3 of this Order, the
respective agency head shall, whenever he
determines that the use of off-road ve-
hicles will cause or is causing consider-
able adverse effects on the soil, vegetation,
wildlife, wildlife habitat or cultural or
historic resources of particular areas or
trails of the public lands, immediately
close such areas or trails to the type of
off-road vehicle causing such effects, until
such time as he determines that such ad-
verse effects have been eliminated and
that measures have been implemented to
prevent future recurrence.
"(b) Each respective agency head is
authorized to adopt the policy that por-
tions of the public lands within his juris-
diction shall be closed to use by off-road
1002
