Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
banks. The Treasury Department has set
a goal of $100 million for these deposits
by the end of 1977.
The outstanding results of this pro-
gram came from a cooperative effort be-
tween the minority-owned banks and the
Federal Government. Minority banks have
helped themselves by aggressive marketing
and providing efficient, competitive serv-
ices, and the participating Federal depart-
ments and agencies have reinforced these
efforts.
The emphasis placed on good cash man-
agement policies throughout the Govern-
ment has recently resulted in an unavoid-
able decline in Government-controlled
funds in minority banks from a peak of
$89.2 million in mid-1976. Within the
constraints of good cash management, I
urge you to make every possible effort to
locate deposits under your control or ad-
ministered through your agency which can
be channeled into minority banks.
It is important that the minority banks
continue to participate in the progress of
our Nation's banking industry. Your coop-
eration is vital. The costs of this program
have been low and the dividends high.
I will keep abreast of your progress
through the quarterly reports that you
submit to the Treasury Department.
JIMMY CARTER
World Trade Week, 1977
Proclamation 4496. April 8, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
We live in a world where all of us must
depend on each other—a world divided
by nationality and philosophy, but drawn
together by common problems and com-
mon hopes. We share with all people a
concern about unemployment, inequality,
poverty, inflation, and the danger of war.
And we share with all people the hope of
a life free of hunger, disease, and repres-
sion, and a determination to overcome in-
ternational differences with mutual trust,
respect, and cooperation.
Our desire for justice, stability, and
peace finds practical expression in world
trade. Trade generates forces of friend-
ship and understanding, which in turn
bring us closer to the kind of world we
want.
The United States is the unsurpassed
leader in international commerce. Be-
cause our total trade is greater than that
of any other nation, we can, by increasing
our trade activities, make an enormous
contribution to the health of the inter-
national economy, to the job market at
home and abroad, to progressive relation-
ships between rich and poor nations and,
finally, to the cause of peace on our globe.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby proclaim the week begin-
ning May 22, 1977, as World Trade
Week. I urge business, labor, agricultural,
educational, professional and civic groups,
the communications media, and all con-
cerned Americans, to observe World
Trade Week with meetings, discussions,
exhibits, ceremonies, and other appropri-
ate activities that promote continuing
awareness of the importance of world
trade to our Nation and to our relations
with other nations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of April
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-seven, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:11 p.m., April 8, 1977]
594
