Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 7
of the tax refund to the American people,
including the shortfall in spending and
the overcollection of taxes which is a
to families earning less than $15,000 and an-
other 23% to those between $15,000-$20,000.
A working family of four will get $200. The
program also covers senior citizens and work-
ing families who have no tax liability. For a
family of four earning $10,000 this will mean
a 30% reduction in their tax liability. Com-
bined with our proposal to increase the stand-
ard deduction, their tax liability would be
reduced by 50%.
2. The economy still needs fiscal stimulus to
maintain strong growth rate and keep unem-
ployment moving down steadily over the rest
of this year.
(a) Recent pickup in economic activity
partly reflects natural rebound from the
depressing effects of the cold weather
and business rebuilding inventories.
These influences on the economy will
be temporary.
(b) To date the Federal Government has
unexpectedly spent less and collected
more than we anticipated, to the tune
of about $10 billion. This will certainly
slow down the recovery unless we do
something about it. The $11 billion tax
rebate is the only way we can offset
this economic drag now. It is the only
fair way to do so for the American tax-
payer.
3. Continued growth and reduction in un-
employment depends on strong consumer
spending. In the absence of the rebate, con-
sumer spending could weaken in 1977. Added
fuel bills and rising food prices will siphon off
some consumer purchasing power.
4. The rebate will work. It is a tested method
for stimulating consumer spending.
(a) About 60% of the 1975 rebate was
spent. The proportion could be higher
in 1977 because consumer confidence
is stronger now.
(b) The rebate will affect the economy
quickly. The jobs and public works pro-
grams we have recommended will take
some time to get underway.
5. The rebate means 250,000 more jobs and
$15 billion in added GNP by the end of the
year. Without the rebate, we will lose these jobs
and the added income.
6. The rebate preserves options for the future.
(a) For permanent tax reform.
recent development. I think that pros-
pects still look good.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:20 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
Nuclear Power Policy
Statement on Decisions Reached Following a
Review. April 7, 1977
There is no dilemma today more diffi-
cult to resolve than that connected with
the use of nuclear power. Many countries
see nuclear power as the only real oppor-
tunity, at least in this century, to reduce
the dependence of their economic well-
being on foreign oil-an energy source of
uncertain availability, growing price, and
ultimate exhaustion. The U.S., by con-
trast, has a major domestic energy
source-coal-but its use is not without
penalties, and our plans also call for the
use of nuclear power as a share in our
energy production.
The benefits of nuclear power are thus
very real and practical. But a serious risk
accompanies worldwide use of nuclear
power-the risk that components of the
nuclear power process will be turned to
providing atomic weapons.
We took an important step in reducing
the risk of expanding possession of atomic
weapons through the nonproliferation
treaty, whereby more than 100 nations
have agreed not to develop such explo-
sives. But we must go further. The U.S.
(b) For expansion of other needed programs.
(c) For balanced budget by fiscal year 1981.
7. With present levels of high unemployment
and idle capacity, rebate should not add sig-
nificantly to inflationary pressures.
8. Without the rebate, too large a proportion
of the tax reduction would be going to busi-
nesses and not enough to consumers.
587
