Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
available to homeowners at reasonable in-
terest rates for residential energy conser-
vation through private lending institutions
(legislative).
-Funding for the existing low-income
residential conservation program (weath-
erization) will be increased to $130 mil-
lion in fiscal year 1978; and $200 million
in FY 1979 and in FY 1980 (budget).
-The Secretary of Labor will take all
appropriate steps to ensure that recipients
of funds under the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act (CETA) will
supply labor for the residential conserva-
tion program. The CETA program's em-
ployment levels, as proposed by the
administration, would meet the labor
requirements of the program (adminis-
trative/budget).
tory measures will be considered; e.g., a
requirement that homes must be insulated
before they are sold.
b. Mandatory efficiency standards for
new buildings (administrative/budget):
The Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment will advance by 1 year, from
1981 to 1980, the effective date of the
mandatory standards required for new
residential and commercial buildings by
the Energy Conservation and Production
Act, with funds to be made available to
States to help them in this effort.
c. Federal buildings (administrative/
budget): The President will direct all
Federal agencies to adopt procedures
which aim at reducing energy use per
square foot by 1985 by 20 percent from
1975 energy consumption levels for exist-
ing Federal buildings and by 45 percent
for new Federal buildings. Investments
which are not cost-effective would not be
funded under the program. The Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
and the Administrator of the Federal En-
-The Secretary of Agriculture will vig-
orously implement a rural home weather-
ization program in cooperation with the
Nation's 1,000 rural electric cooperatives,
with loans provided through the Farmer's
Home Administration (administrative).
-Businesses will be entitled to a 10- ergy Administration will implement this
percent tax credit, in addition to the exist-
ing investment tax credit, for investments
made in approved conservation measures
(legislative).
-A Federal grants program will assist
public and nonprofit schools and hospitals
in installing conservation measures,
funded at the rate of $300 million per year
for 3 years (legislative/budget).
-The Secretary of Commerce will en-
courage State and local governments to
include items that will contribute to en-
ergy conservation in their proposals under
the Department's Local Public Works
program (administrative).
Except for participation by electric
and gas utilities, the residential energy
conservation program is voluntary. How-
ever, if the programs described above are
insufficient in achieving widespread resi-
dential energy conservation, then manda-
program.
d. Solar energy in Federal buildings
(legislative/budget): The Federal Gov-
ernment will, in addition, spend up to
solar hot water and space heating to suit-
$100 million over the next 3 years to add
able Federal structures to help demon-
strate the commercial potential of such
measures.
3. Appliances (legislative): The pres-
ent appliance efficiency program will be
strengthened. Voluntary targets will be
replaced by mandatory standards on cer-
tain home appliances, such as air condi-
tioners, furnaces, water heaters and re-
frigerators, as soon as possible. The pro-
gram under existing law to develop test
procedures and to etsablish labeling re-
quirements for appliances will be con-
tinued.
676
