Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
are doing so in order to attain nuclear
weapon capability as well as or in addition
to meeting their legitimate energy needs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, without going
into specifics-I wouldn't want to start
naming names-I think it's obvious that
some of the countries about whom we are
concerned have used their domestic nu-
clear powerplants to develop explosive
capability. There is no doubt about it.
India, which is basically a peaceful
nation, at least as far as worldwide con-
notations are concerned, did evolve an
explosive capability from supplies that
were given to them by the Canadians and
by us.
And we feel that there are other na-
tions that have potential capacity already
for the evolution of explosives. But we
are trying to make sure that from this
point on that the increasing number of
nations that might have joined the nu-
clear nations is attenuated drastically
We can't undo immediately the mis-
takes that have been made in the past.
But I believe that this is a step in the right
direction.
Just one more question.
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, are you willing to
trade off your scrapping of 30 water
projects or even some of them in exchange
for a tax rebate package?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am not much
of a trader. That is one of my political
defects for which I have been criticized a
great deal. We will be receiving the re-
port on the analysis of water projects
about April 15. I am not sure if that
exact date will be met. And I'll assess
each one of those projects on its own
merits. And I would hope that the $50
tax refund will also be assessed on its own
merits.
I know enough about politics to realize
that we will lose some votes perhaps with-
in the Congress because of water projects
that we don't advocate. I also realize that
there might be water projects that would
be completed, I think ill-advisedly, against
my inclinations. I don't have the final
say-so about it. So, there will have to be
some interrelationship there. I wish and
hope there is little, if any. But I can't pre-
vent that.
But I am not inclined at all to trade a
water project that's not needed or my
approval of it in return for a vote on the
tax refund which I think is needed for
every Member of Congress and the people
that look to that Congress Member for
leadership.
Q. What's your forecast on the passage
of the tax rebate?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet.
Majority Leader Byrd and Senator Crans-
ton, Senator Humphrey, and others had a
meeting, I believe, on Tuesday. They had
additional meetings yesterday.
They are working very hard on this
vote. I talked to Senator Byrd this morn-
ing, and he gave me a report on the
progress that he thought we were making.
And also the Vice President and I are
contacting some of the Members of the
Senate to let them know about our argu-
ments on why the tax refund should be
given back to the American people.
This morning I drafted about a 12
page summary of the arguments 2 in favor
2 Later in the day, the White House Press
Office released the summary to which the
President referred and announced that it had
been sent to Democratic Senators and to those
Republican Senators whose position on the re-
bate portion of the economic stimulus package
had not been determined.
The text of the summary follows:
ARGUMENTS SUPPORTING THE CONTINUING
NEED FOR THE REBATE
1. Rebate will help those most in need. It
will provide added purchasing power for low
and middle income persons. Over 60% will go
586
