Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
prior to the end of this month, then the
checks could go out no later than April.
If the law is passed next month, then the
checks will go out in May.
That is as quickly as the computers can
be assessed and the envelopes can be ad-
dressed and the checks can be printed.
But I think this will give us a very good
reduction in our income taxes. I computed
for my fireside chat that an average family
in this country making $10,000 a year
would have their 1976 taxes reduced by
this mechanism-about 30 percent. So, a
30-percent tax reduction for last year
is a
very healthy stimulation for our economy.
And the permanent tax changes that we
propose means that your this year's taxes,
if you are in that $10,000 bracket, will
be reduced about 20 percent.
I favor this tax reduction effort on a
one-shot, stimulative basis with a tax re-
bate and also on a continuing basis with
simplicity and more fairness in the income
tax structure. By the end of September
this year we will have ready for the Con-
gress a comprehensive revision of our en-
tire income tax code which will make it
simpler and also more fair. But we want
to do it in a hurry and that is why the
$50 rebate figure came into being.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Q. Mr. President, there have been con-
siderable discussions about centralizing
the equal opportunity effort into one large
agency. We would like to know what con-
siderations has your administration given
to this proposal and, more importantly,
what do you feel will be the thrust of
equal opportunity during your adminis-
tration?
The President. At the present time,
we have, I believe, seven agencies in the
Federal Government responsible for
equal opportunity. They are fragmented;
they are not well administered; and they
have been ineffective. I believe very
deeply in the concept of equal opportu-
nity. I don't think anyone ought to be
cheated because they happen to be black
or Indian or speak a foreign language or
because they are a woman. And I feel a
direct responsibility on my shoulders to
take leadership in this effort.
At the top management level, as you
probably have observed, we have made
excellent progress. Some of the depart-
ments of Government have also made ex-
cellent progress in the past. There will be
more in the future. But I would put this
as one of my first proposals under reorga-
nization authority to bring those enforce-
ment agencies together.
We now have more than 130,000 back-
logged cases resulting from complaints
about discrimination. It takes an average
of about 3 years to bring one case to a
decision point and, as you well can see, by
the end of 3 years the employee may have
changed jobs, the witnesses have moved
off to another community, and there is
just a breakdown in the administration of
this law.
So, along with reorganization of my
own agency, the Executive Office Build-
ing, and a few others, this will be at the
top of my list for a clarification of re-
sponsibility. And I will try to appoint
someone to head up the EEOC or what-
ever agency does derive from this reorga-
nization who will be as dedicated as I am
to ensuring that discrimination is ended
in our Government.
FEDERAL PARK LANDS
Q. Mr. President, I am with the Na-
tional Park Service. In your speech I
heard you say that Alaska has one of the
most beautiful parks, so on behalf of all
the employees of the Prince William For-
est Park I would like to extend to you an
invitation to the second most beautiful
park.
202
