Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Many of these grants will be spent to
improve water supplies with local well-
drilling efforts and also with plastic lining
of irrigation channels in order to try to do
two things: to increase the production of
water from underground strata and, also,
to encourage conservation. I don't believe
that with a few exceptions like in the
northern part of California-there has
been much attention given to water con-
servation in the country yet. And I would
guess that inevitably, no matter what the
Government does, that there is going to
be a heavier and heavier emphasis placed
on water conservation efforts on a nation-
wide basis.
Even in my own part of the country,
like Atlanta, we now see that in a few
years water supplies are going to be short.
But nobody has made any effort yet to
emphasize a conservation need.
We have, obviously, no control over the
weather. The few communities each year,
relatively speaking, that have extraordi-
nary weather conditions are eligible for
aid from several of the programs that
already exist in the Federal Government
under housing programs, under the De-
partment of HUD, under the emergency
programs, low-interest loans under Agri-
culture, and so forth. But I don't see
anything being done of any major conse-
quence in the future, other than those
items that I've described to you.
Obviously, we have about 300 water
projects that have been approved by the
Corps of Engineers and the reclamation
agency within the Department of Interior.
All those are going forward. The number
that I've recommended terminating is
about 18 or 19, and the number that I
recommended be reduced was about 9, I
think. So, there is still a vast effort being
made in the country for water projects of
that kind.
We have, I would say to summarize, a
need for a nationwide conservation pro-
gram where the States and local govern-
ments and the Federal Government, along
with private users, can cooperate on how
to save the waste of water. This is a
chronic problem that's going to be, may-
be, the next major thing after energy.
Q. Mr. President, your predecessor was
very concerned about the burdens that
Government places on business and indus-
try, and you sent out a memo to Bert
Lance to unburden. In other words, you
want to have some deregulation, appar-
ently. What progress are you making in
those lines? What are your plans?
THE PRESIDENT. I think good progress.
Some of the departments have already
reported cutting back on reports required
by as much as 20 percent. We are now
requiring that every department give us a
list of all the reports that can be elimi-
nated. We'll put these changes into effect
by the end of this fiscal year.
On regulations, I am requiring, for the
first time, that people who write regula-
tions sign them. We are having schools
all over the Federal Government now to
teach people how to write simple regula-
tions that can be understood.
I asked the Cabinet Secretaries-and
they complied to read all the regula-
tions that came out of their departments
for several weeks, just so they would see
the complexity of the regulations that
came forward and also, in some instances,
to see that the regulations were, on occa-
sion, incompatible with the policies that
the Secretary thought existed.
We have an opportunity to reduce the
number of Federal agencies, many of
which promulgate excessive numbers of
guidelines and regulations.
We have 50 agencies, for instance, that
will be brought together in the new De-
partment of Energy when that legislation
is passed. And I have now generic au-
thority to reorganize the Government in
other ways.
752
