Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
that after they have reflected on it fur-
ther, they will see that it is not. We be-
lieve it's a very fair proposal and that it
takes into interest not only the concerns
and problems on both sides, but that it
really provides a stability in the strategic
arms area which has never been possible
before with the proposals which have
been placed on the table. All they have
done before is to put ceilings. Now we're
talking about real arms control, where
we're trying to get at the heart of the
problem and really reduce the number of
weapons.
Q. Mr. Secretary, do you feel the
United States made any miscalculations
at all in preparing for these talks?
SECRETARY VANCE. No one can say that
one never makes any miscalculations. I
think that we proceeded in a fair and
appropriate way. And I hope that in the
long run, people will see that that's a fact.
Q. Was the openness with which the
administration approached these talks
problematic? Had you been less open
about it, would it have not put the Soviets
in this difficult a position?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the general
outlining of our proposal to the public
was good. Also, Mr. Dobrynin, the Soviet
Ambassador here, was fairly well conver-
sant with the principles of both pro-
posals the ratification of the agreements
at Vladivostok and the drastic reduction
in weaponry on both sides. Both those
items it was understood by Mr. Dobrynin
before he went back to the Soviet Union
before the talks began. So our proposals
were not a shock to the Soviet leaders,
mination and, I believe, ultimate success
after long negotiations—there was an
agreement that we set up 8 or 9 or
10 study groups that will begin work
without delay on items that are equally
important, or almost as important, not
equally a comprehensive test ban, In-
dian Ocean, prior notification of test
firings, the problems of verification, the
problems that relate to excessive expendi-
tures on civil defense. These matters are
of crucial importance. And the fact that
the Soviets have agreed to continue nego-
tiations on them and the comprehensive
reduction in atomic weapons I think is
very encouraging. We're determined to
succeed, if it's humanly possible, to have
permanent friendship with the Soviet
Union and to have drastic reductions
in international dependence on atomic
weapons.
I think another point that ought to be
made is that on the way home, the Secre-
tary of State had long, detailed discussions
with the leaders in Germany, France, and
Britain about the negotiations in Moscow
and also discussed with them potential so-
lutions to the very important questions in
the Cyprus area, the Middle East, Africa,
and nonproliferation of atomic weapons,
the control of sales of conventional arms
to other parts of the world. So, I don't
believe that a trip this brief could have
accomplished any more. We're very en-
couraged and very determined.
Q. Mr. President, was there any indi-
cation that your statements on human
but they obviously require a great deal rights played any part in these dis-
of careful and long-term negotiations.
There is another significant point that
has not been adequately emphasized, and
that is, that in spite of an absence of an
agreement on the drastic reductions
which we are going to pursue without
cessation and with a great deal of deter-
cussions?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
REPORTER. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 3 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White
House. Secretary Vance met with the President
to report on his trip to Moscow prior to the
meeting with reporters.
560
