Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 29
As you know, the Federal energy
agency under Mr. O'Leary, working
under Dr. Schlesinger, is already work-
ing, also very closely with the different
State energy agencies and State officials,
and we are trying to allocate as best we
can under Federal laws, dwindling sup-
plies of fuel.
The Agriculture Department is very
deeply involved in some of the States.
Bob Bergland is going down to Florida-
Monday, I believe, aren't you, Bob?—to
assess their problem there. And in addi-
tion to that, there are personnel that you
have on your payrolls that might be made
available to Governors. For instance, for-
estry personnel and others who are al-
ready in the field can very well serve in
times of searching the roads. I understand
we've already found people who have
frozen in automobiles that couldn't
escape. Bob, being from northern Min-
nesota, is capable of assessing how best to
handle people who are isolated by snow-
storms.
The Labor Department-I would like
to assess the impact of unemployment, to
make sure that unemployment compen-
sation is made available to those who don't
ordinarily ever apply for unemployment
compensation. This would help them a
great deal.
The HEW Department, in all its many
facets, can help with emergency medical
supplies and the impact on the educa-
tional process, Joe [Joseph A. Califano,
Jr., Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare], where we've had to shut down
schools and also, obviously, with low-in-
come Americans.
Joe Aragon, here, who is the new head
of the community services agency, is as-
sessing, along with some of your other
departments, some way to get emergency
financial relief to very poor families
who've had to spend 200 or 300 extra
dollars already for fuel supplies. And this
will be a multidepartmental responsibil-
ity.
The Department of Transportation, ob-
viously, has a wide range of responsibili-
ties. I think the States can fairly well han-
dle the highway system, Brock [Brockman
Adams, Secretary of Transportation], but
on the waterways there might be things
that you can help with there. And the
Coast Guard might give us some advice.
We've got a number of barges in differ-
ent places around the transportation sys-
tem that have large supplies of fuel that
are now having difficulty in discharging.
You might try to assess the severity of
that problem, and if the barges can reach
alternative port landings, help them ar-
range rail transportation for shorter dis-
tances. I think one barge can carry as
much as maybe five or six freight trains,
and there might be some way that you
could just assess the problem in working
with the Governors.
Housing and Urban Development, of
course, manages the Federal Disaster As-
sistance Administration. And you might
tell your pepole, Pat [Patricia Roberts Har-
ris, Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment], to expedite the processing of
those emergency requests, and I will try
to do the same thing here at my end.
I intend to sign the emergency request
for Florida Monday, and signed one for
Colorado yesterday. And we want to be
sure that the administration of these funds
is reasonable and also limited in time so
that they don't extend beyond the actual
need.
OMB will coordinate and track the
multiagency efforts, working directly with
Jack Watson. And they are the agency
that in the past-like in the major dis-
asters like Hurricane Agnes-who did do
all the coordination work among the many
departments involved. Bert [Thomas Ber-
tram Lance, Director of the Office of Man-
35
