Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 8, 1977
Secretary of State Vance's
Meetings With Soviet Leaders
Remarks of the President and
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance
in a Question-and-Answer Session
With Reporters. April 3, 1977
REPORTER. Do you have any better under-
standing after this meeting as to why the
Russians did what they did, rejecting our
proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be
better to let the Secretary of State re-
spond. I'll just say this: The two pro-
posals that we put forward were, first, to
ratify the Vladivostok agreements on
items where there was no disagreement;
and the second one was a very drastic
overall reduction in nuclear weaponry for
both sides.
And apparently, the Soviets were not
ready to address the second proposal be-
cause it is so substantive and such a radi-
cal change from the past when strict
limits were never proposed.
But I'd like for the Secretary of State
to describe the general attitude of the
Soviets, their personal reactions to the
proposals, and their attitude toward the
upcoming discussions in May. I think
that's the most significant aspect of the
thing.
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes. I think the
President has described very well their
attitude with respect to the comprehen-
sive test ban. I hope that when they have
a chance to reflect more on the details of
that plan, that they will come up and
raise any questions which they may have
as to various aspects of it, which we of
course are prepared to discuss with them.
They indicated very strongly that they
wish to keep the talks going, and we
accordingly set a date in mid-May for re-
sumption of the discussions.
The attitude throughout all of the
talks was both business-like and frank. I
found the talks very useful, and I think
you probably will also note that the For-
eign Minister, Mr. Gromyko, said that he
found the talks both useful and neces-
sary. As I said before, arms control is a
business which is not accomplished over-
night. I think that we have cleared away
some of the ground and that we will pick
up and continue on from here.
Q. Mr. Secretary, can Mr. Brezhnev
back away from the very strong, critical
statements he has made about the Ameri-
can proposal now unless there is a major
change in what you've put on the table?
SECRETARY VANCE. His statement with
respect to the comprehensive proposal
which we made was that he believed it to
be one-sided and unfair. I would hope
559
