Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 21
the integrity of the Interior Department
and your ability to protect these precious
resources will be preserved when our pro-
posal goes to the Congress.
I have been told that this is all the ques-
tions I can answer. As you probably have
noticed, I don't claim to know answers to
all the questions. I think they range in
such a broad spectrum, all the from
public ownership of lands that we don't
now control to the right of deaf people to
see and understand a program on tele-
vision.
way
I have been impressed since I have
been in office, now for almost a month,
with the tremendous strength of this
country. I have also been impressed with
the need for a close relationship between
myself and you. I can't do anything alone.
And to the extent that I fail to tap the
tremendous reservoir of ability and talent
and experience that exists among you,
I
can't be successful.
I want to be a good President. I want
you to feel supportive of the proposals
that we put forward, but I particularly
understand that, unless you are involved
in the preparation of those proposals,
they don't deserve your
full support and
that we will be making a very serious mis-
take. So, I want our Government to be
well managed. I want it to be open. I
want it to be sensitive. But I want us also
to leave this meeting at least with a sense
of equal partnership among you and me,
your Secretary and others.
I believe in that way we can guarantee
that our own public service will be a ma-
jor factor in the proper governance of the
most beautiful and the best nation on
Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:20 a.m. in
the Department's auditorium conference hall,
after touring the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
United States-European
Economic Community
International Fishery Agreement
Message to the Congress Transmitting
the Agreement. February 21, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act of 1976
(P.L. 94-265; 16 U.S.C. 1801), I trans-
mit herewith a governing international
fishery agreement between the United
States and the European Economic Com-
munity, signed at Washington on Febru-
ary 15, 1977.
This Agreement is significant because
it is one of a series to be negotiated in ac-
cordance with that legislation. I urge that
the Congress give favorable consideration
to this Agreement at an early date. Since
60 calendar days of continuous session as
required by the legislation are not avail-
able before March 1, 1977, I strongly
recommend that the Congress consider
amendment of the "Fishery Conservation
Zone Transition Act" in order to incorpo-
rate this Agreement within its overall
provisions.
The White House,
February 21, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Japan
International Fishery Agreement
Message to the Congress Transmitting
the Agreement. February 21, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act of 1976
(P.L. 94-265; 16 U.S.C. 1801), I trans-
mit herewith a governing international
205
