Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
We are confident that this meeting will
be the forerunner of a successful nation-
wide visit with the common, ordinary
American citizens, such as we have here.
We are also quite pleased that you are
fulfilling your campaign promises to bring
the Federal Government back to the
people, to allow their thoughts, their in-
puts, their ideas into the administration's
programs that will be presented to Con-
gress in the coming months.
This is truly government of the people,
by the people, and for the people. We be-
lieve, Mr. President, that after many
years, we once again have an administra-
tion that will be responsive to the needs
of the country and its people.
It's really a great tribute to me and to
our country and to the office of the Presi-
dent that you are willing to, in effect,
compete for a chance to come to meet
with a political leader. I've studied about
Clinton, about your background and your
history, about the character of your neigh-
borhoods, about your special problems
and your special achievements, about the
kind of people who live here. And it
makes me proud to be an American.
This beautiful building was constructed
just so average citizens like yourselves
could come here and decide your own
governmental affairs, make your own de-
cisions, stand on your own feet, debate
complicated issues, and make a judgment
At this time, we also wish you a happy about your own future and the future of
St. Patrick's Day.
It is indeed an honor and a personal
privilege to be able to introduce and pre-
sent the President of the United States of
America to this meeting.
Ladies and gentlemen, Jimmy Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
A number of weeks ago I told my staff
to choose an average American city for
me to start with my people-to-people
effort. They made a terrible mistake, be-
cause this is no average city; this is an
extraordinary city.
You've chosen a wonderful chairman
of your selectmen. Anybody who has
parents so well prepared that they have a
son who is born the day before St.
Patrick's Day has very good judgment. I
want to wish Alan Jewett a happy birth-
day.
It just gives you one more day to cele-
brate St. Patrick's Day.
I understand that about 4,000 people
filled out coupons and put them in to be
drawn out to see who would come here
tonight, and that the ones who are here
were the losers and the rest of them are
celebrating. [Laughter]
your children.
I think the fact that you and your an-
cestors have participated in this sort of
open democracy is what led up to the
kind of participation that you still ex-
pressed on Election Day. There are about
7,000 registered voters in this city. In the
last Presidential election, 6,200 voted-
88 percent-which shows how interested
you are in government. And I have to say
that you showed superb political judg-
ment because I won-I won by a 2 to 1
majority here. I want to thank you for it.
I am not going to take any time making
a speech. I would like to outline for your
thoughts just a few things that are my
responsibility now as your President.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I've never served in our National Gov-
ernment before January. I've never served
in Washington. I've served in government
at the town meeting, at the county level,
and in the State legislature, and as Gov-
ernor. I haven't been in politics very long.
I've got a lot to learn and I'm eager to
learn. I don't claim to know all the
answers and the day I leave the White
383
