Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Senator, and I'll
get to you next. Mr. Jones?
MR. JONES. I just wanted to state that
recently the Edison Electric Institute esti-
mated that by 1985, 85 percent of the
western coal will be consumed west of the
Mississippi River. So, I don't think that
we're going to have a great influx of
western coal coming very far east.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir. That's
a good point.
Senator?
COAL
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President, if
this is a pleasantry, I do not mean it as
such. We are helped and honored by your
presence in West Virginia today. And I
think that it was very appropriate that
you mentioned Senator Byrd, the majority
leader of the Senate, and I shall mention
Senator-I started to say-I'll withdraw
that for a moment, but I do want you to
know that the other members of our dele-
gation who are not here, Representative
Staggers, Representative Mollohan, and
Representative Slack would have liked to
have been here; Representative Rahall is
here.
In reference to the subject being dis-
cussed, Mr. President, in the four States,
the small operators in West Virginia and
Kentucky and Tennessee in 1974 pro-
duced 150 million tons. That certainly
shows that the small coal operation is
very important, as well as the large
operation.
We have over 100 small operators that
could produce coal in five States in the
Appalachian region, if the implementa-
tion by the Federal Energy Administra-
tion of the action of the Congress in 1975,
and again in 1976, came into being.
That's the loan that we speak of, which
implementation needs to be made now.
THE PRESIDENT. It's been authorized
but not appropriated, right?
SENATOR RANDOLPH. That's right.
ENERGY PRICES
Ms. FERRELL. Mr. President, before we
get away with the thoughts that Mr. Lloyd
passed on, it seems as though it would be
so easy for him to say we'll just pass the
cost over to the consumer. And that's
what really upsets me. You know, it almost
straightens my hair. [Laughter]
I sat down last night with my husband
and we paid our monthly bills, and I to-
taled up the utility bills and they came to
$120. And the weather has been nice. But
it's still too high. When I think about
people whose welfare checks only come to
$200 a month, and their utility bills come
to $150 and they have to buy food stamps
with that money, the cost cannot con-
tinue to be passed on to the consumers.
There is not very much more that we'll
be able to stand.
THE PRESIDENT. One of the major
things that we have been talking about
in the White House the last 8 weeks,
Dr. Schlesinger and I, and Secretary
Andrus as well, has been how to cut
down those monthly bills for consumers.
One of the easiest ways is to make sure
that homes are adequately insulated. And
one of the sad things about the circum-
stances is that the poorer the family is, the
less likely their homes are to be insulated
properly.
Dr. Schlesinger has said that the cheap-
est oil that we could buy is the oil that we
save; that the cost of insulation and of
other means is only about $1 per barrel,
whereas if you buy oil or its equivalent
coal, it costs you about $15.50 a barrel.
So, I think that this is a matter that we
will address very firmly in the new energy
policies that will come up subsequent to
April 20.
There are other things that we'll get
into later on in the program—I'll let
408
