June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
American people know what we do, to
observe our achievements, yes, but also to
observe our failures and our needs, our
shortcomings and our mistakes.
I believe that we'll make sounder judg-
ments in domestic and foreign affairs if
the American people's tremendous vital-
ity, intelligence, sound judgment, and ex-
perience can be tapped in government.
And I think all of us in Washington will
perform better knowing that you know
how we do perform.
I want to be sure that our cities are
strong, that the housing programs, trans-
portation programs, control of crime, job
opportunities are centered for a change in
the areas that have been deteriorating in
the
past
but which will come to life in the
future.
And those members of my Cabinet who
are directly responsible for these major
programs are here tonight to reaffirm our
joint commitment to the great cities of
our country, the greatest of which we are
in tonight.
I think you know that when a problem
arrives on the President's desk in the Oval
Office or on Capitol Hill, that it's one
that can't be solved by individuals or
within a family or by mayors or county
officials or by Governors or State legisla-
tures. They are the most difficult of all, the
ones that have far-reaching national and
international significance and the one
where controversy abounds. But I don't
have any fear that our democratic process
can work. And as I expressed to the grad-
uating class at Notre Dame a few Sundays
ago—and, I hope, to the world—I believe
that we've demonstrated already that our
Nation is vital, that we've made serious
mistakes in the past, that we've taken bold
action to correct those mistakes and pre-
vent their recurrence, and that we have
faith in our system of government.
We can correct the problems that re-
late to social security. We can have an
effective and fair welfare system. We can
have a fair tax structure. We're working
to bring down the unemployment rate.
And it's already fallen precipitously,
which is a good accomplishment and, I
think, an equally good omen for the
future.
At the same time, we're trying to stop
nuclear proliferation around the world. I
think 8 months ago there was a general
feeling among the leaders of nations on
this Earth that it was too late, that the
genie that could kill all mankind had es-
caped, that there was no way to put it
back in the bottle. But we've worked very
closely with our friends and allies in Can-
ada, Australia, Britain, and other coun-
tries to make sure that the peaceful use
of atomic power can continue to generate
electricity and give us power but that the
waste products that can be changed into
explosives would be carefully controlled.
And I believe we now have a good pros-
pect for success. We are trying to cut
down on the indiscriminate sale of con-
ventional weapons around the world, par-
ticularly to those countries that can't
afford them. And we are trying to get
other nations to join in a voluntary reduc-
tion in their demands for weapons.
We are trying to alleviate tensions that
have divided other countries one from an-
other, without intruding into the internal
affairs of those countries. We've estab-
lished, working with many other people,
a basic commitment to human rights, and
now I think our Nation stands as a beacon
light so that we can be proud of ourselves,
that we can restore the commitments that
made our Nation great beginning 200
years ago, and we can also set an example
for the world.
It's not an easy thing. There's a lot of
controversy around it. And I think that
when you say the words "human rights,"
that is in itself an action. And if you see
those who are suffering today in political
1156
