May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
for lease, easement, right-of-way or dis-
posal to non-Federal public or private
parties, the Federal agency shall (a) ref-
erence in the conveyance those uses that
are restricted under identified Federal,
State or local wetlands regulations; and
(b) attach other appropriate restrictions
to the uses of properties by the grantee
or purchaser and any successor, except
where prohibited by law; or (c) withhold
such properties from disposal.
SEC. 5. In carrying out the activities
described in Section 1 of this Order, each
agency shall consider factors relevant to
a proposal's effect on the survival and
quality of the wetlands. Among these fac-
tors are:
(a) public health, safety, and welfare,
including water supply, quality, recharge
and discharge; pollution; flood and storm
hazards; and sediment and erosion;
(b) maintenance of natural systems,
including conservation and long term
productivity of existing flora and fauna,
species and habitat diversity and stability,
hydrologic utility, fish, wildlife, timber,
and food and fiber resources; and
(c) other uses of wetlands in the public
interest, including recreational, scientific,
and cultural uses.
SEC. 6. As allowed by law, agencies
shall issue or amend their existing proce-
dures in order to comply with this Order.
To the extent possible, existing processes,
such as those of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality and the Water Resources
Council, shall be utilized to fulfill the re-
quirements of this Order.
SEC. 7. As used in this Order:
(a) The term "agency" shall have the
same meaning as the term "Executive
agency" in Section 105 of Title 5 of the
United States Code and shall include the
military departments; the directives con-
tained in this Order, however, are meant
to apply only to those agencies which per-
form the activities described in Section 1
which are located in or affecting wet-
lands.
(b) The term "new construction" shall
include draining, dredging, channelizing,
filling, diking, impounding, and related
activities and any structures or facilities
begun or authorized after the effective
date of this Order.
(c) The term "wetlands" means those
areas that are inundated by surface or
ground water with a frequency sufficient
to support and under normal circum-
stances does or would support a preva-
lence of vegetative or aquatic life that re-
quires saturated or seasonally saturated
soil conditions for growth and reproduc-
tion. Wetlands generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as
sloughs, potholes, wet meadows, river
overflows, mud flats, and natural ponds.
SEC. 8. This Order does not apply to
projects presently under construction, or
to projects for which all of the funds have
been appropriated through Fiscal Year
1977, or to projects and programs for
which a draft or final environmental im-
pact statement will be filed prior to Oc-
tober 1, 1977. The provisions of Section
2 of this Order shall be implemented by
each agency not later than October 1,
1977.
ap-
SEC. 9. Nothing in this Order shall
ply to assistance provided for emergency
work, essential to save lives and protect
property and public health and safety,
performed pursuant to Sections 305 and
306 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (88
Stat. 148, 42 U.S.C. 5145 and 5146).
SEC. 10. To the extent the provisions of
Sections 2 and 5 of this Order are appli-
cable to projects covered by Section
104 (h) of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, as amended
(88 Stat. 640, 42 U.S.C. 5304 (h)), the
responsibilities under those provisions
may be assumed by the appropriate appli-
cant, if the applicant has also assumed,
1004
