May 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
charged from these ships in the last 25
years, the total amount that's ever been
discharged from one of these ships into
the surrounding sea, that anyone could
drink that much water and still it would
be equivalent to about seven or eight X-
ray examinations per year.
Q. Could you share with us any of the
things you may have learned on this trip
that you didn't know before?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we spent a great
deal of time going through the entire ship,
seeing how it was designed, letting, in
each instance, a junior officer or a chief
petty officer or an enlisted man explain to
me their own function.
The ship, compared to the ones that I
was on, has complete quantum leap in the
comprehension and understanding by all
its crew members of what a particular
line is or the access to valves; the safety
is superb. Each part of this ship, as di-
rected by Admiral Rickover many years
ago, is divided up into tiny sections. Blue-
prints are provided and they are little,
tiny signs that say, "This area is the re-
sponsibility of Jones." So, if there's any
dust or if it's not completely manicured
and well-painted, you know exactly which
particular part is whose responsibility. We
also were able to see the tremendous
safety factors built in as far as operation
is concerned the duplicated systems, the
superb separation of radioactivity possi-
bilities from the surrounding areas, and
the standby capabilities in every aspect of
propulsion, generation of power, naviga-
tion, and the submarine's capabilities as
a war machine.
Another thing that was very impressive
to me is when this ship first went to sea
last November, only 30 percent of the
crew had ever been to sea before. And
now, it's a smooth-running, very func-
tional mechanism.
Admiral Rickover, in the last 25 years,
has interviewed more than 12,000 officers
who have gone into the submarine fleet.
Every officer who goes to take a position
in a submarine is interviewed personally
by Admiral Rickover.
The training standards are absolutely
superb, and the standards for design and
manufacture, installations are absolutely
superb. There's no way to find criticism
with the way the ship is either designed,
laid out, or manufactured, and the way
the records are kept. This is a demonstra-
tion of leadership in its purest and most
excellent form. And I believe that this
kind of dedication to the defense of our
country extends down to the newest and
most junior crewmember who serves on
the U.S.S. Los Angeles and its other
equivalent sister ships.
We had a chance-I did-to operate
the ship at maximum speed to go from
full speed to flank speed with me at the
controls, and the ship was maneuvered
very violently but very smoothly.
The automatic mechanisms maintain it
in the time of emergency if something
should happen to personnel. There were
simulated casualities so that more and
more junior people took over when an
officer was ostensibly incapacitated. They
all performed superbly without any prior
knowledge. The nuclear reactor was
scrammed, that is, shut down without any
prior notice, and the crew reacted very
well.
So, I think that the impression that I
got was of a crew and a war machine, this
submarine, very carefully designed and
operating at its optimum capability.
I was, as you can tell, very much im-
pressed. I'm very proud of the captain
and the crew of this ship.
Thank you very much.
Q. Could we read this possibly as a mes-
sage to any other country that this Nation
is not negotiating from the point of weak-
ness of the seas? Is that the message?
1040
