Apr. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We know what you are asking private
citizens to do by way of curbing motor-
boats, recreation vehicle usage, curbing
their freedom to use their automobiles.
Would you please enumerate what the
private energy companies, the oil com-
panies, will be asked to sacrifice that they
don't already have?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place,
there will be a move throughout the in-
dustrial world in our country away from
oil and gas, toward coal. There will be a
substantial additional tax placed on oil
and gas that applies to industry that will
not apply to the homeowners.
As far as the oil companies are con-
cerned, there's a prohibition against their
deriving additional income as they pro-
duce oil from the presently discovered
supplies compared to what the world
market price would bear. And this
pre-
empts that increase in the future by tax-
ing the oil for the difference and returning
the tax not to the oil companies, but to
the American consumer.
As far as the consumers are concerned,
those who conserve substantial amounts
of energy will derive a substantial finan-
cial benefit. And I think that as we shift
towards more efficient automobiles and
as we shift toward lesser use of gas and
heating oil for homes with better insula-
tion, the cost to the consumer will be min-
imal, if any, and those who do conserve
will derive substantial financial benefits.
ZAIRE
Q. Mr. President, are we going to trans-
fer American battle tanks to Zaire? And
if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. No. No decision has
been made about that. The news stories
that have come out recently about the
possible sale of tanks to Zaire are a result
of a study that was done a year or so ago
before I became President.
This question has never come to my
attention since I have been in office until
this morning. I have made no decision
about sending tanks to Zaire. And I think
it's highly unlikely that I would advocate
such a sale.
FORMER PRESIDENT FORD
Q. Mr. President, do you agree with
Vice President Mondale that former
President Ford's criticism of your anti-
inflation package was unseemly and
unfair?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't seen Vice
President Mondale quoted on those lines.
I think that the expression specifically
that I heard Senator Mondale-Vice
President Mondale make, was that I be-
lieve that President Ford said that had he
been in office for 2 months, he would
have had a SALT agreement.
Well, you know, the fraternity of Presi-
dents and former Presidents is a very
small one. I think there are only three of
us. And historically in our country there's
been a substantial effort by former Presi-
dents to give support and counsel and
advice and criticism in private whenever
there was disagreement.
I don't feel threatened by President
Ford's criticisms. I don't feel disturbed
about his comparison between what he
would have done, had he stayed in office,
compared to what I have done. I am
doing the best I can.
I have a good relationship with Presi-
dent Ford. And he has told me that his
criticisms would be private and that his
advice and counsel and help would always
be available to me. So, I don't feel con-
cerned about it. But I have to say that
Vice President Mondale has a right to
express his opinion.
Q. Do you feel that the former Presi-
dent has violated his promise by making
his criticisms in public then?
700
