Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 9
also met with many other leaders around
the world, have almost always come back
to report that he is one of their favorite
leaders of all the world; that he's bril-
liant, also a very enjoyable companion,
very frank, and very helpful in the dis-
cussions. Although I don't agree with
everything that my predecessors have re-
ported, this is one occasion when I agree
completely.
Although he's quite modest, I've dis-
covered that he speaks English very well
and also reads the finest American litera-
ture. He's about halfway through read-
ing "Why Not the Best?" [Laughter]
He and I have compared our back-
grounds. He comes from the same type
farm community where I grew up, and
we've just discovered that we were
whipped quite often by the same stern but
fair fathers. We also agreed that the whip-
pings didn't hurt us much since we both
became Presidents of our country.
I believe that this visit in Geneva,
which President Asad was kind enough to
help arrange, can possibly be a milestone
in the world's search for peace. Because
of President Asad's personal strength and
his intimate knowledge of the Middle
Eastern region and its history and back-
ground, he has helped me a great deal to
understand. And the unique role that
Syria can play in this year's search for
agreement is valued by all those who have
studied this very difficult question. His
willingness to reach out to other people
has been demonstrated by the trust which
the Palestinians have placed in him, by
his sacrificial effort to bring peace to
Lebanon, and by his effort to bring about
a closer relationship with his neighbors,
particularly in Jordan.
We realize that this year's deliberations
will not be easy ones, but we will not be
deflected from our effort to reach agree-
ments by slogans which no longer apply
and by ancient wounds which all of us
are trying to help be cured and forgotten.
The prospect for peace and harmony,
prosperity and trade, mutual understand-
ing and increased world leadership is an
inspiration to all parties involved to search
equally for a resolution of differences.
I'm especially grateful that our own
Nation's relationships with Syria are
being strengthened with every passing
week. We have just completed a treaty
on cultural exchange, and shortly in the
future, our airline service will begin be-
tween Syria and the United States with
Syria's only passenger airline.
I have great confidence in the con-
structive attitude and the contribution
which President Asad can bring to the
difficult negotiations this year. And on be-
half of the people of the United States,
Mr. President, I would like to propose a
toast to the greatness of Syria and to their
own great leader, President Asad.
My new friend.
No broken glasses? [Laughter] That's
good luck, a good omen.
PRESIDENT ASAD. Once more I have to
say that the cordial atmosphere in which
we have lived since the first minute we
have met makes us be hopeful in the fu-
ture. There is no doubt that I have, my-
self, as well as the members of the Syrian
delegation, realized that President Carter
is seeking what is good, what is just, and
wants the United States to play a con-
structive role in the solution of the Middle
East problem.
After the meeting now, I talked with
members of the Syrian delegation in this
sense, and we agreed on the same
conclusions.
It is a cause of confidence if there were
in the world many leaders who are seek-
ing the good of humanity. And it is our
task to work for the good of humanity,
once we are convinced that the road on
845
