Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tee the sale of enrichment services to any
country which agrees to comply with our
nonproliferation objectives and is willing
to accept certain conditions (legislative).
-The United States will expand its
enrichment capacity. Current capacity
consists of gaseous diffusion plants. A
centrifuge plant uses only 10 percent as
much electrical power as a diffusion plant
of equivalent capacity. Accordingly, the
next plant that the United States will
build, for which funds are already in
the proposed fiscal 1978 budget, will
be a centrifuge plant (administrative/
budget).
-To resolve uncertainties about the
extent of domestic uranium resources,
ERDA will modify its National Uranium
Resources Evaluation program to im-
prove its uranium resource assessment and
to include thorium (administrative).
b. Domestic nuclear safety and storage
-Light water reactors, the type now
being built, are not a proliferation hazard.
-Although light water nuclear reac-
tors have had a good safety record, the
President will request the Nuclear Reg-
ulatory Commission to expand its audit
and inspection staff, to increase unan-
nounced inspections, and to assign a per-
manent inspector to every nuclear site
(administrative/budget).
-The President will request the NRC
to make mandatory the current voluntary
reporting of minor mishaps and compo-
nent failures (administrative).
-The President also will request the
NRC to develop firm siting criteria that
contain guidelines to prevent siting in
densely populated areas, under poten-
tially hazardous or valuable natural areas
(administrative).
-The current licensing process is un-
satisfactory to utilities, intervenors, and
the Government. Therefore, the Presi-
dent will direct a thorough review of the
entire process. As part of this review, he
has proposed that reasonable and objec-
tive criteria be established for licensing
and that plants which are based on a
standard design not require extensive in-
dividual licensing (administrative).
-The President will direct a review of
ERDA's waste disposal program (admin-
istrative).
6. Hydroelectric power
The President has directed the Corps
of Engineers to report within 3 months
on the potential for additional hydro-
power installations at existing dams
throughout the country-especially at
small sites. Any recommendation will be
subject to a thorough environmental and
budget review before final decisions are
made (administrative).
H. NONCONVENTIONAL SOURCES
OF ENERGY
America's hope for long-term economic
growth beyond the year 2000 rests on re-
newable and virtually inexhaustible
sources of energy, such as solar and geo-
thermal energy. The Government will
promote aggressively the development of
renewable resources.
1. Solar energy
a. Solar tax credits (legislative): To
stimulate the development of a large solar
market, a tax credit of 40 percent of the
first $1,000 and 25 percent of the next
$6,400 (maximum of $2,000) paid for
the installation of qualifying solar equip-
ment would be provided. The credit
would decline over time to 25 percent of
the first $1,000 and 15 percent of the next
$6,400. The credit, available between
April 20, 1977, and December 31, 1984,
would be supported by a federally sup-
ported joint Federal/State program of
686
