Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 18
prescribed by law for GS-18 of the Gen-
eral Schedule, and may also receive travel
expenses, including per diem in lieu of
subsistence, as authorized by law (5
U.S.C. 5702 and 5703) for persons in the
government service employed intermit-
tently.
(b) The Commission is authorized to
appoint and fix the compensation of such
other persons as may be necessary to en-
able it to carry out its functions, and is
authorized to obtain services in accord-
ance with the provisions of Section 3109
of Title 5 of the United States Code, to
the extent funds are available therefor.
(c) All necessary expenses incurred in
connection with the work of the Commis-
sion shall be paid from the appropriation
for "Unanticipated Needs," in the Ex-
ecutive Office Appropriations Act, 1977,
or from such other funds as may be
available.
(d) Within the limitations permitted
by law the Commission has the authority
to seek and receive other than govern-
ment funds to carry out its work.
SEC. 8. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, which are applicable to the
Commission or its advisory committees,
shall be performed by the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare in ac-
cordance with guidelines and procedures
established by the Office of Management
and Budget.
SEC. 9. The Commission shall terminate
sixty days after the transmittal of its final
report to the President.
The White House,
February 17, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:32 p.m., February 18, 1977]
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at a Breakfast Meeting of the
Executive Finance Committee.
February 18, 1977
Good morning, everybody. How are
you doing?
We've had a good, almost a month now
in office, and I've learned a lot, I have
not yet been discouraged about any of the
campaign promises that we set forth the
last 2 years. I have learned again to ap-
preciate what you have done for me and
for our party and for the country, and
have felt a growing sense of partnership
between the White House and the Con-
gress, on one hand, the White House and
you and those that look to you for leader-
ship.
I have begun to appreciate my scien-
tific and engineering and farming and
agriculture background. I've also begun
to appreciate the 2 years of campaigning
that gave me a chance to learn about this
country, and also to study some of the
issues that have been so rapidly put on
me since I took office.
But more than that, I've become con-
fident about the future of our country.
The soundness and the stability and the
hope and the idealism and the competence
of the American people is not easily as-
sessed so well in any other position, I am
sure, as it is from the Office of the
President.
And I don't ever want to disappoint
those who look to me for proper leader-
ship, but I also see the danger of isolating
myself from those who can be a constant
guide and a constant inspiration to me.
So, I am particularly grateful to come
over and meet with you this morning. We
share a belief in the principles of the
Democratic Party. And I want to make
sure that those principles are always clean
and decent and open and that we never
189
