Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
has graciously consented to take on this
overall election process responsibility.
Those three will be basic elements of the
proposals.
RELATIONS WITH CUBA
Q. Mr. President, are you prepared to
lift the trade embargo against Cuba as
one step toward normalizing relations?
THE PRESIDENT. I think any substan-
tial moves in our relationship with Cuba
would have to await further discussions
with them indirectly and also some tangi-
ble evidence on our part that they are
willing to restore basic human rights in
Cuba involving the number of prisoners
who are being held, their attitude toward
overseas adventures, such as the one in
Angola, and other matters.
So, I can't say what might come in the
future. I am willing, though, to discuss
these matters with the Cuban leaders. At
this time we have no direct relationships
with them politically, but through inter-
mediaries, comments are being exchanged
back and forth; most of my comments in
public statements like this. But we do
have messages coming back from people
who visit Cuba.
DEFENSE EXPENDITURES
Q. In answer to an earlier question,
Mr. President, you said that you couldn't
say whether next year's defense budget
would be lower or higher than this year's.
But as I understood your earlier position,
you did want to achieve a $5 to $7 billion
savings, regardless of the overall level of
spending. Do you still hold with that fig-
ure? Is that still your goal and a commit-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The analysis that
I've made of the defense budget so far,
which as you know has been limited to
about a month's study, just part-time,
indicate that that's a goal that will be
reached.
NATURAL GAS DEREGULATION
Q. Mr. President, in letters to the Gov-
ernors of Oklahoma, Texas, and Louisi-
ana last October, you said uncondition-
ally that you would work with Congress
to deregulate new natural gas. And I
wondered if you planned to keep that
promise, and if so, how will you go about
it?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how I
will go about it. I do plan to keep my
promises. The position that I have taken
and the position that the Governors of
Oklahoma and Texas took at Governors'
conferences to which I was referring, was
the deregulation of natural gas for a limi-
ted period of time, 4 to 5 years, to see how
it works out, leaving existing contracts in
effect.
But I will work with Congress on the
deregulation of natural gas as a part of an
overall energy policy. By April 20, I think
we will be prepared to present to you, the
news media, the people, and the Con-
gress, more specific proposals involving
direct legislative proposals that will an-
swer your question more fully.
ENERGY PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, we've been told that
the central thrust of your new energy pro-
gram will involve sacrifice and voluntary
conservation. Yet the public is always
reading stories in the paper of how the
major oil companies are withholding nat-
ural gas. I'd like to ask how are you going
to expect the public to make sacrifices
when there is such widespread public sus-
picion about the role of the oil companies
in the energy crisis?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the compre-
hensive nature of the proposal, the fact it
takes in all these very disparate and some-
times conflicting elements at one time,
and a long-range projection of our needs
in a tangible demonstration to the Amer-
ican people to the extent that I am able
222
