Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 21
CLOSE-UP Program
Remarks to Participants in the Program.
April 21, 1977
Let me say just a few words to you. First
of all, I want to thank all of you for com-
ing to Washington to try to learn about
your Government and to come to the
White House to try to learn about your
President. We have a lot in common. I've
just come to Washington myself to learn
about the Government.
The first time I was ever in the House
Chamber was last night, when I went to
make a speech about our energy policy.
And I believe it's very important that
while you are here in this remarkable pro-
gram which, I think, has brought more
than 21,000 students, I understand, to
Washington-40,000?-40,000 students
to Washington to learn about the Govern-
ment that when you go back home you
take advantage of the tremendous oppor-
tunity that you've had to let your fellow
classmates and friends and neighbors and
members of your own family know about
what you've learned.
I hope you've been behaving yourselves
in Washington. I notice the Supreme
Court ruled that corporal punishment was
still permitted in school, and I don't want
you to get in trouble when you get back
home.
I'd like to say just a few words to you.
The one thing that I've learned since I've
been in politics is that it's always a mis-
take to treat young people your age like
children. I always have believed that you
could be treated like adults. And you have
on your shoulders, not 5 or 10 years in the
future, but right now, a tremendous re-
sponsibility for what our country is-
whether or not our Government functions
well, whether trust can be restored, and
what goes on here in Washington, whether
you can demand accountability from those
who have been elected to serve you.
You can participate just as much as
your parents do in the election or defeat
of public officials at the local, State, and
Federal levels of Government. You have
influence, you have mobility, you have in-
sight, you have intelligence, you have
knowledge, you have hopes and dreams
and aspirations quite often that don't
exist among older people who are estab-
lished in a job or position and can't afford
to leave it, or can't afford to disturb the
status quo. You have that freedom of ac-
tion and freedom of thought that's crucial
in a democratic society like our own.
We are facing now, many difficult deci-
sions that have not been addressed ade-
quately in the past. I've moved as strongly
as I could in the first 3 months to try to
restore a sense of what our country is. I
believe that we ought to hold down the
dependence of our Nation and the Soviet
Union on atomic weapons, and I proposed
to Mr. Brezhnev and to the Soviet Gov-
ernment not just mutual targets that we
work to reach but substantial reductions
in how many nuclear weapons we can
have in our arsenals.
I've also done the best I could to estab-
lish a realization around the world that
we ought to reduce the sale of conven-
tional weapons to the poor countries of
the world and those that are still trying
to develop, and to remove the competi-
tion from the manufacturers and the pur-
chasers of weapons in all the nations on
Earth.
We've also tried to establish the dangers
of new countries having the ability to con-
struct atomic weapons and to control the
waste products that come out of atomic
powerplants that can be changed into
explosives.
I've tried to address as best I could the
concept that our Nation stands resolutely
and also permanently for basic human
rights. There has been some criticism
about this position that I've taken, but
693
