May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the opportunities for two-way trans-
atlantic traffic in defense equipment,
while adding to the overall capabilities of
the Alliance.
Third, I hope that European and the
North American members of the Alliance
will join in exploring ways to improve
cooperation in the development, produc-
tion, and procurement of defense equip-
ment. This joint examination could
involve the European Program Group as
it gathers strength and cohesion. Some
issues could be discussed in the North At-
spirit, I am confident that we will
succeed.
NOTE: The NATO ministerial meeting was
formally opened in the morning at a ceremony
at Banqueting House, London. The first session
began at approximately 11 a.m. in the Long
Gallery at Lancaster House. The President was
introduced by NATO Secretary General Joseph
M.A.H. Luns.
The text of the remarks was released at Lon-
don, England.
lantic Council. Whatever the forum, the NATO Ministerial Meeting
United States is ready to participate in
the way and at the pace that our allies
wish. We are eager to join with you in
trying to identify opportunities for joint
development of new equipment and for
increasing licensing or direct purchase of
equipment that has already been devel-
oped. Together, we should look for ways
to standardize our equipment and make
sure it can be used by all Allied forces. We
should see if ways can be found to intro-
duce into our discussions a voice that
would speak for the common interests of
the Alliance in offering advice about co-
operation in defense equipment.
Conclusion
To conclude:
It is not enough for us to share com-
mon purposes; we must also strengthen
the institutions that fulfill those purposes.
We are met today to renew our dedica-
tion to one of the most important of those
institutions and to plan for actions that
will help it to meet new challenges. Some
of these actions can be taken in the near
future. Others can be developed for re-
view at our meeting next year at this
time. I would be glad to offer Washing-
ton as the site of that meeting.
The French writer and aviator, Saint-
Exupéry, wrote that "the noblest task of
mankind is to unite mankind." In that
News Conference of Henry Owen, the
President's Special Representative for
Summit Preparations. May 10, 1977
AMBASSADOR OWEN. I thought I would
talk about three things very briefly, and
then
open up to questions.
First, what were the President's main
proposals? He began, as you know, with
a reaffirmation of our commitment to the
Alliance and to European unity, and to
support the existing strategy of the Alli-
ance. Then he went into three proposals:
First, a proposal for improved political
consultation and, more specifically, a
broad study of East-West relations to be
conducted by the North Atlantic Council,
drawing in experts from capitals.
Second, a long-term program for im-
provement, both of NATO forces and of
NATO machinery for carrying out deci-
sions. This program to be developed by
the Defense Ministers when they meet on
May 17, and reported back to the North
Atlantic Council meeting of May 1978,
which he offered to host in Washington,
at the summit. Along with that long-term
program for defense improvements, he
proposed that the Defense Ministers
focus on a few quick actions which could
be taken to improve the Alliance forces
in the immediate future.
852
