Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
for that regulation, to sign it. I also asked
all the Cabinet officers to read all the regu-
lations that come out of their department.
Sometimes it takes all weekend. I don't ob-
ject to that. I think at least for a few weeks
that we need to have the Cabinet mem-
bers know what kind of regulations come
out of each department, whether they are
necessary at all, whether they are compre-
hensible, whether or not they are brief,
and more importantly, whether or not
they actually represent the policies of our
own administration and the intent of Con-
gress when legislation was passed. Only if
I and the Cabinet members know what is
being produced can we make the benefi-
cial changes in the regulations promulga-
tion area.
I have just written a letter to all the
Cabinet officers, which Bob Bergland has
not yet received, asking each one to assess
a number of reports that are required
from around the Nation that come around
into the Federal Government here in
Washington. We've got too many reports,
they are too complicated. They produce
an unnecessary aggravation that turns our
people away from their own Government
and puts a tremendous burden on our-
selves to handle them.
I believe that it is accurate to say that
the Department of Agriculture alone has
more than 750 different reports that are
acquired on a continuing basis and prob-
ably at least that many more that are re-
quired on a one-time basis.
And I've asked all the Cabinet members
by the end of March to give me their as-
sessment on which ones of those reports
can be eliminated completely, how they
can be made less frequent, how they can
be made simpler, and how the information
derived from those reports can be shared
with other departments.
Another thing that we have asked the
Congress to do is to give me authority,
working with all of you and with the Con-
gress, of course, to reorganize the structure
of the Federal Government.
You need not be afraid of these changes.
The changes will initiate with you. And
you will be part of the final decisionmak-
ing process. It will all be done in the open.
No one will be demoted, have their sala-
ries decreased, or be fired as a result of
reorganization. You need not fear that.
Some people say, well, you can't make
changes unless you fire people or demote
people. That is not true. At the lower pay
grades, we have about a 15 to 18 percent
attrition rate every year. At the upper
grades, where people are retiring, we have
about a 15 to 18 percent attrition rate; on
the average about 10 percent. So every
year, because of your own initiative, we
have about a 10 percent turnover in Fed-
eral employees. That is an adequate reser-
voir of change so that we don't have to
force change on your life that is damaging
to your professional career or to your
family's security. You need not worry
about that.
We are going to put into effect one more
thing that I will mention-and then I will
answer some questions—that is, zero-base
budgeting. It is going to be complete. The
fiscal year '79 budget will be prepared
using zero-base budgeting. I am familiar
with it; so is Bert Lance; so is his deputy.
We have used it for 4 years in Georgia. It
worked.
It is simple. It gives us not only the
opportunity, but the requirement that we
consider all programs on an equal basis,
whether they have been in effect 5 years,
15 years, 50 years, or whether they are
going to be tried for the first time next
year. They are reexamined annually so
that we make sure we spend next year's
human and financial resources on the
things that are most important to the
people of this country.
Another very great benefit comes from
zero-base budgeting in that it lets you
169
