Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
deputy commissioner of the New Jersey
Department of Human Services.
Drought Relief Bill
Remarks at the Signing
Ceremony. April 7, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. For the last 2 years we
have had extraordinary drought condi-
tions in some parts of the West and Mid-
dle West. And in some of the regions in
1977 already we have had the worst
drought conditions in the history of our
Nation, and there are indications that
drought will continue throughout this
year.
Most of our American laws and relief
programs are designed not for extraordi-
nary circumstances like this where the
broad-ranging geographical damage is so
extensive.
Earlier this winter Senator Jackson,
Congressman Meeds, and others have be-
gun to work on comprehensive drought
relief. They worked very closely with my
own White House staff and with Secre-
tary of Interior Cecil Andrus. He has
been out to meet with the Governors of
the affected States, and I have had dele-
gations come here to the White House to
inform me about the extent of the drought
damage.
We have now had the House and Sen-
ate very rapidly take action on this prob-
lem, and I am very glad today to sign
Senate bill 925, which provides direct
grants and loans for rapidly evolved irri-
gation programs for locally designed water
projects and for some emergency loans
that will tide the farmers and ranchers
over in this time of drought. There is also
an element of help for those who don't
produce food and fiber, but who are af-
fected in these regions, themselves.
I think the total extent of the package
is almost $900 million if it's used to its
fullest extent. But I am very grateful for
all of those who have been so eager to
help the afflicted families of these drought
regions. And with a great deal of pleasure
I sign the bill which has been the product
of so many people's good work.
[At this point, the President signed the bill
into law.]
Cecil, you might want to make a com-
ment. The administration of this act will
be under the Department of Interior.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Mr. President, a
lot of people have worked long and hard
for this relief. I think you've made that
point very, very well, not only yourself
and the members of your staff but a lot of
people that are here today and a lot of
people that aren't here today.
I will just report to you and to these
people that we will have the regulations
ready for the [FEDERAL] REGISTER ON
Monday, and that's before the money will
be in place, because I understand that the
House didn't get the appropriations fin-
ished before the recess.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's good and
fast work.
SENATOR FRANK CHURCH. It is un-
precedented.
THE PRESIDENT. Unprecedented but
true. [Laughter]
Does anybody else have a comment to
make?
SENATOR CHURCH. If you had two
dozen rainmakers you could provide this.
It might make the bill work. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I hope that we'll not
need all this aid and that there will be
some relief in the regions that were for-
merly so severely affected.
But I do want to express my thanks for
this additional demonstration of close
support and cooperation between the
White House and the Senate and the
592
