Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 4
The transcript of the question-and-answer
session was made available by the White House
Press Office. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Visit of President Anwar al-
Sadat of Egypt
Remarks of the President and
President Sadat at the Welcoming
Ceremony. April 4, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. First of all, let me say
that the weather is not at all indicative
of the warmth that we feel in our own
hearts and minds for the visit of President
and Mrs. Sadat. He said that he's very
glad to see the rain, that in Egypt they
don't get quite as much as we have here.
And this is kind of a treat for him. I am
looking forward to an opportunity to go
to his great country.
One of the most exciting experiences
that I have had was to visit recently the
tremendous exhibit of just a few of the
precious items from the Tomb of King
Tutankhamen, or King Tut as most of
us refer to it. My wife and I and our
family went to the National Gallery. And
we were overwhelmed at its beauty and
the ancient heritage that belongs to
Egypt. I believe that the sending of this
exhibit to our country-and it is now
moving from one great city to another-
has been a good omen for the relationship
that is going to continue to improve be-
tween the people of Egypt and the people
of the United States.
President Sadat, people stood in line all
night long, waiting to go in to see the
exhibit. And I think I can truthfully say
that of the almost one million Americans
who visited this exhibit in Washington,
none of them were disappointed and they
thought that the wait in line was well
worth it when they saw these treasures.
I am very grateful that I have been
lucky enough to be President during this
year, a year when President Sadat and
other leaders in the Middle East have
established a very special goal of major
achievements in bringing peace to that
troubled region of the world.
There are no easy answers. There have
now been about 29 years of search for ac-
commodation among the nations who in-
habit that precious area of ground. And I
think it's fair to say that with President
Sadat's close relationship with his own
people, their trust in him as a leader, his
superb demonstration of courage to make
statements of hope and determination
that 1977 will be a fruitful year for nego-
tiations, that he has been an inspiration to
us all. He understands the complexities of
the issues there. But he also sees very
clearly, as I am beginning to learn, the
tremendous benefits that can be derived
if leaders like him and others can meet
with a common purpose to establish peace
on a permanent basis in the eastern part
of the Mediterranean and among those
nations who share a common heritage, a
common history, common ancestors, the
opportunities for improved trade, eco-
nomic benefits for citizens there, an end
to the military arms race, and an oppor-
tunity to live in harmony, one with an-
other.
I'd also like to say that I have been look-
ing forward to a chance to establish a close
and personal friendship with President
Sadat. I have never talked to an Ameri-
can leader in this administration or the
past administrations in the executive
branch of Government or in the Congress
who had met him who didn't come away
impressed with his sensitivity, his intelli-
gence, his vision, and his courage. I hope
to learn a lot from him and to share with
him, as best we can, the prospects for the
interested parties this year to search out
a common basis for a peaceful and per-
561
