Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
House and another President takes over,
I still won't know all the answers.
There are a lot of mistakes that could
be made. But I believe that what gives
me a sense of confidence in myself and
confidence in the Nation is the support
and participation, the questions and sug-
gestions, the criticisms of people like you
who love your country, who don't want
any selfish advantage, who want to be
treated fairly and who want to help de-
cide on a national level, as you do here in
this town hall, your own future.
This gives me a sense of security and
confidence. It also causes me to be even
more deeply dedicated to make the right
decisions. We are moving very rapidly to
correct some of the problems in our Na-
tional Government. We're trying to re-
cement the ties that exist historically
between the Federal, State, and local
levels of government; to tear down the
barriers and the walls that have been
built in recent years, so that I can learn
from selectmen and mayors and Gover-
nors and State legislators and so that
there can't be a difference that handicaps
us.
I'm deeply concerned about the unem-
ployment rate in our country. I believe
that in a nation like ours, everyone who is
able to work ought to work and ought to
have a chance to work. I presented to the
Congress an economic package that's con-
servative in nature, fiscally speaking, but
also will put hundreds of thousands of
Americans back into productive jobs, and
particularly young people.
About $15 billion will be spent this
year either to cut down in your taxes or
to provide direct public works projects or
to provide jobs—most of the jobs in pri-
vate industry where they will be perma-
nent, some jobs in the public sector-and
the Democratic Congress and many Re-
publicans have been working very closely
with me. I believe, without major change,
this economic stimulus package will be on
the lawbooks without too much delay.
On April 20, just about a month from
now, we will propose to the Congress and
to the American people-I will make a
speech to the Joint Session of Congress-
a comprehensive energy policy. We've not
had one in this country ever. Other de-
veloping nations know what they're going
to do in the future to deal with changing
times in energy supplies.
Your own part of the country has been
deeply wounded by not having adequate
supplies of energy. In Massachusetts
about 85 percent of all your energy comes
from oil, petroleum products. About half
of that is imported. You don't know what
is going to happen next. Energy costs
have gone up terribly rapidly in your
area of the country. When major compa-
nies have five or six plants and in the past
one of them has had to be shut down be-
cause of changing times, quite often the
decision has been made to shut down the
plant in New England because of unpre-
dictability and because of a lack of under-
standing about what would happen in the
supply and price of energy.
On April 20, I will present to the Con-
gress a plan developed primarily by
Dr. James Schlesinger on what our Nation
can expect in the future relating to en-
ergy. We are forming a new Department
of Energy. We now have 50 different Fed-
eral agencies scattered all over Washing-
ton-all over the country as a matter of
fact-supposedly dealing with this cru-
cial question.
In the future it'll be consolidated so
that you will know who makes a mistake
if one is made and you'll know where to
go to get an answer. Bureaucrats, con-
sumers, and producers of energy will
know how to focus their attention on
solving a problem that's going to get
worse for us in the future no matter who's
President, no matter how good a job I do.
384
