May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
through increases in the standard deduc-
tions. Eighty-eight percent of this tax re-
lief will go to families with incomes of less
than $15,000 a year, and 3.3 million low-
income taxpayers who now pay taxes will
not have to pay any Federal income taxes
at all.
Now, this new law will obviously save
people money, and it will also create jobs
because consumers will have more of their
paycheck to keep and to spend for goods
that we produce. It's also going to save a
lot of headaches next April, because 75
percent of all taxpayers will be able to take
a standard deduction and compute their
taxes on one side of one sheet of paper in
one step.
So, the multiple goals of economic strat-
egy reinforce one another, they work
together. The strategy is designed to cut
unemployment to below 5 percent by
1981; to work with business and labor,
together, to knock 2 percentage points off
the inflation rate by the end of 1979; and
by the higher revenues that growing em-
ployment will bring, to achieve a balanced
budget in fiscal year 1981.
Again, I want to stress two points about
our economic policies because it's impor-
tant for you and all Americans to under-
stand. One point is that we aim to balance
the budget in 1981 in a strong and healthy
economy, with the revenues that come
into the Government when people are em-
ployed and our industrial capacity is being
used.
It's not legitimate spending on human
needs that causes Federal deficits. It's
principally the inadequate revenues that
come in from a sluggish economy that
create those deficits. Understanding that
is a very good move in the right direction.
Cutting back programs that really help
people is not the way to balance the bud-
get. But even with adequate revenues,
we'll still have to make some hard choices
about how we spend the taxpayers' money.
We can't afford to do everything.
The other important point I want to
make about the economy is that I'm in-
alterably opposed to fighting inflation by
keeping unemployment high and factories
idle. This has been done too much in the
past. That approach has been proved in
the last 8 years to be economically ineffec-
tive and morally bankrupt. If the economy
should falter during the years ahead, I will
not hesitate to propose the economic and
budgetary measures needed to get the
economy going again. And you can de-
pend on that.
Now, the second major challenge I want
to discuss with you this morning is energy.
The energy crisis is the greatest domestic
challenge that our country will face in our
lifetime. I still find it almost incredible
that our country has no coherent plan for
dealing with it until this year. We have
now proposed such a plan to the Congress
and also proposed a new department to
deal with the energy question.
This plan is based on three inescapable
realities. There's no way to get around
them. The first is that we are simply run-
ning out of oil. The second is that oil will,
nevertheless, have to remain our primary
source of energy for many years and must
not be wasted. And the third principle is
that unless we begin soon to prepare for
the transition to other sources of energy,
the consequences on our society and our
way of life will be very severe.
We could face massive unemployment,
crippling inflation, social and political in-
stability, and threats to our freedom of
action in international affairs. We cannot
just rely on increased production. While
finding more oil is important, we would
have to discover a new Alaskan oilfield
every year just to keep pace with the an-
nual growth in world consumption. No
matter how strong the financial incentives,
that is simply not going to happen. We
890
