Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 11, 1977
Presidential Advisory Board on
Ambassadorial Appointments
Executive Order 11970. February 5, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the provisions of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as
follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby estab-
lished the Presidential Advisory Board on
Ambassadorial Appointments, herein-
after referred to as the Board, which shall
be composed of members appointed by
the President.
(b) The President shall designate a
Chairman from among the members of
the Board.
(c) The Secretary of State shall desig-
nate an Executive Secretary.
SEC. 2. (a) The Board shall, whenever
requested, make confidential recommen-
dations to the Secretary of State and the
President as to the qualifications of indi-
viduals for an ambassadorial post for
which noncareer individuals are being
considered, and such other advice as the
President shall request.
(b) In considering the qualifications of
a prospective nominee, the Board shall
consider such background information on
the requirements of particular ambassa-
dorial posts, evaluation criteria, and in-
formation regarding the prospective nom-
inee which may be furnished by the De-
partment of State; and the Board shall
consider such other information as it
deems appropriate in order to render an
informed judgment concerning a prospec-
tive nominee's qualifications and suit-
ability.
SEC. 3. Upon request by the President
or the Secretary of State, the Board shall
consider which ambassadorial posts should
be filled by career people and which
should be filled by noncareer people, and
shall make its recommendations in con-
fidence regarding same to them.
SEC. 4. Board members may not be
appointed to an ambassadorial post dur-
ing their service on the Board nor for at
least one year thereafter. The President
may waive this provision in specific cases
and will in such cases state his reasons
for doing so.
SEC. 5. Members of the Board who are
not officers or employees of the Federal
Government shall receive no compensa-
tion from the Government of the United
States for their service as members of the
Board, but may, to the extent permitted
by law, be allowed travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence,
89
