Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in a courageous way will stand us in good
stead as we explore the future of our two
countries.
Recently, Secretary of State Vance took
a trip to the Middle East, began his trip
with a long conversation with Prime
Minister Rabin and his Cabinet, mem-
bers of the Knesset, other leaders of
Israel, and then, subsequently, went to
meet with the leaders of other countries
in the Middle East to try to explore some
common ground for future permanent
peace there, so that Israel might have de-
fensible borders so that the peace com-
mitments would never be violated, and
that could be a sense of security about this
young country in the future.
I can't think of any two nations on
Earth that more narrowly focus deep
commitments on a common way for the
principles of government based on mu-
tual background, the present considera-
tions on a common basis, and in the future
a mutual commitment.
This is a time of great joy for me to
have Prime Minister Rabin and his wife,
Lea, come to visit us. And I believe that
the next 2 days of discussions between
myself and him, his leaders and ours, the
Cabinet-level officers and the leaders of
Congress and the private community, will
be very fruitful.
Nineteen seventy-seven is a year that
might very well bring a major step for-
ward toward ultimate and permanent
peace. And to a great degree, the success
of this year's negotiations and hopes rest
on the shoulders of a man who, in the
past, has demonstrated his capability of
dealing with complicated problems in a
frank and courageous fashion and who
has a vision that is very closely com-
patible with the visions of the people of
the United States.
So on behalf of our people, I welcome
you back to our country, Mr. Rabin, and
would like very much to express our com-
plete commitment to an even greater in-
terrelationship on a common basis with
the courageous citizens whom you repre-
sent in the great nation of Israel.
Thank you for coming. You are wel-
come here.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter:
My wife and I deeply appreciate your
personal welcome and your kind, warm
words.
May I say it is always a pleasure to me
to be back in Washington and to see
around me so many friends. I wish par-
ticularly to thank you, Mr. President, for
the kind invitation that brings me here
today.
Your hospitality enables me to convey
in a most personal manner, the best
wishes, the friendship, and the esteem of
the people and the Government of Israel,
to you, Mr. President, and to the great
people you represent.
Democratic Israel stands with you in
your endeavor to foster peace and human
rights within the family of nations. From
this platform, let me say to you, Mr.
President, that Israel shall continue to
work tirelessly for the peace and welfare
of our region, strengthened and encour-
aged by the special relationship that has
long marked the ties between our two
peoples.
Let me emphasize to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, that I have come from Jerusalem,
the City of Peace, with a sense of dedi-
cation to build a structure of peace be-
tween Israel and our neighbors. Peace is
our highest aspiration. It is towards this
end that Israel commits all its energies;
for peace is the essence of the heritage
we share and the goal of policy we pur-
sue. It is a heritage as old, as eternal, and
as living as the Bible.
330
