May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
To obtain fuller knowledge about the
environmental impact of leasing and pro-
duction, and to increase participation by
the states in the process of decision, I have
further directed the Secretary of the In-
terior to:
• Establish an OCS Information Clear-
inghouse to receive inquiries about federal
OCS activity;
Develop regulations, operating or-
ders, and lease provisions specifying the
information required from industry about
both the offshore and onshore impacts of
prospective development;
• Facilitate cooperative planning
among industry, the Interior Department,
the Department of Transportation, and
the states for lease development, pipeline
locations, pipeline standards, and onshore
facilities;
• Establish procedures for compliance
with the National Environmental Policy
Act in connection with development plan
approvals.
Because OCS activities should be ad-
ministered in the most orderly way possi-
ble, I am directing the Secretary of the
Interior to study carefully the prospect of
reorganizing his Department's manage-
ment of these valuable resources.
He and the Administrator of the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency should also
coordinate their respective regulatory ac-
tivities to ensure that exploration and de-
velopment are not delayed by procedural
confusion.
COAL
As our nation increasingly turns to coal
as a replacement for our dwindling sup-
plies of oil and gas, we must be sure that
we will not fall short of the goals we have
established to protect human health and
the general environment.
Essential to environmentally sound use
of coal is the expeditious passage of strong
national strip mine legislation. My Ad-
ministration has submitted to the Con-
gress amendments by which alluvial valley
floors, prime agricultural lands, and the
mountains and valleys of Appalachia can
be protected. These improvements, to-
gether with the comprehensive reclama-
tion, administrative and enforcement
provisions of the bill, will allow increased
reliance on coal without sacrificing the
environment. I urge final approval of this
legislation in its strongest form. The De-
partment of Interior has already begun
preparations to implement the bill when
it becomes law.
In the near term the switch to coal
must be accomplished with currently
available technology. In my Energy Plan
I recognized that pollution control tech-
nology for direct combustion of coal is not
fully adequate and directed that federal
research be increased in certain key areas.
In the longer term, we must be sure
that technological advances, such as con-
version of coal to synthetic fuels, do not
create undue environmental and health
risks.
Accordingly, I am directing the Admin-
istrators of the Energy Research and
Development Administration and the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, and the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to establish a joint program to iden-
tify the health and environmental effects
of each advanced technology that is the
subject of federal research and develop-
ment.
I am also directing the Administrators
of the Energy Research and Development
Administration and the Environmental
Protection Agency jointly to develop pro-
cedures for establishing environmental
protection standards for all new energy
technologies. These procedures should be
agreed upon within one year.
Because extensive use of coal requires
huge amounts of water, I am directing
the Secretary of the Interior to prepare a
974
