May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. That was
very well said by Senator Mathias. This
will provide a shield for the dedicated
men and women who gather the intelli-
gence that we need so badly.
Senator Jake Garn of Utah is a mem-
ber of the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence and we'd like to hear from
him now. Senator Garn.
SENATOR GARN. Mr. President, Mr.
Attorney General:
It's been my pleasure to work on this in
the past. Senator Bayh mentioned—and I
happen to be ranking minority member
with him on that committee-and our
very first legislative effort in the Intelli-
gence Committee was on S. 3197, which
was the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act. We had many weeks of negotiations
within the committee. Senator Bayh and
I had differences. It took a lot of give and
take. We had many meetings with Attor-
ney General Levi and unfortunately the
result of our effort came too late in the
session.
The bill was reported out of commit-
tee-I think a very good bill to accom-
plish what all of my colleagues have said
today and we ran afoul of the end of
the session on October 1, and so it was not
considered by the full Senate. So, I com-
pliment the administration on renewing
this effort.
I have reviewed the two bills. The
President's bill is very close to the bill that
Senator Bayh and I reported out of
our committee last year. So, although
I'm sure it will not go through in exactly
the form as proposed-legislation never
does-Senator Bayh and I will go
through, along with the Judiciary Com-
mittee in the Senate and in the House and
will expect to have some changes. But I
do think they are minor difficulties that
can be worked out. And I echo the senti-
ments of my colleagues that when this
bill is passed and signed into law by the
President, it will be a big step forward,
because currently in the field of foreign
intelligence there is no judicial warrant
procedure at all. The Attorney General
and the President can merely in their own
determination decide that foreign intel-
ligence is involved and get involved in
electronic surveillance.
So, this will make it so that now in
both domestic and foreign intelligence
that the judicial warrant procedure will
be necessary, and I do think we can strike
that balance between necessary intelli-
gence and protecting the rights of Ameri-
can citizens.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Thank you,
Senator.
Congressman Kastenmeier is chairman
of the subcommittee of the House Judi-
ciary Committee which will have the
prime responsibility for considering and
moving this legislation. I would like to
call on Congressman Kastenmeier now.
REPRESENTATIVE KASTENMEIER. Thank
you, General Bell, my colleagues:
As chairman of the subcommittee that
dealt unsuccessfully with this piece of leg-
islation or legislation in this field last
year, I'm certainly impressed with the
difficulty confronting us. It's a vexatious
question, because those most interested
have very different perspectives—the in-
telligence community, those interested in
national security on one side, and those
especially sensitive to civil liberties, pri-
vacy on the other. It's almost impossible
to reconcile these different perspectives.
And yet, as the President has said, in the
national interest it is important that we
have this legislation and that the judici-
ary, the executive branch, and the Con-
gress all be mutually involved.
There are other sensitive questions,
Presidential powers and others, that are
reflected in this legislation, which we can-
not avoid. But if we do find a legislative
solution, as I trust we will this year, it
926
