Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cedures which are supposed to protect
consumers.
The Agency will aid in the fight against
inflation by monitoring governmental ac-
tions that unnecessarily raise costs for con-
sumers. Many government activities affect
prices: The government establishes rates,
standards and incentives for private busi-
nesses to follow, and it is itself a major
purchaser of goods and services. In all
these areas, the Agency will use its powers
of intervention and of information collec-
tion, analysis and dissemination to keep
costs down.
By establishing the Agency, the Con-
gress can give new meaning to the phrase
"in the interest of consumers" found
throughout the United States Code and
the Code of Federal Regulations.
The basic format of the Agency for
Consumer Advocacy has been refined and
perfected in eight years of debate by Con-
gress. I support that framework. In par-
ticular, I believe that the following prin-
ciples should be reflected in a bill creating
the Agency:
First, most government consumer func-
tions should be consolidated in the
Agency. The Office of Management and
Budget has begun a comprehensive review
to help me identify those units that should
be transferred to the Agency. This review
will also determine how remaining func-
tions in the individual agencies can be
strengthened. Of course, I still expect that
all Federal agencies will be responsive to
the consumer's concerns.
Second, the Administrator of the
Agency, like the heads of other executive
agencies, should be appointed by the
President and serve at his pleasure. The
Agency should be subject to the normal
executive budget and legislative clearance
procedures. Accountability within the
executive branch is necessary to ensure
that the Agency will be as vigorous and
effective as the people expect. It will not
undermine the independence of the
Agency's representational role.
Third, the Agency should be empow-
ered to intervene or otherwise participate
in proceedings before federal agencies,
when necessary to assure adequate rep-
resentation or [of] consumer interests, and
in judicial proceedings involving Agency
action. The Agency, at its discretion,
should be represented by its own lawyers.
I will instruct the Administrator to estab-
lish responsible priorities for consumer
advocacy.
Fourth, the Agency should have its
own information-gathering authority, in-
cluding, under appropriate safeguards,
access to information held by other gov-
ernment agencies and private concerns.
However, small businesses should be
exempt from the Agency's direct informa-
tion-gathering authority. Additional safe-
guards should be included to assure that
needless burdens are not imposed on busi-
nesses or other government agencies.
The Agency for Consumer Advocacy
is mainly designed for participation in
very large administrative proceedings; it
is only one of a number of steps which
will better protect the consumer. Mem-
bers of my Administration, in the months
ahead, will comment to the Congress on
a variety of these steps. There are three
of them I would like to mention now;
they are measures which the Congress has
been considering, and which I believe
would complement the ACA.
The first is legislation to help consumer
groups represent themselves in agency
and judicial proceedings. I support Con-
gressional efforts to assist citizen groups
to participate in the proceedings of fed-
eral agencies, where their participation
may lead to a more balanced decision. I
also recommend that Congress enact
legislation that would give the federal
courts more discretion to reimburse liti-
gation costs for plaintiffs who win cases
574
