May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Eleanor Roosevelt National
Historic Site
Statement on Signing H.R. 5562 Into
Law. May 26, 1977
It is an honor for me to have this op-
portunity today. I am signing into law the
first addition to the National Park System
under my administration, and I am
deeply touched that this new addition is
to be a living memorial to the former First
continue to strive for the higher ideals
which she articulated. I take part in this
ceremony today with a sense of great re-
spect as we honor Mrs. Roosevelt. I hope
that this site will serve as an inspiration
for our generation and the generations to
come.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 5562 is Public Law
95-32, approved May 26.
Lady, Anna Eleanor Roosevelt. This law John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library
establishes her home, Val-Kill, in Hyde
Park, N.Y., as the Eleanor Roosevelt Na-
tional Historic Site.
Eleanor Roosevelt was known not only
for her deep compassion for her fellow
human beings but also for the tremendous
energy she expended in so many impor-
tant causes of her day, as she shattered
the traditional roles which First Ladies
before her had adopted. In 1962, Presi-
dent Truman referred to her as "The
First Lady of the World." To say that she
was an active First Lady is an under-
statement.
She made one of her greatest contribu-
tions to the world during her service at
the United Nations, where she chaired
the Commission on Human Rights of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization and partici-
pated in drafting the United Nations
covenants and the historic Declaration of
Human Rights. These tasks symbolized
the rightful role which women can play
throughout the world.
I think that it was in the area of human
rights that Mrs. Roosevelt made her
greatest contributions. In her many proj-
ects, she appealed to the best qualities and
instincts of humankind and fought to
break down the barriers of prejudice, dis-
crimination, and injustice which divided
people against each other. Her memory
stands as an inspiration to us today as we
Statement on Signing H.J. Res. 424 Into
Law. May 26, 1977
It gives me great pleasure to sign into
law H.J. Res. 424, which will permit the
Administrator of General Services to ac-
cept on behalf of the people of the United
States a generous gift of land, buildings,
and equipment from the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts for the John Fitzgerald
Kennedy Library to be located in Boston.
It is fitting that I take this action today.
Sunday, May 29, is the 60th anniversary
of the birth of President Kennedy. It is
also fitting that this working memorial to
President Kennedy will be located in Bos-
ton-the city which meant so much to
him and to which he meant so much.
Shortly after President Kennedy's
death, the National Archives accepted
custody of his Presidential papers. On
February 25, 1965, Mrs. Jacqueline Ken-
nedy and the executors of the John F.
Kennedy estate donated his papers and
other historical materials to the United
States for eventual deposit in a John F.
Kennedy Library.
In 1969, the Kennedy Library opened
in temporary quarters in the Federal Ar-
chives and Records Center in Waltham,
Massachusetts. Since that time, the li-
brary has made available to researchers
the documents of the Kennedy adminis-
tration. The archival staff there has estab-
1028
