Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 22
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House.
As enacted, H.R. 5840 is Public Law 95-52,
approved June 22.
United States-United Kingdom
Air Services Agreement
Statement on the Agreement Reached in
London. June 22, 1977
I am pleased that the delegations of the
United States and the United Kingdom
have come to an agreement on the issues
involved in the negotiations over con-
tinuation of commercial air service be-
tween our two countries.
The signing of an agreement in prin-
ciple means that disruption in air service
on the North Atlantic, Pacific, and Carib-
bean routes has been avoided. The agree-
ment ensures that international air serv-
ice between Britain and the United States
will continue to function in an atmos-
phere of healthy competition-an atmos-
phere which will benefit consumers and
airlines alike.
I extend my personal appreciation to
Special Ambassador Alan Boyd and to the
members of the United States delegation.
Our new agreement should demon-
strate to the world that the warm rela-
tions our two nations have enjoyed are as
strong today as they have ever been.
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on Progress
Made Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
June 22, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94-104, this
report describes what has occurred during
the last sixty days toward settlement of
the Cyprus problem and the efforts the
Administration has made toward that
goal.
In my last report, I promised to work
closely with the Congress on this problem,
and to devote whatever effort might be
required to bring about a truly just and
lasting peace in Cyprus. I emphasized as
well the importance of continuing to
strengthen the ties of friendship and co-
operation between the United States and
Greece and Turkey, our two major allies
in the eastern Mediterranean.
Since my last report on April 15, there
have been only a few significant develop-
ments with regard to Cyprus. This pause
is to some extent a reflection of under-
standable preoccupation of the parties
with the Turkish national elections of
June 5. Even so, talks between the two
Cyprus communities took place in Nicosia
in late May and early June. These dis-
cussions allowed some clarification of the
positions presented during the earlier
meetings in Vienna which had taken
place under the chairmanship of the
United Nations Secretary General. The
United Nations Security Council author-
ized a further six-month extension of the
mandate of the United Nations Peace-
keeping Force on Cyprus (UNFICYP)
on June 15, and we expect that the negoti-
ating process will resume at an early date
between the two Cypriot communities.
I would add that while I was in Lon-
don in conjunction with the NATO Sum-
mit meeting in May, I met separately with
the Greek and Turkish Prime Ministers.
Secretary Vance, National Security Ad-
visor Brzezinski and the Special Repre-
sentative for eastern Mediterranean mat-
ters, Clark Clifford, were also present. I
used the opportunity for a brief discussion
of the Cyprus problem as well as a review
of other elements of our relationship with
these two valued NATO allies. Mr. Clif-
1137
