Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
International Monetary Fund
Nomination of Sam Y. Cross, Jr., To Be
U.S. Executive Director. May 23, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Sam Y. Cross, Jr., of
Falls Church, Va., to be U.S. Executive
Director of the International Monetary
Fund. Cross has been U.S. Executive Di-
rector of the IMF since 1974, so this
would be a reappointment.
Cross was born May 5, 1927, in San-
ford, Fla. He received a B.S. in 1949 and
an M.A. in 1950 from the University of
Tennessee.
From 1952 to 1956, Cross was an assist-
ant U.S. Treasury representative. He
served as an economist from 1957 to 1963
and as a U.S. Treasury representative
from 1963 to 1967. From 1967 to 1970,
Cross was Director of the Office of De-
veloping Nations, and from 1970 to
1973, he was Director of the Inter-
national Monetary System at the Treas-
ury Department.
Cross served as Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury for International
Monetary and Investment Affairs from
1973 to 1975. Since 1975 he has been
U.S. Executive Director of the IMF and
Special Assistant to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
The Environment
Message to the Congress. May 23, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
This message brings together a great
variety of programs. It deals not only with
ways to preserve the wilderness, wildlife,
and natural and historical resources
which are a beautiful and valued part of
America's national heritage: it deals also
with the effects of pollution, toxic chemi-
cals, and the damage caused by the de-
mand for energy. Each of these concerns,
in its own way, affects the environment;
and together they underscore the impor-
tance of environmental protection in all
our lives.
Americans long thought that nature
could take care of itself-or that if it did
not, the consequences were someone else's
problem. As we know now, that assump-
tion was wrong; none of us is a stranger
to environmental problems.
Industrial workers, for example, are
exposed to disproportionate risks from
toxic substances in their surroundings.
The urban poor, many of whom have
never had the chance to canoe a river or
hike a mountain trail, must nevertheless
endure each day the hazardous effects of
lead and other pollutants in the air.
I believe environmental protection is
consistent with a sound economy. Previous
pollution control laws have generated
many more jobs than they have cost. And
other environmental measures whose time
has come measures like energy conser-
vation, reclamation of stripmined lands,
and rehabilitation of our cities-will pro-
duce still more new jobs, often where
they are needed most. In any event, if we
ignore the care of our environment, the
day will eventually come when our econ-
omy suffers for that neglect.
Intelligent stewardship of the environ-
ment on behalf of all Americans is a prime
responsibility of government. Congress
has in the past carried out its share of this
duty well-so well, in fact, that the pri-
mary need today is not for new compre-
hensive statutes but for sensitive admin-
istration and energetic enforcement of the
ones we have. Environmental protection
is no longer just a legislative job, but one
967
