Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
It seems he heard about it. And I thought
it was an extraordinarily gracious and
kind thing for him to do.
Q. What did he say?
THE PRESIDENT. He just called to say
that he had heard about Rosalynn's opera-
tion and that he and Betty were praying
for us and that he was deeply concerned
about our health, that he knew what Betty
had had to go through in a similar opera-
tion, and he was just grateful that the
tumor turned out to be benign.
But I thought it was very kind of him
to take the time to call. And I really did
appreciate it. And we reconfirmed our
agreement that whenever he comes to
Washington, he'll come by and see me per-
sonally to give me advice and counsel and
let me tell him about the latest develop-
ments on international affairs.
We keep both him and President Nixon
informed with regular briefings from the
State Department and the CIA on secret,
unpublicized interrelationships between
us and other governments. And I think
this is a very beneficial thing to me to con-
tinue this. But we have a good friendship
between me and President Ford.
Q. Have you had any feedback from
Mr. Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, President Nixon
has written me several letters, and we've
exchanged telephone calls. His attitude to-
ward me has been perfect. He has said
that he didn't want to intrude, but that
he was always available, that he'd like to
be kept informed, and whenever we had
a question about some personal relation-
ship that he had had with a foreign leader
in the Soviet Union or China or the Mid-
dle East, that he'd like to make his infor-
mation available to us, and that he would
always like to have the right to call me if
he was concerned about any action of our
Government, but he would always do it
privately and in a constructive way, that
he'd never be critical of what I did in
public.
So, we've had a good relationship with
both of them. As I said in the press con-
ference the other day, it's a very small
fraternity of people who've been here, but
I think that both of my predecessors recog-
nize that this is kind of a lonely job in a
way,
but it's also one where you need all
the help you can get.
I never had a chance to meet a Demo-
cratic President-[laughter]-but even
the Republican Presidents have been very
constructive.
Thank you. I've enjoyed it.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:02 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. The
transcript of the interview was released on
April 30.
White House Correspondents
Association
Remarks at the Association's Annual
Dinner. April 30, 1977
I'm very grateful at the invitation that
was extended to me to be here tonight.
The invitation did say "Live Television."
[Laughter]
But in any case, I'm glad I came be-
cause my heart was moved a few moments
ago to see the transfer of command. I
know that Paul Healy has done a good
job, and Larry O'Rourke will be a fine,
new president. Sometimes it's hard to
understand who is president and who's
not. [Laughter]
I know what it means to have a for-
mer president to give you sound advice
and quiet encouragement and firm sup-
port. As a matter of fact, the recent
stories about my relationship with Presi-
dent Ford have been taken completely
out of context. I think the Vice President
was quite presumptuous in making com-
758
