Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
mation of orphan and abandoned land.
You are right.
I can take you into-well, let's not say
West Virginia, let's say another State-
and show you practices of many years ago
where strip mining-it looks like the
aftermath of world war III. We were
wrong. We erred. And now it's going to
be very, very expensive to clean that up.
But at the same time, we have to go
for-
ward with a reclamation plan that will
make it possible to use that land for some-
thing else.
To me and I've heard President Car-
ter express it that strip mining should be
a temporary use of the land, that when
you have finished with the strip mining
that land should be put back in the form
that it can be used for something else.
The money will be there, but not
enough, Judy, to do all of the orphan land
at one time.
Now the selection—and we face that
fact. We are going to take care of what
we are doing from now on, and we are
going to start working on the backlog,
but you would cause quite a burden upon
the consumer if you made the consumer
pay all at once for picking up all the
orphan lands, too.
We're not going to ignore it.
Ms. STEPHENSON. I didn't mean to
suggest that. The reason, I think one of
the things the Governor brought up is
about the power of the director to delete
areas from strip mining. There is a great
deal of concern about the Cranberry
back country and a few other places here
that are now under study for a national
wilderness area.
The one thing I would suggest that
would be included in that regional look is
that there are certain areas that for
whether you would call it ecological rea-
sons, for reasons of unusual wildlife or
botanical reasons or for other reasons, like
increased flooding, should be looked at.
And there should be ways of deleting
those areas from the strip mines.
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Andrus is
also in charge of that program.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. I would just say
very briefly, because I thought that the
Governor responded to that, let me re-
iterate what he had said. We have vast
amounts of coal in the public domain
lands of America. Here you're not just
talking about public domain lands. We
have the opportunity to say yes, we will
mine here, but we won't mine over here
for the very reason that you point out.
And I think that that's a choice that
America can make, that should be made,
and if you're talking about public do-
main lands, then the answer is yes, we
have the right to say no, you won't mine
over there. And I think that's the way it
should be. I would suspect that your Gov-
ernor, I don't want to put words in his
mouth, but I've talked to him enough to
know that he feels very strongly about
protecting some of these pristine areas
that the President has talked about and
I've talked about, and they're just not
going to destroy the whole world. But we
are going to meet, you know, our respon-
sibilities.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President, a
few mornings ago when you unveiled the
energy department proposal at the White
House, you were specifically asked what
about solid waste. Judy has introduced
that subject here this afternoon.
I think that she should know and I'm
sure she does know that under the legis-
lation which we passed last year and be-
came law, we are giving technical and
even financial aid in connection with a
resource recovery program.
We hope it will work. But there's one
thing that was written into the law, Judy.
We're going to stop open dumping in the
United States within a period of 5 years.
438
