June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But there has been in our country, and
still is, unfortunately, a sense among some
that the young men and women who did
go to Vietnam are somehow not to be
admired, but despised and not to be ap-
preciated, but castigated.
Well, I feel this very deeply because
most of my neighbors and friends at home
in a rural, backward area are too poor and
did not have the influence or motivation
or knowledge to escape the draft, and
they went to Vietnam. A lot of them are
black. A lot of others are Spanish-
speaking. And a lot of others have mar-
ginal capabilities, but they went.
Well, now our Nation is healing its
wounds. We are proud of the fact we
were finally extricated from the Vietnam
involvement. And we are trying to repair
our image around the world as a nation
who made a mistake. And we feel secure
once more, and feel clean once more, and
proud once more, but we still have a tre-
mendous number, hundreds of thousands,
of young men in their early twenties or
later who don't have the education and
don't have the background and don't
have the job security because they did go
to fight for our country.
Well, I feel responsible for them, and
your presence here indicates that you feel
responsible for them, too. We are looking
for jobs for those young people. We have
got more than a half million Vietnam
veterans who don't have jobs. And under
our own economic stimulus package which
the Congress has passed almost in its en-
tirety, we asked for training and educa-
tion programs to put people in jobs-
about $6.8 billion. We wanted 35 percent
of that to go to Vietnam veterans and
other veterans. That was not approved,
but we believe that of the 725,000 public
service jobs, that local officials, State offi-
cials will try to give places and oppor-
tunities for those young veterans.
You are here because you volunteered
to help in your own businesses. You rep-
resent some of the largest corporations
and most capable employers in our coun-
try. And we hope that you will employ,
without unnecessary delay, at least 140,-
000 of these young people who are eager
to work, but who don't have yet a chance
to do so.
We have money available to help, I
think about $1,000 per veteran, that we
can give for training and for placement,
and this won't nearly meet the cost to you
perhaps. I hope that when you leave this
meeting, after being inspired by Bill Miller
to do your utmost, that you won't be
satisfied with 5 or 50 placements, if you
have a nationwide company, but that you
will try to have maybe 500 or 1,000.
We need to demonstrate, I think, per-
haps, even in a slightly sacrificial way on
your part, that we believe in our young
people and that we appreciate them.
Now, I've got sense enough to know
that sometimes we might take a chance in
hiring someone who has been disappointed
and who has not yet been successful. But
I hope that we can approach this very
fine demonstration of concern and com-
passion and trust in the young men and
women involved and also in our country's
system to make a success of this effort.
Ray Marshall and the others in the
Labor Department have done a lot of
work on it and I and my staff have done a
lot of work on it. But the success of it de-
pends on you, and I am not here to give
you a pep talk, but to give you an accurate
sense that we are forming a partnership.
I am eager to help every way I can with
public statements, with the allocation of
funds, with proper administration. And I
think this would be indicative of a chal-
lenge that is difficult but one that can be
successfully met.
My overwhelming sense is one of appre-
ciation to you and my eagerness to show
1116
