Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 23
to put it forward, that there will be direct
ultimate benefits to them, will be the ele-
ments that will cause them to make those
sacrifices.
At the same time, I want to increase the
surety that we have that the reserve sup-
ply data given to us by the oil companies
and others are accurate. We are now con-
ducting some admittedly superficial stud-
ies by Secretary Cecil Andrus in Interior,
and also they will be followed up by more
detailed studies under Dr. Schlesinger, to
see whether or not the reserve supplies
are adequate and whether or not the oil
companies are giving us accurate data.
I think it's obvious to all of us that there
are some instances where natural gas is
withheld from the market. That's under-
standable. If I was running an oil com-
pany, I would reserve the right to release
or to reserve some supplies of natural gas.
With the emergency legislation that the
Congress did pass, I think in about a week
of assessment during the frigid part of the
winter-it's still very cold-we were given
some authority to buy extra gas at a very
high price. This is obviously a transient
circumstance.
But I believe the American people will
be willing to make the sacrifices required
if they are convinced that future reports
will be accurate, that supplies will not be
withheld from the market. And if we can
let the oil companies know in a predict-
able way what our policy will be 2 months
or 2 years or 20 years in the future, within
the bounds of human reason, then I think
they will be much less likely to withhold
supplies of oil and natural gas from the
market just hoping that they will get some
bonanza or increased price in the future
if the policies do change.
Q. Mr. President, another question, sir,
on the sacrifices that you say your upcom-
ing energy program is going to demand.
Is it likely that one of those sacrifices is
going to come in the form of a largely
increased Federal gasoline tax?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
answer your questions about specifics of
the proposal. I want to make this clear:
The purpose of the energy policy evolu-
tion is not to cause sacrifice or hardship
among the American people. Unless I can
demonstrate that in balance the tempo-
rary sacrifices in a certain area are far
overcome by immediate and ultimate ben-
efits, then nobody is going to buy it. And
I believe that we've now got such a hor-
rible conglomeration of confusion in the
energy field that nobody knows what is
going to happen next.
So, I think that the sacrifices will be far
overcome by the benefits that the Ameri-
can people will be easily able to discern
for themselves.
RELATIONS WITH CANADA
Q. Mr. President, you said that in spite
of the fact that the Canadian people
would have to determine their future for
themselves, particularly in regard to the
separatism issue in Quebec, that you had
confidence that the issue would be
straightened out relatively peacefully.
Do you really think that there is little
concern in this country about the future
of a unified Canada, and is there anything
really that we can do about it?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a great deal
of concern in this country about the future
of Canada. And I have complete confi-
dence, as I said in an interview with the
Canadian news media, in the sound judg-
ment of the Canadian people. I am famil-
iar, and even more familiar today than
I was 2 days ago, after Prime Minister
Trudeau's visit, with the problems in Que-
bec and the inclination of some of the
French-Canadians to have an independ-
ent status from the rest of the Canadian
provinces.
223
