Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 14
So, am thankful to all of you for being
willing to serve with us.
[At this point, Chief Judge David Bazelon, U.S.
Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit,
administered the oath of office. The President
then resumed speaking as follows:]
Judge, thank you very much.
This is my first experience in the Rose
Garden, and I'm glad to be here where
my predecessor enjoyed so many favorable
press conferences.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:24 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Presidential Commission on
Americans Missing and
Unaccounted for in
Southeast Asia
Statement on the Commission's Trip to
Southeast Asia. March 12, 1977
I have just met with Leonard Wood-
cock and the other members of the Presi-
dential Commission who are about to
leave for Southeast Asia to seek informa-
tion on our personnel who are missing
and unaccounted for and to express my
interest in improving relations between
our two countries. I am very grateful to
these distinguished Americans for agree-
ing to help me fulfill my longstanding
commitment to resolve this humanitarian
problem. I am impressed with the deep
concern and sense of purpose of the mem-
bers of the Commission as they undertake
their mission.
I am hopeful that this step we are tak-
ing will meet with a positive response and
put in motion a process that will obtain
the fullest possible accounting for our men
who sacrificed so much for their country.
At the same time, we recognize that infor-
mation may never be available on many
of them. Some were lost over water, or
over heavily forested areas and moun-
tainous terrain, where information may
never be found or will be very slow in
developing. So we are not unrealistic in
our expectations.
The Commission carries with it my per-
sonal best wishes, and I am confident it
has the support of all Americans as well.
I look forward to meeting with all of its
members upon their return. I pray they
will bring with them the assurance of an
honorable resolution for the problem of
our missing men. I also hope it will report
that the Vietnamese share my desire to
put the period of war behind us and look
ahead rather than backward.
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Daniel H. Brill To Be an
Assistant Secretary. March 14, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Daniel H. Brill to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Eco-
nomic Policy). Brill is executive vice
president of Commercial Credit Co., in
Baltimore, Md.
He was born in New York City on
April 23, 1918. He received a B.A. from
M.A. from Columbia University in 1937.
New York University in 1936 and an
He did further graduate work at Ameri-
can University in 1938 and 1939.
Brill worked as an economist for the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the
Securities and Exchange Commission
from 1937 to 1946. He served in the U.S.
Army from 1943 to 1946.
From 1947 to 1969, Brill worked for
the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System. On leaving there in
1969, he held three positions: senior ad-
visor to the Board, chief economist to the
377
