Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But we've met challenges before, and our Nation has been the
stronger after the challenge was met. That's the responsibility that we
face-you in the Congress, the members of my own administration, and
all the people of our country. I am confident that together we will suc-
ceed.
Thank you very much, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 p.m. in the House Chamber at the Capitol. He was
introduced by Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives. The
address was broadcast live on radio and television.
National Energy Program
Fact Sheet on the President's
Program. April 20, 1977
The President tonight addressed a joint
session of Congress and presented the out-
line of a national energy plan to be submit-
ted to the Congress next week.
I. NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY PRINCIPLES,
STRATEGIES, AND GOALS
A. PRINCIPLES
The National Energy Plan is based on
10 fundamental principles.
1. We can have an effective and com-
prehensive energy policy only if the Gov-
ernment takes responsibility for it and if
the people understand the seriousness of
the challenge and are willing to make
sacrifices.
2. Healthy economic growth must con-
tinue. Only by saving energy can we
maintain our standard of living and keep
our people working.
3. We must protect the environment.
Our energy problems have the same cause
as our environmental problems-—wasteful
use of resources. Conservation helps us
solve both at once.
4. We must reduce our vulnerability to
potentially devastating embargoes. We
can protect ourselves from uncertain sup-
plies by reducing our demand for oil, mak-
ing the most of our abundant resources
such as coal, and developing a strategic
petroleum reserve.
5. We must be fair. Our solutions must
ask equal sacrifices from every region,
every class of people, every interest group.
Industry will have to do its part to con-
serve, just as consumers will. The energy
producers deserve fair treatment, but we
will not let the energy companies profiteer.
6. The cornerstone of our policy is to
reduce demand through conservation.
Our emphasis on conservation is a clear
difference between this plan and others
which merely encouraged crash produc-
tion efforts. Conservation is the quickest,
cheapest, most practical source of energy.
7. Prices should generally reflect the
true replacement cost of energy. We are
only cheating ourselves if we make energy
artificially cheap and use more than we
can really afford.
8. Government policies must be predict-
able and certain. Both consumers and pro-
ducers need policies they can depend on
so they can plan ahead.
9. We must conserve the fuels that are
scarcest and make the most of those that
are more plentiful. We cannot continue to
use oil and gas for 75 percent of our con-
sumption when they make up only 8 per-
cent of our domestic reserves. We need to
shift to plentiful coal while taking care to
672
