Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
low-sulfur, West Virginia coal as they
have agreed to do, they would have to put
a scrubber on them and we would have
to pay $200 million extra. And I can't
really conceive of how you see that helping
anybody.
MR. COSTLE. I was referring primarily
to the construction of new powerplants.
We have got some difficult problems in
working out arrangements with existing
powerplants.
MR. KILPATRICK. I'm talking about new
plants.
MR. COSTLE. The principal point that I
was trying to make was that I think we
will soon reach the point where environ-
mental requirements will not in and of
themselves be the source of discrimination
in economic terms, will not force several-
tier kinds of systems.
I'd be happy to sit with you and talk at
greater length about the specific problem.
But I think we have to come to realize in
this country-and I think we are coming
to realize that we're having to manage
our air resources just like we now manage
our land resources or our underground
mineral resources; that we're dealing with
a fixed commodity that has a similar ca-
pacity limitation; that within those health
standards there is considerable margin for
managing what goes into that atmosphere.
But it's essentially a whole new concept
of managing the resource that's really
come upon us in the last 5 years. And
we're learning as we go. And I think we're
making considerable progress.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me recognize Ed
Smith. I'd like to ask Mr. Smith what he
feels are the causes of the drop-off in pro-
duction per miner, and whether or not the
shift of the health protection features, par-
ticularly black lung from HEW to Labor,
has been a good move in your opinion. Has
it gotten better or worse as far as the
Government is concerned? It's gotten bet-
ter?
MR. SMITH. It has gotten a lot better in
the last 10, 15 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's good to
know. What do you think can be done to
increase the amount of coal that's pro-
duced per day, per miner, in the deep
mines? Do
mines? Do you think we have very little
chance of seeing that done?
MR. SMITH. Well, you could. You
would have to have good machinery. You
would have to have a good bunch of men,
the men that don't lay off, do their work
every day.
THE PRESIDENT. How much of the
problem would you say was a lack of har-
mony between labor and the operators
themselves?
MR. SMITH. Well, where I work at U.S.
Steel, they get along pretty good. But some
of these mines, they don't.
THE PRESIDENT. How about with Am-
herst? What could
herst? What could you do? [Laughter]
MR. JONES. Mr. Smith expresses it a lot
better than I could.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. Yes, sir?
MR. SMITH. A lot of these fellows that
work there—just like we had a boss, asked
one fellow how come he worked 3 days a
week. He said he couldn't make it on 2.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Mr.
Reichl?
MR. REICHL. Mr. President, I would
like to refer back to what Mr. Costle said
about the best-BAT, isn't it, for short-
best available technology. I wonder
whether we shouldn't stop and look for a
moment at the possible overkill here. For
instance, we are now scrubbing western
coal, as you said, which have maybe .7
percent sulfur to start with, and we now
take another 80 percent of that sulfur out.
If
you look at high-sulfur West Vir-
ginia coal of 4 percent sulfur and take
90 percent out, you would wind up worse
than the raw coal from the West. I'm not
sure there is really a need for this if you
419
