May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Britain, and France—to reemphasize our
commitment to the quadripartite agree-
ment with the Soviet Union on East and
West Berlin.
I don't anticipate any change in our
policy. What I do anticipate is that we
reconfirm our commitment to the policy
that has been in effect for the last 25 or
more years.
FOREIGN POLICY
MR. DIMBLEBY. When you came to
office, Mr. President, you talked a great
deal-and during the campaign—about
the new openness that you were going to
bring to diplomacy. And I wonder now,
3 months in, and after the Moscow talks
which collapsed, if you feel that you were
too open, that you pitched your bid too
publicly and also too high, and that you
have in fact set back the cause of dis-
armament by 3 months?
The President. No. In the first place,
the Moscow talks did not collapse. They
are continuing. The Secretary of State,
Mr. Vance, and the Foreign Minister,
Mr. Gromyko, will continue their talks in
Geneva in the middle of this month.
Also, we've established 8 or 10 subcom-
mittees to work on some of the matters
that I discussed earlier. I need not repeat
those.
My administration, including myself,
have been criticized because we have
brought into the open some basic foreign
policy discussions that in the past took
place in secret. I feel that I'll make a bet-
ter judgment on foreign matters if the
Congress and the American people know
what my options are, debate these options
freely and openly, and that my conclu-
sions are drawn after those debates are
completed.
In addition to that, when I do make a
decision as President, I think other na-
tions will pay much more attention to my
decision if other nations' leaders know
that the Congress and the American
people support me.
In the Mideast, for instance, we hope
to make some progress this fall. And a de-
scription of some of the options that we
have available to us, a description as best
I can without violating confidence of the
different opinions expressed by the Arab
countries and Israel, I think, is a very
healthy development. We have been 29
years now with no agreement among those
nations, and I think it's time to bring out
some of the disputes into the open.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But can you yet point
to any benefit that's been gained by your
openness?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think so. I be-
lieve we have a much better chance now
of reaching an actual reduction in com-
mitments to atomic weapons than we did
before, working with the Soviet Union.
I think we have a much better chance
this year than we have had in a long
number of years to have some substantive
move toward peace in the Middle East. I
think that we have a much clearer con-
cept around the world of the importance
of human rights than we did a few years
ago, a few months ago.
I think we have raised the question in a
vivid fashion of the dangers to be derived
from a continued proliferation of atomic
weapon capability, and other points that
we have tried to express is a need for con-
servation in the consumption of energy
and for the sale of conventional weapons
to the developing nations of the world.
I am not trying to say that our country
has taken the only initiative in this. I
think other leaders with whom I'll meet
in London have done these things long
before I did.
THE MIDDLE EAST
MR. DIMBLEBY. Do you believe-you
were talking about the Middle East-do
768
