Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
using the new centrifuge technology, which consumes only about one-
tenth the energy of existing gaseous diffusion plants.
We must also reform the nuclear licensing procedures. New plants
should not be located near earthquake fault zones or near population
centers. Safety standards should be strengthened and enforced; designs
standardized as much as possible. And we need more adequate storage for
spent fuel supplies.
However, even with the most thorough safeguards, it should not take
10 years to license a plant. It only takes 3 years to license, design, and build
a plant in a country like Japan. I propose that we establish reasonable,
objective criteria for licensing, and that plants which are based on a
standard design not require extensive, individual design studies before
the license is granted.
Our fourth strategy is to develop permanent and reliable new energy
sources. The most promising, of course, is solar energy, for which most of
the technology is already available. Solar water heaters and solar space
heaters are ready now for commercialization. All they need is some initia-
tive to initiate the growth of a large new market in our country.
Therefore, I am proposing a gradually decreasing tax credit, to run
from now through 1984, for those who purchase approved solar heating
equipment. Initially, it would be 40 percent of the first $1,000 and 25
percent of the next $6,400 invested to provide solar heating for a home.
Increased production of geothermal energy can be insured by pro-
viding the same tax incentives as exist for gas and oil drilling operations.
Our guiding principle as we developed this plan was that above all
it must be fair. None of our people must make an unfair sacrifice. None
should reap an unfair benefit. The desire for equity is reflected through-
out our plan:
—in the wellhead tax, which encourages conservation but is returned
to the public;
-in a dollar-for-dollar refund of the wellhead tax as it affects home
heating oil, particularly in the Northeast;
-in reducing the unfairness of natural gas pricing;
-in insuring that homes will have the oil and natural gas they need,
while industry turns toward the more abundant coal that can
also suit its needs;
-in basing utility prices on true cost, so every user pays a fair share;
-in the automobile tax and rebate system, which rewards those who
save our energy and penalizes those who waste it.
670
