Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 8
that being used today. The Griffin-Riegle
proposal would encourage continued use
of this less efficient technology, thereby
compromising our ability to protect pub-
lic health and achieve our fuel economy
goals.
Control of auto pollution also has direct
bearing on economic growth and our abil-
ity to provide jobs in our cities. Each
additional increment of unnecessary pol-
lution-pollution which could be con-
trolled-is wasting those air quality
margins which would otherwise be avail-
able for development in our urban areas.
The unnecessary relaxation of auto emis-
sions standards and clean-up schedule
proposed in the Griffin-Riegle amend-
ment would exacerbate the already diffi-
cult choices which our cities now face in
providing for both economic growth and
protection of public health. It would also
hinder our program to make increased use
of coal.
For these reasons, I remain firmly op-
posed to the proposal made by Senators
Griffin and Riegle.
On another matter, I want to reiterate
my support for the Committee's provi-
sions for protection of air quality in areas
which are now cleaner than required by
the primary ambient air quality stand-
ards, particularly our national parks and
wilderness areas. As I stated in my Energy
and Environmental Messages, we can
achieve our energy goals without sacrific-
ing environmental quality. We can build
those power plants which are needed
without ruining the air quality of our
national parks. Amendments such as those
offered by Messrs. Breaux and Emery in
the House of Representatives defeat the
very purpose for which these spectacular
natural areas have been set aside. I urge
that you and your colleagues oppose any
amendments which would weaken our
ability to protect these irreplaceable
resources.
Senator
An identical letter is being sent to
Chairman
Randolph and
Stafford.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The letter was addressed to Senator
Muskie, chairman of the Environmental Pollu-
tion Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works. Letters were
also sent to Senator Jennings Randolph, chair-
man of the committee, and Senator Robert T.
Stafford, ranking minority member.
Board for International
Broadcasting
Nomination of John A. Gronouski To Be a
Member of the Board. June 8, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate John A. Gronouski of
Texas to be a member of the Board for
International Broadcasting. The Presi-
dent also indicated that if confirmed by
the Senate, Gronouski would be desig-
nated Chairman of the Board. Dr. Gro-
nouski is professor of economics and pub-
lic affairs at the LBJ School of Public
Affairs of the University of Texas at Aus-
tin. He organized this school in 1969 and
served as its dean until 1974.
Born in Dunbar, Wis., on October 26,
1919, Dr. Gronouski holds a Ph. D. from
the University of Wisconsin. Long active
in the Democratic Party, he was ap-
pointed Postmaster General by President
Kennedy and served in that position until
November 1965 when President Johnson
appointed him Ambassador to Poland. He
served in Warsaw until 1968.
The Board for International Broadcast-
ing was established as a result of the rec-
ommendations of the Milton Eisenhower
Commission which reviewed the mission
of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty
in 1972-73. Dr. Gronouski served as a
member of this Commission. The Con-
1073
