May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
illegalities—bribery, extortion, and other
actions that sometimes have been con-
doned in the field of trade, commerce,
and banking.
I was very pleasantly impressed with
the strong support of all the leaders of
government in attempting, through the
United Nations and through our own ac-
tions, to stamp out this embarrassment
that has been brought upon the industrial
world.
The last point I would like to make is
this: We see very clearly a need for ex-
panding the function of such institutions
as the International Monetary Fund, the
World Bank, the regional banks, and of
reaching out beyond our own group to
our natural allies and friends with whom
we have been associated in years gone by,
and to welcome the very good attitude of
the oil-supplying nations like Saudi
Arabia and others who are now seeking
not only to supply aid for developing
countries but who want to participate
with us in making decisions commensurate
with their own economic influence.
And I think we've taken a good step
forward in addition to that, as has been
pointed out, in inviting in a congenial
way the Communist countries and the So-
cialist countries, like the Soviet Union, to
join with us in trying to provide studies
of very difficult questions that concern us
all, and also providing aid to those nations
which are much less fortunate.
We have resolved to continue the func-
tion of the highly skilled persons who pre-
pared for this conference. They will
follow to be sure that our conference
up
has not been an idle discussion and not
just consummated when we issue a very
unanimous report. And I believe that this
will be an innovation which will remind
us all in the months and weeks ahead, as
we go back home, that we have obliga-
tions to fulfill, and in many ways our own
reputations are at stake, to carry out the
promises that we are now making this
afternoon to the world who looks to us
for the solution of these difficult problems.
I want to express my own thanks to
Prime Minister Callaghan and to all those
who helped to make this conference so
successful. I'm very deeply grateful to
them and to my colleagues on this plat-
form who helped me learn at firsthand the
wealth of their knowledge and back-
ground and experience. They've been
very gracious to me.
Thank you very much.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 7:25 p.m. in
the Council Room at Banqueting House.
The meeting, at which each head of state
or government made a statement concerning
the 2 days of meetings, was chaired by British
Prime Minister James Callaghan.
International Economic Summit
Meeting
Exchange With Reporters Following the Final
Session of the Summit Meeting. May 8, 1977-
REPORTER. I haven't seen the full com-
munique, but was there anything in there
on nuclear nonproliferation?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. In the addendum
to the brief communique, there is a very
clear commitment that we will pursue a
2-month study concerning the entire nu-
clear fuel cycle. We've got, in that meet-
ing alone, four different kinds of na-
tions those that have signed a nuclear
proliferation treaty and those who have
not, those who have developed nuclear
weapons, and those who have not.
So, we'll discuss a nuclear fuel cycle
from a broad, nationwide inventory of
uranium and other supplies-extraction,
the concentration of it, the enrichment so
it can be used, strict nuclear safeguards,
and then the disposal of waste. And this
will be done very shortly. It was the most
826
