Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 5
under the provisions of the program which
limit its benefits.
American Sugar Industry
Memorandum for the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations. May 4, 1977
Memorandum for the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Decision on Sugar Under Sec-
tion 202(b) of the Trade Act of 1974
Pursuant to Section 202(b) of the
Trade Act of 1974 19 U.S.C. 1330, 88
Stat. 2014, I have determined the action
that I will take with respect to the report
of the U.S. International Trade Commis-
sion on the results of its investigation re-
garding sugar, dated March 17, 1977.
This investigation was undertaken at the
request of the Senate Finance Committee.
ducers, effective with the 1977 crop, offer-
ing supplemental payments of up to 2
cents per pound, whenever the market
price falls beneath 13.5 cents a pound.
Such a program will help cover the costs
of production of U.S. sugar producers,
pending the negotiation of an Interna-
tional Sugar Agreement (ISA).
The United States has made a strong
commitment to the negotiation of an ISA,
which, if successful, will provide some
long-term assurance of greater stability of
world sugar prices and supplies. The suc-
cessful negotiation and implementation of
an ISA would render unnecessary further
consideration of unilateral measures by
the United States.
Finally, I am asking you to continue to
follow the sugar import situation closely
and, in consultation with the Secretary of
Agriculture, to advise me with respect to
any need for consideration of further
actions.
I have also concurred with the determi-
nation by the Trade Policy Staff Commit-
tee that sugar will remain eligible for
duty-free treatment under the General-
ized System of Preferences (GSP).
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL Register.
JIMMY CARTER
I have determined that import relief for
sugar is not in the national economic in-
terest. Import relief, achieved either
through quotas or tariff increases, would
have an inflationary impact on the econ-
omy, raising prices to consumers without
the promise of offsetting price stabiliza-
tion benefits. Import relief would be of
questionable benefit to the domestic sugar
industry, because it would encourage in-
creased market penetration by substitute
sweeteners, particularly high-fructose corn
syrup which can be produced at a lower
cost than most U.S. sugar. Finally, import American Sugar Industry
relief would adversely affect the export
earnings of a large number of developing
countries which depend on sugar exports
for their economic growth and prosperity.
I firmly believe that it is important to
maintain a viable domestic sugar industry
in this country. I have therefore requested
the Secretary of Agriculture to institute an
income support program for sugar pro-
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on May 5.
Letter to the Secretary of Agriculture.
May 4, 1977
To Secretary Bob Bergland
On March 17, 1977, the United States
International Trade Commission
(USITC) reported to me the results of
its investigation, conducted under Section
201 of the Trade Act of 1974, in which
799
