May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
been established since 1972, when the
program began.
I am, therefore, instructing the Secre-
tary of Commerce to identify possible
sanctuaries in areas where development
appears imminent, and to begin collect-
ing the data necesssary to designate them
as such under the law.
MINING
For more than a century, the develop-
ment of hardrock minerals on the public
lands has been governed by the Mining
Law of 1872. This law once served an
important purpose: encouraging settle-
ment of the West and rapid development
of mineral wealth there. But it is now
outdated and inadequate. It fails to set
forth clear authority for establishing en-
vironmental standards, and in some cases
has allowed mining operations to degrade
the water, soil, and air. It ignores the need
for balanced management of resources
and it has permitted the public's mineral
resources to be developed without any
royalty return to the federal treasury.
Therefore I am today instructing the
Secretary of the Interior to prepare, for
submission to the Congress, legislation to
replace the Mining Law of 1872 with one
more suited to contemporary needs.
Among its provisions should be these: (1)
a leasing system for publicly owned hard-
rock minerals; (2) explicit federal discre-
tionary authority over mineral explora-
tion and development on the public lands;
(3) strict standards for environmental
protection and for reclamation of mined
areas; (4) a requirement for approval of
operation and reclamation plans before
mining can begin; (5) royalties for use
of public lands and mineral resources; and
(6) the integration of mining into land
use plans being developed for the public
lands.
FOREST MANAGEMENT
Since the passage in recent years of
landmark legislation the Forest and
Rangelands Renewable Resources Plan-
ning Act, and the National Forest Man-
agement Act-the greatest challenge re-
maining to American forestry is to
improve the condition and production of
small private forest holdings. Various fed-
eral programs have, in the past, encour-
aged better management of these 296
million acres, which account for three-
fifths of America's total productive for-
ests. Now it is time to consider whether
they are accomplishing their purpose.
Consequently, I am asking the Secre-
tary of Agriculture to undertake a com-
prehensive study of the Cooperative
Forestry Program. This study should con-
sider the need for measures to:
• Assure that forestry programs sup-
port national environmental goals;
• Assure that assistance to non-federal
forest owners will emphasize interdis-
ciplinary and multiple use management;
Improve the capability of private
forest lands to meet the nation's need for
wood;
• Prevent and control pollution, fires,
and insects and diseases that damage for-
ests, using environmentally sound meth-
ods, such as biological pest controls;
Improve and maintain fish and wild-
life habitats, particularly those that are
critical for threatened and endangered
species;
Strengthen planning and manage-
ment capabilities of state and local for-
estry agencies.
The study should also examine the de-
sirability of providing financial assistance
to state forestry agencies on the basis of
state forestry plans rather than through
the present fragmented approach.
978
