May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
question. I'll just have to reserve the right
in the future to decide when to join with
the Congress, as has been the case in the
past, in putting tax money in addition to
the mail rates charged. I don't know how
to answer that question any better.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry. But the post
office is one of the things, as you know,
that's no longer under the President. It's
primarily under the Congress.
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION;
ENERGY PRICES; TAX REFORM
Q. Bob Gabler from South Pasadena.
Mr. President, I'd like to give you a three-
part before-and-after question. First, in
very general terms, you expressed hopes
in the campaign, gave us hope in the cam-
paign, that you'd be able to reorganize
the executive branch for more efficiency
and hopefully less interference in their
daily lives. Having been on the job for
4 months and coming against the hard
rocks reality, do you still have such hopes?
What do you see as the future role of the
Federal Government, and what role for
the State government?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. You want to ask
the other question now?
Q. I'll give you all three if you like.
THE PRESIDENT. All right. Go ahead.
Q. Second, more specifically.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know if I can
answer three, but go ahead. [Laughter]
Q. Again, during the campaign you ex-
pressed that the control of natural gas for
20 years had proven counter-productive,
that we discouraged new supplies and en-
couraged wasteful use. Then in your en-
ergy speech, I see you've now changed to
a position of extending price controls even
to local gas that's not interstate commerce,
and, of course, continuing oil controls for-
ever. Could you show us the reasons that
caused you to reassess your position on
that?
Then, the last one is, again, at some
risk to yourself during the campaign, you
expressed the opinion that in tax reform
we should remove the double taxation on
dividends. What is your current position
on that? So, recapping: The role of the
Federal and State, gas and oil controls,
and double taxation dividends.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first
place, I do think that we have an excel-
lent chance completely to reorganize the
executive branch of Government to make
it more efficient, more effective, more
open, more sensitive, and more compe-
tent. We've already begun along this
road.
The Congress has now given me au-
thority to carry out reorganization. I
would guess before the end of next month,
I would have the first plan submitted to
the Congress relating to the Executive
Office of the President. We'll follow with
the multiplicity of agencies that now re-
late to equal employment and we'll go
into electronic data processing and other
major shifts.
We also are setting up a new depart-
ment of energy which is part of a re-
organization plan. I think that in the
Federal-State relationships, my own in-
clination is to give the local and State
governments as much authority as they
can and will assume.
Whenever there's a choice to be made
between the Federal Government doing
something and the State or local govern-
ments doing something, my preference is
to let the government do it that's closest
to the people. I try to mirror in every de-
cision I make that basic philosophy.
On natural gas decontrol, we are, in
effect, decontrolling natural gas to a ma-
jor degree. We're setting the price on nat-
ural gas at a level, the same as oil, and
its equivalent heat value. The one thing
that you mentioned there is true. We are
proposing that there be a blending in, in
906
