May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
also the director, just coincidentally, in
Georgia when I was Governor. He went
from me to Washington and stayed there
several years before I got to be President.
The major effort in the drug field, of
course, is the treatment of addicts and,
of course, the prevention of addictive drug
abusers being brought into our country.
Under the comprehensive health pro-
posals that we are pursuing, including the
mental health programs as well, there is
a recognition that alcoholism or drug ad-
diction are not only preventable but also
can be treated after a person is addicted.
There's also a need for us to recognize
that you don't have to have scarce and
exotic drugs like heroin before somebody
can be damaged, because barbiturates, for
instance, are by far the major cause of
death among all drugs, and they are pre-
scribed sometimes. Sometimes they are
not even controlled by prescription. So, a
comprehensive analysis of the entire drug
field, including both alcohol and the ad-
dictive and non-addictive drugs, plus a
treatment of those who are damaged by
the drugs, will be a part of our prevention
program, our crime control problem, our
community treatment program, and also
our comprehensive health program.
Q. This is a special program, Mr. Presi-
dent. What we have is the average-I
have been in this field about 22 years.
Women have absolutely no specailties
where the addicted pregnant woman is
concerned, the stringent rules and regula-
tions. And also for housing juvenile drug
abusers, they almost have to become hard-
core before we can get places to put them,
and also the battered children, which is
really an intricate part of this drug abuse.
So, I'm hoping that you'll take a look
at that and give us a little special fund
toward it.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Let's go to Orange County. I see I have
a very young interrogator there.
HOUSING
Q. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. How are you?
Q. I am Linda Gashler and this is my
daughter Jennifer, and I am a housewife
in Orange County. Mr. President, my
husband and I and my daughter are all
apartment dwellers here in Orange Coun-
ty. Some day we'd like to have a house.
However, I am not sure if
you are aware,
but the average cost of a single-family
dwelling in Orange County is now well
over $100,000.
I would like to know, Mr. President,
is there any way that the Federal Govern-
ment can help us out and get some
housing?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so, Linda. I'd
like for you and your Jennifer and your
husband to have a home of your own if
you want it. We've just begun to address
the housing question. I think this last
month we had the highest rate of new
homes that were begun to be constructed
in the history of our country.
We're trying to hold down interest rates
as best we can. We're trying to supple-
through the community block grant pro-
ment low-cost housing, and we're trying,
gram, under the Housing and Urban De-
velopment Department, to set aside I
think about $7 billion for the reconstitu-
tion of neighborhoods, the repair of old
homes and the guarantee of loans for
young families like your own.
I don't know what the income of your
husband might be, but I think it's going
to be perhaps quite difficult for him to
purchase a $100,000 home in the first few
years of marriage. I know I couldn't have
afforded it. But I think for a more modest
904
