May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I have got to go. I have enjoyed talk-
ing to you. I wish I had more time. I
appreciate your coming.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was made
available by the White House Press Office on
May 21. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
United Nations Children's Fund
Message Delivered to the Annual Meeting
of UNICEF's Executive Board.
May 21, 1977
This is to convey, on behalf of the
people of the United States, my support
for the principles for which UNICEF
stands.
The very important participation and
active support of the members of
UNICEF is of particular interest to me
in that your organization is dedicated to
the basic human right of all people to be
free of poverty and hunger and disease.
The special emphasis you place on meet-
ing the human needs of children, the
future leaders of the world, makes your
efforts even that much more essential to
the goal of seeking human freedom and
dignity for all mankind.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The message was delivered by Peter G.
Bourne, Special Assistant to the President for
Health Issues, at UNICEF's meeting in Manila,
the Philippines, on May 23.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Address at Commencement Exercises at the University. May 22, 1977
To Father Hesburgh and the great faculty of Notre Dame, to those
who have been honored this afternoon with the degree from your great
university, to the graduate and undergraduate group who, I understand,
is the largest in the history of this great institution, friends and parents:
Thank you for that welcome. I'm very glad to be with you. You may
have started a new graduation trend which I don't deplore, that is,
throwing peanuts on graduation day. [Laughter] The more that are used
or consumed the higher the price goes. [Laughter]
I really did appreciate the great honor bestowed upon me this after-
noon. My other degree is blue and gold from the Navy, and I want to
let you know that I do feel a kinship with those who are assembled here
this afternoon. I was a little taken aback by the comment that I had
brought a new accent to the White House. In the minds of many people
in our country, for the first time in almost 150 years, there is no accent.
[Laughter]
I tried to think of a story that would illustrate two points simul-
taneously and also be brief, which is kind of a difficult assignment. I was
954
