Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Migrants and Indians require special
attention because of their high levels of
unemployment. I am therefore proposing
an addition of 20,000 slots, largely for
migrants and Indians, under Title III of
CETA.
I will instruct the Department of La-
bor to solicit innovative proposals from
governmental units, private nonprofit or-
ganizations, and tribal organizations. The
new initiatives will include residential
training for migrant and seasonal farm-
workers, training programs coordinated
with rural economic development activ-
ities, rehabilitation of farm labor housing
camps, and publicly assisted home re-
habilitation and weatherization projects.
The Indian initiative will support ef-
forts to improve the internal strength of
Indian communities. The efforts will in-
clude employment and training activities
in connection with road building, the de-
velopment and management of industrial
parks, construction of waste disposal sys-
tems, domestic fuel development, irriga-
tion projects, and housing development
and management.
3. Countercyclical Revenue Sharing.
Under the countercyclical revenue shar-
ing program passed by Congress in 1975,
additional funds are made available to
states and localities when the national
unemployment rate exceeds 6% a year. I
propose to fund the existing program fully
through fiscal year 1978 and to expand it
further.
Under current law, $125 million is
made available in each quarter to state
and local governments when national un-
employment rises above 6%. For each 2
of 1% of unemployment above 6%, an
additional $62.5 million is released in
each quarter. Localities then qualify for
their portions on a formula based upon
their excess unemployment and general
revenue sharing allocation.
Under my proposal each 10 of 1% of
unemployment above 6% would allow
$30 million of new funding to be distrib-
uted each quarter in addition to the
basic $125 million available at 6% un-
employment. At 7.5% unemployment,
this plan would distribute $2.25 billion
annually, compared to $1.25 billion under
the current program. By changing the
formula we would make the program
more sensitive to the unemployment
rate.
I therefore now recommend that the
new countercyclical revenue sharing be
authorized on a five-year basis instead of
the current one year, so that it will auto-
matically continue in effect and be ready
if needed in the future.
The proposed expansion of this pro-
gram will add an estimated $500 million
in fiscal year 1977 and $600 million in
fiscal year 1978 over and above the cur-
rent program level.
B. Tax Reductions
1. Rebates and Cash Payments. The
rebate and cash payment program which
I propose has three components:
a. A $50 non-refundable rebate of 1976
taxes for each taxpayer and his or her de-
pendents up to the limit of the taxpay-
er's liability. It will cost $8.2 billion.
b. For families who were eligible and
file for the earned income credit, a re-
fundable rebate would be paid to bring
the total rebate up to $50 per person,
even if that exceeds the family's 1976 tax
liability. This will be of particular benefit
to the working poor. It will cost $1.4
billion.
c. A $50 payment in 1977 to every
beneficiary of Social Security, Supple-
mental Security Income (SSI), or Rail-
road Retirement. These payments would
be of particular benefit to the aged poor.
This will cost $1.8 billion.
54
