Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 11
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 11976. March 11, 1977
AMENDING EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 11861,
AS AMENDED, PLACING CERTAIN POSI-
TIONS IN LEVELS IV AND V OF THE
EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 5317 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and as President of the
United States of America, it is hereby or-
dered as follows:
SECTION 1. Section 1 of Executive Od-
der No. 11861, as amended, placing cer-
tain positions in level IV of the Execu-
tive Schedule, is further amended by
adding thereto "(17) Director of Agri-
cultural Economics, Department of Agri-
culture." and "(18) Assistant to the
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of Defense.".
SEC. 2. Section 2 of Executive Order
No. 11861, as amended, placing certain
positions in level V of the Executive
Schedule, is further amended by deleting
"(1) Defense Representative, Iran, De-
partment of Defense." and "(9) Deputy
Assistant Secretary for Housing, Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.".
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 11, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:24 p.m., March 11, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
National Energy Policy
Announcement of White House Sponsorship
of 20 Mini-Conferences on Policy
Formulation. March 11, 1977
The White House has announced that
it will sponsor a series of 20 mini-confer-
ences over the next 2 weeks to gather
information on national energy policy by
April 20.
The mini-conferences are part of a
broad effort to give all segments of the
public a voice in the making of that pol-
icy. The White House last week an-
nounced a mailing seeking the opinions
of 450,000 Americans, and the Federal
Energy Administration will hold a series
of citizen town hall meetings in 10 cities
beginning March 14.
The mini-conferences will take place in
Washington and will be conducted by the
staff of the White House Energy Policy
and Planning Office.
Each session will last 3 hours and will
concentrate on airing the opinions of one
segment of the public.
The series begins Monday, March 14,
with a morning mini-conference with
consumer group representatives and an
afternoon meeting with auto industry
officials. It concludes March 25.
Included in the series will be mini-con-
ferences with union leaders; builders,
architects and planners; various energy
producers; public and privately owned
utilities; agricultural interests; State and
local officials; low-income representa-
tives; environmentalists; and others.
The meetings will be open to the
NOTE: The schedule for the mini-conferences
was also included in the White House press
release.
Indian Claims Dispute in the
State of Maine
press.
Designation of William B. Gunter as the
President's Special Representative To
Coordinate Negotiations. March 11, 1977
The President today designated Geor-
gia Supreme Court Justice William B.
Gunter as his special representative on the
363
