Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
MRS. THOMAS. And how.
THE PRESIDENT. Now this average for a
family, for instance, that makes $10,000
a year, this tax reduction or refund will
amount to about 30 percent of the taxes
paid, and the permanent reduction that
will be in effect from now on will amount
to about 20-percent tax reduction for that
$10,000-a-year family.
We anticipate in September eliminating
a great number of the loopholes that do
benefit the rich and the powerful, and any
of those savings that are derived from that
will be passed along to the low- and mid-
dle-income families like, perhaps, yourself.
MRS. THOMAS. Thank you. And may I
say, as a registered Republican, I'm be-
hind you 100 percent. And I'm sure there
are a lot of us out here.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, ma'am.
I really appreciate that.
MRS. THOMAS. Thank you. Bye-bye.
MR. CRONKITE. What about Mrs.
Thomas' question about the Congress be-
ing loaded in the upper-middle classes
and upper classes and not enough repre-
sentation from the lower classes. Do you
think that's true?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think once a
Congressman gets in office now, with a
fairly substantial salary, they are obviously
in the upper class. So is a President, by
the way. I guess, so is an anchorman for
CBS.
But I think that to the extent that Gov-
ernment officials like myself and the Mem-
bers of Congress make an extra effort to
stay in touch with people, to let folks like
Mrs. Thomas ask us questions and to
scrutinze who pays the bills for my family
within the White House and so forth,
that's a good way to restore confidence in
us. Also, I believe that the campaigns
which come every 2 years for the Mem-
bers of Congress keep them in touch with
poor or working people. I know my own
campaign for the last 2 years, joined by
my wife and all my sons and their wives,
my mother quite often, and my sister and
my aunt, we learned a lot about people
in other parts of the country outside of
Georgia during the 2-year period. So, the
campaign process, as part of our constitu-
tional system, I believe, is a good guaran-
tee that, to a substantial degree, public
officials stay in touch with folks back
home.
Now, the problem is, Walter, in a case
like income tax, over a period of years the
laws change. And the ones who demand
the changes are those who are powerful
and who are influential and who can hire
lobbyists, or who can pay for their own
private lawyer and who can form a co-
hesive approach to Congress and put tre-
mendous pressure on the Congress to
meet a permanent or a transient, tempo-
rary need. Once a need is passed, that
special privilege in the law stays there.
The average American family with
$10,000, $15,000, sometimes $25,000 a
year, has no organization. They don't
have any lobbyists. And the only way for
them to understand what goes on in a
very complicated income tax law is for
somebody like the President to take the
initiative and present to the American
people, in a comprehensive way, all at
once, these are the things that are unfair,
these are the things that can be changed
to make it fair, so that the American peo-
ple can be marshaled to exert their influ-
ence and their interest in the tax laws.
A person who has a special privilege,
they focus their attention and their influ-
ence on that one tiny part of the law, and
the average American has no idea what's
going on. But if I can get the whole
American tax-paying body, toward the
end of September, to join with me and to
demand from the Congress that we make
the laws simple and fair, then in that in-
stance, I think, we can overcome this de-
terioration which, in my opinion, has
297
