Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 20
their place in the sun—not just for the benefit of their own physical con-
dition, but for basic human rights.
The passion for freedom is on the rise. Tapping this new spirit, there
can be no nobler nor more ambitious task for America to undertake on
this day of a new beginning than to help shape a just and peaceful world
that is truly humane.
We are a strong nation, and we will maintain strength so sufficient
that it need not be proven in combat—a quiet strength based not merely
on the size of an arsenal but on the nobility of ideas.
We will be ever vigilant and never vulnerable, and we will fight our
wars against poverty, ignorance, and injustice, for those are the enemies
against which our forces can be honorably marshaled.
We are a proudly idealistic nation, but let no one confuse our ideal-
ism with weakness.
Because we are free, we can never be indifferent to the fate of free-
dom elsewhere. Our moral sense dictates a clearcut preference for those
societies which share with us an abiding respect for individual human
rights. We do not seek to intimidate, but it is clear that a world which
others can dominate with impunity would be inhospitable to decency and
a threat to the well-being of all people.
The world is still engaged in a massive armaments race designed to
ensure continuing equivalent strength among potential adversaries. We
pledge perseverance and wisdom in our efforts to limit the world's arma-
ments to those necessary for each nation's own domestic safety. And we
will move this year a step toward our ultimate goal-the elimination of
all nuclear weapons from this Earth. We urge all other people to join us,
for success can mean life instead of death.
Within us, the people of the United States, there is evident a serious
and purposeful rekindling of confidence. And I join in the hope that when
my time as your President has ended, people might say this about our
Nation:
-that we had remembered the words of Micah and renewed our
search for humility, mercy, and justice;
—that we had torn down the barriers that separated those of differ-
ent race and region and religion, and where there had been mis-
trust, built unity, with a respect for diversity;
—that we had found productive work for those able to perform it;
—that we had strengthened the American family, which is the basis
of our society;
3
