Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 25
Review of Advisory Committees
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
February 25, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Review of Advisory Committees
Advisory committees can be of great
value. They may contribute to the "open-
ness" of governmental decisionmaking,
and provide talent and opinions not
otherwise available. However, many exist-
ing committees have outlived their use-
fulness, or are not providing truly bal-
anced advice and recommendations.
The Congress reflected a similar con-
cern in the Federal Advisory Committee
Act (P.L. 92-463), which assigned com-
mittee management responsibilities to the
President, to the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, and to the
heads of agencies. In the first year after
enactment, the number of committees
was reduced by 250-and the number has
remained about the same ever since.
Accordingly, I am ordering a govern-
ment-wide, zero-base review of all advi-
sory committees, with the presumption
that committees not created expressly by
statute should be abolished except those
created by statute which you do not be-
lieve meet these standards.
I consider this an important part of our
effort to improve the organization and
effectiveness of government. To ensure
that it is successful, I am requesting that
you assume personal responsibility for the
review insofar as your agency is con-
cerned.
I hope for prompt results from this ef-
fort. Specifically, I hope that the number
of advisory committees will be sharply re-
duced, and that appropriate changes in
membership will be made wherever neces-
sary. Moreover, I want you to undertake
a continuing effort to assure that no new
advisory committees are established un-
less they are essential to meet the respon-
sibilities of the government.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: At the time of the release of the memo-
randum, the White House also released infor-
mation on existing advisory committees which
stated that in 1976 there were 465 advisory
committees authorized, but not mandated, by
law, which cost $17.8 million; 482 advisory
committees established under general statutory
authority of department Secretaries or execu-
tive or independent agency heads, which cost
$15.3 million; and 209 advisory committees
created by statute, which cost $20.7 million.
Proclamation 4489. February 25, 1977
(1) for which there is a compelling need; Red Cross Month, 1977
(2) which will have truly balanced mem-
bership; and (3) which conduct their
business as openly as possible consistent
with the law and their mandate. The Di-
rector of OMB will provide you and your
staff with instructions for carrying out the
agency reviews, which are to be com-
pleted and submitted to OMB by April
15, 1977. Each agency should provide for
open and public participation in its review
process to the maximum extent consistent
with an expeditious review.
By the President of the United States
of America
I also urge you to confer with Congress
about abolishing any advisory committees
A Proclamation
For 96 years, the American Red Cross
has symbolized the best in our society. Its
hundreds of thousands of volunteers have
generously given of themselves to provide
a wide range of important, necessary
services.
Many Americans think of the Red Cross
in connection with disaster relief. It is
249
