Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
FEDERAL ENERGY REORGANIZATION
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Mr. President, la-
dies and gentlemen, the proposal that is
before the Congress of the United States
right now for the creation of a new de-
partment of energy, which the President
has announced will be headed by Dr.
Schlesinger, is, I think, very needed and
long overdue.
We have had the components of energy
scattered throughout the Government in
many different areas, and it was very diffi-
cult to pin down exactly who was in con-
trol of what. So, the President has put
together a proposal whereby the depart-
ment of energy will gather from many dif-
ferent departments and agencies of Gov-
ernment into one entity in the new depart-
ment of energy.
From the Department of Interior there
are several components that are being re-
moved now. There are several that were
removed previously, because the pantry of
the Interior Department was approached
a couple of years ago when they created
ERDA, parts of ERDA and FEA and
others.
Under the existing proposal of the Pres-
ident's, we will also remove from Interior
the power-marketing functions such as the
Bonneville Power Administration, South-
east Power, Southwest, so forth. The data-
gathering portions of the Bureau of Mines
will go from Interior to the department of
energy, and those portions of the lease
procedure dealing with the economic por-
tions of that lease, but the leasing pro-
cedure itself will remain in Interior.
The geographical selection of where the
leases will be let the environmental
pro-
tection portions will remain with Interior,
but prior to the time that those leases are
let, the new department of energy will
then provide us with the criteria for the
economic provisions; in other words, what
type of bidding.
In the case of oil and gas leasing, the
front-end bonus versus the royalty route,
those determinations will be made. We
will insert those provisions into the lease
and then the Department of the Interior
will continue as it has in the past to make
the lease sale, and then we will be charged
with the responsibility of seeing that that
lease is upheld.
Now, that's a very brief sketch, Mr.
President, of those portions that come
from Interior, and I remind you, ladies
and gentlemen, that a lot of other entities
from other departments will also be go-
ing to the department of energy, and I
think Dr. Schlesinger can comment upon
that.
MR. SCHLESINGER. Mr. President, as
you know, the purpose of the reorgani-
zation plan is to gather together in one
department all of the authorities neces-
sary to draw up and to effectively imple-
ment a national energy plan, a compre-
hensive energy plan. By itself, the creation
of a new department, of a new adminis-
trative structure, does not solve the sub-
stantive problems in the energy area. It
simply gives us an instrument, subse-
quently, to facilitate the solutions to those
problems.
We need a bureaucratic instrument
which ends the overlapping jurisdictions,
the duplication, the conflicting mandates
that presently exist. And we do hope Sen-
ator Randolph, who has been on energy
matters over the years, a voice crying in
the wilderness, that that cry will be heard
and that the Congress will move rapidly
with regard to reorganization.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Reichl, with
Conoco.
MR. REICHL. This is an excellent move,
obviously, Mr. President. I would hope
that in giving the new department the
necessary authority, it can also have the
authority to what I would like to say is
to lend stability and firmness to the pro-
426
