Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
liefs, certain heritage, certain faith, cer-
tain tradition that are beyond question of
size. I believe that there is something that
brings us together. It's the spirit of free-
dom, the belief in democracy, and the
permanent search for peace and happi-
ness.
I believe that only these values can ex-
plain the unique relationship that has been
developed between our countries. Mr.
President, you mentioned that with Presi-
dent Truman, the United States was the
first country on Earth to recognize the in-
dependence of the Jewish people in its
own country, in Israel. I don't believe it is
just by sheer coincidence.
about an end to a long, futile war and will
start a new beginning to Israel and to all
the countries in that area.
We trust that you, and the United
States under your leadership, will do
whatever is possible on the one hand to
pursue the course of peace, but at the
same time, to make sure that Israel's
strengths will allow it to defend itself, by
itself, till peace will be achieved.
Allow me to raise my glass, Mr. Presi-
dent. To you, Mr. President, and to what-
ever you want to achieve for your country,
for the welfare of the world and, I hope,
for peace in the Middle East.
To the President.
And since then, three decades almost,
these relationships have been developed,
have been strengthened, have, to my opin-
ion, brought tranquillity and hope of bet-
ter life and peace to the Middle East, not
only to Israel—I believe to the region as Department of Justice
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
a whole.
I'm sure that the understanding and the
cooperation between our two countries is
the basis and the hope for peace in the
area. I'm sure that the talks that we have
started today, and I'm sure that the un-
derstandings that will be reached, will
serve and will help bring meaningful
negotiations, agreements, and in the long
run—let's hope shorter than long-bring
peace to the area.
I've said to you, Mr. President, this
morning, that it might be this is the first
visit of a Prime Minister of Israel that has
come to the United States without a shop-
ping list, without the need to make im-
minent decision because of the pressure of
events.
I believe that your initiative to start
these talks and to invite me this time will
allow us to build the kind of thinking and,
I hope, also action with coordination with
other leaders of the area that will bring
Nomination of Peter F. Flaherty To Be
Deputy Attorney General. March 8, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Peter F. Flaherty to be Dep-
uty Attorney General. Flaherty is cur-
rently mayor of Pittsburgh, Pa.
Flaherty was born June 25, 1924, in
Pittsburgh. He received a J.D. degree,
cum laude, from the University of Notre
Dame in 1951. He received his M.P.A.
degree from the University of Pittsburgh
in 1967. He served in the United States
Air Force from 1943 to 1946, when he was
honorably discharged as a captain.
Flaherty engaged in the private practice
of law in Pittsburgh from 1952 to 1957
and from 1964 to 1966. From 1957 to
1964, he served as an assistant district
attorney for Allegheny County. He was a
councilman for the city of Pittsburgh from
1966 until 1970, when he was elected
mayor.
336
