Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
State-designate Cyrus Vance, of 10 nomi-
nees for posts in the State Department.
They are:
HAROLD H. SAUNDERS, to remain as Director
of the Bureau of Intelligence and Research;
DOUGLAS JOSEPH BENNET, JR., to be Assist
ant Secretary of State for Congressional Re-
lations;
JOSEPH D. DUFFEY, to be Assistant Secretary
of State for Cultural Affairs;
JOHN M. THOMAS, to remain as Assistant Sec-
retary of State for Administration;
C. WILLIAM MAYNES, to be Assistant Secre-
tary of State for International Organization
Affairs;
C. ARTHUR BORG, to be Executive Secretary
of the Department of State;
CAROL C. LAISE, to remain as Director Gen-
eral of the Foreign Service;
JULIUS L. KATZ, to be retained as Assistant
tion at a time when the importance of
economic and political cooperation to de-
fine and resolve mutual problems has
never been greater.
The President is aware and the Ameri-
can people are aware that the relation-
ships among nations now, as perhaps
never before, directly affect the jobs and
the economic security of families all over
the world.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at a January 22 new briefing on the
Vice President's trip. His statement was not
issued in the form of a White House press
release.
Secretary of State for Economic and Busi- Organization of the National
ness Affairs;
JOSEPH SAMUEL NYE, JR., to be Deputy to the
Under Secretary of State for Security As-
sistance, Science and Technology; and
MATHEA FALCO, to be Special Assistant to the
Secretary for Narcotics Matters.
Vice President Mondale's
Trip to Europe and Japan
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. January 22, 1977
The President has asked me to relay to
you the particular importance he places
on Vice President Mondale's trip. He sees
this very early visit by the Vice President,
a person he has come to value as a per-
sonal friend as well as a chief policy and
political adviser, as symbolic of the im-
portance this administration places on
close and cooperative relationships with
our friends and allies.
Above and beyond this symbolism, the
President sees this journey as an impor-
tant mission of fact finding and consulta-
Security Council
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. January 22, 1977
A new organizational system has been
established for the NSC. In place of the
previous seven committees, there will be
only two. There will be a Committee on
Policy Review, chaired by departmental
officials, normally the senior depart-
mental official.
There will be a Committee on Special
Coordination dealing with cross-cutting
issues, chaired by the President's National
Security Adviser, Dr. Zbigniew Brzezin-
ski.
This system was devised and ordered by
the President himself. It reflects his desire
for more simplified and responsive or-
ganization throughout government.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at a January 22 news briefing on the
Vice President's trip to Europe and Japan. His
statement was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
8
