Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ance of future capacity to meet our Na-
tion's needs in a very crucial industry,
and to give the people of our country
some feeling of assurance that the Federal
Government mechanism, working with
State and local governments, private in-
dustry, can deal with an energy shortage
brought about in a crisis stage by very
unusual weather-which might be more
usual in the future-but to emphasize as
strongly as I can that this now temporary
circumstance is going to be permanent.
THE ENERGY SITUATION
Our country-in spite of fine efforts
like in this plant, where the lighting load
has been cut down 40 percent and where
energy conservation measures have been
instituted our country still wastes more
energy that could be saved than the total
amount we import.
We now have in Pennsylvania alone,
about 400,000 people unemployed before
the energy crisis came. Because of the
heavy snows and extremely cold weather,
we've got, already, an additional 90,000
people out of work. And Governor Shapp
has just completed an analysis and
we've confirmed the accuracy of it-
showing that there are 325,000 more peo-
ple who are still on their jobs in plants
that depend on heavy supplies of natural
gas
and other scarce energy materials, and
their jobs are all in danger.
Now, we have introduced emergency
legislation in the Congress. I hope that
legislation will pass either Monday or
Tuesday. We have got several Members
of Congress here with me this morning,
and they have pledged their support for
this legislation. But emergency legislation
passed in the midst of a crisis is not what
our Nation needs. We are the only devel-
oped country in the world that doesn't
have a comprehensive, long-range energy
policy that's predictable and well con-
ceived that all of us can depend upon.
Dr. James Schlesinger works directly
with me in the White House as an Assist-
ant to the President. He is responsible for
the evolution, before April 20, of a com-
prehensive energy policy. We should have
had it years ago, and we will have it this
spring.
But in the meantime, the American
people have got to realize that we've got
a serious problem on our hands.
We flew here from Washington so I
could see the countryside, to observe the
status of the rivers. I think the Mononga-
hela River here is the heaviest traveled
river in the world. More cargo, more sup-
plies, more products of factories are
transported on this river than any other
river in the whole world. And as we came
across the bridge a few minutes ago, I
could see dozens of crucially needed
barges tied up in the river, empty because
they can't be transported back down to
be refilled because of the heavy ice
conditions.
It is important that people who are in
their homes know that they ought to cut
down their thermostats drastically. I have
asked nationwide for not more than 65
degrees, much lower at night. In your
own State the request is 62 degrees. There
are many homes that have open fireplaces
that could even turn down their thermo-
stats to 50 degrees or turn off the heat.
We need to do it, because every iota of
energy saved, particularly in the crucial
elements like natural gas and, in some
areas, heating oil, can be used to keep
people on their jobs.
There will be suburban areas in our
country within this next week that will
probably completely lose all supplies of
natural gas. Plans must be made for those
people who live in homes that will have
no heat to be transported to neighbors'
homes and to be housed in school
buildings.
38
