Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
which is, of course, identical with the
public-in other words, what we said pri-
vately to the Japanese was a careful
repetition of what the President's position
publicly has been. In our talks with them,
I emphasized the fact that the adminis-
tration does not intend to turn its back on
Asia; that we should and will remain an
Asian-Pacific power; that our alliance
with Japan remains central to our policy
in that vast and important part of the
world; that we will preserve a balanced
and flexible military strength in the Pacific
and continue our interests in Southeast
Asia.
With respect to Korea, I emphasized
our concern to maintain a stable situation
on the Korean peninsula. I cited that we
will phase down our ground forces only
in close consultation and cooperation with
the Governments of Japan and South
Korea. And we will maintain our air capa-
bility in Korea and continue to assist in
upgrading Korean self-defense capability.
And I think they found that formulation
satisfactory and reassuring.
Q. Would you amplify increasing the
combat effectiveness of Korean ground
forces? Are you planning to give South
Korea the sort of weapons that it doesn't
have now, or more sophisticated equip-
ment? Are you just saying that, or is
there some major program for giving,
for upgrading Korean ground forces?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I think it's a con-
tinuation of an existing commitment that
we would help the ground forces increase
their combat effectiveness. I don't have
a specific answer to that. But it does not
go beyond that statement.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The news conference began at 11:10
a.m. in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office
Building.
Secretary of the Army
Nomination of Clifford L. Alexander, Jr.
February 2, 1977
The President today announced his
intention to nominate Clifford L. Alex-
ander, Jr., as Secretary of the Army.
Alexander is presently a partner in the
Washington law firm of Verner, Liipfert,
Bernhard, McPherson and Alexander.
He was born September 21, 1933, in
New York City. He received an A.B.
degree in American government from
Harvard University in 1955 and an
LL.B. from Yale Law School in 1958.
From 1959 to 1961, Alexander was an
assistant district attorney in the New York
County District Attorney's office. In 1961
and 1962, he was executive director of
Manhattanville Hamilton Grange in New
York. In 1962 and 1963, he served as
program and executive director of Har-
lem Youth Opportunities Unlimited.
From 1963 to 1964, Alexander served
on the National Security Council as for-
eign affairs officer. From 1964 to 1967,
he worked in the White House as Deputy
Special Assistant to the President, Asso-
ciate Special Counsel, and Deputy Special
Counsel.
From 1967 to 1969, Alexander was a
member and Chairman of the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission,
and also served as a civil rights consultant
to the President. In 1968 he was a com-
missioner on the Commission for the Ob-
servance of Human Rights Year and
served as special Ambassador to the King-
dom of Swaziland.
Alexander was a partner in the Wash-
ington law firm of Arnold & Porter from
1969 to 1975. Between 1972 and 1976,
he worked for WMAL television in
Washington as a news commentator and
65
