Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 19
DECISION MEMORANDUM ON TELEVISION
RECEIVERS
Pursuant to Section 202 (b) (1) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618), I
have determined the actions I will take
with respect to the report of the United
States International Trade Commission
(USITC) dated March 22, 1977, con-
cerning television receivers, color and
monochrome, assembled or not assembled,
finished or not finished, and subassem-
blies thereof. In that report the Commis-
sion determined that color television
receivers, assembled or not assembled,
finished or not finished, provided for in
item 685.20 of the TSUS are being im-
ported into the United States in such
increased quantities as to be a substantial
cause of serious injury to the domestic in-
dustry producing articles like or directly
competitive with the imported articles.
Three Commissioners found injury in
both the color and monochrome television
industries.
Pursuant to Section 330 (d) of the
Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the Presi-
dent may accept, in the case of an evenly
divided USITC vote on an injury deter-
mination, the determination of either set
of Commissioners on the question of in-
jury. I have decided to accept the deter-
mination of those three Commissioners
who voted that the domestic monochrome
television industry has not been seriously
injured or threatened with serious injury
by increased imports. Import relief is
therefore not authorized for this industry
under section 203 of the Trade Act of
1974. I have, however, decided to accept
the determination of those three Commis-
sioners who voted that the domestic in-
dustry producing subassemblies of color
television receivers has been seriously in-
jured by increased imports.
Pursuant to section 202(b)(1) of the
Trade Act, I have determined to provide
import relief to the television industry
producing color television receivers, as-
sembled or not assembled, finished or not
finished and subassemblies thereof pro-
vided for in item 685.20 of the TSUS.
I am, therefore, directing you to ne-
gotiate and conclude an orderly market-
ing agreement with the Government of
Japan, the major supplying country, to
resolve the immediate problems of our
domestic color television industry for a
three-year period which will provide the
domestic industry time to remedy the in-
jury found to exist.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The memorandum was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
American Television Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and to the
President of the Senate Transmitting a
Report. May 19, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with Section 203 (b) (1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am enclosing
a report to the Congress setting forth the
action I am taking on color television re-
ceivers pursuant to Section 203 (a) of the
Trade Act.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF FOR COLOR TELEVISION
INDUSTRY
As required by Section 203 (b) (1) of
the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting
this report to the Congress setting forth
my determination to provide import relief
to the United States color television re-
ceiver industry covered by the affirmative
injury determination of March 22, 1977
of the United States International Trade
937
