May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
about the need to alleviate some of the
suffering we found down there, and we
found an enormous erosion of spirit
among these kids. They think their lives
are forfeit. They are both young men and
young women and for the most part they
are not criminals or of a criminal mind.
And I would like to make this sugges-
tion. Since Mexico has voiced a willing-
ness to let these people go, I'd like to have
them brought home and sorted out here.
It would seem like a humane thing to do
because they have suffered enormous tor-
tures and privation and they are in very
uncertain situations. They are very fear-
ful, and it seems to me that since Mexico
is of this state of mind, this treaty that's
being considered back in Washington is
apples and oranges, as far as the two sys-
tems of justice go.
We have been asked to come back next
month to testify, my wife and I, up before
Senator Sparkman's committee. But the
treaty is not going, to my mind, won't
work, because the two systems-one is the
judicial system of Mexico-is different
from ours. And we hope that you might
see a way clear to give this some sort of
priority treatment because these kids are
losing faith and losing hope, and their
lives are forfeit and they are not that bad.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
The first visitor that I had when I got
into the White House, from a foreign na-
tion, was President López Portillo from
Mexico. One of the items that we dis-
cussed, quite at length, was the treaty
that relates to the exchange of prisoners
between our own country and Mexico.
I agree with you completely, and I will
do all I can, and I am glad that you made
that statement-I hope a lot of people
are listening. But I'll do all I can to make
sure that the young people that are from
our country, who are in prison in Mexico,
are very quickly exchanged.
I do believe that the treaty is the best
approach to it. And in my opinion, it
won't be too long before we will have this
exchange of prisoners.
Q. Sir, may I make one added
comment?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. On the Napoleonic Code, where a
man could be alleged in the wrong and
be incarcerated—in our system, the state
has to prove its case. In Mexico, this is
not true.
I talked to Professor Faut in New York
City, in December, about this. He was at
that time heading up this in the State
Department. My wife was back for a
television show with him.
It seems to me that you're asking Amer-
ican citizens who are coming home from
those prisons in Mexico to be incarcerated
in essentially their own prison for the
benefit of the Mexican Government,
which I think the Napoleonic Code just
does not apply in our system of justice.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't debate the law
with you because, unlike yourself, I am
not a lawyer. But I do believe that regard-
less of whether we can change the Mexi-
can system of government or they can
change ours, as far as the judiciary goes,
that's one question.
But getting the young people from
Mexican prisons transferred to our coun-
try is something that I believe we can
achieve, and I think I can assure you that
it will be achieved.
Q. Their whole system was what I had
in mind.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Yes, sir?
FBI DIRECTOR
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gerald
Smith. I live in the city of Long Beach.
I'm a hospital social worker there at the
county hospital.
900
