Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
than among others of the same age who did not serve in the military. I
hope that putting many thousands of veterans back to work will be one
more step toward binding up the wounds of the war years and toward
helping those who have helped our country in the past.
I realize that very few people will think that this total economic plan
is perfect. Many groups would like to see more of one kind of aid and less
of another. But I am confident that this is the best balanced plan that we
can produce for the overall economic health of the Nation. It will produce
steady, balanced, sustainable growth. It does not ignore inflation to solve
unemployment or vice versa.
It does not ask one group of people to sacrifice solely for the benefit
of another group. It asks all of us to contribute, participate, and share to
get the country back on the road to work again. It is an excellent invest-
ment in the future.
I also said many times during the campaign that we must reform and
reorganize the Federal Government. I have often used the phrase “com-
petent and compassionate" to describe what our Government should be.
When the Government must perform a function, it should do it efficiently.
Wherever free competition would do a better job of serving the public,
the Government should stay out. Ordinary people should be able to un-
derstand how our own Government works, and to get satisfactory answers
to questions.
Our confused and wasteful system that took so long to grow will take
a long time to change. The place to start is at the top in the White House.
I am reducing the size of the White House staff by nearly one-third, and
I have asked the members of the Cabinet to do the same at their top staff
level. Soon, I will put a ceiling on the number of people employed by the
Federal Government agencies so we can bring the growth of Government
under control.
We are now reviewing the Government's 1,250 advisory committees
and commissions to see how many could be abolished without harm to
the public.
We have eliminated some expensive and unnecessary luxuries, such
as door-to-door limousine service for many top officials, including all
members of the White House staff. Government officials can't be sensitive
to your problems if we are living like royalty here in Washington. While
I am deeply grateful for the good wishes that lie behind them, I would
like to ask that people not send gifts to me or to my family or to anyone else
who serves in my administration.
73
