Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Urban League, Save the Children Federa-
tion, National Academy of Science, Mental
Health Association, and the National Health
Council.
BEVERLY LONG, in her early fifties, a leading
volunteer in mental health policymaking in
Georgia, is the chairperson of the Governor's
Advisory Council on Mental Health, Mental
Retardation and Substance Abuse, in Geor-
gia. She is a former president of the Mental
Health Association of Georgia and is active
in the national Mental Health Association.
She holds masters degrees in public health
and chemistry-zoology from the Universities
of North Carolina and Georgia, respectively.
RUTH B. LOVE, in her early forties, an articu-
late spokesperson, lecturer, and writer on the
subject of education, is the superintendent
of schools in Oakland, Calif. She has par-
ticular concern for disadvantaged and mi-
nority youth and was former Director of the
Right to Read effort in the U.S. Office of
Education and former chief of the bureau of
compensatory education program develop-
ment of the California Department of Edu-
cation. She was also a former project direc-
tor for Crossroads Africa in Ghana.
FLORENCE MAHONEY, in her seventies, a na-
tionally known advocate for the needs of the
aging and the emotional problems involved,
was instrumental in proposing and creating
the National Institute on Aging of NIH. As
a prominent citizen of Washington, D.C.,
she has devoted the past 35 years to cham-
pioning the cause of high quality bio-medical
research, child development research, and
for improved delivery of health services. She
has been cochairman of the National Com-
mittee Against Mental Illness since 1950.
MARTHA MITCHELL, 38, is associate director
of nursing of the Connecticut Mental Health
Center and assistant professor of psychiatric
nursing of the Yale University School of
Nursing. She is especially skillful with policy
problems involving the role of nursing in
mental health care delivery.
MILDRED MITCHELL-BATEMAN, M.D., 55, is a
commissioner of the West Virginia Depart-
ment of Mental Health and clinical profes-
sor, department of behavioral medicine,
West Virginia University School of Medi-
cine. A clinical psychiatrist, she has given
special attention to the health delivery prob-
lems of the underserved and has worked to
develop new systems of reaching and serving
people, beginning with mental health pro-
grams in the schools.
HAROLD RICHMAN, 40, an expert in social wel-
fare policy, is dean of the University of Chi-
cago School of Social Service Administra-
tion. A former White House Fellow, Dr.
Richman is concerned with improving pub-
lic policy in mental health. He is a member
of the Committee on Child and Family Pol-
icy of the National Academy of Science.
JULIUS B. RICHMOND, M.D., 61, a pediatrician
and educator, is the director of the Judge
Baker Guidance Center in Boston. He co-de-
signed the concept of the Neighborhood
Health Center for the Office of Economic
Opportunity in the mid-1960's, and founded
the Head Start program. He is also professor
of child psychiatry and human development
at the Harvard Medical School, professor
and chairman, department of preventive and
social medicine at the Harvard Medical
School, and psychiatrist-in-chief of the Chil-
dren's Hospital Medical Center, Boston.
REYMUNDO RODRIGUEZ, 32, a health educator
and urban planner, is executive assistant for
the Hogg Foundation for Mental Health,
University of Texas, Austin. He was former-
ly regional planner and coordinator of crim-
inal justice for the Middle Rio Grande De-
velopment Council in a nine-county area in
Texas. He has also worked as a traveling ele-
mentary school teacher with migrant work-
ers, and is a consultant to the Texas Com-
mission on Alcoholism.
GEORGE TARJAN, M.D., 65, is the director of
the mental retardation and child psychiatry
division of the UCLA Neuropsychiatric In-
stitute and professor of psychiatry, UCLA
School of Medicine. As the head of the
country's major research and teaching cen-
ter on mental retardation and childhood dis-
abilities, he has extraordinary knowledge of
delivery systems and an understanding of
state bureaucracies and agencies.
FRANKLIN E. VILAS, JR., S.T.M., 42, is an
Episcopal minister who is known for his pas-
toral counseling programs in the northeast.
He is now rector of the Diocesan Church of
St. Ann and the Holy Trinity, Brooklyn,
N.Y. He was formerly the pastoral officer
and director of special programs in health
and mental services at Trinity Parish, New
York City, and was the founder of the Fam-
ily Life Institute in Beverly Farms, Mass.
GLEN WATTS, 56, a labor leader, is president
of the Communications Workers of America,
a member of the executive council of the
AFL-CIO, and is vice chairman of the
board of governors and chairman of the ex-
530
