Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We launch our missiles from Vandenberg
Air Force Base. We don't launch them
from the standard silos. The Soviet Union
does launch missiles from their standard
operating silos for test purposes. I think a
prior notice that this launch was going to
take place 24 hours or 48 hours would
help a great deal.
I've called on the Soviet Union to join
us in a comprehensive test ban to stop all
nuclear testing for at least an extended
period of time, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years.
The Soviets are interested in using nu-
clear explosives to divert the course of a
river in northern Russia. I don't think
they need to test anymore. If they want
to put that as a proviso in the agreement
that they would like to go ahead and di-
vert that river, I think that would be some-
thing that we could negotiate and let us
have observers there to learn from them
and vice versa. But I think that the initia-
tion of proposals that might be mutually
acceptable of this kind is very, very im-
portant.
Now, we have two unresolved questions
derived from the Vladivostok agreement
called SALT II, and that is the cruise
missile and the Backfire bomber. I would
be willing to go ahead with the Soviet
Union, conclude a quick agreement, if
they think it advisable, and omit the Back-
fire bomber and the cruise missile from
the negotiations at this stage. And then in
a SALT III talk, if necessary, put those
two items back in for further discussion.
But I think it is important for us, with-
out any pressure on me to proceed too
hastily, in a very careful and methodical
way to demonstrate to the world that we
are sincere.
Q. I am sorry to pursue the subject, but
if I may ask one more question about ini-
tiatives. When Mr. Warnke wrote that, he
was apparently talking about weapons sys-
tems as well as nuclear warheads. And he
was talking about perhaps restraining the
development of a particular weapons sys-
tem, hoping for reciprocity by the Soviets.
My question is, would you consider say-
ing to the Soviets, say the B-1 or any other
weapons system, we are not going to de-
velop it for 6 months, we'd like to see
something from you in the way of reci-
procity?
THE PRESIDENT. Again, let me avoid
reference to a particular weapons system
on our side. Let me refer to a weapons
system on their side. The Soviets have a
missile with limited range—it is not inter-
continental in nature-called the SS-20.
They have begun to install those missiles
in mobile installations where they can
move them in a concealed way from one
part of an area to another. It makes it very
difficult to pinpoint their exact location.
I would like to see the Soviets cease de-
ployment of the mobile missile, even
though it is not of intercontinental type.
It is very difficult to distinguish it from
the intercontinental missile called the SS-
16. But if they would agree to a cessation
of the use or deployment of the mobile
type missiles, for instance, which could be
moved around in different locations be-
fore launch, that would be a very impor-
tant point for us to join them in a mutual
agreement. It would mean we would not
then perhaps spend the large amounts of
money to develop our own mobile missile.
But if the Soviets should move to a devel-
opment of an intercontinental missile that
can be moved from one place to another
undetected, and its location cannot be pin-
pointed, then that would put a great pres-
sure on us to develop a mobile missile of
our own.
So, I think on both sides there has to
be some initiation. But as individual weap-
ons systems are restrained, using initia-
tive, you
have got to be sure that the over-
all balance of deterrents is not disturbed.
96
