Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
protect the environment, and to apply
stricter safety standards to nuclear energy.
10. We must start now to develop the
new, unconventional sources of energy we
will rely on in the next century.
B. STRATEGY
1. The objectives of the National En-
ergy Plan are:
a. In the short term, to reduce depend-
ence on foreign oil and to limit supply
disruptions.
b. In the medium term, to weather the
eventual decline in the availability of
world oil supplies caused by capacity
limitations.
c. In the long term, to develop renew-
able and essentially inexhaustible sources
of energy for sustained economic growth,
2. The major strategies for reaching
these objectives are:
a. Implementation of an effective con-
servation program for all sectors of energy
use so as to reduce the rate of demand
growth to less than 2 percent, thereby
helping to achieve both the short- and
medimum-term goals.
b. The conversion of industry and utili-
ties using oil and natural gas to coal and
other more abundant fuels to reduce im-
ports and make natural gas more widely
available for household use, thereby help-
ing to achieve both the short- and medi-
um-term goals.
c. A vigorous research and development
program to provide renewable and essen-
tially inexhaustible resources to meet
United States energy needs in the next
century, thereby helping to achieve the
long-term goal.
C. NATIONAL ENERGY GOALS
A national energy plan is not something
that can be adopted and then forgotten.
There is no quick or easy solution to the
energy problem.
The President will propose as part of his
comprehensive energy legislation the fol-
lowing energy goals to be achieved be-
tween now and 1985. The Congress will be
requested to support these goals by enact-
ing a Joint Resolution of the Senate and
House committing the Nation to:
-reducing annual growth of United
States, energy demand to less than 2
percent;
-reducing oil imports from a potential
level of 16 million barrels a day to
less than 6 million barrels, about one-
eighth of total energy consumption;
-achieving a 10 percent reduction in
gasoline consumption;
-insulating 90 percent of all residences
and other buildings;
-increasing coal production on an an-
nual basis by at least 400 million tons;
-using solar energy in more than 22
million homes.
II. EFFECTS OF THE PRESIDENT'S ENERGY
PLAN
The President's energy plan, if imple-
mented effectively, is projected to save
about 4.6 million barrels of oil per day
(MMB/D) of oil over the amount of oil
we would otherwise require by 1985.
These savings would reduce oil imports
to about 7 MMB/D by 1985, a 40-percent
decrease. The President has established a
goal of reducing imports to below 6
MMB/D, which would require voluntary
conservation efforts by the American
public.
Based on econometric projections, the
President's program is forecasted to have
small, but generally positive impacts on
the economy. The program would stimu-
late about 100,000 jobs by 1985. It would
increase GNP by 0.7 percent in 1978 and
about 0.4 percent in 1985. It would in-
crease the GNP deflator by about 0.4 per-
cent annually through 1985. Even if the
673
