Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
about basic energy policy for our country.
We are going to have 20 mini-conferences
at the White House, presided over by Dr.
James Schlesinger, and I'll go by as many
of those as I can.
We are having 10 regional meetings
around the United States, and Dr. Schles-
inger sent out 450,000 letters to different
Americans who are interested in the
energy question to try to get from them
ideas on how we might come forward with
a comprehensive nationwide energy pol-
icy, which will be concluded and which I
will present to a Joint Session of the Con-
gress about April 20.
This is just 3 months after I took office.
It's long overdue. It's one of the most
important considerations I will ever face
as President of the United States.
We now have about 90 percent of our
energy reserves in coal, but only about 18
percent of the energy that we use comes
from coal. And one inevitable major shift
in the years ahead is away from oil and
natural gas and toward coal. We want
to be sure that when this shift is made
that a continuing substantial major por-
tion of the coal to be used comes from the
Appalachian region, from the eastern
part of the United States. This is a coal
deposit that is precious to us. Labor is
already concentrated here from past times
and, although we have had a reduction
in coal production in the last 10 years
from about 157 million tons a year in West
Virginia down to about 110 million tons
a year, I think the inevitable future de-
velopments will be toward a heavier de-
pendence and a higher production of
coal.
So, I'm very grateful to come here this
afternoon to meet with this well-qualified
panel. And now I'd like to introduce
them briefly and turn the first part of our
session over to Dr. Schlesinger to preside.
The first person I'd like to introduce is
Lewis McManus. He's in the insurance
business; former speaker of the West Vir-
ginia house of representatives.
Of course, the next one is well known
to everyone, as is Mr. McManus-Arnold
Miller, who's the president of the United
Mine Workers of America.
Ed Light, a staff member of the Citi-
zens Action Group, which is the leading
West Virginia public interest group.
The next one is a very close and per-
sonal friend of mine. I have always basked
in the benefit of his sound advice, and I
hope that when I go out of office he will
still have many years to go in the United
States Senate-Senator Jennings Ran-
dolph, who's the chairman of the Senate
Public Works Committee.
The next is Mayor John Hutchinson,
who's the mayor of Charleston. He's on
the Federal Energy Administration Advi-
sory Board on Coal. He's also chairman
of the Energy and Environmental Stand-
ing Committee of the U.S. Conference of
Mayors.
Next is Herbert Jones, who's the presi-
dent of the Amherst Coal Company and
president of the West Virginia Coal Asso-
ciation.
Judy Stephenson, who's executive di-
rector of the West Virginia environmen-
tal group "Save Our Mountains."
Secretary Cecil Andrus of the Depart-
ment of Interior on my immediate right,
former Governor of Idaho and one of the
new lights of the Carter administration of
whom I'm very proud.
On my left is Dr. James Schlesinger.
He's the former Director of the Atomic
Energy Commission, former Director of
the Budget Bureau, former Director of the
CIA, former Secretary of Defense, and
he's been constantly promoted until now
he's reached the pinnacle of his success
403
