June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
question about what ought to be done in an overwhelming degree, the American
about it yet.
Q. Mr. President-
people want the Congress to take bold,
strong, adequate action to give us a com-
The President. I promised him, but prehensive energy policy.
I'll get you next.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Mr. President, we heard this morn-
ing from Mr. O'Leary, and he seemed to
be, in spite of the vote yesterday in Ways
and Means, seemed to be rather optimis-
tic that—and he specifically repeated
this-by the end of this session in October,
that your program would be—I've forgot-
ten his exact wording largely achieved
as far as the energy program is concerned,
which is something that I, personally, and
I think most of us in this room, pray
will
take place. I certainly support it and very
disappointed yesterday-do you share
that optimism?
The President. I've been deeply con-
cerned and somewhat surprised at the ex-
traordinary influence of the automobile
companies and the oil companies in Wash-
ington.
Yesterday was a demonstration of that.
The subcommittee in the commerce
committee voted to deregulate so-called
new discoveries of natural gas, which in-
clude almost all new wells-no matter
if it was new discoveries or not-which
would add unnecessarily about $86 billion
to the cost to the American consumer and
put that into the income of the oil com-
panies between now and 1985.
I feel that the proposal that we have put
forward, with a fairly strict definition on
new discoveries and with a $1.75 price
level, is adequate and an adequate incen-
tive to future exploration. The Ways and
Means Committee also took action which
concerns me very much. The major lobby-
ist there was the automobile companies.
It's easy to criticize specifics of the energy
package, and even the American people
have concern about specifics. But I think
And my opinion is that the American
people are willing to make a sacrifice if
they feel that the package is complete,
comprehensive, and fair.
We had some very serious and difficult
decisions to make during the 3 months
after I was in office that we studied it, plus
several months before I was inaugurated.
And I think that the balancing that we
put forward was very good. And to see the
Congress in its initial stages, subcommittee
level, begin to chip away at individual
component parts of the package, that's
very disturbing to me.
I don't think it's time yet for me to
consider castigating the Members of Con-
gress. I know the pressures under which
they are functioning. And I know that
John Dingell, the chairman of the com-
merce subcommittee, did the best he could
to prevent the action in his own commit-
tee. I think it's true that Al Ullman did
the same thing in his committee to hold
the package together.
But there has to be some compensatory
interest and pressure from the general
public in a constructive fashion on the
Members of Congress, demanding strong
action to counterbalance the intensely
focused and highly visible pressure that's
put on the Members of Congress by spe-
cial interest lobbyists here on a daily,
hourly basis.
sanguine about it as Mr. O'Leary appar-
And I am concerned. I'm not quite as
sanguine about it as Mr. O'Leary appar-
ently is.
I've got assurances from the Speaker. I
talked to him this morning. He's quite
concerned about the action yesterday. I
met with Bob Byrd yesterday morning for
breakfast. And they're determined to have
an adequate energy package.
1092
