Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and with key congressional leaders, look-
ing at the Nation's revenues and antici-
pated expenditures over the next 4-year
period, leading up, under normal eco-
nomic circumstances which we anticipate,
to a balanced budget by 1981. But I want
me and my Cabinet and the congressional
leaders to see from the same perspective
the prospective developments, economi-
cally speaking, in the rest of my own term.
I had a meeting with my key transpor-
tation advisers, including Secretary Brock
Adams and Special Negotiator Alan
Boyd, and then called the Prime Minister
of Great Britain, Jim Callaghan, for
about a 20-minute conversation about
treaty negotiations of international air
routes. This is a matter of some impor-
tance to our countries.
On the 22d of June, last year, the Brit-
ish notified us that the treaties would be
terminated. There is a 1-year advance
notice requirement. And we hope that we
can get these negotiations completed be-
fore that date, so that we won't interrupt
routine travel between our two countries.
I and my very good friend Jim Callaghan
are eager to see this done, but there are
some very difficult questions to be
resolved.
Later I met with the new President of
Spain. He and the King of Spain have
worked very courageously, in my opinion,
to bring democratic government to that
nation after long years under Franco.
And I was extremely pleased with him,
and I think we had an instant friendship
evolve. He just left a few minutes ago.
And then following his departure, I
met with a group of students from Con-
cord, North Carolina, whom I had invited
to come to the White House during the
campaign, if—I think I told them, when
I was elected President. After I left North
Carolina, having complete confidence in
my ability as a campaigner, they raised
$9,000 with soup suppers and garage
sales to come up here. And they just
finally made it, with their Congressman.
And then following that, during that
same period, I signed transmittal letters
to the Speaker of the House and to the
Senate majority leader, or rather to the
Vice President, sending a 275-page legis-
lation on the energy plan to the Congress
for their action.
And then I spent 5 minutes eating
lunch and then came to be with you.
[Laughter] But this is a typical half-day
in the life of a President, and I've had
nothing but pleasure from it so far.
I've had a lot to learn. I recognize even
clearer now than I did 3 or 4 months ago
that I don't know all the answers.
I've put together, I think, a superb
Cabinet. There is not a single member of
my Cabinet that I would change if I had
it all to do over again. They've grown in
their jobs, and I've tried to keep my com-
mitment that they would indeed run their
departments without interference from
either me or the White House-White
House staff and we've never departed
from that commitment at all.
I have also, I believe, a very compe-
tent and sensitive White House staff.
They give me adequate support and ad-
vice. They have broad-ranging knowledge
and experience that they're harnessed in
a very productive fashion, and they have
no inclination to want to run the affairs
of Government, which is quite a depar-
ture from what it has been in the past in
some instances in the White House, where
the Cabinet Secretaries had practically no
authority and where directives were issued
from the White House staff to them on
how to run their affairs.
The other thing that I have that is, I
think, unprecedented, is a superb relation-
ship with the Vice President. I've been
blessed with Fritz Mondale and a natural
compatibility between us. And I've put
on him tremendous responsibilities and, I
748
