Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 23
downtown parking—and he was also in
charge of the $50 rebate. [Laughter]
I've just put him in charge of a much
more important project. I know that you
feel that the rest of the country supports
you in a time of crisis when New York's
spirits have been low. And I believe that
if anyone can bring Tom Seaver ¹ back,
Fritz can. [Laughter] So, call on him.
And last I would like to recognize the
greatest Democrat who lives in our coun-
try-Hubert Humphrey. I think when
anyone tries to assimilate in one's mind
what the Democratic Party is, what it
stands for, its cleanness, its decency, its
compassion and humanity, its fairness and
its honesty and its dedication, its love for
people, the personification of all those
things is Senator Humphrey. He has been
a great help to me and an inspiration.
I think it's good to point out tonight,
too, that we have evolved a good work-
ing relationship with the Congress. For 8
years we had government by partisanship.
Now we have government by partnership.
And we've had good success. I'm new
in Washington, as you know. I've never
served there before in my life until last
January 20. But in this brief period of
time, there has been a remarkable dem-
onstration of compatibility and mutual
purpose between the White House and
Capitol Hill.
When I was preparing to be inaugu-
rated, I had meetings with different Mem-
bers of Congress, and there were five basic
questions that I wanted to present to them
as goals I hoped to achieve sometime in
the future. One was for both Houses to
pass strict ethics legislation to make sure
that conflicts of interest that had embar-
rassed our Nation in the past were over.
And they have both already done that.
¹A baseball player who had been traded
from the New York Mets to the Cincinnati
Reds.
I wanted to see a strong economic stim-
ulus package passed, and without delay
the Congress has acted again.
I wanted to be given authority to re-
organize the executive branch of Govern-
ment and to be given immediate direction
to proceed without delay. And the Con-
gress, of course, has acted on that as well.
I recognize that when Lyndon Johnson
was in the White House, he pushed hard
and worked hard and 2 years later finally
got some semblance of the Department of
Transportation that he wanted-2 years.
We asked the Congress 3 months ago to
establish for our country a new Depart-
ment of Energy. And they have already
acted, and I believe that the conference
committee will complete their work and
I will sign this legislation into law very
close to the Fourth of July.
So, four of the five major issues that I
asked for have already been completed-
an absolutely unprecedented achievement
on the part of the Congress.
And the other one of the five was
equally difficult. And that was to evolve
a new energy policy for our country that
would be adequate and fair with vision
for the future and a realization that we
need to conserve our precious possessions
that provide us with jobs, heat, light, and
a possibility for progress. And the Con-
gress is making good progress, in spite of
tremendous complexity and tremendous
pressure from special interest groups,
many of them quite benevolent. But it's
going to take a lot of courage, and I have
no doubt that the Congress can exemplify
the requisite courage themselves.
So, to sum up my own feeling toward
the Congress, it's one of appreciation for
their achievements and also appreciation
for the partnership that we've formed.
I want to work in the future with you
and the Congress to continue to strip away
the secrecy from government, to let the
1155
