Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
I've never taken a position on the com-
plete home rule, at least as far as the Dis-
trict of Columbia becoming a State. Dur-
ing the campaign, I did say that I thought
the interference of the Federal Govern-
ment, including the President, in the in-
ternal affairs of the District of Columbia's
government ought to be minimal.
There are some responsibilities that I
have, established by law, that I would
have no objection to removing. I have no
inclination, as President, to be burdened
with making decisions about, say, the hos-
pital care in the District of Columbia.
And also, I would like to see the voting
rights of the District of Columbia in the
Congress increased. Whether to go as far
as statehood for the District of Columbia,
I doubt the advisability of that.
FEDERAL REORGANIZATION
Q. This upcoming reorganization that's
coming-what do you see for various
training programs like the management
intern program-[inaudible]? Where will
these be fit in in the new reorganization,
and what will these programs be?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, where
would the training programs and others
fit into the departmental structure after
reorganization?
I don't know how to answer those ques-
tions. We are now working on three major
reorganization questions. One is to get
the authority from the Congress to reorga-
nize; secondly, to establish a new Depart-
ment of Energy. And we are also work-
ing on the first proposal, if we get the
reorganization authority, and that would
start with the Executive Office of the
President. This is such a vast bureaucracy
that is built up around the White House
itself, and because I have authority over
it already, we are already beginning that.
But we have not gone into any detailed
analysis of intradepartmental structure,
within the departments, and we've not
gone into any major study yet about mov-
ing agencies among departments, except
in the field of energy.
Now, I have had the Secretary of In-
terior and Dr. Schlesinger, representing
the energy question, work together. I be-
lieve they pretty well resolved all the dif-
ferences between them. And we will go
to the Congress before the end of this
month, by the first of March, with a sepa-
rate piece of legislation on energy, on an
energy department.
But I can't answer questions about the
internal structure of departments. We just
haven't worked on that yet.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Q. Mr. President, as a person who was
born in Savannah-[laughter]-I feel
deeply about your great commitment to
people and to civil rights and equal em-
ployment opportunity. I think this group
and I would be greatly privileged to hear
you make a statement in terms of the
commitment of the Federal Government
to enforce equal employment.opportunity,
civil rights, so that all people will have
an opportunity to walk with God.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try to answer that
question.
I believe we now have seven different
agencies responsible for equal employ-
ment opportunity in the Federal Govern-
ment. There is a backlog of more than
125,000 cases. The average time for the
resolution of a case is about 3 years.
And I intend to make this one of my
major and early responsibilities when I
get reorganization authority, to bring some
order out of this chaos to be sure that we
eliminate, once and for all, discrimination
against any human being because of their
sex or because of their race or religious
commitments.
Secondly, I'm committed, because of
political promises and also because of
deep personal feelings, to complete
163
