May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
they have special individual problems and
special individual opportunities in rela-
tionship with us.
So, they go with my good wishes. She
will deliver to each one of the leaders of
those countries my special commitment to
strengthen our relationships with them in
a friendly and equal fashion. They are just
as valuable to us as we are to them, and
we want them to understand how we
cherish their good will and their trust and
our mutual commitment.
was going to be sending his family to
visit these countries if he were elected
President.
In that sense, I think you can call it a
good will trip. But I wanted it to be more
than just a good will trip. I wanted it to
be valuable to the countries that I was
visiting. And, therefore, I have studied. I
do know Jimmy's basic foreign policy,
which I will be stressing to these foreign
heads of states and consulting with them
to bring back to Jimmy the concerns that
Perhaps Rosalynn would like to say just they have and the special problems that
a word.
MRS. CARTER. Thank you.
I am looking forward to the trip. I am
glad that I was the one that was chosen
to go to Latin America and to the Carib-
bean. I think it is so important when
there is a new administration to develop
personal relationships with the leaders of
the other countries.
I think they are interested in us. We are
always interested when a new leader
comes to power in another country. So, I
think it's important. And I think that I
can establish a personal relationship with
the heads of the countries that I am going
to visit and our family.
I've had a long-time interest in Latin
America. Jimmy and I have traveled
there many times, and so we already have
a special feeling for the countries that I
am going to be visiting.
I think you all know that during the
campaign I really studied and learned the
domestic issues. Since Jimmy has been
President, I have done my homework on
foreign affairs. I've
affairs. I've had intensive
briefings.
I think that I will be-well, I am sure
that I can stress the goals and priorities
of the Carter administration in foreign
affairs to the leaders of these countries.
Jimmy said all during the campaign
that we had neglected our friends among
the countries of the world and that he
each of the countries have.
I'm looking forward to it. Thank you
very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 a.m. at the
Brunswick Golden Isles Glynco Jetport.
Brunswick, Georgia
Exchange With Reporters at
the Brunswick Airport Following
Mrs. Carter's Departure. May 30, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, what are you
going to tell about the Cuban policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's obvious
that we want to have good relations with
Cuba. We haven't had any firm indica-
tion yet that Castro wants to normalize
relations with us. But I think we will have
indications in the next few weeks of
strengthened diplomatic relations with
Cuba, far short of recognition.
Q. Despite their sending military ad-
visers to Ethiopia? Does that bother you
at all?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, it
would be better for the peace of Africa
if other nations would not send troops and
military forces into Africa.
Cuba still has almost 15,000 troops in
Angola. They have recently sent about
50 military advisers into Ethiopia. And
they have, in addition to that, people in
1042
