May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
entirety to the public use, not to have any
money from its use come to me or my
family.
I think that this is a policy that I would
like to pursue after I go out of office. I
don't know what my financial circum-
stances might be then. I might find a need
on occasion to derive some financial bene-
fit from writing or from appearances of
some kind.
So, I can't close the door completely to
what I will do after I am out of this office,
but I can describe to you what I have al-
ready done voluntarily to make sure that
there is no financial reward coming to me
because I happen to be in the White
House or even after the primary season
was over because I was a prominent po-
litical figure. I don't want to benefit finan-
cially from this status.
FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, your SALT II pro-
posals calling for deeper cuts in the Vlad-
ivostok agreement were rejected by the
Soviet Union after you had enunciated
them publicly.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. And your public statements with re-
spect to a Palestinian homeland are being
credited as being a factor in the election
of a conservative, hardline political group
in Israel.
Do you think that you are going to be
able to continue your policy of open dis-
cussions of foreign policy issues and, at
the same time, achieve agreements? In
other words, do you think you are going
to be able to have your cake and eat it,
too?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with
the premise of your question. I don't be-
lieve that my open espousal of a desire on
the part of the American people to reduce
the number of missile launchers or atomic
weapons prior to the time we negotiated
in Moscow was a reason for a breakdown
in that discussion.
It has led to continuing discussions, and
I believe it's a viable policy that I will
pursue and I see no reason why the Amer-
ican people should not know it, and I
believe that overwhelmingly the Ameri-
can people support it.
I think it's good for the American peo-
ple to know what our positions are at the
time that the Soviets know what our posi-
tions are, and vice versa.
This is a matter that must be addressed
openly. It involves not only the Soviet and
American people but it also involves our
allies and friends who depend upon us
around the world.
In the campaign itself and in my In-
augural Address, I expressed a hope
which I still have, that ultimately myself
or my successor, Mr. Brezhnev or his suc-
cessor, can arrive at a point where nuclear
weapons are eliminated completely from
the Soviet and the American arsenals.
The other point of your question was
concerning the results of the election in
Israel. I think that the international ques-
tions in Israel were very slightly discussed
or debated during their campaign. My
opinion is that the result of the elections
were not affected appreciably if at all by
any statements that I made concerning
an ultimate Middle Eastern settlement.
Our positions are compatible with the
positions taken by my own predecessor
and, in fact, historically the United States
has espoused these basic principles. And I
think that this is something that must be
addressed frankly by the prospective gov-
ernment in Israel, by the people of Israel,
their Arab neighbors, and by the people
in the United States.
So, I don't intend to refrain from ex-
pressing very clearly my position on for-
eign issues to the public on occasion when
negotiations are going on-or when we
1022
