Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
:
Because of the facts stated in paragraph
five, your proposed course of action devi-
ates from the Guidelines on Conflicts of
Interests published by the Carter-Mon-
dale Transition Group with my approval.
Please be advised that I approve of
that deviation. My reasons for such ap-
proval which will be made public in
accordance with the Guidelines, are:
Your disqualification on matters affect-
ing the financial interests of The Coca-
Cola Company as Deputy Secretary of De-
fense will not more than rarely, if ever,
require you to refrain from acting on a
matter.
A sale of your Coca-Cola stock, amount-
ing to less than three/tenths of one per-
cent of outstanding shares of The Coca-
Cola Company, would significantly de-
plete your family's assets by reason of the
taxes imposed on such sale.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Hon. Charles W. Duncan, Jr., Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense-Designate, Washington, D.C.]
Alliance To Save Energy
Statement on the Formation of the
Organization. February 10, 1977
Saving energy must be a major national
priority. It is one of America's greatest
challenges.
I want to welcome the timely creation
of the private, non-profit Alliance To Save
Energy, which is being announced today.
This organization is dedicated to the con-
cept that there is a new, inexpensive, and
accessible resource: conservation energy.
Conservation energy is the energy derived
by replacing wasteful habits and technol-
ogies with more efficient ones. Every
American can join in the effort to make
conservation energy one of our chief re-
sources. I urge them to do so.
I have asked Vice President Mondale
to serve as Honorary Cochairman of the
Alliance To Save Energy. I am especially
pleased and grateful that former President
Ford will serve in this capacity also.
As I said in my address to the Nation
last week, we must face the fact that the
energy shortage is permanent, and there is
no way we can solve it quickly or easily.
Conservation will be the centerpiece of
our national energy policy. The amount of
energy we waste is greater than the
amount of energy we import from foreign
nations. All of us must learn not to waste
energy. I'm confident that the Alliance To
Save Energy will play a significant role in
implementing our national energy policy.
It is just this kind of effort which is now
required to mobilize the American people
behind the critical need to use precious
energy resources more wisely.
Department of the Treasury
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 10, 1977
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, I guess I don't need to
begin by saying we're glad to see you.
[Laughter]
We're meeting you in the largest room
in this building, the Cash Room. And you
can see that we have gone one better on
what history tells us happened at the time
of the Inauguration of President Grant,
when the whole Inaugural Ball-the en-
tire one-took place in this room. That
compares to the six ballrooms that your
Inaugural Ball took place in.
We're delighted to see you. We're your
closest neighbor.
126
