Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 18
will, I think, unlock the problems we have
in a number of other related areas of leg-
islation that enable us to achieve what
the President has set out to achieve in
terms of protection of citizens' rights in
this country. And to that end I look for-
ward to working on this piece of legis-
lation.
Thank you.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Congress-
man McClory is the ranking minority
member of the House Judiciary Commit-
tee. I'd like to call on him now.
REPRESENTATIVE MCCLORY. Thank
you, General Bell. Mr. President, my
colleagues:
I don't know whether you want me on
this program or not. I rather like the 1968
legislation we had, which vested in the
President and the Attorney General the
authority to authorize wiretaps in national
security cases. I think the primary re-
sponsibility does have to rest on the Presi-
dent and the executive and, on the other
hand, I feel strongly that the intelligence
community needs some substantial
reforms.
As the ranking member on the House
Committee on Intelligence, I recognize
the need for these reforms. I would say
on the other hand that we have the best
intelligence capability in the world, the
best intelligence agencies. The abuses in
my opinion have been very, very few. And
the successful and effective and honorable
and decent operations have been many.
I don't know whether we should per-
mit the judiciary to interpose itself
between the President and the right to
conduct surveillance on foreign intelli-
gence agents. And I know that we will
take a very close look at this-protect the
rights of individual Americans consistent
with the needs of our national security.
And I do expect to work closely with
Chairman Rodino and Mr. Kastenmeier
to effectively bring to the floor of the
House a bill on this subject which will be
compatible with what the needs of our
Nation are and the needs of all of its
citizens.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Thank you,
Congressman. Our last speaker will be
Senator Hathaway from Maine, a mem-
ber of the Senate Select Committee on
Foreign Intelligence. As I've said, Sena-
tor Inouye could not be here this morn-
ing, and I've asked Senator Hathaway if
he'd say something on behalf of Senator
Inouye and the Committee.
SENATOR HATHAWAY. Thank you very
much, Mr. Attorney General. The Attor-
ney General said at the outset that not
everybody is going to speak here, but I
don't think we missed more than two or
three. Ladies and gentlemen, I simply
want to assure you that although all of us
here have had the opportunity last year
when a similar bill was before our respec-
tive committees to go over this in great
detail the administration studied it in
great detail—it will still be the subject of
the extensive hearings where members of
the public will be able to come in and
comment upon the bill. It's an extremely
important matter. We value the input
from the public and we intend to go over
the matter with a fine-toothed comb in
the committees and on the floor so that
we can assure that the rights of the Amer-
icans are protected. Thank you.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Well, that
concludes our meeting this morning. We
have a number of people from the intelli-
gence community here and a lot of other
people from the House and Senate, but
we won't take the time to introduce all of
them. We thank you very much for com-
ing, and I know the President appreciates
it. And I appreciate it. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
927
