Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 12
Law Day, U.S.A., 1977
Office of Management and
Budget
Nomination of Lester A. Fettig To Be an
Administrator. April 12, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Lester A. Fettig, of
Springfield, Va., to be Administrator for
Federal Procurement Policy in the Office
of Management and Budget. Fettig is
currently chief counsel and staff director
of the Senate Subcommittee on Federal
Spending Practices, Efficiency and Open
Government.
Fettig was born on May 28, 1947, in
Brooklyn, N.Y. He received a B.S. degree
in aerospace and systems engineering from
the California Institute of Technology in
1968 and an M.S. in engineering from the
University of Southern California in 1969.
From 1969 to 1971, he was a consult-
ant and member of the professional staff
of the Center for Naval Analyses, where
he led studies of defense acquisition poli-
cies, Navy mission planning, and techni-
cal and management analysis of major
defense development programs.
He served as a professional staff mem-
ber at the Commission on Government
Procurement from 1971 to 1973, and con-
centrated on the Commission's major
systems acquisition report. During 1971
and 1972, he was also a Younger Rocke-
feller Fellow at the Brookings Institution,
focusing on system acquisition policies.
In 1973 and 1974, he was a professional
staff member of the Senate Committee on
Aeronautical and Space Sciences. He
organized the Federal Procurement Sub-
committee during the 93d Congress. He
has held his current position since 1974.
Proclamation 4499. April 12, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The rule of law protects our individual
rights and defines our individual respon-
sibilities.
Our commitment to the law deepens
when we know that justice will not
be delayed, denied, or dispensed with
favoritism.
Our respect for the law grows when we
are confident that it will remain a true
champion of our basic liberties.
The duty of the legal profession is to
help rather than to hamper the pursuit
of these goals.
And the duty of each citizen is to work
peacefully to bring about any changes in
the law or its administration that might
be needed to assure fair and objective
treatment for all.
If our legal heritage is to be preserved,
laymen and lawyers alike must under-
stand and appreciate the role of our
courts, and work to strengthen and im-
prove our legal system.
To encourage the American people to
reaffirm their commitment to the rule of
dent to issue a proclamation calling upon
law, the Congress has requested the Presi-
the American people to celebrate the first
day of May of each year as Law Day,
U.S.A. (75 Stat. 43, 36 U.S.C. 164).
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
call upon the American people to cele-
brate Sunday, May 1, 1977, as Law Day,
U.S.A., and to reflect upon their indi-
vidual and collective responsiblities for
the effective administration of the law.
607
