Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
think we've got so many needs in our so-
ciety. I think there is going to be a shift
towards human services. We've got such a
far way to go to provide adequate health
care for our people, particularly the pre-
vention of disease. We've got a long way
to go in taking care of those who are men-
tally retarded, who are permanently ill.
We need to expand tremendously the
use of Americans as volunteers who work
with prisoners who have been put on
parole or those who are on probation, or
to work in every part of our social services
life; older people have so many produc-
tive years left with them. But I think if we
can move in our own Government—and
it's going to take a while to match job
needs with people who are looking for
jobs, I think that the unemployment rate
can be brought down tremendously.
We've got hundreds of thousands of job
openings now in the same communities
where we are paying welfare benefits to
people who are able to work. And if we
can just get for a change the Labor De-
partment and HEW and the Economic
Development Administration and HUD
to all work together, I think that we can
solve the problem that you describe.
So, as a young person yourself, I hope
that you will continue your education.
And I hope that by the time you graduate
we will have done something about the
unemployment rate so that you can get
a job without any problem.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
We did an opinion poll about 2 or 3
weeks ago throughout the country, and we
asked the people, "What is the thing that
bothers you most?" And by far, the num-
ber one item was unemployment. "Some-
one in my family"—my husband, my wife,
my grown children-"just can't get a
job." So that's the number one situation
we have economically—is to put our peo-
ple back to work. If we can, I think that
we can do it and hold down inflation, de-
liver proper services to our people. And I
promise by the time I go out of office, or
by fiscal year 1981, to have a balanced
budget. And I'm intending to keep that
promise.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, I am Mrs. Anthony
A. Cavone, Sr.
Do you intend to develop national
health care, and if your answer is yes, how
do you intend to handle the problem of
higher Federal taxes because of this type
of program?
THE PRESIDENT. All right. I'll try to
answer this question as best I can.
We now spend more than any other na-
tion on Earth on health care. I think that
it runs about $5 or $600 a year per per-
son. But we are not getting good health
care because quite often the price of the
health care we get has gone up about
15 percent per year when the average
inflation rate has only been about 5 or
6 percent a year.
In some cases we are not giving ade-
quate prevention of disease. For instance,
the immunization program for children is
not nearly as good as it was when I was
6 or 7 years old-and that's been a
long time ago. I think that we also can
control the unnecessary increase in hos-
pital costs. We can shift more toward out-
patient treatment instead of having pa-
tients have to go in the hospital to get help
with their hospital bills. I think we can
make sure that we understand that these
programs that are presently in existence in
the Federal Government quite often work
at cross purposes.
We now have 10 major agencies that
are responsible for health care in the Fed-
eral Government. Up until I came into
office, Medicaid was in one agency, Medi-
393
