June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have or not, what leads you to reconsider?
What factors make you rethink this com-
pared to what you said in the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have not made
a decision about what I will do concern-
ing the B-1 bomber. As you know, the
Congress, late in 1976, in effect put the
B-1 bomber construction in a dormant
stage and permitted the expenditure of a
certain amount of money per month to
build a few B-1 bombers to keep the pro-
gram alive.
I'll make a decision before the end of
this month. I have received a great deal
of conflicting advice from those who work
closely with me and was eager to meet
with one group of Members of Congress
who were against the B-1 bomber to hear
their arguments and then later met with
a group who were for the B-1 bomber-
I think the other way around. But both
groups presented their views very strongly
and very effectively to me. I think now is
the time for me to perhaps on my own
and perhaps in a lonely way to make a
final judgment.
There are major factors involved the
status of our relationship with the Soviet
Union in the SALT talks, the quality
that we have seen in the latest test of the
B-1 bomber, its radar cross-section and
the effectiveness of present and future
electronic countermeasures, the effective-
ness of substitutes for it, the cruise missile
being one of those, and in the overall con-
text of our tactical and strategic needs I'll
make a judgment before the end of this
month.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
[President Carter's ninth news conference be-
gan at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450 of the Old Ex-
ecutive Office Building and was broadcast live
on radio and television. Following the news
conference, the President remained in the
room to answer questions from reporters on an
informal basis, as follows:]
Q. Have you sent in your tax forms?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it has been
waiting until Rosalynn got back to sign it.
I am sure it went in today.2
Q. All done?
THE PRESIDENT. We had until the
15th of June, yes.
Q. Mr. President, the House, as you
know, is considering a public works bill
with $200 million worth of water projects
money. If that bill reaches your desk in its
present form, can you say now whether
you would veto it or not?
THE PRESIDENT. I would rather not say
specifically what I will or will not do. The
Senate and the House both have to con-
sider it and the conference committee,
and it will have to get to me. I'd rather
wait until later to decide whether or not
I will veto it.
Q. The last time we asked you about
tax reform you said you hoped that there
would be no loss to the Treasury as a result
of
your tax reform plans. And since then,
Secretary Blumenthal has indicated that
there probably will be some revenue loss.
Where is the administration on this ques-
tion, and how much loss can you accept
and still balance your budget?
THE PRESIDENT. No decisions have
been made about tax reform. I think it
was Mr. Schultze who made that com-
ment, unless both of them did, but I think
it's premature to say yet what will be done
about tax reform. We are having a series
of meetings about it, and the decision will
be made early enough. I just don't have
any-
2 At his news conference at the White
House on June 16, Press Secretary Jody Powell
stated that the President and Mrs. Carter had
decided to take a few more days to look over
their tax returns before filing them. Mr. Powell
said that an extension of the filing deadline had
been requested by the President's accountant,
Robert Perry.
1110
