Mar. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
task force director for the Carter/Mon-
dale campaign.
Schwartz is a member of the board and
former counsel of the Philadelphia Urban
Coalition. He is vice chairman of Ameri-
cans for Democratic Action (Southeast
Pennsylvania) and former president of
Central Philadelphia Reform Democrats.
Department of the Navy
Nomination of David E. Mann To Be an
Assistant Secretary. March 21, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate David E. Mann, of Bethes-
da, Md., to be Assistant Secretary of the
Navy (Research and Development).
Mann has been Special Assistant to the
Chief of Naval Operations for Navy Ad-
vanced Systems Projects since 1973.
He was born in New York City on No-
vember 4, 1924. He received a B.S. in
1944 from the City University of New
York and an M.S. and Ph. D. in chemistry
from the University of Chicago. He did
postdoctoral research at the University of
Minnesota and Harvard University.
From 1951 to 1966, Mann served as a
physicist and Chief of the Molecular Spec-
troscopy section at the National Bureau of
Standards. In 1957-58 he received Gug-
genheim and Fulbright fellowships for
study abroad.
He joined the Department of Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency in
1966 and in 1967 became Deputy Director
of the Ballistics Missile Defense Office
there. In 1968 he became the first Direc-
tor of the new Strategic Technology
Office.
Mann joined the Department of the
Navy as Special Assistant to the Chief of
Naval Operations for Navy Advanced
Systems Projects in 1973. In 1974 he was
awarded the Meritorious Civilian Service
Medal by the Secretary of Defense.
Visit of Prime Minister Fukuda
of Japan
Toasts of the President and the
Prime Minister at a Working Dinner
for the Prime Minister. March 21, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to say
how delighted I am to have all of you
guests in the White House. If any of you
missed seeing the beauiful bonsai trees in
the Blue Room, I hope that you'll go by
and take a look at them before you leave.
This was a gift of the Japanese people last
year on our 200th birthday. And it's one
of the most delightful and enduring gifts
that could be exchanged between two
great peoples.
We have also asked that they bring
some Japanese cherries in tonight for our
decorations in the corners. And I think
these exchanges of flowers and beauty are
a great credit to the Japanese and also
very enjoyable for our own people.
We have been greatly honored by the
distinguished visitors from Japan coming
to see us. Prime Minister Fukuda is an old
friend of mine. I was privileged to go to
Japan a couple of years ago. And while I
was there, as an ex-Governor and an un-
known candidate, he was gracious enough
to meet with me and to talk to me about
the economic structure and the political
structure of Japan and the relationship
between our country and theirs.
He has proven a modern adage which
I'm sure will pass in the history in the not
too distant future. He comes from a pea-
nut farm, and as a young man he helped
to grow peanuts. So did I. And I think
that at least the present truth is that the
best way to become the leader of a country
472
