Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 11
Land and Water Conservation
Fund
Statement on Signing H.R. 5306 Into
Law. June 11, 1977
I am today signing into law, H.R. 5306,
to increase the authorization for the Land
and Water Conservation Fund.
The Fund was established in 1965 to
provide matching grants to State and
local governments for the planning, ac-
quisition, and development of outdoor
recreational lands. It has also provided
the primary source of funding for acqui-
sition of Federal recreational lands, in-
cluding the national parks, national for-
ests, and wildlife refuges.
sage
As I stated in my environmental mes-
of May 23, 1977, my administration
is strongly committed to the preservation
and wise management of areas of special
natural, historical, and cultural value for
the benefit of all Americans both now and
in the future. The Land and Water Con-
servation Fund has been and will con-
tinue to be an important tool in achieving
these goals.
H.R. 5306 will authorize increases in
the levels of the Fund of $300 million in
1978 and $150 million in 1979 to a total
of $900 million for each year. These addi-
tional moneys would be specifically avail-
able for reducing the current backlog of
Federal recreational areas already au-
thorized for acquisition.
My administration shares the con-
cerns expressed by Members of the Con-
gress over escalating rural land values and
the potential degradation of important
resource values affecting these lands. For
this reason, I have already initiated and
intend to continue pursuing a land ac-
quisition program that will substantially
reduce the existing backlog of authorized,
but unacquired, recreational lands.
However, I do want to make clear that
my approval of this legislation does not
imply a commitment by my administra-
tion to seek full funding of the increased
authorizations for 1978 and 1979. While
I am committed to an orderly reduction
of the acquisition backlog, I feel that it is
also important to retain the flexibility to
assess competing budget demands for all
Federal programs on a continuing basis
and to set spending priorities in the con-
text of overall national needs.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 5306 is Public Law
95-42, approved June 11.
Flag Day and National Flag
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4508. June 11, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Two hundred years ago, on June 14,
1777, the Continental Congress adopted
the Stars and Stripes as the official flag of
the United States.
In these two centuries our Nation has
changed in many ways, but our flag re-
mains an appropriate symbol of America.
Its bold colors reflect the courage and
determination of the American people, as
its straight and simple lines reflect their
straightforward character.
In celebrating this two hundredth an-
niversary let us resolve to honor our coun-
try's flag by displaying in our lives the
qualities it reflects.
To commemorate the adoption of our
Nation's flag, the Congress, by joint reso-
1097
