Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 18
We will monitor our progress toward these goals year by year. Our
plan will call for strict conservation measures if we fall behind. I can't
tell you that these measures will be easy, nor will they be popular. But I
think most of you realize that a policy which does not ask for changes or
sacrifices would not be an effective policy at this late date.
This plan is essential to protect our jobs, our environment, our stand-
ard of living, and our future. Whether this plan truly makes a difference
will not be decided now here in Washington but in every town and every
factory, in every home and on every highway and every farm.
I believe that this can be a positive challenge. There is something
especially American in the kinds of changes that we have to make. We've
always been proud, through our history, of being efficient people. We've
always been proud of our ingenuity, our skill at answering questions. Now
we need efficiency and ingenuity more than ever.
We've always been proud of our leadership in the world. And now
we have a chance again to give the world a positive example.
We've always been proud of our vision of the future. We've always
wanted to give our children and our grandchildren a world richer in
possibilities than we have had ourselves. They are the ones that we must
provide for now. They are the ones who will suffer most if we don't act.
I've given you some of the principles of the plan. I'm sure that each
of you will find something you don't like about the specifics of our pro-
posal. It will demand that we make sacrifices and changes in every life.
To some degree, the sacrifices will be painful—but so is any meaningful
sacrifice. It will lead to some higher costs and to some greater inconveni-
ence for everyone. But the sacrifices can be gradual, realistic, and they
are necessary. Above all, they will be fair. No one will gain an unfair
advantage through this plan. No one will be asked to bear an unfair
burden.
We will monitor the accuracy of data from the oil and natural gas
companies for the first time, so that we will always know their true pro-
duction, supplies, reserves, and profits. Those citizens who insist on driv-
ing large, unnecessarily powerful cars must expect to pay more for that
luxury.
We can be sure that all the special interest groups in the country will
attack the part of this plan that affects them directly. They will say that
sacrifice is fine as long as other people do it, but that their sacrifice is
unreasonable or unfair or harmful to the country. If they succeed with
661
