Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 18, 1977
Visit of President José
López Portillo of Mexico
Remarks of the President
and President López Portillo at the
Welcoming Ceremony. February 14, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. First of all, I want to
welcome to our country Mr. José López
Portillo and his beautiful wife, Carmen.
This is the first foreign head of state
who has come to visit the United States
since I've been President. It's an indica-
tion of the importance that we attach in
our own country to our neighbors to the
south. For many years-decades, genera-
tions we have been close friends with
our Mexican neighbors.
Recently, when President López Portillo
was inaugurated, my wife went to Mexico
City to represent me there, early in De-
cember, and last month, when I was in-
augurated President of the United States,
President López Portillo's wife, Carmen,
came to be with me during that ceremony.
This exchange of personal friendship, I
think, has been apparent to all of our
people, and it's just the first stage of an
increasingly close relationship that Presi-
dent López Portillo and I, and the people
of Mexico and the United States of Amer-
ica, will enjoy in coming months.
I believe that the basis of our own
economic and social and political prog-
ress, as we seek harmony among the na-
tions of the world, has to have as a basis
a close, continuing consultation and shar-
ing of opportunity in the solution of prob-
lems between natural allies and friends,
and particularly neighbors.
Just a few days after my own inaugura-
tion, Vice President Mondale took an
extended trip to Europe and to Japan,
and shortly after this visit from the Mexi-
can President, we will welcome to our
country the Prime Minister of Canada.
And I believe that this first demonstra-
tion of our friendship is obvious to the
world, a demonstration of importance.
We also feel that we have an opportu-
nity now to correct some of the longstand-
ing economic problems of our two nations,
because we know that when Mexico
makes economic progress, the United
States is aided in our own effort to make
economic progress. There is no way to
separate our own Nation's future from
the future of our allies.
This happens to be the first time in
more than 25 years when Mexico and the
United States have both elected new
Presidents at the same time. And I be-
lieve it gives us a unique opportunity for
the close, personal friendship to show that
there are new ways to deal with old
problems.
Immediately after this ceremony, Presi-
dent López Portillo and I will meet in the
149
