Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. I didn't
have any authority over it. I have to say
to you, I could have made speeches
around the country against it, but it was
not my inclination to do so.
MR. ANDERSON. Don't you feel that
with the Congress people receiving this
excessive amount of money, compared to
the average working person, that it puts
them out of touch with reality as far as
what the average person has to go through
to live in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't say that
you are exactly right on that, no. I have
seen, from my own experience, that it
costs a Member of Congress an enormous
amount of extra money to maintain close
contacts with the people back home. Quite
often to finance and to own a house, say,
in Colorado, where you live, and also to
buy and to own or to rent an extremely
expensive house here in Washington. Also,
the Congress Member, in order to stay in
office and to build up seniority to serve
you and the other people around Denver
better, has to run for office every 2 years.
Now, there are also Members of Congress
who have no trouble raising money for a
political campaign. Others have to spend
a lot of their own money in a political
campaign.
If you compare, say, a Member of Con-
gress who has to do that with a Federal
judge who lives in Denver full time, who
doesn't have to run for office, who gets
the same amount of pay, and who doesn't
have the constant political world to live
in and to deal with all kinds of compli-
cated and very controversial questions like
a Congressman does, all in the open, I
think the Congressmen deserve just as
much salary as a Federal judge.
So, it cuts both ways. I think, Gerald,
that in fairness to the Members of Con-
gress-I've never been in Congress as you
know there are some extraordinary ex-
penses that a Member of Congress has
that an average person, even a public
servant like a Federal judge, does not
have.
But I believe that the one change that
I described to you ought to be made; that
is, to let future salary increases go into
effect only after the next general election.
MR. CRONITE. It is also true, Mr. Presi-
dent, isn't it, that the Members of Con-
gress, members of the judiciary and the
executive branch who are entitled to these
raises, had not had one for a very long
time and had fallen far behind the general
cost-of-living increases?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the last raise
went into effect about 8 years ago.
I might say, Walter, that I made a mis-
take a while
take a while ago. I got my decimal point
wrong on the shortage in the reserve
figures because of not having a draft. The
total reserve is about 800,000 and the
shortage is about 10 percent of that,
70,000 or 80,000. Somebody just called in
and said that I said the shortage was
800,000. And I'm sorry I made that mis-
take.
MR. CRONKITE. An officer in the reserve
I would guess.
THE PRESIDENT. I guess.
MR. CRONKITE. Sergeant David Cash
of Mililani, Hawaii, is on the phone, Mr.
President, our first call from the State of
Hawaii. Sergeant Cash?
SERGEANT CASH. Good morning, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, Mr.
Cash.
MARTIAL ARTS TRAINING
SERGEANT CASH. I'm with the 25th In-
fantry Training Command. We have a
tae kwon do program, which is the Korean
martial art, and it's been with the 25th
Infantry for the last 3 years. We train the
Army personnel in it to, you know, to be
a better soldier in discipline and mentally
conditioned. And they turn out to be real,
319
