Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 28, 1977
Vice President Mondale's
Trip to Europe and Japan
Remarks of the President and the
Vice President on the Vice President's
Departure. January 23, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I am very grateful to
come this morning to have my last meet-
ing with Vice President Mondale before
he
goes to Europe and to Japan. The early
initiation of this very important diplo-
matic trip and the fact that the Vice
President himself is going shows the im-
portance that our Nation attaches to
friendly relationships between ourselves
and the seven nations, specifically with
whose leaders Senator Mondale-or Vice
President Mondale, now, will be meeting.
We also have arranged for him to meet
with the leaders of the OECD, the NATO
countries, and the Common Market coun-
tries of Europe. He'll be visiting Pope Paul
and will be gone for 10 days. This trip will
not be limited in its scope. He'll be dis-
cussing both political and economic and
military matters.
We had a very thorough preparation
for this trip with the members of the Na-
tional Security Council yesterday morn-
ing. And for the last couple of weeks, Vice
President Mondale and I have been pre-
paring for this diplomatic venture.
There are several things specifically that
he will be addressing. One is the prepara-
tion for a summit meeting that will likely
occur later on this spring, which will not
itself be limited to economic matters.
He'll be discussing the importance that we
attach to the limitation of proliferation of
the capability for atomic weapons.
He'll be discussing future substantive
changes that we hope will improve the
strength of NATO and our own friendly
and close relationships with our natural
allies and friends in both Europe and
Japan.
Vice President Mondale has my com-
plete confidence. He is a personal repre-
sentative of mine, and I'm sure that his
consultation with the leaders of these na-
tions will make it much easier for our
country to deal directly with them on sub-
stantive matters in the future.
I'm going to miss him. I know that I'll
be looking forward to 10 days from now
when he returns with a good report. And
this is one of the best things, I think, that
I could have possibly done as a new Presi-
dent, to show the strength and purpose of
our own Nation and our commitment to
carry out the obligations that we have as a
leader in the world community.
So, Fritz, good luck. Don't get too much
rest, and we'll see you when you get back.
11
