Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
business. I didn't have any employees
except myself. And the first year, I didn't
make enough money to pay my rent. And
the second year, my wife went to work
with me. And in the third year, I hired
my first employee. But had I not had
that Government housing to start my own
family life, I would have been in very
desperate straits.
So, I know from personal experience
what it did mean to me. I know what it
means to many people who are not nearly
so fortunate as I am now. And the re-
sponsibility for delivering that housing to
homeowners is your own.
Now, we've had bad experience in the
past with some of the housing programs
that Congress promulgated to alleviate
these problems. Part of the fault was in a
lack of enthusiasm from the White House.
That will not be a problem in the future.
EMPLOYMENT OF COLLEGE STUDENTS
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. The question was-I
won't give the preamble-since bureau-
crats don't last forever, is there any plan
being made for college students to come
into the Government just during the
summer to learn about Government, to
try themselves out, and see if they want a
future career in Government in the fu-
ture? Is that basically your question?
Q. Yes, that is what we have in mind.
THE PRESIDENT. This was done, again,
while I was Governor. We had a small
government, comparatively speaking, but
we brought about 600 or 700 college stu-
dents per year into the State government
for 3 months at a time. They worked in
very responsible jobs for that 3 months, in
all facets of government life. They were
paid a very small amount of money, but
they got college credit, in many instances,
if they were college students.
We also brought in college-age young
people who did not attend college, and
they were paid a higher salary for doing
the same work. But we derived many very
fine, permanent public servants from that
program that we would not have gotten
otherwise. And I think this is a good ap-
proach. As a matter of fact, one of my col-
lege interns in those days is a special as-
sistant to Cecil Andrus in the Interior
Department.
And this is the kind of program that I
think can be very good. It gives also a
chance to fill in some of the gaps during
major vacation time, and it also brings
some fresh and new ideas into an agency
or a branch of an agency from the college-
age students who are going to come and
go.
And we always asked them as they left
to give us a brief summary of some bene-
ficial suggestions that they had to improve
the agency within which they had worked
temporarily. And those were assessed by
the department head, and quite often they
were very valuable to the government.
So, yes, I think the concept that's now
described in the White House Intern pro-
gram, ought to be throughout the entire
Government-and will.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. The question was
about establishing a Cabinet post for EEO.
I don't intend to do that, but I do have an
awareness of the problem that we see.
Now this is typical of what we need to do
about reorganization.
I believe we have seven different Fed-
eral Government agencies responsible for
equal employment opportunities, and
none of them function as effectively as they
should. We are making some progress in
providing opportunities for women and
minority groups where they did not exist
before. We haven't been fully successful,
but I think we've made a good start.
137
