Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 21
tion and solidarity also applies to the
world scene, where nations together can
also abide by such spirit.
I am looking forward to today and to-
morrow where we can have meetings with
you, Mr. President. I have called my own
Cabinet in Japan a "let's work" Cabinet.
And I want you to know that I am ready
to go to work with you for the next 2 days
for the next 2 days
for what we can accomplish in building
an even more effective Japanese-Ameri-
can partnership. Let's work together.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. That's beautiful.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House. The
Prime Minister spoke in Japanese, and his re-
marks were translated by an interpreter.
Pan American Day and
Pan American Week, 1977
Proclamation 4491. March 21, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The people of the Western Hemisphere
share a common past and a common fu-
ture. As friends and neighbors we have
an obligation to help one another, in
order to promote our common good and
to solve the problems of each nation, and
advance our mutual interest in global
solutions to problems that confront all of
humankind. The organization of Ameri-
can States, the world's oldest regional
organization, is one symbol of these shared
aspirations.
other. The challenge for all of us in the
coming year is to find ways to adapt our
relationships to take into account these
changes. At the same time, we should re-
dedicate ourselves to the ideals of peace,
cooperation, and social justice which con-
tinue to unite and inspire our peoples.
It is appropriate that we set aside a
special period to honor the heritage that
unites us, to reaffirm our mutual desire
for peace and international harmony, and
to dedicate ourselves to shaping a rela-
tionship which looks to the future for
inspiration.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Thursday, April 14,
1977, as Pan American Day, and the week
beginning April 10, 1977, as Pan Ameri-
can Week. I call upon the Governors of
the States and the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the Mayor of the District of
Columbia, and appropriate officials of all
other areas subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States to issue similar
proclamations.
I urge the communications media, edu-
cators, individuals, and organizations to
join together during this week to cele-
brate our friendship and to recognize the
need for a continuing commitment to
peaceful and productive relationships
with our neighbors in this Hemisphere as
a special part of our effort to forge equi-
table global frameworks for relations
among nations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
Since Pan American Day was first pro-
claimed in 1889, the nations of this hemi-
sphere have undergone dramatic changes [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
internally and in relationship to each
3:25 p.m., March 21, 1977]
469
