Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. Let's put it this way: How high a
priority would you be giving to the fight-
ing of organized crime?
THE PRESIDENT. I think quite high.
When I was Governor, we organized a
substantial effort to fight organized crime.
And we detected the interrelationship be-
tween gambling, which a lot of people
assume is just a normal part of life, prosti-
tution, which some people think is not
too bad, the distribution of drugs, which
is condemned by almost everyone, and
other forms of illegalities. And the upshot
Senate today, will have overall supervision over
Justice Department efforts in fighting crime. To
this end, Flaherty will bear the prime respon-
sibility for the activities of the Criminal Division
of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
the Law Enforcement Assistance Administra-
tion, and the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
of our analysis was that they are very
closely interrelated.
Profits from gambling, profits from
prostitution and other more acceptable
kinds of crime, in some people's minds,
are directly used to enhance the distribu-
tion of heroin and other drugs. So, I think
it is a very serious problem. It is one that
we ought to address from a national level.
And one of the crucial elements that can
be improved is to have local, State, and
Federal law enforcement agencies cooper-
ate in a much more effective fashion in
exchange of ideas and information and,
also, in the prosecution of criminals.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's fourth news confer-
ence began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broadcast
live on radio and television.
Both the President and the Attorney General
endorse the principle of concentrating Federal
law enforcement efforts on attacking large, or-
ganized crime operations, instead of focusing on
minor offenders. They are particularly con-
cerned about curtailing the activities of large- Indochina Refugees
scale narcotics traffickers. In this connection, a
study is underway on the advisability of making
the Drug Enforcement Administration part of
the FBI as a means of stepping up the fight
against narcotics.
They believe these efforts must take place
with the close involvement of local and State
law enforcement agencies, since this is where
most of the resources for fighting crime are lo-
cated. The administration looks in this regard
toward a national program in which all levels
of government would cooperate to produce the
maximum reduction of crime.
The administration also places a high priority
on fighting white-collar crime. To promote this
effort, programs will shortly begin within the
FBI to train and recruit more accountants, com-
puter specialists, and other experts, so as to in-
crease the FBI's effectiveness in uncovering and
successfully helping to prosecute intricate fraud,
financial manipulations, and other white-collar
crime.
The Attorney General will report to the Pres-
ident as apects of his anti-crime program are
developed.
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen
Transmitting a Report. March 24, 1977
In accordance with the provisions of
the Indochina Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting
to you on the status of refugees from Cam-
bodia and South Vietnam.
As my report to you shows, we continue
to make substantial progress in the re-
settlement and assimilation of the Indo-
china refugee into American life. This
quarter as in the past quarter our atten-
tion has been focused particularly on the
development of marketable job skills and
English language proficiency for the re-
settled refugee. The refugees authorized
under the expanded parole program have
now all entered the United States and
have been placed with sponsors. Soon the
504
