Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 22
ysis shows that it will have no adverse
impact. Some computer model studies
show that it will actually increase the
number of jobs several hundred thousand
and have a beneficial effect on our
economy.
So, to summarize, it will have some
inflationary impact. It will definitely not
have an adverse impact on jobs or eco-
nomic growth. It might have some bene-
ficial impact on jobs and economic
growth.
Q. Mr. President, how can you possibly
achieve your goal of coal conversion by
major utilities in areas like New York, for
example, where the clean air standards
already are not being met and where the
utilities in these areas have indicated very
strongly that they intend to fight any
move to force them to install machinery
like scrubbers, for example?
THE PRESIDENT. The requirement for
installing scrubbers to provide for clean
burning of coal will be applied uni-
formly throughout the country so far as
I know. That is a separate item that's
now being addressed by the Congress.
In some areas where the air pollution is
extremely bad—you've mentioned New
York; there might be other places then
we will consider making exceptions and
permit utilities to continue to use either
perhaps oil instead of coal. But that
would be a rare exception based only
upon the proven need to maintain the
present high level of air pollution without
any increase and hopefully over time to
reduce it.
DEREGULATION OF NEW NATURAL GAS
Q. Mr. President, now that you have
asked Congress to continue regulation of
all natural gas except deep well gas and
to extend the regulation to the intrastate
market, would you concede that your
campaign promise to the Governors of
Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana, that
you would work with Congress to dereg-
ulate natural gas or new natural gas has
gone down the drain?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think if you
would read the statement that I made to
the Congress the other night, I specifi-
cally said that I will continue to work with
the Congress toward deregulation of
newly discovered natural gas. What we
have done so far I think I went on to
say when economic circumstances permit.
What we have done so far is to set the
newly discovered price of natural gas at
the same price as its equivalent in energy
of oil, which is the international price. So,
this is a substantial move, and I believe
that my campaign commitment which
never put any tie limit is indeed intact.
Q. Does that mean that you foresee a
recommendation to eventually take the
cap off of gas; that is, as long as there is
a cap on it, it would seem to be regulated?
And I wondered if that might be the
eventual thing?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that would
still have to remain for future analysis. I
believe that in the definitions that have
been given at least by some of the natural
gas producers, setting the natural gas
prices at its equivalent in oil, is an ade-
quate level of deregulation. Others, of
course, want complete deregulation of oil
and gas.
I don't think it's possible for us to do
that in the immediate future. I think the
adverse impact on consumers and on our
economy would just be too severe. I can't
answer the question any better unil I see
what events bring in future months.
THE ENERGY PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, in your fireside chat
on February 2 you said, and I quote, "We
will ask the private companies to sacrifice
just as private citizens must do."
699
