Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
philosophers said-Kierkegaard-"Every
person is an individual. Every person is
different, with different yearnings, and
disappointments, hopes and dreams and
aspirations, fears, prejudices, and needs.
And if we treat people as statistics or as
homogeneous bodies, even though we
know they're in need, then we will have
failed." But to the extent that we can let
Government have a heart and a helping
hand, that sense will be derived from your
own Department here.
We've got a lot of changes that can be
made. At the same time, we've got a lot
of good things we need to preserve. And
that careful balancing between an ag-
gressive, constant striving for better Gov-
ernment ought not ever to stand in our
way. If things that you observe can be
made better, let's don't hesitate to make
the changes.
I think the country is ready for a better,
more comprehensive approach under the
generic name of welfare. Welfare, to me,
is not charity. Welfare, to me, is an in-
terest in individual human beings, to let
them stand on their own feet to the
extent they are able to meet their own
needs, to be proud, to have self-respect,
and to feel that the services that we
deliver to them are not handed down
from a position of authority or superiority
to an inferior, but handed as though we
were the servants dealing with people
who have let it be possible for us to serve.
I would like to make sure that we
eliminate as much as possible, the arti-
ficial divisions within government in
dealing with a single human being. In
Georgia, I tried to have a one-door
policy, so that if a family had a need,
they wouldn't have to search among all
the various little, tiny, individualistic
bureaucracies that existed in Georgia
government, but would have one contact
to government who cared about the
family.
And the reason I met Joe Califano for
the first time in my life, for an extended
visit last August, was to ask him to help
me understand how every aspect of gov-
ernment impacted either beneficially or
adversely on the American family struc-
ture. That has got to be the basis of gov-
ernment. And to the extent that we can
strengthen that interrelationship among
people who naturally, through blood
relationships, or otherwise, care for one
another, it will make our own jobs more
effective. It will also cut down on the
burden that's placed on government.
I believe in Joe Califano. Those among
you, and I would think it would be almost
unanimous, who saw the tremendous-
[applause] who saw the tremendous
thrust of Lyndon Johnson's administra-
tion, know that most of those programs
designed to help the poor and the inar-
ticulate and the timid and the black and
the foreign language-speaking American,
came from the mind and heart of Joe
Califano.
I was particularly eager for him to
head this Department as we face a new
day. We're going to move aggressively on
many programs that are dear to your own
hearts the comprehensive welfare re-
form, dealing with other related depart-
ments not in a separated fashion, but a
cohesive fashion, trying to reduce the
bureaucratic obstacles to the personal re-
lationship with people who need our
help. We're going to move very aggres-
sively to cut down the abuses in Medic-
aid, Medicare; add some structure and
some permanence to the resolution of the
problems that face the financing of social
security.
But all these complicated questions
cannot be resolved by me as a President,
by Joe Califano as a Cabinet member-
they have to be resolved by you.
159
