Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to Dr. Gardner for being willing to go to
Italy, and I know the Italian people will
be as pleased as I am that he will be
there.
[At this point, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham,
Jr., of the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, admin-
istered the oath of office.]
AMBASSADOR GARDNER. Mr. President,
my family and I are deeply honored by
your presence, by the presence of Mrs.
Carter, by your gracious words and by the
high honor that you've bestowed upon us.
Thirty-nine years ago, because of Ital-
ian fascism, Bruno Luzzatto, my dear
father-in-law, who's with us today, took
his family out of Italy and to the United
States. Because of that I met Danielle and
came to know the great people of Italy.
I even learned, Mr. President, to speak
Italian with a Venetian accent. And I
learned an old Venetian saying which
goes-and Danielle, correct me if I don't
have it quite right-Prime di parlare, taci,
and I think a rough translation of that, a
polite translation of that is, "Before you
speak, be quiet."
Sir, I will try to carry out that wise dic-
tum as your Ambassador to Italy.
Mr. President, last night at the United
Nations you emphasized the goals and
values of the United States-disarma-
ment and peace, economic justice within
and between nations, and human rights
and democratic processes. These are pre-
cisely the great values which the Ameri-
can people and the Italian people
together share, and that's why the friend-
ship of the two countries is truly unbreak-
able.
We are deeply honored by your confi-
dence in us. We will do our best to be
worthy of it. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:35 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
March 12
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President for National Security
Affairs.
March 14
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-senior White House staff members;
-the Cabinet;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
-Chancellor Bruno Kreisky of Austria;
-Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich
Genscher of the Federal Republic of
Germany;
-members of the Cabinet and senior
White House staff and their spouses,
for a briefing on energy by Dr. James
R. Schlesinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent.
The White House announced that
Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers and per-
sonal economic adviser to the President,
will no longer serve as Co-chairman of
the Economic Planning Group, along
with Secretary of the Treasury W. Mi-
chael Blumenthal. In making the an-
nouncement, Press Secretary Jody Powell
said that Dr. Schultze felt that the posi-
tion might be incompatible with his role
as personal economic adviser to the Presi-
463
