Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 1, 1977
Swearing-In Ceremony
Remarks at the Swearing In of the
Deputy Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, an Assistant Secretary of
Agriculture, and the Director of the
United States Information
Agency. March 25, 1977
This afternoon, we have a very delight-
ful ceremony to perform, one that gives
me a great deal of pleasure and also a
great deal of pride.
We have three superbly qualified people
who will play a major role in the evolution
of policy and the carrying out of those
policies in our country during the next 4
years.
The first one I'd like to introduce to the
group is Jim McIntyre, from Georgia, a
superbly qualified young man who helped
me from the very initial stages of my own
administration as Governor. He was the
legal counsel for the reorganization effort
in our own State, which I think was suc-
cessful. He was the director of the office
of planning and budget. And he helped
me to evolve long-range policies that tied
together the State government with the
local governments of our State, and also
related to the Federal Government itself.
So, in the system of federalism, Jim Mc-
Intyre is well qualified. He knows my
strengths, whatever they are, and he
knows my weaknesses, as well; knows how
to cover up for them. He's bringing to the
Federal Government the knowledge that
will be crucial as Deputy Administrator
[Director] of OMB, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget. He will have a primary
responsibility in the implementation of
zero-base budgeting and the evolution of
reorganization plans for our Nation.
When Prime Minister Trudeau was
here, he said living next to the United
States was like sleeping with an ele-
phant-you could hear all the grunts, and
every twitch was important to you. And
Jim McIntyre is almost in that position
working under Bert Lance. [Laughter]
But, I think, he's strong enough and tough
enough to hold his own, to give me guid-
ance, and to deal with his boss.
So, I'm very proud, Jim McIntyre, that
you are here, and I'm very glad, Maureen,
that you are help to help us.
The next person I'd like to introduce
is Carol Foreman. Those of the news
media who traveled with me extensively
during the last 2 years know that I said
hundreds of times that what's best for
the family farmer is exactly what's best
for the consumers of our country.
This is kind of an innovative thing for
the U.S. Department of Agriculture—to
have a strong, competent, forceful spokes-
man for consumers, actively involved in
511
