Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 22
free and candid dialogue and mutual
trust was established between the new
leaders of the governments of the United
States and Japan. They agreed that the
two Governments would maintain close
contact and consultation on all matters of
common concern.
The President and the Prime Minister
expressed their determination that the
two countries, recognizing their respec-
tive responsibilities as industrialized de-
mocracies, endeavor to bring about a
more peaceful and prosperous interna-
tional community. To this end, they
agreed that it is essential for the indus-
trialized democracies to develop harmo-
nized positions toward major economic
issues through close consultation. They
agreed further that it is important to sus-
tain and develop dialogue and coopera-
tion with countries whose political sys-
tems differ and which are in varying
stages of economic development.
The President and the Prime Minister
noted with satisfaction that the friendly
and cooperative relations between the
United States and Japan have continued
to expand throughout diverse areas in the
lives of the two peoples-not only in eco-
nomic and political interchange, but in
such varied fields as science and tech-
nology, medicine, education and culture.
They looked forward to further collabo-
ration on both private and governmental
levels in all these areas. The President
and the Prime Minister confirmed their
common determination to further
strengthen the partnership between their
two countries, based on shared democratic
values and a deep respect for individual
freedom and fundamental human rights.
The President and the Prime Minister
confirmed their common recognition that
the interdependence of nations requires
that the industrial countries manage their
economies with due consideration for
global economic needs, including those
of the developing nations. They agreed
that economic recovery of the industrial-
ized democracies is indispensable to the
stable growth of the international econo-
my, and that nations with large-scale
economies, including the United States
and Japan, while seeking to avoid recru-
descent inflation, should contribute to the
stimulation of the world economy in a
manner commensurate with their respec-
tive situations. They agreed that both
Governments would continue to consult
closely to this end.
They agreed that a liberal world trad-
ing system is essential for the sound de-
velopment of the world economy, and in
this connection expressed their determi-
nation to seek significant early progress in
the Tokyo Round of the Multilateral
Trade Negotiations and to bring those
negotiations to a successful conclusion as
soon as possible.
develop new
They reconfirmed the need for the na-
tions concerned, including the United
States and Japan, to address construc-
tively the issues posed in the North-South
relationship. They noted the continuing
seriousness of the global energy problem
and reconfirmed the importance of taking
further steps to conserve energy and to
develop new and alternative energy
sources. They agreed on the necessity of
intensified consumer country cooperation
in the International Energy Agency and
of continued promotion of cooperation
between the oil-importing and oil-pro-
ducing countries. They agreed that both
Governments would continue their efforts
to identify and promote positive solutions
to these issues, and would endeavor to
bring the Ministerial Meeting of the Con-
ference on International Economic Co-
operation to a successful conclusion.
The President and the Prime Minister
welcomed the convening in London in
May of the summit conference of the ma-
jor industrial countries. They expressed
479
