Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 29
money to come all the way to Washing-
ton to see me. But I am glad that you
have done so.
These young people and their parents
raised more than $9,000 to come and see
me and to visit the White House. And I
am very glad that you came.
I thought rather than just treating you
like children, that I would treat you like
responsible American citizens. And al-
though I want to shake hands with all of
you before I leave, I thought it would be
nice for you to be here on a very historic
and important occasion in our Nation's
history.
On my right over here are very fine
people who work in Government with Dr.
James Schlesinger, and for the last 3
months, they are the ones that have put
together the new national energy policy
that will change the life of our Nation
for the better in the future.
Congressman Hefner, I am going to
take this occasion to transmit to the
House and Senate of the United States
Congress the energy legislation that has
been developed by these people on my
right.
Dr. Schlesinger says this is the first time
they have seen the light of day in a num-
ber of weeks, and they are squinting in
the sun. They have been working day and
night on this legislation. As a matter of
fact, the proposal consists of about 275
pages. It's one of the most complicated
messages or legislative packages that a
President has ever sent to the Congress,
and it's designed to be fair. It will encour-
age the American people not to waste
energy in the future; it will prepare us to
face the years ahead without fear of being
damaged if supplies of oil from overseas
are interrupted.
I believe it will make the world know
that we are sincere about eliminating
waste. I think it will also remove the op-
portunities or causes of arguments and
disharmony between the oil companies
and consumers, between Government and
private industry, and between or among
the different parts of our own country
and, certainly, between our country and
those nations overseas who share with us
this very serious problem.
So, at this time, Jim, I would like to
sign a letter to the speaker of the House
of Representatives pointing out the im-
portance of the energy legislation asking
the Congress to give this matter its top
priority treatment, and with the expres-
sion of my complete dedication to work
with the Congress closely in this very im-
portant effort—which may be the most
important thing we do for our own Na-
tion's domestic affairs in 1977.
So, this is a letter to Tip O'Neill that
I am signing at this point. In addition, I
am signing the same letter to the Vice
President, who presides over the U.S.
Senate. So, this will be a message going
to the House and Senate.
Now, I want all the students from Bev-
erly Hills School to help me get this legis-
lation passed. How many of you will ask
your Congressman to vote for the legis-
lation that I have just signed? If you will
help me by asking the Congressmen to
help me, would you raise your hands?
Come on, I need more help than that.
Very good. I think you have gotten your
instructions right from folks back home,
with no interference from me. Very good.
Very good. Thank you.
I am very deeply grateful and will
never forget the tremendous effort that
you all have put forward above and be-
yond the call of duty to make this mo-
mentous step forward. And Dr. Schlesin-
ger, to you and all your able assistants you
have my eternal gratitude.
I might say that at the time he was
making you work long hours, he did not
741
