Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It's a real pleasure.
Thank you. I'm proud of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:31 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The National Teacher of the Year Award
program was started in 1952 by the U.S. Office
of Education in conjunction with the Council
of Chief State School Officers and McCall's
Magazine. It is currently sponsored by the
Council of Chief State School Officers, Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, and Ladies Home Journal.
As this year's national teacher, Mrs. Lee,
who teaches social living, history, and women's
studies at Helix High School in La Mesa, Calif.,
will be appointed, by law, to a 1-year term on
the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
United States International
Broadcasting
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 22, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In my letters to the Speaker and to the
President of the Senate of January 31, I
stated that my advisers were reviewing a
report on international broadcasting in
compliance with Section 403 of the For-
eign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 1977. That review is now finished.
This Administration firmly supports
U.S. international broadcasting as part of
our commitment to the freer flow of in-
formation and ideas. Among the most
valuable instruments we have for this
pur-
pose are our international radios the
Voice of America (VOA) and Radio Free
Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL)
which for many years have been a vital
part of the lives of the peoples of Eastern
Europe and the Soviet Union. My review
of the U.S. international broadcasting ef-
fort has led me to the following conclu-
sions, which are reflected in the attached
report:
(1) Present U.S. international broad-
cast transmission facilities are inadequate;
16 additional 250 Kilowatt transmitters
for broadcasts to the Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe are needed by VOA and
RFE/RL and can be installed in a period
of three to five years;
(2) There is no significant unused
transmitter capacity available for sharing
among U.S. broadcasters or between U.S.
and other Western broadcasters;
(3) A comprehensive outline of U.S.
worldwide broadcasting needs indicates a
requirement for 12 additional VOA trans-
mitters for broadcast to Asia and Africa,
beyond those required for European
broadcasts;
(4) Extending Board for International
Broadcasting-type transmissions to other
nations where access to information is re-
stricted would be highly impractical for a
variety of reasons.
This report is transmitted pursuant to
the requirements of P.L. 94-350, and I
believe that implementation of its recom-
mendations can assure the United States
of effective broadcasting programs in the
years ahead.
The White House,
March 22, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The White House press release also in-
cluded the text of the report.
Visit of Prime Minister Fukuda
of Japan
United States-Japan Joint Communique Issued
at the Conclusion of the Prime Minister's Visit.
March 22, 1977
President Carter and Prime Minister
Fukuda met in Washington March 21
and 22 for a comprehensive and fruitful
exchange of views on matters of mutual
interest.
They expressed satisfaction that
through the meetings, a relationship of
478
