Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 30
as a normal course of events. I found that
this is a very effective way to deal with
very low temperatures. We could meet
half of the shortage of natural gas today
if every home in our country would co-
operate in this fuel saving effort just by
reducing thermostats and not wasting
electricity and other forms of heat.
It is crucial that everybody realize the
importance of this effort. A little bit in
individual homes doesn't seem very im-
portant, but the cumulative impact of
every home doing this in the country and
every person cooperating is very, very sig-
nificant.
Thank you very much. I have enjoyed
being with you. Thank you for letting me
interrupt your work.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m.
The Energy Shortage
Remarks on Returning From the Trip to
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. January 30, 1977
I just returned from a trip to the sub-
urbs of Pittsburgh where we had a chance
to observe from the helicopter the tre-
mendous industrial complex along the
Monongahela River. This is a concentra-
tion of production and employment that
is almost unequaled anywhere else in the
country.
The snowfall and severe weather-it
was five degrees even up in the morning
there has created very serious problems.
The natural gas supplies are down to min-
imum level.
There are in Pennsylvania, itself, 400,-
000 people unemployed even before the
cold weather came; 90,000 additional em-
ployees are out of work because of
weather conditions and energy shortages.
And we have analyzed-most of the work
having been done by Governor Shapp-
325,000 additional jobs are in danger of
being lost because of energy shortages.
Empty barges are lined up in the river.
They can't be carried back down for re-
filling because of heavy ice conditions.
We have already seen Governor Shapp
take strong action. Every school, both pri-
vate and public, in Pennsylvania is closed.
Almost all the churches this morning were
empty, with their services cancelled. The
thermostats have been ordered reduced to
62 degrees, and the people of Pennsyl-
vania are cooperating. I am sure in the
10 other States that are heavily impacted
by the cold weather, they are doing the
same.
The points I would like to make here
are two-fold. One is this is the first strong
indication of a permanent, very serious
energy shortage. The crisis might be over
in a few days or a couple of weeks, but
the energy shortage is going to be with
us, is going to get worse instead of better.
And the second point is that we are all
in it together. Every household that keeps
its temperature too high or that wastes
fuel contributes to the unemployment of
American people and a damage to our
society.
I have moved to ask the Congress for
emergency legislation to allocate the
scarce supplies of natural gas. That is
just a temporary thing. We will work
as hard as possible in the next few weeks
to evolve for our country a permanent,
long-range, comprehensive energy policy.
We are the only developed nation in
the world that doesn't have such a policy.
It is a very serious handicap to me and
to other leaders now in dealing with this
first indication of a permanent energy
shortage. By April 20, we will have com-
pleted the basic energy policy for our
country and will go to Congress then for
permanent legislation. Members of Con-
gress, industry, consumers groups, my
own administration leaders, and others
45
