Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 26
But over a period of months, as Com-
mander in Chief of the Armed Forces, I
need to know about our defense capabili-
ties, and one of the best ways to get that
information is to visit in person some of
the military bases and installations.
Q. Mr. President, once again you didn't
get beyond the fourth row this time. I've
got a question about the month of May.
About a month ago, you declared May
a time to remember the problems of the
elderly, and I've got a couple of questions
I've been trying for the last three press
conferences to ask you.
THE PRESIDENT. Why don't
you wait
until the next press conference, and if
you'll remind Jody, I'll try to call on you.
Q. All right. Fine.
Q. Mr. President, that submarine can
carry cruise missiles. Could you talk to us
a little bit about the cruise missile?
THE PRESIDENT. Not now, Marilyn
[Marilyn Berger, NBC News].
Q. Mr. President, one thing was left
unclear. Aviation News reported that you
are considering a moratorium on cruise;
is that accurate?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. Mr. President, you are tying yourself
more and more tightly to balancing the
budget, and it may be a goal that has
factors that you can't afford. How come
you keep locking yourself more and more
tightly into it?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not-not any
tighter than I have been.
International Monetary Fund
Nomination of Thomas B. C. Leddy To Be
Alternate U.S. Executive Director.
May 26, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Thomas B. C. Leddy, of
Vienna, Va., to be Alternate U.S. Execu-
tive Director of the International Mone-
tary Fund. Leddy has held that position
since 1975, so this would be a reappoint-
ment.
Leddy was born January 27, 1943, in
Washington, D.C. He received a B.A. in
economics from George Washington
University in 1964 and has completed
coursework for a Ph. D. in economics
there.
In 1964 and 1965, Leddy was a research
assistant on the NASA Space Flight Te-
lemetry Project at George Washington
University. From 1965 to 1968, he was an
international economist in the Office of
the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
for International Affairs (OASIA), Of-
fice of Latin America.
From 1968 to 1970, Leddy was Assist-
ant Financial Attaché in the American
Embassy in Tokyo, Japan. During 1970
he served as an international economist
in OASIA's Office of Industrial Nations,
detailed to assist the Deputy to the Assist-
ant Secretary of International Monetary
Affairs.
Leddy was an international economist
in OASIA's Industrial Nations Finance,
International Monetary Office from 1970
to 1973. From 1973 to 1975, he was dep-
uty director of the Office of International
Monetary Affairs.
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of John G. Heimann To Be
Comptroller of the Currency. May 26, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate John G. Heimann, of
New York, N.Y., to be Comptroller of the
Currency. Heimann is commissioner of
the New York State division of housing
and community renewal.
He was born April 1, 1929, in New
York, N.Y. He received a B.A. in eco-
1025
