May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Congress before the summer home work
session, which commences in August.
I would hope that the Congress could
pass the new welfare legislation early next
year, and then we'll immediately start to
implement it.
It took us 2 years to implement the
recent change in the welfare laws, and I
think that a 3-year time for the conclu-
sion of those changes is a very hopeful
and optimistic move. But that doesn't
mean that we won't initiate immediately
those parts that can be done quickly. And
I think that this is not a sign of discour-
agement, but a sign of practicality.
We are now approaching this question
on a somewhat piecemeal basis. Under
the general term of welfare would obvi-
ously come food stamps. We've recom-
mended that the cash contribution to food
stamps be eliminated, a great simplifica-
tion process. So, I don't think anyone
needs to be discouraged who is interested
in welfare reform.
If everything went exactly on schedule
and if we moved as expeditiously as
humanly possible, that could not be com-
pleted before the time that I designated.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Q. Mr. President, Pat Caddell, your
pollster in the campaign, wrote a memo
to you in December. And I'd like to ask
you about two of his assertions. The first
is that some elements of the Democratic
Party are greater adversaries, potentially,
of your administration politically than the
Republicans. He mentioned traditional
Democrats like McGovern. He called him
anachronistic, and the "young turks" like
Governor Brown. He said he was the most
dangerous threat on the horizon in the
Party.
My first question, if I may, is: Do you
believe that?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't see either
McGovern or Governor Brown as an ad-
versary or threat. I feel quite secure in my
position. [Laughter]
The prospect of a 1980 election is some-
thing that I have not, you know, put any
time on at all. That'll be a decision that
may be made in the future. And I think
that it's accurate to say-I don't remem-
ber the memorandum now in detail-but
I do remember that one of the conclu-
sions that he drew, as you so accurately
pointed out on television one night, is that
the best way to have favorable reaction
from the American people in future elec-
tions is to do a good job in managing the
Government. But I honestly don't feel
threatened.
I think it's true that I have a close
and friendly relationship with Governor
Brown. He helped me during the cam-
paign. My son Chip is with him today
for a 4-day period to work, and my wife
will be stopping by to work in California
with Governor Brown on mental health
when she goes to Hawaii later on this
year.
I don't feel threatened and consider
him a very good friend. But this is long
in the future. And I think what Pat Cad-
dell was referring to was if I should
change my mind and decide to run for
reelection.
THE PRESIDENT'S STYLE
Q. May I ask about the second theme,
which was, you should continue a politi-
cal campaign as President with such
things as town meetings and all of that,
and that you should really concentrate on
style. He said that many people have been
defeated by making the mistake of substi-
tuting substance for style. Do you agree?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I agree. I agree
to this extent: When I took office, I had
not won an overwhelming victory in the
general election-as you know, a couple
million votes. And I believe that in the last
number of years, there had been a loss of
864
