Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 24
from warehouse, for consumption into the
United States of products covered by such
agreement or by such other import relief.
(7) The USITC shall issue reports and
conduct the following surveys with respect
to color television receivers and related
products:
(a) Quarterly. Surveys by calendar
quarter to obtain from producers in the
United States monthly data on produc-
tion, shipments, inventories, employment
man-hours, and prices, and other econom-
ic factors indicative of conditions in the
U.S. industry. The initial surveys shall
cover the fourth quarter of 1976 and the
first two quarters of 1977. Subsequent
surveys shall cover individual quarters
with the last such survey covering the
quarter which ends not less than 60 days
prior to the termination of the import
relief. The USITC shall publish the re-
sults of the initial surveys by September 1,
1977 and the results of later surveys with-
in 45 days of the end of the surveyed
quarter.
(b) Annual. Annual surveys to obtain
data from producers in the United States
by calendar quarter on profits, capacity,
and annual data on capital expenditures
and research and development expendi-
tures; and to obtain from importers data
by calendar quarter on prices, orders, and
inventories. The initial surveys shall cover
the calendar year 1976 and the calendar
year 1977, and the results shall be pub-
lished by March 31, 1978. The results of
subsequent surveys shall be published by
March 31 of each year thereafter so long
as the import relief is in effect.
(8) The proclamation shall be effective
as of July 1, 1977, and shall continue in
force through June 30, 1980, unless the
period of its effectiveness is earlier ex-
pressly modified or terminated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of June in the year of our Lord, nineteen
hundred and seventy seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:23 p.m., June 24, 1977]
NOTE: The proclamation was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
June 20
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
-senior White House staff members;
the Cabinet;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
-a group of Senators and Congress-
men, to discuss airline industry
reform;
-Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers;
-Professor Joao Fernando Sobral,
president, and Ulysses Buffington,
international director, Lions Interna-
tional, and Senator Jennings Ran-
dolph of West Virginia;
-Kenneth M. Curtis, chairman of the
Democratic National Committee;
-Peter B. Bensinger, Administrator of
the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
1161
