Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 21
Department of the Navy
Nomination of R. James Woolsey To Be
Under Secretary. February 21, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate R. James Woolsey to
be Under Secretary of the Navy. Wool-
sey is associated with the firm of Shea
and Gardner in Washington, D.C.
He was born in Tulsa, Okla., on Sep-
tember 21, 1941. He received a B.A. from
Stanford University in 1963. He attended
Oxford University on a Rhodes scholar-
ship from 1963 to 1965 and received an
M.A. He received an LL.B. from Yale
Law School in 1968, where he was man-
aging editor of the Yale Law Journal.
In 1968 Woolsey became associated
with the firm of O'Melveny & Myers in
Los Angeles. He received a reserve com-
mission in the U.S. Army through the
ROTC program and entered on active
duty in August 1968, serving until August
1970 as a program analyst in the Office
of the Secretary of Defense, and as an
adviser on the U.S. Delegation to the
Strategic Arms Limitation Talks in Hel-
sinki and Vienna, 1969 to 1970.
From September 1970 to December
1970, Woolsey was assigned from the
Department of Defense to the Program
Analysis Office of the National Security
Council staff.
Woolsey was general counsel to the
U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Serv-
ices from December 1970 until Decem-
Water Resource Projects
Message to the Congress. February 21, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
During the campaign I committed my-
self to a prudent and responsible use of
the taxpayers' money and to protection of
the environment. Today I am announcing
a major review of water resource projects
which will further both commitments.
Water development projects have
played a critical role in developing the
economy of this nation. But many of the
320 current projects approved in the past
under different economic circumstances
and at times of lower interest rates are of
doubtful necessity now, in light of new
economic conditions and environmental
policies. At this point, based upon infor-
mation thus far developed by the Council
on Environmental Quality, the Office of
Management and Budget and the Interior
Department, I have identified 19 projects
which now appear unsupportable on eco-
nomic, environmental, and/or safety
grounds. I have attached a list of these
projects. I am recommending at this time
that no funds be provided for these proj-
ects in FY 1978.
I am instructing Secretary of the Inter-
ior Andrus and Secretary of the Army
Alexander, working together with the Of-
fice of Management and Budget and the
Council on Environmental Quality, to
carry out a complete evaluation of these
ber 1973, when he joined the firm of 19 projects and of all other water resource
Shea and Gardner.
He is a member of the Council on
Foreign Relations and of Stanford Asso-
ciates. He served as a trustee on the Stan-
ford University Board of Trustees from
1972 to 1974.
Woolsey is married to the former
Suzanne Haley. They have two sons and
reside in Chevy Chase, Md.
projects and to develop comprehensive
policy reforms in this critical area. They
will report back to me and to the Congress
by April 15.
This review will give us the necessary
facts upon which to make certain that
only projects which are economically and
environmentally sound will receive final
approval. The FY 1978 budget reductions
207
