Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 30
If we can get everyone in this country
to realize the seriousness of our problem
and cut down drastically on heat con-
sumption, we can keep tens of thousands
of Americans employed.
Now, I have got on heavy underwear,
and the White House is cold inside.
[Laughter] My wife-when I told her
that we were going to lower the thermo-
stat drastically in the White House-she
shed a few tears, because she is really cold-
natured. She had just gotten through with
the Inauguration ceremonies and a 2-
year campaign, and we had had recep-
tions in the White House to meet thou-
sands of people, and she was tired. She
said, “I just can't do it." But we have got-
ten accustomed to it. I hope that all the
people in this country will realize that we
are in it together. It is really important.
I am going to pursue aggressively a
close, cooperative relationship between
myself and the Governors, mayors, coun-
ty officials, the Congress, industrial rep-
resentatives, and private citizens who are
not employed but who control their
thermostats in homes. We have just got
to work together.
The reason for my coming to Pittsburgh
instead of going to other places is, per-
haps, of interest to you.
In the first place, I wanted to see at first
hand the present impact on an area that
has a heavy concentration of employment,
that produces goods that our Nation has
to have to use in this country and to ex-
port.
Secondly, I wanted to see a plant-like
your own here, Westinghouse, where these
massive generators are constructed that
has done a good job already on energy
conservation. By using sodium vapor
lamps, you can cut down on the waste of
electricity. You have already done that,
and I appreciate it.
Third, this is a plant that is fed by doz-
ens of other plants for your component
parts. If any one of them is shut down,
perhaps in California or Georgia or Texas
or Ohio, and you are deprived of a cru-
cial part, it might very well cause your
own plant to close down even though the
other 99 percent of your component parts
are available. So, the nationwide effect of
this particular plant is illustrative, too.
This is a large plant, employing about
9,000 people. You had to close down Fri-
day at noon. I understand in this area
there is only enough fuel to last 2 more
weeks. And if you have to shut down com-
pletely, it would be a devastating blow to
our country.
These extremely large generating com-
ponent machines, that are almost as large
as a house, will supply electricity for other
parts of the Nation. One that is being
built here now is the largest one, or at
least as large as any, in the world, 1500
megawatts. It's going to the State of
Washington. And I know that all over the
country, the future supply of energy is de-
pendent upon you.
You have done a good job in this area
already in trying to save energy. Every
school in Pennsylvania has been closed. As
I flew over, I noticed the churches this
morning have been closed down. And you
have already reacted to a very unprece-
dented need. But we are all in it together.
I don't claim to know all the answers.
I am going to do the best I can. But I
think to the extent that we can let the
American people know that this is the first
major indication of a permanent energy
shortage and that all of us have to do our
part, perhaps it is a good forewarning
that might keep us from having very se-
vere national catastrophes in the future.
We appreciate very much your letting
us come in. I've had a chance to fly in
my helicopter up and down this heavily
industrialized region to see the impact
already of the heavy snow and extreme
39
