Apr. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ments are exhilarating and inspiring, and
both movements are sure of ultimate
success.
And I am very grateful this afternoon
to be part of the ceremony which will in-
creasingly bind us together in a realization
of the commonality of human beings, no
matter what continent might be our home.
And this African Room, I think, will be
a great stride forward in that respect.
I want to express my thanks in closing
to all those in the nations of Africa who
wanted to signify their own capabilities
and independence by financing this great
step forward in cultural acquirement and
friendship on their own; the fact that all
the funds for financing this beautiful room
have been raised in Africa is very good.
And I think this shows again the sense of
equality and the sense of common dedica-
tion that has bound, does bind, and will
bind our people ever closer together in the
historical years that lie ahead for all of us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 6:10 p.m. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Timothé
Ahoua, Ambassador to the United States from
the Ivory Coast, Andrew J. Young, U.S. Repre-
sentative to the United Nations, Robert H.
Thayer, former U.S. Minister to Romania, and
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman of the Kennedy
Center's Board of Trustees.
Visit of King Hussein I
of Jordan
Remarks of the President and King Hussein at
the Welcoming Ceremony. April 25, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. One of the most delight-
ful experiences that a President can have
is to welcome, on behalf of more than 200
million Americans, leaders of other na-
tions who have been staunch friends and
permanent allies of our country during
times of crisis and times of progress.
This is the silver jubilee of the reign
of King Hussein of Jordan. Twenty-five
years ago, he began his enlightened lead-
ership of a people who have always been
close to us.
The first time he came to our coun-
try as a leader of his great people was
when President Eisenhower was in office
more than 18 years ago.
King Hussein has been a frequent
visitor to our Nation because of his inter-
est in us, because of his friendship toward
us, and because of the value that we
ascribe to constant consultation with him
to derive the benefit of his sound advice
and constant sharing of mutual opportu-
nities and, on occasion, mutual problems.
This year, 1977, is a special time.
It's one when we face possible opportuni-
ties for major strides toward permanent
peace in the Middle East. It would be a
mistake to be too optimistic, because of
the serious nature of the divisions that
have long separated one people from an-
other in the Eastern Mediterranean re-
gion. But if there is one leader who is a
key to the comprehension of the problems
and also the analysis of possible solutions,
it would be King Hussein.
This will be a working trip for him.
He's offered to meet with me, to give me
counsel, and to give me advice on how
our own country might play a role in
bringing the interested parties together,
perhaps toward some steps toward a res-
olution of longstanding problems.
Immediately after this ceremony, he
and I will begin our meetings with his
Cabinet officers and my own. He will also
be meeting with other leaders of our Gov-
ernment during the next 2 days. I'll be
with him tonight and again tomorrow.
And I expect to learn a lot from King
Hussein about how our own country
710
