Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Visit of Prime Minister Rabin
of Israel
Toasts of the President and the
Prime Minister at a Working Dinner
for the Prime Minister. March 7, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think maybe something
is expected of me. [Laughter]
First of all, I want to welcome all of you
to the White House. When something oc-
curs with which I'm not familiar, I call
Ambassador Dinitz¹ and ask him, "What
do I do next?" And he always tells me how
my predecessors have performed, and
what's expected as the next event on the
program. And I think he was filling very
large shoes when he took over as Ambassa-
dor himself.
I met Prime Minister Rabin for the first
time when he came to Georgia. I was a
new Governor, and he came down to pay
his respects to me, along with his wife,
Lea. And we had an instant friendship. I
had the greatest possible admiration for
him because, as a military man myself, I
had studied the Six-Day War and recog-
nized his superb courage and leadership in
the major test of the military strength and
deep personal commitment of the people
who live in the heroic nation of Israel.
wanted to ask someone who was knowl-
edgeable. And he was gracious enough to
return to Tel Aviv a day or two early to
meet with me, and we spent 2 or 3 hours
talking about Israeli politics. I was fairly
well impressed with his knowledge of the
subject. I was even more impressed a few
months later when he became Prime
Minister. [Laughter] And since then,
we've tried to stay in touch with one an-
other.
As all of you assembled around this
table know, there is a kinship between our
Nation and Israel that's almost unique.
Our principle of government is the
same-a principle of commitment to in-
dividual human rights and to democracy
in its purest form; a matter of pride in
one's present and in one's past, and con-
fidence about the future, even in times of
trial and tribulation; and sharing of a
religious heritage that, to me, is very
significant.
I was particularly eager for Prime
Minister Rabin to come to our country
early in my own administration so that we
could renew our friendship and to talk
about the future. Many people in our
own country have looked on our relation-
ship with Israel as one of support and one
of friendship that was to Israel's benefit.
I have never looked on it that way. I con-
sider it to be an equal partnership that's
derived for our country and for the cause
of freedom tremendous benefits for us.
I have been proud of that friendship
ever since. And when I went to Israel a
few years ago, although Prime Minister
Rabin was in temporary retirement from
politics at that time, he was already mak- And this is a time of a sharing of plans
ing plans for the future. He didn't tell
me about them. I was making plans for
the future-I didn't tell him about them.
[Laughter]
But I had spent 5 or 6 days driving
around in Israel, learning about the coun-
try and learning about politics there, and
had a whole series of questions that I
1 Israeli Ambassador Simcha Dinitz.
for the future.
I had a chance this morning, along
with some of you around the table, to dis-
cuss at length the possibilities in 1977 of
helping to carve out for Israel and for
Israel's neighbors a time of permanent
peace, of mutual respect, of trade, better
understanding, and of the acceptance of
differences that in the past have been
divisive. But, perhaps in the future, if our
334
