Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of the Committee on Environmental De-
cision Making of the National Academy
of Sciences.
United States Sinai Support
Mission
Message to the Congress Transmitting
a Report. April 27, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit herewith the
Third Report of the United States Sinai
Support Mission. This report describes the
manner in which the Mission is continuing
to carry out its peacekeeping responsibili-
ties by operating an early warning system
in the Sinai, as called for in the basic
agreement between Egypt and Israel
signed on September 4, 1975. This report
is provided to the Congress in conformity
with Section 4 of Public Law 94-110 of
October 13, 1975.
The report emphasizes the successful
completion on February 22, 1977, of one
full year of operations. With the comple-
tion of initial construction activity, the
Sinai Field Mission has had an opportu-
nity to analyze in detail various elements
of the Mission's activity. In particular,
attention has been directed to improving
operating procedures, to upgrading equip-
ment and to reducing personnel through
the introduction of advanced technology.
The parties to the agreement continue
to affirm their satisfaction with the role
of the United States in the Sinai and the
fair way in which the Sinai Support Mis-
sion has discharged its responsibilities for
the early warning system.
As our initiatives to help the parties to
the Arab-Israeli dispute move toward a
resumption of negotiations, it is important
that the United States continue to fulfill
its commitments. As long as the Sinai Sup-
port Mission is able to make a positive
contribution to these efforts, I will urge
that the Congress continue its support for
this important mission.
The White House,
April 27, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the
Congress, SSM, United States Sinai Support
Mission, April 13, 1977" (21 pp. plus
appendixes).
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at a Luncheon for Members of the
Committee's National Finance Council.
April 28, 1977
It would be hard for any of you to know
how deep an emotional experience it is for
me to walk through this crowd and to
shake hands with those among you who
were my friends a year or 2 years or more
ago, when many people did not know who
I was and had little confidence in me.
But
you did.
We formed a personal friendship that
is dear to me. I learned a lot from you
about our great country, and I am very
deeply grateful to all of you for coming
here today to join me and Ken Curtis in
reminding ourselves of what our country
is, what it can be, what the Democratic
Party is, and what it can be.
Ours is a nation of people who believe
in individuality, freedom, responsibility,
hard work, idealism, and we also are cou-
rageous enough and strong enough to
analyze our own faults and our own mis-
takes. And we are capable enough to make
plans for the future where those faults or
mistakes could be corrected.
I've been blessed with the highest
elected office in the world with your help.
But I recognized very clearly that the day
after election that I am no better qualified,
734
