Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 27
sell it for any price you want; if you ship
it across the State line, the price of the gas
is very low.
Well, there are advantages both ways.
So, in a case of emergency like we have
now, I'm asking the Congress to let me
authorize the shipment of natural gas
across State lines at a higher price. That
would be about 2 percent of the total nat-
ural gas.
And the last thing I'm doing is to ask
everyone to cut down very strictly on the
temperatures within homes. The whole
White House is maintained at a tempera-
ture of 65 degrees. When you get a couple
hundred people in a small room like this,
the temperature goes up. But every ther-
mostat in the White House, every ther-
mostat in all Government buildings in this
country are now set at 65 degrees, which
is about 10 degrees lower. And if every-
body will do that in private homes as well,
and even cut back a little more at night,
then that will make up half the shortage
of natural gas—just that one thing.
Now, I want to make one closing state-
ment about that. This is not a temporary
thing. It's good for everybody in our coun-
try to get accustomed to wearing a pretty
good, heavy sweater inside the home, be-
cause it's not going to be any better next
winter or the following winter or the fol-
lowing winter.
We're running out of natural gas and
oil. We only have enough to last 25 or 30
years. And it's going to mean that we are
going to have to do without things we've
done with in the past, and we're going to
all have to make some small sacrifices-
hold down speed limits, have smaller,
more efficient automobiles, insulate homes
better, cut down on temperature, and do
more walking instead of riding. But those
things will be coming to us in a very heavy
way in the future.
But those three things right now are be-
ing done by the Government and by me
personally and by you to help alleviate the
natural gas shortage. It's serious. We have
about 400,000 people out of work because
of natural gas shortage, and I think about
4,000 factories are shut down. It's very
serious.
One more question.
OIL TANKERS
Q. Taking the fuel crisis a step further,
have you done anything to find out what
has happened to all the tankers that have
been disappearing all the oil tankers?
There is an awful lot of oil that seems to
be wasted.
THE PRESIDENT. The ones that are
sinking?
Q. Sinking, disappearing, hitting things,
who knows what else?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that
we've only got one ship that's been com-
pletely lost, and they found debris from it
in the North Atlantic, so undoubtedly it
sank during a storm.
I think in the past we've been too leni-
ent about letting unseaworthy ships come
into our ports. As you know, we are very
eager to get oil brought into our country.
And quite often, when a ship is new and
very well maintained, it flies an American
flag. Later on, when it has trouble meet-
ing our very strict standards, it shifts to
another government-very cheaply, by the
way. And although it might be owned by
American people, it flies another flag, and
the quality of that ship, its seaworthiness
goes down. I personally would favor a
stricter standard of ship quality main-
tained by all nations on an equal basis. We
are planning to move in that direction.
I might say that this is just one tiny
part, along with the natural gas shortage,
of the overall energy problem. We've
never had in this country what we call a
comprehensive energy policy, so that I
and you and your teachers and Governors
and the Congress and business leaders and
29
