Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
to natural scientists. The lasting benefits
that society derives from these areas often
far exceed the immediate advantage their
owners might get from draining or filling
them. Their destruction shifts economic
and environmental costs to other citi-
zens-often in other states-who have
had no voice in the decision to alter them.
We are losing wetlands at the rate of
some 300,000 acres per year. While many
of the individual developments which
have caused this loss may once have been
appropriate—and some still may be-we
must now protect against the cumulative
effects of reducing our total wetlands
acreage. For these reasons, I am propos-
ing a concerted federal effort to protect
our wetlands. This includes the following
steps:
(1) The federal government will no
longer subsidize the destruction of wet-
lands. I am today issuing an Executive
Order directing all appropriate federal
agencies to refrain from giving financial
support to proposed developments in wet-
lands unless the agency determines that
no practicable alternative sites exist.
(2) I support implementation of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act pro-
gram which regulates the filling and dis-
posal of dredged materials in all U.S.
waters or associated wetlands. This im-
portant program is essential to wetlands
protection, but it should be carried out
in a way that avoids undue federal regu-
lation. The present program exempts nor-
mal farming, ranching, and forestry prac-
tices, and it allows for general permits
that do not tie up individuals in unnec-
essary red tape. These provisions have my
support. My forthcoming amendments to
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
will include proposals to improve wet-
lands protection and to authorize the
states to assume responsibility for carry-
ing out major portions of this program.
(3) To protect and sustain waterfowl
for recreational enjoyment, I am propos-
ing a budget increase of $50 million over
the next five years to purchase wetlands,
and I have already included in both the
FY 1977 and FY 1978 budgets another
$10 million for this purpose. I also urge
the Congress to enact legislation increas-
ing the price of migratory bird conserva-
tion and hunting stamps (the so-called
"duck" stamp) so that additional reve-
nue will be available for waterfowl habi-
tat acquisition.
COASTAL BARRIER ISLANDS
Coastal barrier islands are a fragile
buffer between the wetlands and the sea.
The 189 barrier islands on the Atlantic
and Gulf Coasts are an integral part of
an ecosystem which helps protect inland
areas from flood waves and hurricanes.
Many of them are unstable and not suited
for development, yet in the past the fed-
eral government has subsidized and in-
sured new construction on them. Eventu-
ally, we can expect heavy economic losses
from this shortsighted policy.
About 68 coastal barrier islands are
still unspoiled. Because I believe these re-
maining natural islands should be pro-
tected from unwise development, I am
directing the Secretary of the Interior, in
consultation with the Secretary of Com-
merce, the Council on Environmental
Quality, and state and local officials of
coastal areas, to develop an effective plan
for protecting the islands.
His report should include recom-
mendations for action to achieve this
purpose.
MARINE SANCTUARIES
Existing legislation allows the Secretary
of Commerce to protect certain estuarine
and ocean resources from the ill-effects of
development by designating marine sanc-
tuaries. Yet only two sanctuaries have
977
