Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
If we work together in our free Nation,
that hope will never fade.
Thank you very much. God bless you
all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 a.m. in
Yorty Hall at the Los Angeles Convention
Center. He was introduced by Leonard Wood-
cock, president of the UAW.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Doug Fraser, a UAW vice president,
who was elected president of the UAW during
the convention, which is held every 3 years.
Los Angeles, California
Remarks During a Televised Question-and-
Answer Session With Area Residents.
May 17, 1977
MR. DESMOND. This is a KNXT com-
munity event, "The People Talk to Presi-
dent Carter."
MS. CHUNG. I am Connie Chung.
MR. BENTI. I am Joseph Benti.
MR. DESMOND. President Carter will
be here in just a moment talking face-to-
face with the people of southern Cali-
fornia for about an hour on television for
the first time. Some of the people are here
in our audience. They are a representative
group selected at random to join us here
in the studio.
Then many more people are waiting at
five remote locations around southern
California also to ask questions of the
President. Those live cameras are located
in the San Fernando Valley, in south Los
Angeles, in east Los Angeles, and on the
UCLA campus in Westwood and in
Orange County.
people while I'm serving in the White
House.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I think it helps our country to have all
of you know what goes on in the Govern-
ment. But even more, it helps me and the
other leaders who serve you to know what
your concerns are, what your thoughts
are, what your questions are, so that we
can form a partnership in making the
final decisions. I've tried to be a lot more
open than some Presidents in the past in
discussing kind of sensitive and formerly
secret things with the people of our Nation
concerning options and possibilities relat-
ing to the reduction in nuclear arms, or
southern Africa, or the Middle East, or
our relationships with Cuba or the Peo-
ple's Republic of China or Vietnam, and
the same thing with domestic issues, and
for me to let you know what I think, and
then for you to criticize and debate among
yourselves, perhaps, to ensure that I'll
make the right decision.
Also, when I do make an announce-
ment concerning very important foreign
matters, I think it helps to strengthen our
own country's position and influence if
the other people outside our own Nation
know that I speak for you and that the
Congress and the people understand what
I'm trying to do, because if I speak in a
vacuum, just me or the Secretary of State,
quite often the people know that it's in
a vacuum.
So, it adds a great deal of strength to
our own Government's position for the
rest of the world to know that we are
working in harmony, that we look at
complicated questions from a common
Now, ladies and gentlemen, the Presi- viewpoint, that we make our decisions to-
dent of the United States.
gether, and that we are united in carry-
ing out those decisions.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say before the
first questions come that I'm very glad to
be here. This is part of my own effort to
stay in close contact with the American
I am going to, this afternoon, take
questions for more than an hour. I don't
have any idea what the questions are
895
