Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 23
entered, or withdrawn from warehouse,
for consumption from countries other
than the Republic of China or the Repub-
lic of Korea pursuant to this proclama-
tion, such action shall become effective
not less than eight days after such deter-
mination and any necessary changes in
the TSUS have been published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.
(5) The Special Representative shall
take such actions and perform such func-
tions for the United States as may be
necessary concerning the administration,
implementation, modification, amend-
ment or termination of the agreements
described in paragraph (1) of this procla-
mation, and any actions and functions
necessary to implement paragraphs (3)
and (4) of this proclamation. In carry-
ing out his responsibilities under this
paragraph the Special Representative is
authorized to delegate to appropriate offi-
cials or agencies of the United States
authority to perform any functions neces-
sary for the administration and imple-
mentation of the agreements or actions.
The Special Representative is authorized
to make any changes in Part 2 of the
Appendix to the TSUS which may be
necessary to carry out the agreements or
actions. Any such changes in the agree-
ments shall be effective on or after their
publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
(6) The Commissioner of Customs
shall take such actions as the Special Rep-
resentative shall determine are necessary
to carry out the agreements described in
paragraph (1) of this proclamation, and
to implement any import relief imple-
mented pursuant to paragraphs (3) and
(4) of this proclamation, or any modi-
fication thereof, with respect to the entry,
or withdrawal from warehouse, for con-
sumption into the United States of prod-
ucts covered by such agreements or by
such other import relief.
(7) This proclamation shall be effec-
tive as of June 28, 1977, and shall con-
tinue in force through June 30, 1981, un-
less the period of its effectiveness is earlier
expressly modified or terminated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-second day
of June in the year of our Lord, nineteen
hundred and seventy seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:43 a.m., June 23, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the annex is printed in the
FEDERAL REGISTER of June 24, 1977.
The proclamation was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
Status of Indochina Refugees
Letter to Senate and House Committee
Chairmen Transmitting a Report.
June 23, 1977
In accordance with the provisions of
the Indochina Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting to
you on the status of refugees from Cam-
bodia and South Vietnam.
We continue to make progress in assist-
ing the Indochina refugee to become a
self-sufficient member of his new commu-
nity. Refugee employment rates are very
encouraging. Income levels, however, are
low and income supplementation through
cash assistance programs is relatively high.
Professional certification, English lan-
guage proficiency, and the development
of marketable job skills are approaches
being used to improve the employment
position of the refugee. Passage of legis-
lation to adjust refugee immigration
status from parolee to permanent resident
alien will assist in opening new employ-
ment and educational opportunities for
the refugee.
1151
