Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 22
All the way up through 1985, the total
net outlay from the Federal Government,
as best we can determine it-and a lot of
this is conjectural, but it's based on com-
puter analysis-would be $4 billion.
That's a cumulative figure. That's outlays
compared to receipts or revenues.
But with that $4 billion, we would have
purchased and placed in storage a billion
barrels of oil for a reserve in case we have
an embargo or an emergency need for ex-
traction of that oil.
So, as you can well see, we'll have, at
present prices, $132 billion of oil owned
by the Government. The total outlay, in-
cluding that purchase, would only be
about $4 billion.
NATURAL GAS PRICES
Q. Mr. President, you said that you
would like to see natural gas in the intra-
state market regulated at $1.75. That
would mean a rollback in natural gas
prices in the intrastate market. Would you
be willing to compromise at a higher price
in exchange for going into the intrastate
market?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think that the
figure is based on equating the natural gas
price throughout the Nation with its
equivalent cost for the same amount of
energy in oil. And as that price of oil in-
creases over a period of time, because of
inflation or otherwise, then we hope that
the natural gas price both within a State
and transported across State lines will stay
compatible with the price of oil.
ZAIRE
Q. Mr. President, you described—
Senator Clark has described Zaire as a
military dictatorship. How can you regard
this as a defender of human rights?
THE PRESIDENT. I have never defined
Zaire as a defender of human rights. I
know that there are some problems in
Zaire with human rights as there are here
and in many other countries. But our
friendship and aid historically for Zaire
has not been predicated on their perfec-
tion in dealing with human rights. I think,
as you know, our military aid for Zaire has
been very modest.
We have observed some stabilizing of
the situation in the southern part of Zaire
lately, and I think our policy even in spite
of the invasion from Angola by the Katan-
gans has been compatible with our past
policies.
Q. Are you sure there are no Cubans
in that group, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sorry?
Q. Cubans. We hear reports from King
Hassan and General Mobutu that there
are Cubans there.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me-I can't cer-
tify to this because we don't have observers
all over the Shaba region. Our best infor-
mation is that the Katangans have been
trained within Angola by the Cubans. We
have no direct evidence at all that there
are Cubans within Zaire.
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ON ENERGY
Q. What will you seek to accomplish,
Mr. President, when you go to London,
in the energy field, and to what extent is
cooperation among the major industrial
countries in the West an important factor
in the success of your own energy plan?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's accurate to
say that we've now taken the leadership
in moving toward a comprehensive energy
policy for our Nation.
I would hope that the other nations
around the world would do a similar
thing. There are other aspects of the en-
ergy question, though, that must be ad-
dressed. One is atomic energy, reprocess-
ing of spent nuclear fuels, a move toward
nonproliferation of atomic explosive capa-
703
