Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 22
per capita rebate on personal income
taxes; an increase in the standard deduc-
tion; reduction in business taxes to stim-
ulate employment and provide incentives
for investment; expansion in training and
employment programs; increases in pub-
lic works funding; and additional money
for countercyclical revenue sharing grants
to State and local governments.
I am also asking the Congress to extend
the supplemental payments program,
which is now expiring, so that unemployed
workers will be able to qualify through the
end of this year for up to 52 weeks of un-
employment benefits.
There are several important goals
which these revisions do not reflect, be-
cause my administration has not yet had
time to review all current tax and spend-
ing programs or fully prepare our own
proposals. The 1978 budget is essentially
still President Ford's budget, with only
such limited revisions as my administra-
tion has had time to make. But these revi-
sions do reflect our careful choices among
many possible options; they are important
first steps toward a Federal Government
that is more effective and responsive to
our people's needs.
Last year, spending estimates were too
high, and economic policymaking was ad-
versely affected. Because time did not per-
mit detailed review of the current esti-
mates, I have instructed the Office of
Management and Budget to make a thor-
ough review of these estimates. The Con-
gress will be informed of any resulting
revisions.
The revised budget outlined in this
document continues to reflect the current
overlapping and unwieldy structure of
the Federal Government-a structure I
intend, with the help of the Congress, to
simplify and improve.
Although it has not been possible in
these revisions to the 1978 budget, future
budgets will reflect detailed, zero-based
reviews of Federal spending programs,
comprehensive reform of the tax system,
and fundamental reorganization of the
Government.
February 22, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The President's message is printed in a
document entitled "Fiscal Year 1978 Budget
Revisions, February
(Government
Printing Office, 101 pp.).
יי1977
Fishery Conservation Zone
Transition Act
Announcement of the Signing of the
Bill. February 22, 1977
On February 21, 1977, the President
signed Enrolled Resolution H.J. Res. 240,
which provides temporary waivers of cer-
tain provisions of the Fishery Conserva-
tion and Management Act of 1976.
That act established a 200-mile fishery
conservation zone effective March 1,
1977. The act prohibits fishing within this
zone by foreign vessels after that date un-
less the foreign nation concerned has com-
pleted a Governing International Fishery
Agreement with the United States.
Since enactment of the legislation, it
has proven impossible to complete negoti-
ations on all agreements in time for an
orderly transition on March 1 from the
present 12-mile fishing zone to the new
200-mile limit.
The effect of the waivers, most of which
deal with time periods set for various
phases of negotiating agreements, is to
make it possible to conclude agreements
by March 1, facilitating the implementa-
tion of the act.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 240 is Public Law
95-6, approved February 21.
215
