Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 6, 1977
Committee on Selection of the
Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation
Executive Order 11982. April 29, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
order to extend for 30 days the reporting
time for the Committee on Selection of
the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, Section 3(a) of Executive
Order No. 11971 of February 11, 1977, is
hereby amended to read as follows:
"The Committee shall submit to the
President and to the Attorney General,
no later than June 11, 1977, a report list-
ing the names of the five persons whom
the Committee considers best qualified to
serve as the Director and setting forth
such other information as the President or
the Attorney General may require.".
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 29, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:15 a.m., May 4, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
Radio-Television News Directors
Association
Interview With Members of the Board of
Directors of the Association.
April 29, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Have you had a good
day so far?
Well, I'm very glad to have a chance
to welcome you to the White House. I
know you've already been here earlier,
and I hope when your visit is completed
you'll be at least acquainted with some
of the things we go through during a typi-
cal day's work.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
This morning I have spent a great deal
of time preparing for Monday. I'm going
to outline the basic principles of a welfare
proposal that will then be discussed in
detail with the Governors and welfare
administrators around the Nation, with
the congressional Members and their
staffs, and with others who are interested.
And then we expect to have a complete
package of specific legislative proposals
ready for the Congress later on.
I also spent a great deal of time this
morning and last night preparing for an
almost unprecedented meeting Monday
with my entire Cabinet, with Chairman
Burns from the Federal Reserve Board,
747
