Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
fore requests that Congress not write into
law a definitive formula for a non-
attainment policy until this analysis is
completed.
-The President will appoint a special
committee to study the health effects of
increased coal production and use, and
the environmental constraints on coal
mining and on the construction of new
coal-burning facilities. The Committee
will report to the President by October
1977 (administrative).
-The President will request almost $3
million to study the long-term effects of
carbon dioxide from coal and other hydro-
carbons on the atmosphere (budget).
-The President reiterated his support
for tough, uniform national strip mine
legislation.
4. Coal research and development
(budget)
-The President has directed ERDA,
EPA, and the Department of the Interior
to undertake a major expansion of the
Government's coal research and develop-
ment program. The program will focus
primarily on meeting environmental re-
quirements more effectively and eco-
nomically, and will seek to expand the
substitution of coal for gas and petroleum
products.
-The program will include research
on:
-more effective, economical methods
to meet air pollution control stand-
ards, including flue gas desulfuriza-
tion systems ("scrubbers");
-fluidized bed combustion systems;
-coal cleaning systems;
-solvent refined coal processes;
-low BTU gasification processes;
-synthetic crude technology; and
-coal mining technology.
-In the long run, synthetic high BTU
gas produced from coal may provide a
substitute for declining natural gas sup-
plies. The Government does not plan to
subsidize existing technologies. The ad-
ministration will pursue an active R&D
program for advanced high BTU coal
gasification. The program will be con-
ducted with the urgency required to en-
sure that the new technology will be ready
when needed.
5. Nuclear power
a. Plutonium economy
-The United States will make a con-
certed effort, in association with other
countries, to find answers to the problems
of nuclear proliferation. As part of this
effort, the United States will defer indefi-
nitely commercial reprocessing and re-
cycling of spent fuels produced in United
States civilian nuclear powerplants
(administrative).
-In addition, the President has de-
cided to defer indefinitely construction of
the Clinch River Liquid Metal Fast
Breeder Reactor Demonstration Project
and to cancel all component construction,
commercialization, and licensing efforts.
The United States breeder program will
redirect efforts toward evaluation of
alternate breeders, fuels, and advanced
converter reactors with emphasis on
nonproliferation and safety concerns
(administrative).
-The United States has asked other
countries to join in examining alternate
methods of meeting future needs for nu-
clear power. As part of this program, the
United States must restore confidence in
its ability and willingness to supply en-
riched uranium services. The United
States is, therefore, taking three steps to
restore that confidence.
-The United States is reopening the
order books for uranium enrichment serv-
ices (administrative).
-The President is proposing legisla-
tion, in a separate submission, to guaran-
685
