Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
personal income, access to housing facili-
ties responsive to their needs, adequate
services such as health care and transpor-
tation, fair employment opportunities,
and opportunities for continued involve-
ment in our Nation's activities. Let each
of us resolve to do all that is possible to
guarantee to these Americans that their
later years will be rich, secure and filled
with the dignity that is, and ought to be,
the birthright of all Americans.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:08 p.m., April 11, 1977]
Earth Week, 1977
Proclamation 4498. April 12, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Since the beginning of this decade, we
have begun to recognize that our planet's
capacity for satisfying the needs of man-
kind has limits. We have begun to see that
we are its stewards, not its masters. Hu-
man activities, even well-intentioned ones,
can inflict deep and lasting damage to the
earth, the air, and the living plants and
animals on which we depend. Protection
of the environment is a debt we owe to
ourselves and to those who will follow us.
During this same decade we have seen
the effects of our activities grow increas-
ingly severe. In the poorer nations, popu-
lation growth on limited land has placed
pressure on the environment. In the in-
dustrialized world, patterns of production
and consumption have increased pollu-
tion, begun to deplete resources, and gen-
erated hazardous substances which the
earth does not naturally assimilate.
Some have questioned whether we can
afford to pay the costs of reducing pollu-
tion, protecting our health, and preserving
our national heritage. The truth is that
environmental controls are consistent with
a sound economy, and if we ignore the
care of our environment our economy will
eventually suffer.
It is appropriate, as spring brings
warmth and the flowering of life, that we
celebrate Earth Week. The concerns
which it symbolizes must become a part
of our private and public philosophies.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate and proclaim the
week beginning April 17, as Earth Week,
1977. I call upon officials and employees
of all levels of government, business lead-
ers, the communications media, and all
Americans to join me in making environ-
mental protection a fundamental concern
that underscores all our actions.
In particular, I ask all educators to
consider introducing an ecological per-
spective into every scholastic or academic
discipline to encourage future application
by graduates to protect the health of our
planet.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twelfth day of April,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-seven, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:51 a.m., April 12, 1977]
606
