Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
working with the Federal Government.
It's called double-dipping. I think it
ought to be eliminated.
So, there are a lot of things that can be
done to save in the military. And I think
when our fiscal year 1979 budget is put
together, we can satisfy you and others
that it is much more efficient in many
ways.
Obviously, I haven't mentioned all the
things that can be done. More careful
planning, quicker construction of navy
ships, staying on schedule with the pro-
duction of other weapons systems, stand-
ardizing weapons systems, for instance,
with our NATO allies, phasing out un-
necessary overseas bases, things of this
kind are all under consideration now.
So, I thank you for your good question.
I hope I have answered it successfully. I
can't tell you what the final decision will
be on Fort Devens. I'll just make a deci-
sion on what's best for our country. I'll
consult with the local officials if we do
close down parts of it. I'll do all I can to
keep those jobs, as many as we can, in the
Fort Devens area.
Q. I appreciate that, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank
you.
VIETNAM ERA VETERANS
Q. Francis X. Boyce, 39 Centennial
Street, Clinton, Mass.
Mr. President, I'd like to know if
you
have any legislative proposals in regard
to the Vietnam veterans? They have a
very high rate of unemployment; the 21
to 30 category. And, as a result, I think if
you will look in your figures, you see fig-
ures, you will find as the category they
have one of the highest rates of unemploy-
ment without any job opportunities. And
under Federal civil service, they seem to
be only paying lip service to them, and
minorities seem to have the upper hand
at the present time rather than the Viet-
nam veteran.
I would like to know that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll quote a
couple of statistics for you. The Vietnam
veterans on the average have twice as
high an unemployment rate as other
young men and women of their age. Also,
among those who served in Vietnam,
there were about twice as high a percent-
age of minority groups as there were
other groups, because quite often they
are poor and they couldn't hide in col-
lege and avoid the draft.
So, I think that we are moving now in
the Labor Department to put together a
special program for Vietnam veterans.
The Congress has recently decided to ex-
tend GI Bill of Rights benefits for the
full 10 years, which will help a lot of
those who would have lost their educa-
tion opportunities from losing those op-
portunities. Also, for the first time in my
lifetime we've got quite a young man,
who's familiar with the recent war, in
charge of the entire Veterans Adminis-
tration itself. I appointed Max Cleland,
who happens to be a triple amputee and
who's a very tough, young administrator,
to be in charge of the Veterans Adminis-
tration.
So, I think that a move on special pro-
grams in job opportunities and extension
of the GI Bill of Rights and other rights
for Vietnam veterans and a change in the
administration of the Veterans Adminis-
tration to orient itself toward the Viet-
nam veterans who have never been ap-
preciated are three of the things that we
can do immediately. Two of them have
already been done. And as soon as the
Senate and House pass our economic
stimulus package, a tremendous number
of new jobs will be available for the Viet-
nam veterans. They will have top priority
under the new jobs and training program.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
391
