May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
how to handle my customer relationships,
my loans and service of those loans.
And this was something that was not
only instructive for me but kept my head
above water in the embryonic stages of
my own business effort.
I think it's accurate to say also that my
own relatively good experience in business
gave me a sound basis on which I could
conduct my own broader expansion of
interest into politics. And there were many
times when I was running for Governor or
when I was running for President when I
passed through a financial crisis, and my
business reservoir of financial stability
gave me a chance to overcome an obstacle
that might otherwise have been fatal for
me politically.
So, the business and the politics interre-
lationship in my own life I've never found
to be incompatible. I think I'm a better
President because I had the experience
that you share with me.
The last thing I would like to say is
that I hope that under Vernon Weaver,
with his own similar background to my
own, that we have an Administrator who
will enhance the quality of all the Small
Business Administration's functions, that
there will be an understanding, a compre-
hension, a sensitivity about the needs of
those like myself 15 or 20 years ago who
did need help, and I hope that he will
have confidence in those who deserve con-
fidence and a special preoccupation with
how to follow up a financial loan with a
personal relationship to the borrower that
might be both instructive and supportive.
The other thing I'd like to comment
about is the special award program. I was
kind of hoping that my brother would
win-[laughter-would win this year.
But
when they checked on his record, he was
about one-tenth businessman and about
nine-tenths entertainer. So he turned out
to be not qualified.
But I was very delighted and I must
say to some degree quite surprised at the
coincidence that a former boyhood friend
of mine, a man from Plains who moved
off and then came back to an adjacent
town, Larry Comer, has been chosen as
the outstanding small businessman of our
country.
From a distance I've seen his own
achievement, not only in starting a busi-
ness absolutely from scratch but making
a contribution to the entire community
structure that's admirable in every possi-
ble way. And I can vouch for the fact that
his qualifications are superb. I know it was
a difficult choice among all the other com-
petitors who competed, just by doing your
own jobs, not seeking an award, but I
think it's gratifying to know that that
choice has been made with a great
attention to his unique and superb
achievements.
He's a fine young man who has exempli-
fied, I think, the small business community
in almost a perfect fashion. He's honest
and sincere. He's competent and well-
respected, and I think he does show that
a confidence in our own system and a con-
fidence in one's self and a realization of a
need for cooperation with a peer group
and good working relationships, both with
suppliers and customers, is an integral part
of any success in business in our system.
This commitment to self-reliance and
basic human freedom and a confidence in
our own Nation is something that we all
share.
So, I congratulate Larry Comer and
know that all of you join with me in wish-
ing him well in the future and recognizing
that he does represent the finest aspects
of our own lives as small business people
in the greatest country on Earth.
Thank you very much.
I would like now to deliver this award.
It says: "The United States of America
996
