Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
only major industrial country without a comprehensive, long-range en-
ergy policy.
The extremely cold weather this winter has dangerously depleted
our supplies of natural gas and fuel oil and forced hundreds of thousands
of workers off the job. I congratulate the Congress for its quick action
on the Emergency Natural Gas Act, which was passed today and signed
just a few minutes ago. But the real problem-our failure to plan for the
future or to take energy conservation seriously—started long before this
winter, and it will take much longer to solve.
I realize that many of you have not believed that we really have an
energy problem. But this winter has made all of us realize that we have
to act.
Now, the Congress has already made many of the preparations for
energy legislation. Presidential assistant Dr. James Schlesinger is begin-
ning to direct an effort to develop a national energy policy. Many groups
of Americans will be involved. On April 20, we will have completed the
planning for our energy program and will immediately then ask the Con-
gress for its help in enacting comprehensive legislation.
Our program will emphasize conservation. The amount of energy
being wasted which could be saved is greater than the total energy that
we are importing from foreign countries. We will also stress development
of our rich coal reserves in an environmentally sound way; we will em-
phasize research on solar energy and other renewable energy sources; and
we will maintain strict safeguards on necessary atomic energy production.
The responsibility for setting energy policy is now split among more
than 50 different agencies, departments, and bureaus in the Federal Gov-
ernment. Later this month, I will ask the Congress for its help in com-
bining many of these agencies in a new energy department to bring order
out of chaos. Congressional leaders have already been working on this
for quite a while.
We must face the fact that the energy shortage is permanent. There
is no way we can solve it quickly. But if we all cooperate and make modest
sacrifices, if we learn to live thriftily and remember the importance of
helping our neighbors, then we can find ways to adjust and to make our
society more efficient and our own lives more enjoyable and productive.
Utility companies must promote conservation and not consumption. Oil
and natural gas companies must be honest with all of us about their re-
serves and profits. We will find out the difference between real shortages
and artificial ones. We will ask private companies to sacrifice, just as pri-
vate citizens must do.
70
