Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 7
neither Federal encouragement nor fund-
ing from us for its completion as a reproc-
essing facility.
Second, we will restructure our own
U.S. breeder program to give greater pri-
ority to alternative designs of the breeder
other than plutonium, and to defer the
date when breeder reactors would be put
into commercial use.
We will continue research and develop-
ment, try to shift away from plutonium,
defer dependence on the breeder reactor
for commercial use.
Third, we will direct funding of U.S.
nuclear research and development pro-
grams to accelerate our research into al-
ternative nuclear fuel cycles which do not
involve direct access to materials that can
be used for nuclear weapons.
Fourth, we will increase the U.S. capac-
ity to produce nuclear fuels, enriched
uranium in particular, to provide ade-
quate and timely supplies of nuclear fuels
to countries that need them so that they
will not be required or encouraged to
reprocess their own materials.
Fifth, we will propose to the Congress
the necessary legislative steps to permit us
to sign these supply contracts and remove
the pressure for the reprocessing of nu-
clear fuels by other countries that do not
now have this capability.
Sixth, we will continue to embargo the
export of either equipment or technology
that could permit uranium enrichment
and chemical reprocessing.
And seventh, we will continue discus-
sions with supplying countries and recipi-
ent countries, as well, of a wide range of
international approaches and frameworks
that will permit all countries to achieve
their own energy needs while at the same
time reducing the spread of the capability
for nuclear explosive development.
Among other things—and we have dis-
cussed this with 15 or 20 national leaders
already-we will explore the establish-
ment of an international nuclear fuel cy-
cle evaluation program so that we can
share with countries that have to reprocess
nuclear fuel the responsibility for curtail-
ing the ability for the development of ex-
plosives.
One other point that ought to be made
in the international negotiation field is
that we have to help provide some means
for the storage of spent nuclear fuel ma-
terials which are highly explosive, highly
radioactive in nature.
I have been working very closely with
and personally with some of the foreign
leaders who are quite deeply involved in
the decisions that we make. We are not
trying to impose our will on those nations
like Japan and France and Britain and
Germany which already have reprocessing
plants in operation. They have a special
need that we don't have in that their sup-
plies of petroleum products are not avail-
able.
But we hope that they will join with
us-and I believe that they will-in trying
to have some worldwide understanding of
the extreme threat of the further prolifer-
ation of nuclear explosive capability.
I'd be glad to answer a few questions.
QUESTIONS
FUEL REPROCESSING CENTERS
Q. Mr. President, in the last adminis-
tration there was some proposal to have
regional reprocessing centers which seem,
to some people, to put the emphasis on
the wrong thing. Does this mean that you
are going to not favor regional reproc-
essing centers? And, secondly, would you
be prepared to cut off supplies of any kind
of nuclear material to countries that go
nuclear?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't answer
either one of those questions yet. I have
had detailed discussions with Prime Min-
ister Fukuda, with Chancellor Schmidt,
583
