Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 9
worked full time who magnified my pres-
ence, and we had literally hundreds of
Georgians who left their own home State,
working people, who took their vacation
time and spent their savings to go to New
Hampshire, to go to Wisconsin, to go to
Ohio, to go to Florida, to go to North
Carolina and work for me. Had I not had
this advantage, I would not have won.
But it was an advantage that no other
candidate had. And I think careful prepa-
ration, deep unswerving determination,
and a realization that politics is not dirty,
but that it can be clean and a decent
pro-
fession is one way to remove the obstacle
that concerns you.
And I think that in many ways even
someone as revered as Thomas Jefferson
lacked as much confidence in the average
American to make good judgments com-
pared to present public servants.
You have to go back through history
and see the remarkable progress that
we've made. When the Declaration of In-
dependence was written, when our Con-
stitution was written, one of the firm
bases on which it was predicated was slav-
ery. And those people that we admire so
much said it's all right to have slaves as
long as they are black.
And those early revered leaders said it's
all right for men to vote, but women
ought not to have a chance to vote. And
those early leaders said that Senators
ought not to be chosen by common people
because their judgment is not good-let's
let the members of the State legislature
choose United States Senators. And those
early leaders said that the young person
who was 18 or 19 years old who was able
to fight and give his life or her life for our
country ought not to have a chance to
vote. So, we have made progress in years
since our country's founding, of which
I'm very proud.
And I think that there's a growing
realization that you can have equality of
opportunity and freedom at the same
time. Quite often this has been in conflict,
as I pointed out many times in the cam-
paign. You can have complete freedom,
which means that the powerful become
more powerful, the weak become weaker,
or you can have a completely egalitarian
state where everybody is treated the same
and nobody can be sure that their com-
petence or commitment will be rewarded.
Our country has struggled to have both
at the same time. We haven't always suc-
ceeded, but we've moved in that direction.
And I think that some of the points
that I've made to you, all of them in our
Constitution-I'm not even talking about
the civil rights laws and so forth-have
been steps in the right direction. So, I
think that modern day political figures
quite often are just as enlightened, just as
intelligent, just as competent, probably
have more confidence in the American
people than even our early founders of
this country.
Maybe one more question. Yes?
Q. Mr. President, many people seem to
feel that the development of technology
since the industrial revolution has gone
sort of hand in hand with the declined
concern for human values; sort of that
the development of the assembly line,
the development of bureaucracy has made
people feel more alienated from their
Government, from their work, and from
each other. How do you feel about that,
and how do you think it could be
corrected?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not sure that I
agree with your premise. That is always a
threat. But I think the early derogation of,
say, workers' rights as a result of the in-
dustrial revolution brought about by shift-
ing from wood to coal and then later on
to oil, has been reversed.
There was a time, as you know, when
workers had no rights, when children 8
years old were spending 14 to 16 hours in
1077
