Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 11
10. Powers of the Trustee and the
Grantor.
(a) In the management, care and dis-
position of any and all trusts created here-
under, the Trustee shall have the power
to do all things and to execute such in-
struments as he may deem necessary or
proper, including the powers set forth in
Ga. Code Annotated 108-1204 (1973 Ga.
Laws 846-856) as amended to the date
of the creation of this trust, all of which
may be exercised without order of or re-
port to any court. Furthermore, no sales
shall require advertisement.
(b) The Grantor acknowledges that
during the term of this trust he shall have
no right, title or interest in, and no power
or privilege to control or affect, the trust
property or the income therefrom except
as specifically provided in this Agreement.
11. Concerns of the Grantor.
Without diminishing the powers
granted above to the Trustee, the Grantor
wishes to make known certain of his con-
cerns which he hopes (but does not di-
rect) that the Trustee will recognize as he
administers the trust.
(a) Above all, the Grantor wants the
Trustee to arrange the assets of the trust
so that no one should reasonably assert
that the Grantor's actions as President
were motivated by a desire to foster his
own personal monetary gain or profit.
The trustee may be able to accomplish
this result by leasing certain assets or he
may determine that it is necessary to sell
all assets originally transferred to the
Trustee.
(b) Grantor hopes that the Trustee will
be sensitive to the fact that his brother,
BILLY CARTER'S livelihood is directly
affected by many decisions which the
Trustee will make. The effect of such de-
cisions on BILLY CARTER, who has been
the Grantor's business partner for many
years should be weighed carefully by the
Trustee.
(c) It is possible that one of Grantor's
sons, especially JAMES EARL CARTER, III,
may want to become a part of those busi-
nesses in which the Carter family has been
involved for many years. Grantor hopes
that the Trustee will be able to preserve
such possibility for his son(s) in a manner
which nonetheless protects the main pur-
poses for which this trust was created.
(d) The Grantor has an affinity for
those farm lands which are owned by
Carter's Farms, Inc. and he hopes that
the purposes of this trust can be accom-
plished without the Trustee's having to
sell the farm lands.
12. Miscellaneous.
(a) This trust shall be interpreted in
all respects under the laws of the State
of Georgia.
(b) Transfers to and from this trust
may be made as follows: "(Name of Trus-
tee), Trustee U/A Jimmy Carter dated
1-20-77".
(c) This trust may be referred to as
"The Jimmy Carter Personal Assets
Trust."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the under-
signed have signed this Agreement as of
the date first shown above.
JIMMY CARTER, Grantor
CHARLES H. KIRBO, Trustee
NOTE: The text of the agreement was released
on February 11. As printed above, the item fol-
lows the text of the White House press release.
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting
on Progress Toward a Negotiated
Settlement. February 11, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
This report on the progress toward a
solution to the Cyprus dispute is the first
143
