Mar. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Assistant Secretary of Agriculture (Con-
servation, Research and Education) and
a member of the Board of Directors of the
Commodity Credit Corporation. Cutler
is an assistant professor and extension
specialist in resource development at
Michigan State University.
Cutler was born in Plymouth, Mich.,
on October 28, 1933. He received a B.S.
degree in 1955 from the University of
Michigan. He received an M.S. (1971)
and a Ph. D. (1972) in resource develop-
ment from Michigan State University.
From 1955 to 1956, Cutler was a con-
sumer publications writer for Argus Cam-
eras. In 1956 and 1957, he served as editor
of the Winslow Mail, in Winslow, Ariz.
He was executive secretary of Wildlife
Conservation, Inc., from 1957 to 1958,
and from 1958 to 1962 he served as chief
of the education division for the Com-
mission of Game and Inland Fisheries in
Richmond, Va.
Cutler served as assistant chief of the
conservation education division of the
National Wildlife Federation from 1962
to 1964 and as managing editor of Na-
tional Wildlife Magazine from 1964 to
1965. From 1965 to 1969, he was assist-
ant executive director of the Wilderness
Society. He then entered Michigan State
to obtain his master's and doctorate de-
grees and joined the faculty there in 1973.
Cutler has been active in State and
national wildlife and resource develop-
ment organizations, and in 1976 was ap-
pointed by Governor William Milliken to
the Michigan Environmental Review
Board, which approves State environ-
mental impact statements.
He is married and has three children.
He resides in Lansing, Mich.
United States Ambassador
to Italy
Remarks at the Swearing In of
Richard Gardner. March 18, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, everybody. It's
nice to have you here for a very impor-
tant occasion. We have known each other
for a long time, Richard Gardner and I
and his wife, Danielle.
During the 2 or 3 years that I was pre-
paring to take over as President, I had a
few very close and constant advisers, and
Richard Gardner was one of them. He
helped me in the preparation of some of
United Nations on nuclear proliferation
the major speeches that I made to the
and in analyzing foreign affairs. And I
was quite delighted when Cy Vance came
shortly after the inauguration to say, “We
need very urgently to have an outstanding
Ambassador to Italy, and I have a recom-
mendation to make to you," and I was
particularly delighted when he said,
"It's Richard Gardner."
So, we had had a very common ap-
proach to the importance of our friend-
ship with Italy-a need to appoint a
superb person to serve there. And also we
have an added bonus in that Danielle will
fit in very well with the Italian commu-
nity, being part of it, and I think this is a
standard of diplomatic appointments
that I doubt that I can continue to equal
no matter how hard I try.
We have a very important friendship
with Italy. They are our staunch friend
and allies. And I believe that this will do
justice to them, and I know that Richard
Gardner and Danielle will make our
country proud of their service as Ambas-
sadors to Italy.
I would like to ask now Judge Higgin-
botham to give the oath, and I know that
all our people in this country are thankful
462
