May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have maintained an open market system despite a deep recession. They have increased
aid flows, especially to poorer nations. Some $8 billion will be available from the IDA
for these nations over the next three years, as we join others in fulfilling pledges to
its Fifth Replenishment. The IMF has made available to developing countries, under
its compensatory financing facility nearly an additional $2 billion last year. An Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development has been created, based on common ef-
forts by the developed OPEC, and other developing nations.
The progress and the spirit of cooperation that have emerged can serve as an
excellent base for further steps. The next step will be the successful conclusion of
the Conference on International Economic Cooperation and we agreed to do all in
our power to achieve this.
We shall work:
(i) to increase the flow of aid and other real resources from the industrial to
developing countries, particularly to the 800 million people who now live
in absolute poverty; and to improve the effectiveness of aid;
(ii) to facilitate developing countries' access to sources of international finance;
(iii) to support such multilateral lending institutions as the World Bank, whose
lending capacity we believe will have to be increased in the years ahead to
permit its lending to increase in real terms and widen in scope;
(iv) to promote the secure investment needed to foster world economic develop-
ment;
(v) to secure productive results from negotiations about the stabilization of
commodity prices and the creation of a Common Fund for individual buffer
stock agreements and to consider problems of the stabilization of export
earnings of developing countries; and
(vi) to continue to improve access in a non-disruptive way to the markets of
industrial countries for the products of developing nations.
It is desirable that these actions by developed and developing countries be as-
sessed and concerted in relation to each other and to the larger goals that our countries
share. We hope that the World Bank, together with the IMF, will consult with other
developed and developing countries in exploring how this could best be done.
The well-being of the developed and developing nations are bound up together.
The developing countries' growing prosperity benefit industrial countries, as the lat-
ter's growth benefits developing nations. Both developed and developing nations have a
mutual interest in maintaining a climate conducive to stable growth worldwide.
NOTE: Participants in the 2-day meeting, held at 10 Downing Street, were President Carter,
Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, President of the Republic of France, Pierre Elliott Trudeau, Prime
Minister of Canada, Helmut Schmidt, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Giulio
Andreotti, Prime Minister of Italy, Takeo Fukuda, Prime Minister of Japan, and James Callag-
han, Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.
The text of the joint declaration was released at London, England.
824
