Feb. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
we will, in a friendly way, rivalize with
their achievements and catch up to their
friendly relations.
I want to thank you, sir, for your very
warm hospitality to all the visiting Ca-
nadians and to have received us in this
beautiful garden and this nice sun. It
makes me feel that Canadians now as
they are buried deep in snow, they have
hope. They hope that when that snow
melts there will still be grass there on
earth.
Sir, we hope with the same faith that
you will favor us with your visit and Mrs.
Carter's to Canada one of these days.
Thank you very, very much, I am look-
ing forward to our talk.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:39 p.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House.
Red Cross Month, 1977
Remarks on the Red Cross Blood Donor
Drive. February 21, 1977
March is Red Cross Month. Every one
of us knows the important work the Red
Cross does-disaster relief, the distribu-
tion of blood, service to the Armed Forces,
first aid in water safety instruction, and a
wide variety of community health pro-
grams.
But the Red Cross can't do them alone.
It needs help. This month, I hope that
you will become a Red Cross volunteer.
Support your local chapter's membership
enrollment drive, and take a few minutes.
to donate blood. It's easy. I know because
I'm a 6-gallon donor myself, and I'm
giving another pint this month.
As Honorary Chairman of the Red
Cross, I urge you to help. For nearly 100
years, America has been counting on the
Red Cross. This month the Red Cross is
counting on you.
Every day some vital Red Cross service
touches people's lives. It
touches people's lives. It may be disaster
relief, the collection of blood or first aid
instruction. But the Red Cross is there.
March is Red Cross Month. As Honor-
ary Chairman, I urge you all to support
your local Red Cross chapter.
NOTE: The remarks were filmed in the Oval
Office. The two segments were used for broad-
cast as a public service.
Visit of Prime Minister Trudeau
of Canada
Toasts of the President and the
Prime Minister at a Dinner Honoring
the Prime Minister. February 21, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. In preparing for this
visit, I learned that we have some very
serious and very intense competition with
our friends in the north. Dr. George Gal-
lup ran a poll recently, and he asked the
people who live in the United States to
name their favorite nations. The United
States got 95 percent; Canada got 91 per-
cent. [Laughter] So, I feel that I'm in an
intense and constant and very challenging
competition with Pierre Trudeau for the
hearts of my own people.
I think this does indicate the great com-
patibility and friendship and sense of
warmth and mutual admiration that has
always existed among American people to-
ward Canada. We share a border that's
more than 5,200 miles long. And for 200
years, our people have lived-with one
very brief interval, around 1812-in a
spirit of friendship. And that's important
to us. Even more than we think, in our
daily lives, we are dependent on Canda
for many things.
Canada has about 22 million people.
And every year, 60 million people cross
the border. And there is a kinship and a
sharing of delight and challenge and en-
210
