May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
already agreed on, the $10 billion to $15
billion? Is there something more in mind?
Q. Question?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. The ques-
tion is whether or not the reference in the
communique to the additional resources
of the IMF refers to what the interim
committee has already agreed on.
This refers first to the Witteveen fa-
cility and to the support of the countries
there to making that a reality. Secondly,
it refers to the support for increase, a fur-
ther increase, a seventh increase in the
quotas, which has to be decided by Febru-
ary
of next year.
SUMMIT DECLARATION
Q. In Washington when we got a brief-
ing about the summit, we were told that
the issue of bribery, extortion, illicit pay-
ments would not be ready for discussion
at this summit. How come we end up with
it in the appendix?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. This was a
suggestion that was made by the United
States, and the other countries agreed to
it. Indeed, the actual language includes
not only reference to trade but also to
commerce and to banking, and it really
reflects the view of all of the leaders there
that that was an important issue and that
we should collaborate together to stamp
it out.
Q. At what point did you decide to
bring it up? Before we left, according to
the people who prepared the summit, it
wasn't going to be brought up.
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. It was in the
drafts that I saw.
Q. Mr. Secretary, to follow that, just
what does the language of the appendix
mean? What will follow here in relation to
international trade, banking, and com-
merce? What are the practices you are
talking about?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. There are
discussions going on to negotiate agree-
ments in the United Nations. We have
before us in the Congress a legislative pro-
posal to make bribery for Americans
illegal. That would require collaboration
with other governments, and certainly
this language ought to make it possible
to and somewhat easier to really put some
teeth into that legislation.
NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION
Q. Mr. Secretary, at which level the
primary analysis of the nuclear question
is going to be conducted?
SECRETARY VANCE. Excuse me?
Q. At which level the analysis of the
nuclear question is going to be conducted?
SECRETARY VANCE. Let me tell you
what was agreed upon. It was agreed that
there would be a study to be completed
within 2 months with reports back to the
members of the summit. That would en-
compass an analysis of what could be
done in general terms to meet the prob-
lems raised in the nuclear field arising out
of the danger of proliferation coming
from the export of nuclear materials for
purposes of energy. And it was further
agreed that there would be the develop-
ment of the terms of reference for a much
longer study which would be involved
with an evaluation of the international
fuel cycle. And that study would take, I
would say, probably a year or more to do,
once the terms of reference are developed.
SUMMIT DECLARATION
Q. Mr. Secretary, could you tell us
whether the language of the communique
is meant to imply that all of the members
now approve of a common fund for com-
modities stabilization?
SECRETARY VANCE. There was agree-
ment that there should be a common
fund. It is not the common fund, but a
common fund.
Q. Is that the IRF idea?
830
