Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 1
ports. I have seen those special problems
firsthand during visits to many shoe plants
throughout the country.
The number of firms in the shoe indus-
try dropped from 600 in 1968 to 380
today—a 40 percent decline. Employment
in that same period fell by 30 percent,
which represents a loss of 70,000 jobs.
Imports from our two major overseas
suppliers have increased by more than
100 percent in the last 2 years and seem
to be increasing even more rapidly in
recent months.
I have decided to reject the restrictive
tariff rate quota recommended by the In-
ternational Trade Commission because
that recommendation did not fairly bal-
ance our concerns for domestic jobs and
production, inflationary pressures, and ex-
panded world trade.
But I have also decided to grant import
relief to our domestic shoe industry and
have therefore instructed Special Trade
Representative Robert Strauss to negoti-
ate orderly marketing agreements with the
appropriate foreign suppliers of shoes.
Over the long haul, the solution to diffi-
culties in the shoe industry lies not in the
restriction of imports but elsewhere-in
innovation and modernization of our own
production facilities and the financing to
make these possible.
The American shoe industry needs an
expanded and more effective program of
assistance to help it meet foreign competi-
tion. I have directed the Secretary of
Commerce to work directly with the Sec-
retary of Labor and Ambassador Strauss
in developing such a program. Toward
this end, these officials will see that exist-
ing assistance programs work better.
In addition, I will recommend to Con-
gress within 90 days any legislation which
may be needed to provide:
-Technological aid to increase pro-
duction efficiency and develop new pro-
duction methods.
-Data and market research to pin-
point new marketing opportunities.
-Assistance for affected communities
and workers.
-Help with promotion and marketing
services.
-Financial assistance to support these
initiatives.
American Non-Rubber
Footwear Industry
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. April 1, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 203(b) (1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth the
action that I am taking pursuant to that
section with respect to import relief for
the U.S. non-rubber footwear industry,
and explaining the reasons for my
decision.
The White House,
April 1, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF NONRUBBER FOOTWEAR
As required under section 203(b) (1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
ting this report to Congress setting forth
the actions I will take with respect to non-
rubber footwear covered by the affirm-
ative finding on February 8, 1977 of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC) under section 201 (d)
(1) of the Trade Act. As my action dif-
fers from that recommended by the
USITC, I have included the reasons for
my decisions:
I have determined that the import re-
lief recommended by the Commission
does not represent an appropriate balance
551
