Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC SUMMIT
MEETING
Joint Declaration Issued at the Conclusion of the Meeting. May 8, 1977
In two days of intensive discussion at Downing Street we have agreed
on how we can best help to promote the well-being both of our own coun-
tries and of others.
The world economy has to be seen as a whole; it involves not only
co-operation among national Governments but also strengthening ap-
propriate international organizations. We were reinforced in our aware-
ness of the interrelationship of all the issues before us, as well as our own
interdependence. We are determined to respond collectively to the chal-
lenges of the future.
-Our most urgent task is to create more jobs while continuing to
reduce inflation. Inflation does not reduce unemployment. On the con-
trary it is one of its major causes. We are particularly concerned about
the problem of unemployment among young people. We have agreed
that there will be an exchange of experience and ideas on providing the
young with job opportunities.
-We commit our governments to stated economic growth targets
or to stabilization policies which, taken as a whole, should provide a basis
for sustained non-inflationary growth, in our own countries and world-
wide and for reduction of imbalances in international payments.
-Improved financing facilities are needed. The International Mone-
tary Fund must play a prominent role. We commit ourselves to seek addi-
tional resources for the IMF and support the linkage of its lending prac-
tices to the adoption of appropriate stabilization policies.
-We will provide strong political leadership to expand opportuni-
ties for trade to strengthen the open international trading system, which
will increase job opportunities. We reject protectionism: it would foster
unemployment, increase inflation and undermine the welfare of our peo-
ples. We will give a new impetus to the Tokyo Round of Multilateral
Trade Negotiations. Our objective is to make substantive progress in key
areas in 1977. In this field structural changes in the world economy must
be taken into consideration.
-We will further conserve energy and increase and diversify energy
production, so that we reduce our dependence on oil. We agree on the
need to increase nuclear energy to help meet the world's energy require-
819
