Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Technology Assessment Advisory Panel
on the Offshore Technologies Study.
Federal Highway Administration
Nomination of William M. Cox To Be
Administrator. March 31, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate William M. Cox, of
Madisonville, Ky., to be Administrator of
the Federal Highway Administration.
Cox is vice president of Ligon Specialized
Hauler, Inc., in Madisonville.
Cox was born on February 4, 1942, in
Madisonville, Ky. He received a B.A. in
political science and history from the
University of Kentucky in 1965.
In 1966 and 1967, he served as exec-
utive vice president of the Madisonville
Chamber of Commerce. From 1967 to
1969, he worked for Ligon Specialized
Hauler, first as a sales representative for
Kentucky, then as general sales manager
for the firm. In 1970 Cox opened his own
small moving and storage company, Cox
Cartage and Storage, which he sold in
1971.
From 1971 to 1974, Cox served as chief
executive assistant to then Lieutenant
Governor Julian M. Carroll of Kentucky.
From 1974 to 1975, he served as State
campaign chairman for Carroll's guber-
natorial campaign and, during the sum-
mer of 1975, he served as special assistant
to Governor Carroll.
In 1975 Cox became vice president for
corporate administration of Ligon Spe-
cialized Hauler, an irregular route com-
mon carrier operating approximately 700
five-axle tractor-trailer units. Since 1976
he has been senior vice president of the
operations department.
Cox is president of the Kentucky Motor
Transport Association and vice-chairman
of the Public Service Commission of Ken-
tucky. He was a delegate to the Demo-
cratic National Convention in 1964.
Sockeye Salmon Fisheries
Convention
Message to the Senate Transmitting a
Protocol. March 31, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Protocol between
the Government of the United States of
America and the Government of Canada
to Amend the Convention for the Protec-
tion, Preservation and Extension of the
Sockeye Salmon Fisheries in the Fraser
River System, as Amended, signed at
Washington on February 24, 1977. I also
transmit, for the information of the Sen-
ate, the report of the Department of State
with respect to the Protocol.
The present Protocol increases the size
of the Advisory Committee to the Interna-
tional Pacific Salmon Fisheries Commis-
sion from six members from each country
to seven members from each country. The
additional positions will enable the United
States to provide for a native Indian ad-
viser while continuing to have representa-
tives on the Committee from all the pres-
ently represented parties.
An Indian adviser is particularly neces-
sary at this time in light of recent court
decisions dealing with Indian fishing
rights. I recommend that the Senate give
early and favorable consideration to the
Protocol and give its advice and consent
to ratification.
The White House,
March 31, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The message was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
548
