June 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
(d) Delete in paragraph (f) (2) the
words "Committee on Foreign Intelli-
gence" and substitute therefor "PRC".
The White House,
June 1, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:55 p.m., June 2, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
United States-Japan International
Fishery Agreement
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Agreement. June 2, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Fishery Conser-
vation and Management Act of 1976
(P.L. 94-265: 16 USC 1801), I transmit
herewith a governing international fishery
agreement for 1978-1982 between the
United States and Japan, signed at Wash-
ington on March 18, 1977.
This Agreement is significant because
it is one of a series to be negotiated in ac-
cordance with that legislation. It sets out
the principles that will govern fishing by
Japan for fisheries over which the United
States exercises exclusive management au-
thority. I urge that the Congress give fa-
vorable consideration to this Agreement at
an early date.
The White House,
June 2, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: A White House announcement released
the same day stated that: "This agreement is
one of a series negotiated since the U.S. procla-
mation of a 200-mile fishery conservation zone.
It goes to Congress for congressional oversight,
and will take effect 60 days after it has been
transmitted, unless both Houses pass a resolu-
tion in opposition."
Executive Committee on
Reorganization
Appointment of the Members of the
Committee and Richard A. Pettigrew as
Assistant to the President for Reorganization.
June 2, 1977
The President today announced the
membership of the Executive Committee
on Reorganization, the top-level working
group on executive branch reorganization
announced in his reorganization plan on
April 6, 1977.
He also announced the appointment of
Richard A. Pettigrew, of Dade County,
Fla., to serve as Assistant to the President
for Reorganization.
The Executive Committee on Reor-
ganization, to be chaired by the President,
will include the Vice President, OMB Di-
rector Bert Lance, Mr. Pettigrew, Civil
Service Commission Chairman Alan
Campbell, and Council of Economic Ad-
visers Chairman Charles L. Schultze.
The Committee will advise the Presi-
dent on all aspects of the reorganization
effort, including study priorities and final
recommendations. It will review recom-
mendations developed by the Reorganiza-
tion Project Staff for streamlining the
executive branch.
Pettigrew, who will also serve as the
Committee's administrative officer, will
be responsible for assisting the President
in the overall executive reorganization
process. He will have primary responsi-
bility for developing mechanisms to en-
list public involvement in reorganization,
and will analyze citizens' problems in deal-
ing with the executive branch to see how
reorganization can help to alleviate them.
An attorney, Pettigrew served in the
Florida House of Representatives from
1963 to 1972. Appointed to the Constitu-
tional Review Commission in 1965, he
was a leader in the State's 3-year effort to
draft and adopt a new constitution. As
1052
