Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
vard Law School in 1949. He joined the
Los Angeles law firm of Charles H. Carr
in 1949, served in the U.S. Army as a legal
officer from 1950 to 1953, and returned to
the law firm, where he remained until
1955, when he joined the legal staff of
Hunt Foods as an associate tax counsel.
He was subsequently elected vice presi-
dent, executive vice president and direc-
tor, and president of Hunt-Wesson Foods.
In 1968 he was elected president of Hunt
Foods and Industries, Inc., and with the
formation of Norton Simon later that
year-resulting from the consolidation of
Canada Dry Corp., Hunt Foods and In-
dustries, and McCall Corp. he was
named chairman of the new company's
finance committee. In 1969 he assumed
the additional post of chairman of the
board of Norton Simon.
In 1970 he became dean of the Gradu-
ate School of Management at UCLA. In
1973 he was appointed energy coordinator
for the city of Los Angeles by Mayor Tom
Bradley. He serves as cochairman for the
Public Commission on County Govern-
ment, a subcommittee chairman of the
mayor's ad hoc committee on city reve-
nues, a member of the California Citizens
Commission on Tort Reform, and an ad-
viser to the Committee on Productivity
and the Private Sector, Committee on
Economic Development.
He is a member of the Commission for
Economic Development of the State of
California and of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Advisory Commit-
tee on Corporate Disclosure. In 1976 he
received the Torch of Learning Award
and Honorary Fellowship from Hebrew
University and the Earl Warren Leader-
ship Award from the American Society
of Public Administration, Los Angeles
chapter.
Williams is being nominated for the re-
mainder of the term expiring June 5, 1977,
and for a term of 5 years expiring June 5,
1982.
SALT Negotiations With the
Soviet Union
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Reporters. March 30, 1977
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
This has been an afternoon devoted to
receiving dispatches from Moscow, and
I'd like to make a report to the American
people about what has occurred.
We have proposed to the Soviet leaders
in the last 2 days a comprehensive pack-
age of agreements which, if concluded,
will lay a permanent groundwork for a
more peaceful world, an alleviation of the
great threat of atomic weapons, that will
maintain the political and strategic
weapon capability and balance between
the United States and the Soviet Union.
One of our proposals on this nuclear
weapons talks was very brief and it was
our second option. It was, in effect, to
ratify the Vladivostok agreement that
had already been reached.
The difference between us and the So-
viet Union on this point is that the Soviets
claim that Secretary Kissinger and my
predecessors in the White House-Presi-
dents Ford and, earlier, Nixon-did
agree to forgo the deployment of cruise
missiles. Our position is that we have
never agreed to any such thing. But we
asked the Soviet Union to accept an
agreement on all other matters and post-
pone the cruise missile and the Russians'
new bomber, the Backfire bomber, until
continuing later discussion. They rejected
that proposal.
The other one was much more far-
reaching and has profound consequences
538
