May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
large the opportunities for all European
countries to work together in meeting
the challenges of modern society.
Next month delegates of 35 countries
will confer in Belgrade to plan for a meet-
ing to review progress since the Helsinki
Final Act. The United States shares with
you a desire to make this a useful and
constructive meeting. We support a care-
ful review of progress by all countries in
implementing all parts of the Final Act.
We approach these meetings in a spirit
of cooperation, not of confrontation.
America's concern for human rights
does not reflect a desire to impose our
particular political or social arrangements
on any other country. It is, rather, an ex-
pression of the most deeply felt values of
the American people. We want the world
to know where we stand. (We entertain
no illusion that the concerns we express
and the actions we take will bring rapid
changes in the policies of other govern-
ments. But neither do we believe that
world opinion is without effect.) We will
continue to express our beliefs-not only
because we must remain true to ourselves
but also because we are convinced that
the building of a better world rests on
each nation's clear expression of the
values that have given meaning to its
national life.
In all these tasks and others facing the
Alliance, it is vital for us to work to-
gether-particularly through close con-
sultation and cooperation with the North
Atlantic Council. We do not need new
institutions, only to make better use of one
that has served us so well. To this end I
pledge that the United States will share
with the Council our views and intentions
about the full range of issues affecting
the Alliance.
The Council should also examine long-
range problems, so as to make this con-
sultation more effective. A special Alli-
ance review of East-West relations, un-
dertaken by the Council and drawing in
national experts, could serve this end.
Such a review might assess future trends
in the Soviet Union, in Eastern Europe,
and in East-West relations, and analyze
the implications of these trends for the
Alliance. The United States is prepared
to make a major contribution to this
study, whose conclusions could be con-
sidered at the May 1978 NATO meeting.
Defense
Achieving our political goals depends
on a credible defense and deterrent. The
United States supports the existing strat-
egy of flexible response and forward de-
fense. We will continue to provide our
share of the powerful forces adequate to
fulfill this strategy. We will maintain an
effective strategic deterrent, we will keep
diverse and modern theatre nuclear forces
in Europe, and we will maintain and im-
prove conventional forces based here.
The threat facing the Alliance has
grown steadily in recent years. The Soviet
Union has achieved essential strategic nu-
clear equivalence. Its theatre nuclear
forces have been strengthened. The War-
saw Pact's conventional forces in Europe
emphasize an offensive posture. These
forces are much stronger than needed for
any defense purpose. Since 1965 new
ground and air weapons have been intro-
duced in most major categories: self-pro-
pelled artillery, mobile tactical missiles,
mobile air defense guns, armored person-
nel carriers, tactical aircraft, and tanks.
The pace of the Pact's buildup continues
undiminished.
Let me make it clear that our first pref-
erence is for early agreement with the So-
viet Union on mutual and balanced force
reductions. Failing to reach this agree-
ment, our military strength must be
maintained.
The collective deterrent strength of our
Alliance is effective. But it will only re-
850
