Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
agreed to help me with those responsi-
bilities.
And now I would like to ask Chief
Justice Burger to administer the oath of
office, following which all of you will be
invited to meet with me and the Cabinet
members and their families in the adja-
cent room.
Chief Justice Burger.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. Chief
Justice of the United States Warren E.
Burger administered the oath of office.
Gasoline Decontrol
Announcement of Modification of Federal
Energy Administration Regulations.
January 24, 1977
The President has today directed the
Federal Energy Administration to rescind
amendments to its regulations that could
have exempted motor gasoline from
FEA's price and allocation controls effec-
tive March 1.
As a result of the President's action,
the gasoline decontrol proposal issued by
the prior administration on January 19
is withdrawn from congressional con-
sideration. FEA Acting Administrator
Gorman C. Smith has so notified the
President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House. Under the withdrawn
amendments, gasoline decontrol would
have become effective on March 1 if not
disapproved by either House of Congress
within 15 days of its submission.
President Carter does not by this with-
drawal intend to imply any position on
the ultimate merits or demerits of gaso-
line decontrol. Instead, he intends to
conduct a review of these controls as an
integral part of the development of an
overall energy policy. Among other things,
such a review will examine the prior ad-
ministration's contention that competitive
market forces would restrain prices for
motor gasoline below levels which would
be permissible even if controls remained
in effect.
In addition, by directing withdrawal of
these amendments, the President hopes
that the issue of gasoline decontrol can
be examined under circumstances more
conducive to careful consideration of the
implications of an end to such controls.
Time is urgently needed now both by the
administration and the Congress to focus
immediate attention on the present major
shortages of natural gas and its substitute
fuels. These shortages raise the possibility
that adjustments in refinery runs may be
necessary to provide additional supplies
of these substitute fuels. This, in turn,
could lead to impacts on the motor gaso-
line markets which could be effectively
handled only with the maintenance of
price and allocation controls over the
near term.
The administration recognizes that
there are significant problems with the
existing control mechanism, but believes
that a hastily considered action removing
such controls might create far more seri-
ous problems.
Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare
Remarks at the Swearing In of
Joseph A. Califano, Jr. January 25, 1977
There are some members of the polit-
ical family who know how to have a
special deal just for themselves. [Laugh-
ter] Unfortunately, the Secretaries of
State and Treasury and Defense and
others had to combine their oaths of office
and the news attention with other people,
but Joe worked it out where he could
have one of his own.
16
