Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
She was a member of Leadership At-
lanta (appointed by the Atlanta Cham-
ber of Commerce) from 1974 to 1976
and on the Advisory Board of the Atlan-
ta-Macon Corridor Study (appointed by
the Georgia Department of Transporta-
tion) from 1973 to 1975. In 1973-74
Blum served on the Georgia Vital Areas
Council, and from 1972 to 1974 she was
a member of the Health and Social Serv-
ices Advisory Board and Governmental
Services Advisory Board of the Atlanta
Regional Commission.
Since 1972 she has been chief lobbyist
in the Georgia General Assembly and in
Washington, D.C., for SAVE (Save
America's Vital Environment) and from
1973 to 1976, was president of that orga-
nization. She was on the board of the
National Committee for an Effective Con-
gress in 1976 and has been a trustee of
the Georgia Conservancy since 1973.
She is married to Donald W. Blum.
They have four children and live in
Atlanta.
Reduction in Reports Required
of the American Public
Memorandum for the Heads of
Executive Departments and Agencies.
February 16, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
As I outlined in the Cabinet meeting
on Monday, January 24, I am determined
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of the Executive Branch. As part of this
improvement, I place a high priority on
reducing the burden which reporting to
the Federal Government places upon the
American public.
My predecessor launched a program to
secure a modest five percent reduction in
reporting burden by September 30, 1977.
I am dismayed to learn that the executive
departments and agencies have made vir-
tually no progress toward the achievement
of that goal.
To assure that this matter receives your
continuing attention, I want you to as-
sume personal responsibility for the suc-
cessful fulfillment of this task and for
achieving the purposes of the Federal Re-
ports Act as they relate to your agency.
You may delegate authority, but any such
delegation must be unambiguous and
must run directly to yourself.
Please determine personally:
(a) How many reports does my agency
receive?
(b) How many can be combined or
eliminated?
(c) How can they be simplified?
(d) Can less frequent reports serve
adequately?
(e) Can major departments, agencies
and sub-agencies share the same report?
I do not look upon the task of reduc-
ing the reporting burden on the public as
a one-shot campaign. It is a continuing
problem. Routine efforts to deal with it
will not suffice. You should review your
agency's data collection activities to find
ways of carrying out your program re-
sponsibilities in a manner which will re-
duce the paperwork burden on the public.
Assess reports now required by law.
You should develop recommendations for
changes in legislation which might per-
mit further reductions in reporting in the
future.
I have assigned to the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget re-
sponsibility for exercising general over-
sight over the reporting burden reduction
program. When possible, apply to existing
forms the OMB restraints on new forms
and reports.
I anticipate your wholehearted and en-
thusiastic support in achieving these goals.
177
