Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and local governments and private day
care centers is one that requires a great
deal of study. But I favor strongly the day
care system in our country. As you know,
Vice President Mondale was a leader in
the Congress in this field, and he and I
together have had long discussions about
this. And if we can make the day care sys-
tem practical and not too costly, I believe
it will be a very strong and increasingly
important component part of an overall
welfare system that gets people off de-
pendence on Government and back to
work.
FLEXI-TIME
Q. How do you
Government?
feel about flexi-time in
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar-
what is that? [Laughter] The question
asked of me is, "How do you feel about
flexi-time in Government? I am new
around here. [Laughter]
I think, though, that we will have to
start pursuing new ideas of that kind for
several reasons. One is to get maximum
benefit from the heat and energy sources
that we utilize and, also, to give families
a little more flexibility in their own struc-
ture. So the basic concept is one that I
think is worthy of attention. If you have
specific ideas, you might give them to
Secretary Marshall. And as we put for-
ward our approach on reorganization, on
energy conservation and, also, on trans-
portation, welfare, this kind of concept
would cover a broad range of opportuni-
ties. I don't know the answer to your ques-
tion, but that is the best comment I can
make.
ENERGY REBATE PROPOSAL
Q. Your rebate proposal, which is part
of the economic stimulus package, is de-
signed to help the economy as a whole. But
how can you assure that that money will
not go into paying heating bills?
THE PRESIDENT. The question was, my
rebate proposal, which is part of the eco-
nomic stimulus package, is designed to
help the economy as a whole. How can I
assure that that money will not go into
paying heating bills? Is that correct?
I don't want to insure that the money
does not go into heating bills. I have no
reason to oppose that rebate going to pay
for heating bills or other bills incurred.
Of course, when you do that, that re-
leases other money to be used to buy prod-
ucts that have been maufactured or as-
sembled. But the point of the rebate itself,
which, as you know, is a small portion of
their overall package-less than one-
third is to have a very early stimulus for
the economy. Most of the effort that goes
into the economic stimulus will come
through your Department and the De-
partment of Commerce. But there is no
way that we can get a large quantity of
money into the economy by, perhaps,
April, other than to give a flat rebate to
the people which would, for a $10,000-
income family with four people, amount to
about a 30-percent rebate for the income
taxes that they would have paid for last
year.
So, if the families use that money to buy
food or to buy clothing or to make the
down payment on an automobile or to pay
the heating bill, I have no fear about the
prospect of that happening and would not
try to prevent it.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION
Q. Could you comment in regard to the
Occupational Safety and Health Admin-
istration?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is about
the Occupational Safety and Health Ad-
ministration. Let me take off my coat.
[Laughter] It is not because of the ques-
tion. It is because of the temperature.
[Laughter]
104
