Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
these increases. Sixty other nations have
managed to come up with national health
programs that meet the needs of our peo-
ple—of their people. It's not beyond our
own ingenuity to do the same, and I want
this program to be established during my
time in office.
There's a lot that we can do as con-
sumers. In many instances, medical doc-
tors, hospitals, and others, have been very
careless about how much health care
actually costs.
Late last month, my wife was found to
have a tumor on her breast. She went to
Bethesda Hospital about 2 o'clock in the
afternoon. She had a long incision made,
4 or 5 inches long, and the tumor was
removed. She was back home at 5 o'clock.
Quite often, if doctors and hospitals
want to hold down the time we spend in
intensive care and the extraordinary cost
of medical care, they can do it. But we, as
consumers, need to help.
The sixth major need is for an open
and efficient Government. Now I've done
the best I could to open up the Presi-
dency. I've talked publicly about foreign
policy matters that were formerly consid-
ered too secret and too complicated for
the ears of the American people. I've
had frequent press conferences, and I've
had direct encounters with people who
don't normally get to work-get to talk
to a President.
When I leave here this morning, I'll
go to one of the Los Angeles television
stations and for an hour and a half, I will
receive calls from people throughout this
part of California asking me questions,
unscreened, on any subject they choose.
I feel that it's important for the Ameri-
can people to know what's going on. But
I also feel it's important for a President to
learn from the people of this country. And
I want you to know what the options are
and what the problems are and what the
possibilities are in complicated matters
like the control of the nuclear weapons,
the resolution of problems in southern
Africa, the Middle East, and also in do-
mestic questions which I've discussed with
you today. I want you to be a partner
with me in making our Government be
effective and efficient.
There are many other ways that we
can build more openness and responsive-
ness into our system of government. We
can make the activities of government
officials devote themselves exclusively to
the public interest. I've asked the Con-
gress to impose strict financial disclosure
requirements for more than 13,000 top
Federal Government executives.
This will make it very difficult for high
Government officials to have interests
which conflict with those of the public.
And we should insist on the same high
standards for private institutions. That's
why I proposed to Congress making for-
eign bribery by American companies and
officials a crime.
I want to mention now a subject that's
important to me and to you. I've worked
with many of your members trying to
overcome the very great difficulties of
simply getting free American people regis-
tered to vote. We need to open up
our electoral system to greater partici-
pation. Many working people don't vote
because they don't have the time to go
through lengthy and needless registration
procedures.
Vice President Mondale and I have
worked out legislation that would let peo-
ple register at the polls on the day of a
Federal election. There are some power-
ful, special interests, including the Repub-
lican Party, who are trying to kill the
electoral reform bill because they don't
want working people to register and to
vote. I need you to help me get this bill
passed through Congress.
And we need to create an agency for
consumer protection. Now in Govern-
893
