May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Secretary of the Interior (1) to encour-
age states to apply existing federal-aid
funds to the management of all species of
wildlife, and (2) to propose other meas-
ures to improve the conservation of non-
game wildlife.
Our Nation's public lands and waters
support a rich wildlife resource which we
hold in trust for all Americans, now and
in the future. My Administration will
assure that this public trust-for all
wildlife is adequately and effectively
executed.
The public's interest in wildlife specifi-
cally includes predators, which have in
the past sometimes been regarded as com-
petitors for livestock or game, leading to
their destruction (and in the case of some
large predator species, to their extermi-
nation). Because we now realize the im-
portance of the role that predators play
in various ecosystems, our goal should be
not to destroy them but to reduce the
occasion for their conflict with livestock.
My Administration will continue to sup-
port the existing Executive Order which
prohibits the routine use of poisons for
killing predators on the public lands. If
control is necessary, it should focus on the
individual predators causing the prob-
lem-not the species as a whole.
Many land and water development
projects cause extensive damage to fish
and wildlife habitat. My Administration
will ensure timely implementation of the
mitigation features required by the Fish
and Wildlife Coordination Act to make
up for such losses. Furthermore, to hasten
the protection of threatened and endan-
gered species, I am directing the Secre-
taries of Commerce and Interior to
coordinate a government-wide effort, as
required by the Endangered Species Act
of 1973, to identify all habitat under Fed-
eral jurisdiction or control that is critical
to the survival and recovery of these
species. The purpose of this program is to
avoid the possibility that such habitats
will be identified too late to affect federal
project planning. Major projects now
underway that are found to pose a serious
threat to endangered species should be re-
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In the past 150 years, hundreds of
foreign wildlife species, both plant and
animal, have been introduced into the
natural ecosystems of the United States.
Many of these have been highly detri-
mental to public health, agriculture, and
native wildlife.
Consequently, I am today issuing an
Executive Order restricting the introduc-
tion of exotic animals and plants into the
United States and prohibiting their es-
tablishment on lands and waters man-
aged by the federal government. In
addition, I am directing the Secretaries
of Agriculture and the Interior to de-
velop further legislation to deal with the
importation of exotic species.
The many laws which have recently
been enacted to conserve our Nation's
wildlife pose the risk of creating a confus-
ing system of overlapping and conflicting
requirements. Therefore, I am directing
the Council on Environmental Quality to
consult with the states and executive
agencies and report to me in six months
on the steps that should be taken to sim-
plify, coordinate, and codify the body of
law affecting wildlife conservation.
Finally, I have asked the Congress to
increase the 1978 Fish and Wildlife
Service Budget by $23 million for en-
vironmental research, migratory bird
protection, and aid to the states for en-
dangered species. Because the mainte-
nance and staffing of our national system
of wildlife refuges has been sadly ne-
glected for the past decade, I have also
proposed a budget increase of $295 mil-
lion for rehabilitation, habitat improve-
ment, and development of this system
during the next five years.
982
