Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 10
when he never has a beneficial or compli-
mentary word from you.
So, we have got a long way to go.
I am
not bragging about what we have done.
We are going to do more in the future,
and we are in it together. But don't ex-
clude yourselves from constant and per-
manent interrelationship with the Cabi-
net officer who happens to be a man
because, quite often, they are just as con-
cerned about women's rights as they
would be if they happened to be a woman.
And I want this to be a constant prod
to me, a constant criticism to me, but
also one of mutual support.
The other point I would like to make
is this: We are making dramatic changes
in the policies of our Government. I am
not going to enumerate them. Some have
already been mentioned already, like hu-
man rights in the international field.
But we will come out in April for the
first time in our country with a compre-
hensive energy policy. It will affect every
home in our country, transportation sys-
tems; it will also affect job placements.
And your involvement in this process is
crucial to me. I would like for you to
take the initiative in dealing with Jim
Schlesinger on that subject.
We are going to come out with a com-
plete reform of the welfare system, using
the word "welfare" in the generic sense,
so we can lay the groundwork maybe for
the next 20 years on dealing with people
who have been deprived. And I want you
to be aggressive in intruding yourselves
into the decisionmaking process and not
let the time slip away.
I have a very rigid time schedule to
complete the study of this extremely com-
plicated subject and make a report to
me and then to the Congress by the first
day of May.
In the long run, we are going to be as-
sessing also health care and this year we
will complete a study of tax reform. And
by the end of September, we will make
recommendations to the Congress on that
subject.
So, I just want to be sure that you are
part of it. I am not as accessible as I would
like to be to you. It is just on a fairly rare
occasion that I can meet in a group like
this. But I want that to be a continuing
process.
And Midge Costanza is constantly with
me in my office. She comes forward and
says this is something we need to do. And
she is a contact point for you within my
own office. So is Bunny [Martha M.
Mitchell] and others.
Senator Mondale, now Vice President
Mondale, and Governor Carter, now
President Carter-we see things from the
State level, from the Congress level, and
I think now from the White House. So, I
think we have a good way to work as in-
termediaries between you and Members
of the Congress, and you and Governors.
So, I just want this meeting to be one
of caution to us, of criticism about things
we haven't yet done, of a vision of what
we can do, but primarily one of a recom-
mitment to a partnership.
And I've always learned from you, and
I've got a lot yet to know. But I haven't
forgotten for a single hour the need for
me and others to correct longstanding
discriminatory practices.
We save, I think, 130,000 back cases
in equal employment discrimination, and
we are searching for someone to head up
that agency. And I think we will make
a good choice. But we have got six other
agencies and now there is a great deal of
confusion about where the responsibility
lies. As I choose people to head up every
single agency, the Civil Service, I am
making sure that if they are men or wom-
en that they know about my concerns,
about women's rights.
357
