May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
They require the tearing down of the
barriers that I have already described to
you. When Federal funds come to the
Health, Education, and Welfare Depart-
ment, and later on without delay they will
apply to all programs of a similar nature,
they will provide that a handicapped
child for the first time in the 200-year
existence of our country has the right to
go to free public schools, and that that
child has a right to go to free public
schools in a regular classroom with other
students.
It's almost inconceivable, and it's a re-
flection on all of us in leadership positions
that these basic rights have been delayed
so long. These are times for thanksgiving,
but for a sustained demand and a time to
assess other opportunities in the future.
The civil rights of handicapped persons
is not the only element of the laws that
have been put into effect. We have got
more than a hundred different programs
in the Federal Government already for
the handicapped. They are administered
by many different agencies. There are a
lot of different kinds of definitions for the
handicap of the same person, and that
means that many of you who have sought
for a long time to take advantage of these
programs, which the Congress and my
predecessors in the White House have
passed, have often had to go to four or
five or six different agencies to get the
simple treatment or opportunities which
you deserved under the law.
It's time for us to change that, and one
of the very good benefits of the reorgani-
zation authority that Congress has now
given me is to bring all those programs
for the handicapped together into one
agency so you can understand them and
take advantage of them.
As I look across this tremendous audi-
torium, with many different kinds of
handicaps represented here, I know that
many of them could have been prevented
in your early life. And we are not just
concerned about the correction of an
existing handicap or an opportunity for
those who are handicapped; we want to
prevent the handicaps that might occur
in the future.
We've already proposed to the Con-
gress a program for the screening, the
health screening, of poor children, and
within just a few years we will multiply
five times the number of poor, young
children who have a chance to see a doc-
tor early in their life so their potential
handicap or affliction might be prevented
or corrected.
We now have 35 percent of the young
children in this country who are not even
immunized or inoculated against prevent-
able diseases. When I was a child many
years ago, almost 100 percent of all Amer-
ican children were immunized. We have
started a new program now under Joe
Califano's leadership and have asked the
Congress for authority to increase greatly
this immunization program so that within
just a short time we intend to approach
the 100 percent level again.
There is a hope that there will never be
any lack of memory for the struggle that
has been effective in making this night
and this conference possible. We want to
be sure that we don't forget the handi-
capped among us who cannot hold a job,
who cannot respond to a full education,
but we want to make sure that even when
they are dependent for constant help, that
they have every chance to grow and to
learn and to take advantage of whatever
great or small talent or ability God might
have given them. We can't forget them.
In closing, I want to ask you to do one
more thing, and that is that since you've
bound yourselves together in a common
purpose, understanding one another and
overcoming the differences that exist
among you, that now you try to under-
stand the special needs of the nonhandi-
990
