Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
operation] meeting which will follow
immediately thereafter, I would hope that
the advanced industrial nations could
provide a more uniform, comprehensive,
and compatible approach to that very
serious question. I just don't feel that I
am qualified at this point-
MR. SIEBERT. At this point, perhaps,
you can take this. How do you look at the
future role of the international organiza-
tions like World Bank and the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund? Do you think
those roles should be broad and they
should get-
THE PRESIDENT. I think they should
be broadened and strengthened. I believe
that this is very important.
MR. SIEBERT. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. In the multinational
trade agreements and GATT [General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade] and
OECD [Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development] and the In-
ternational Energy Agency and the World
Bank, regional banks-I believe that is a
proper place for continuing multilateral
interrelationships. And I think in many
instances, it is better to approach the
problems of the nations of the Southern
Hemisphere through those mechanisms
than through bilateral actions. There are
a few exceptions. But I will do all I can
to strengthen those entities that are
discussed.
RELATIONS WITH THE SOVIET UNION
MR. ZUCCONI. Mr. President, let's
move again from North-South to East-
West.
A few people might have been con-
cerned about the situation and the rela-
tionship between the United States and
the Soviet Union. Let me put it bluntly as
the man in the street would. Are we in
for another cold war?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think not. We
proposed to the Soviet Union two options:
one was a fairly quick ratification of the
basic agreements that had been derived
from the Vladivostok conference; the
other option is our preference, and that is
a much more drastic and deep reduction
in the level of nuclear armaments, with a
prohibition against the evolution of new
weapons systems, and a much more open
capability of confirming that the agree-
ments are being honored.
The worst that can happen, in my
opinion, is a standoff at the present pace
of development, which would be very un-
fortunate. I don't believe that either the
Soviet Union or we want to continue this
armaments race which is very costly and
also increasingly dangerous.
The second level of achievement would
be a ratification of the basic Vladivostok
terms. And I would never give up both
the hope and the effort to move toward
ultimate elimination of atomic weapons
altogether. Over a long period of time
that should be our goal. And I would
hope that when I go out of office, that
we will have reduced the level of nuclear
armaments substantially throughout the
world.
MR. ZUCCONI. So, you are still optimis-
tic even in the short term?
THE PRESIDENT. I am. Yes.
HUMAN RIGHTS
MR. PIERRE. About the human rights
policy, do you feel satisfied how it is go-
ing?-and I will ask you a nasty question.
THE PRESIDENT. Please go ahead.
MR. PIERRE. We read in the press re-
cently that the three leaders of the Rus-
sian trade union couldn't get visas. So,
how can it be reconciled with your de-
clared intention of making easier the
entry of this country? Belgrade will come
soon-
781
