Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 26
tionary, and they don't please people that
are extremes on either side of the argu-
ment.
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, would you care for a
moment to get back to the water projects.
You've expressed some personal doubt,
I believe. Could you be more specific in
that area? And, secondly, in the State of
Utah, a lot of people feel that perhaps
your drought relief is being a little bit in-
consistent in terms of the money that's al-
ready been spent on a lot of these projects.
Would you address yourself to these ques-
tions, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I really am not
prepared to address individual projects,
although I have had individual projects
brought to my attention by some of the
Members of Congress. [Laughter]
But I'd really rather keep an open mind.
It's obvious that if I hadn't had doubts
about these projects I would not person-
ally have advocated their reassessment.
But I don't really know all the factors
involved. I intend to know them by
April 15.
But we want to have public hearings
around the country, let Members of Con-
gress, Members of the Senate, Chambers
of Commerce, newspaper-news media
representatives and environmentalists and
farmers and others come and testify. I'll
study that testimony, a lot of it personally,
and then make my own decisions about a
permanent commitment for or against
those projects. I'm fairly determined
about the projects.
If I should recommend that a project
be terminated, and if I should not prevail
this
year,
I then would pursue that effort
next year. I can't hope to prevail in every
instance, but I would rather not comment
on an individual project now.
MINORITY BUSINESSES
Q. Mr. President, if I may, I'd just like
to thank you for allowing weekly pub-
lishers to come in and participate in this
administration. This is a new day as far
as weekly publishers are concerned. We
want to thank you.
The last 2 months of my observation is
that you have a philosophy of equitable
treatment, and I think you would be com-
mended for that. However, we have grave
concerns over the Office of Minority Busi-
ness Enterprises.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, so do I.
We have grave concerns over the rele-
vancy of that particular office. Those
countless numbers of blacks who are at-
tempting to go in business seem designed
for failure. There are, I think, two laws,
Executive Order 11246 and, I think,
11245. How do you envision handling
that? I mean, what can we expect? If
do as you
have done during the last
2 months, we will fare well, but we'd
like to get some sense of your guidance
in this.
you
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have personal
experience with that. I went home from
the Navy way back before a lot of you
were born, in 1953. I didn't have any
money. I didn't have any business train-
ing. I was a professional naval officer and
a nuclear physicist. I lived in the Govern-
ment housing project. The rent was $31
a month. And I didn't make enough
money in my first year to pay my house
rent. I sold fertilizer on credit. And we
had a terrible drought, the worst one we've
ever had in Georgia-it was 1954. And
then the following year, my wife went to
work fulltime with me keeping books. The
third year I hired one employee. And I
soon saw that my own remarkable talents
weren't matched with the financial re-
sources I had to expand, so I went to the
517
