Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 24
expression of those matters has not been
made to the American people over a
period of years.
The exact means of defining borders in
the Middle East, the exact resolution of
the Palestinian problem, the definition of
permanent peace-all these things obvi-
ously have to be decided between the
Arab countries and Israel. But to point
out that they are matters in dispute and
that we hope they will be solved this
year,
I think is constructive.
We have not intruded ourselves against
the wishes of the interested nations in the
eastern Mediterranean. Both Turkey and
Greece welcomed our emissary, and I
think we can be a good mediator to the
extent that both parties trust us to act in
good faith.
The same thing applies in southern
Africa and the same thing applies to the
MIA mission to Vietnam and Laos. And
I believe that it is very important for the
American people to know the framework
within which discussions might take place
and to give me, through their own ap-
proval, strength, as a party to some of the
resolutions of disputes and, also, to make
sure that when I do speak, I don't speak
with a hollow voice, but that the rest of
the world knows that on my stand, for in-
stance, on human rights, that I am not
just speaking as a lonely voice, but that I
am strongly supported by the Congress
and the people of the country.
This week the Congress passed almost
unanimously—I think with only two dis-
senting votes in both Houses—a strong
confirmation that my own stand expressed
on human rights is indeed the stand of
the American people. It's an unswerving
commitment. It's one that will not be
changing in the future. And I think for
the rest of the world to know this and for
the American people to participate in
that expression of concern about human
rights is a very constructive thing.
VIETNAM
Q. Mr. President, you said that when
you received the report from the Wood-
cock Commission that every hope you had
for their mission had been realized.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that is true.
Q. That report suggested that the best
way to get an actual accounting of those
still missing in Southeast Asia is for the
normalization of relations; yet, your posi-
tion in the past has been that there must
be an accounting first before relations can
be normalized. Have you changed your po-
sition, and what hope does that give for
the families?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't changed
my position. I have always taken the po-
sition that when I am convinced that the
Vietnamese have done their best to ac-
count for the service personnel who are
missing in action, at that point, I would
favor normalization, the admission of
Vietnam into the United Nations, and the
resumption of trade and other relation-
ships with the Vietnamese.
I believe that the response of the Viet-
namese leaders to the Woodcock Commis-
sion was very favorable. They not only
gave us the bodies of 11 American serv-
icemen, but they also promised to set up a
Vietnamese bureaucracy to receive the in-
formation that we have had about the
date and the place that we think service
people were lost and to pursue those in-
vestigations.
I think this is about all they can do. I
don't have any way to prove that they
have accounted for all those about whom
they have information. But I think, so far
as I can discern, they have acted in good
faith.
499
