Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
Q. Mr. President, you seem to have
changed your views somewhat since the
campaign about the B-1. Is that accurate?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that you
could detect what my view might be. I'll
make that decision this month.
Q. You no longer seem to view it as an
exotic weapon that shouldn't have been
built. Even though you haven't made your
final decision, what you said today seems
to be in somewhat of a different context
than the campaign. You seem to think it's
a very serious question one way or the
other and that-there's a different tone to
it. Am I wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, during the cam-
paign, many of the observers of my effort
said I was so fuzzy on the issue that they
couldn't understand what I was saying.
Since I have become President, people
have an almost exact capability of discern-
ing what I said during the campaign. It's
hard to correlate the two.
But one of the things that I was con-
cerned about during the campaign was
that in spite of the fact that the tests on
the B-1 bomber were not supposed to be
completed until last November, early in
the spring President Ford came out in
favor of a construction program. I haven't
decided yet what to do. But when I make
a judgment, I think you would agree with
me that I made the best judgment within
my ability.
Q. Mr. President, you were talking
about Government retirement systems and
public retirement systems. Are you satis-
fied that the Federal retirement systems
are sound, at least-
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
Q. —And that they're equitable?
THE PRESIDENT. You mean the major
retirement system for the Federal
employees?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's sound. And
so is the social security system sound up
until this moment. But unless the Congress
takes fairly quick action to implement re-
forms, it will not be sound. One of the
major social security funds will be ex-
hausted in 2 years; another one 4 years
later. But I am sure the Congress won't
let that need slip by without taking action.
Q. Could you tell us how you could con-
sider giving Cuba diplomatic recogni-
tion-
THE PRESIDENT. We have not recog-
nized Cuba.
Q. -and how you'd consider this,
though, as a future action until Castro
releases some of these thousands of people
that he is holding as political prisoners
and until he withdraws some of his troops
from Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Those are two of the
items that I have said would be of deep
concern to me before we could normalize
relationships with Cuba. The consultation
with Cuba, the exchange of ideas with
Cuba, the working out of a fisheries agree-
ment or a maritime agreement or hope-
fully an anti-hijacking agreement-those
kind of things I think are perfectly legiti-
mate. But there is no immediate prospect
for diplomatic recognition and exchange
of Ambassadors with Cuba.
Q. Would you insist that he bring his
troops home from Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. That is one of my
expectations.
Tom C. Clark
Statement on the Death of the Former
Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court. June 13, 1977
With the death of retired Supreme
Court Justice Tom C. Clark, the Nation
1111
