May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
plosives should have them. And we are
going to do what we can in the trade of
nuclear fuels and nuclear powerplants to
reduce that number of nations who have
the ability to build nuclear explosives.
And the process has to start somewhere,
and in our own Nation's history, it hap-
pened to have started with me. It was a
campaign commitment of mine, shared,
by the way, with my opponent, President
Ford, and I have no reticence about im-
posing it.
This is a matter of contention. We
would prefer that reprocessing plants not
be sold to other nations of the world, par-
ticularly those who have not signed the
Non-Proliferation Treaty. But some of
the trades or contracts had already been
initiated or consummated.
We have let our views be known, but
we recognize the autonomy of nations to
deal as they see fit.
So, I think that the present competi-
tion and some degree of disharmony
among nations on energy might very well
be exacerbated badly unless we all try to
conserve energy as much as possible.
And I am not criticizing other nations
when I say that I am very glad that we
have finally moved, after being wasteful
to the extreme degree for so long, toward
a new policy that will be built around
conservation of all kinds of energy sup-
plies. And I would guess that our own
action, as a very powerful, influential na-
tion, might induce other countries to join
with us in a mutual commitment to both
inventory energy supplies, assure a more
fair distribution in the future, and reduce
the waste of them.
FOREIGN TRADE
MR. SIEBERT. Mr. President, you spoke
already about foreign trade, about the
protectionist pressure in the United States
growing. Do you think you can resist the
demands of the unions and some indus-
tries? What is your philosophy on inter-
national trade and what are your
objectives?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I can't guarantee
it, but I believe and I hope that I can
resist pressures of this kind. Among all the
nations who will be participating in the
economic summit, I would guess that our
unemployment rate is the highest. It is
running in excess of 7 percent. And with
the high unemployment rate comes ex-
traordinary pressure to get ones
workers reemployed.
My position on trade restraints was
spelled out very clearly during the long
campaign that I conducted. And it is
based around the hope that whenever
American jobs are excessively in danger,
that we can best resolve this question by
bilateral and voluntary agreements on the
importation of overly competitive goods.
I think this is the case in shoes from
Taiwan and South Korea. I think it will
be the case with color television sets from
Japan. And I would hope that this would
be an adequate pattern.
The Congress of the United States has
the authority under the law to override
my decisions if they are not considered to
be adequate. But I believe that I can
prevail.
MR. SIEBERT. The industrialized world
must find answers to the demands of the
developing nations or the North-South
conflict will become more serious. What is
your position on commodity arrange-
ments, common funds, and the debt situ-
ation? Let's put it this way: What can we
offer them?
THE PRESIDENT. Again, I think that
specific question can best be answered at
a later time. I have my own ideas about
it, but they will be much more firmly
developed when I get to the London
conference.
And as we approach the CIEC [Con-
ference on International Economic Co-
780
