Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 26
Bergland, by my own Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers, and by the economists in
the Department of Agriculture, working
with agricultural economists in many of
the universities around the country, the
land grant colleges.
We believe that we have recommended
to the Congress an income support level—
which is different from price supports,
now-that will meet production costs. We
can't guarantee that the very inefficient
farmer can produce a bushel of wheat as
efficiently as one that has extremely rich
land and unlimited supplies of water, and
so forth. But on an average-and we've
done it fairly conservatively, I think—
we've come up with the accurate cost.
I'll just give you one example, in order
to save time. Wheat: The economists
have computed that the actual out-of-
pocket costs for the production of a bushel
of wheat is $2.20. We added on 17 cents a
bushel for a management fee. That would
include gasoline for pickup trucks, and so
forth-17 cents a bushel.
We also took the value of land as best
we could determine it on a nationwide
basis and figured that 12 percent of the
value of land would legitimately be in-
cluded in the price of the cost of produc-
tion of a bushel of wheat. And we came
up with a total of $2.60.
I think that's adequate, that the higher
level of price supports that have been
advocated by some farm
by some farm groups and
some Members of Congress would be ex-
tremely expensive. We're talking about
an annual cost, with the proposal that we
put forth, of about-I can't remember
the exact figures, about $1.1 billion. The
more liberal allotment of farm price in-
come supports would be like $32 billion
to $4 billion a year in costs to the tax-
payers of this country.
I have always said, in all my presenta-
tions to farm groups around the country,
that I would never recommend, as Presi-
dent, a profit for farmers to be supported
by the taxpayers and consumers of this
country. I would advocate a program that
would meet production costs only.
Now, I believe that we've got the accu-
rate production costs. Bob Bergland can
give you a more detail analysis, if you
wish it—and you can write him and he'll
give it to you-about how we got the
$2.20 of actual out-of-pocket costs, the
17-cents-a-bushel management fee, and
the 12 percent return on investment in
land is really an arbitrary decision that
we made.
I might say one other thing. I'm a farm-
er myself. I've lived with production costs,
and I've lived with price supports all my
life. When land values go up, there is a
real doubt about whether those land value
increases should be considered a cost to
the farmer or an income to the farmer.
And I think we were quite liberal in say-
ing that the 12 percent of the land value
as a cost to the farmer should be included
in the formula.
I know that one of the things that have
kept me going, and a lot of other farmers
in tough times, has been the increase in
the value of my land. If land values were
going down, it would be very difficult for
a person that had bought the land on
credit or had owned it as an inheritance.
But with land values going up, that's really
kind of a help to the farmer and not a cost
to the farmer.
going down, it would be
But those are the factors that we used,
and I think it's a fairly substantial pro-
gram, and I think it's adequate, although
it does not suit many of the farm leaders.
I realize that.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
Q. Mr. President, in regards to your
drive on the waste of paper in the Govern-
ment, all the forms that have to be filled
out, we're also reaching the time of the
515
