June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
though the consequence that's highly pub-
licized is always the disharmony and the
most abrasive debates and the most con-
troversial amendments that are proposed
and the subcommittee action, if it's
adverse.
When I met at Blair House with all of
the Members of Congress in small groups
to lay out my immediate objectives, I had
five. One was the adoption by the Con-
gress of strong ethics legislation. I think
they've done very well in this.
Second was an adequate economic
stimulation package. And I think they've
done very well in this. I've been pleased
with it. They've done almost to the letter
what I have asked them to do.
Another one was a creation, in an ex-
peditious way, of a Department of Energy.
It took 2 solid years of hard debate and
in-fighting and a great deal of watering
down before Johnson was able to estab-
lish a Department of Transportation
many years ago. We have almost accom-
plished this 3 months after the legislation
was initiated, and it cuts across depart-
mental lines perhaps even more severely
than a Department of Transportation.
The other one is to give me authority
to reorganize the executive branch of gov-
ernment. And the Congress acted on that
very quickly and completely compatibly
with what I had advocated.
And the other major item that I de-
scribed to them was the energy plan itself,
and the Congress is just beginning to act
on it.
Now, as far as balancing the budget is
concerned, if we can maintain a strong
economy and meet the goals that Charlie
Schultze described to you, I think we can
balance the budget. It's going to be an
almost unprecedented thing. No Presi-
dent in history, so far as anyone remem-
bers, has ever met with the departments
during a spring budget review. Many
Presidents have never met with the de-
partments even in the final budget review.
Well, we're now setting down for them
very tight, very strict guidelines that they
can be permitted to propose to me on
spending within their own departments.
We are not just working on the 1979
budget. We are working on the 1981
budget. Every slide projection that's been
shown to me in hours and hours of discus-
sion-and we've now been through about
70 percent of the budget—has shown all
the way out through 1981 or 1982.
This, combined with a zero-base
budgeting technique, which is a manda-
tory constraint for them to determine how
much money they will have as outlined by
me-the relative priority of the different
programs, putting old programs on ex-
actly the same priority level as ones that
have been there 15 years or 20 years-I
think is a very good disciplinary action
for them to take.
I think in the reorganization process
we'll save a good bit of money. I would
guess that by September of 1978 that our
total employment in the Federal Govern-
ment would not be in excess of what it
was the day I took office. And I hope and
I expect that the degree of delivery of
services will be greatly improved.
business management principles into ef-
We are setting specific goals and hard
fect that have been absent for a long time
in the past. We've got some serious threats
to our economy in the future that I
haven't mentioned yet. One of them is
retirement.
that
We've got the most horrible conglo-
meration of retirement
programs
overlap and are wasteful and are some-
times unfair to deserving employees that
you've ever imagined. It's shocking when
you go into it. And I don't know any way
to address this terrible complexity with-
out appointing a special blue-ribbon
commission to look into it.
1094
