Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE ENERGY PROBLEM
Address to the Nation. April 18, 1977
Good evening.
Tonight I want to have an unpleasant talk with you about a problem
that is unprecedented in our history. With the exception of preventing
war, this is the greatest challenge that our country will face during our
lifetime.
The energy crisis has not yet overwhelmed us, but it will if we do not
act quickly. It's a problem that we will not be able to solve in the next few
years, and it's likely to get progressively worse through the rest of this
century.
We must not be selfish or timid if we hope to have a decent world
for our children and our grandchildren. We simply must balance our
demand for energy with our rapidly shrinking resources. By acting now
we can control our future instead of letting the future control us.
Two days from now, I will present to the Congress my energy pro-
posals. Its Members will be my partners, and they have already given me
a great deal of valuable advice.
Many of these proposals will be unpopular. Some will cause you to
put up with inconveniences and to make sacrifices. The most important
thing about these proposals is that the alternative may be a national
catastrophe. Further delay can affect our strength and our power as a
nation.
Our decision about energy will test the character of the American
people and the ability of the President and the Congress to govern this
Nation. This difficult effort will be the "moral equivalent of war," except
that we will be uniting our efforts to build and not to destroy.
Now, I know that some of you may doubt that we face real energy
shortages. The 1973 gas lines are gone, and with this springtime weather,
our homes are warm again. But our energy problem is worse tonight than
it was in 1973 or a few weeks ago in the dead of winter. It's worse because
more waste has occurred and more time has passed by without our plan-
ning for the future. And it will get worse every day until we act.
The oil and natural gas that we rely on for 75 percent of our energy
are simply running out. In spite of increased effort, domestic production
has been dropping steadily at about 6 percent a year. Imports have
doubled in the last 5 years. Our Nation's economic and political independ-
656
