Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
ute that protects service station dealers
from arbitrary cancellation of their leases
by major oil suppliers.
In addition, the administration cur-
rently hopes to eliminate gasoline price
controls and allocation regulations at the
end of the peak driving season this coming
fall. Gasoline prices and market competi-
tion will be closely monitored and controls
will be reimposed if prices rise above a
predetermined trigger level. If this action
is taken, it would permit the elimination
of controls while protecting consumers.
j. Tax change (legislative): A competi-
tive problem has resulted from an effect
of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, which
changed the tax treatment of intangible
drilling costs. Some independent oil and
gas producers have been deprived of a por-
tion of the tax reduction for such expenses,
while the major corporate producers con-
tinue to enjoy the full deduction. This
anomaly should be removed. As part of
the President's program for extending oil
and gas price controls, the administration
would urge that independent oil and gas
producers receive the same tax treatment
of intangible drilling costs as their corpo-
rate competitors, the major oil companies.
Investors who finance oil and exploration
in order to obtain a tax shelter for income
earned in other occupations should not,
however, receive such a benefit.
G. COAL, NUCLEAR, AND HYDROELECTRIC
POWER
Even with vigorous conservation, Amer-
ica's demand for energy will continue to
grow for the next decade. Although the
United States will eventually make exten-
sive use of solar and other nonconven-
tional energy sources, it will have to rely,
for at least the next two decades, on the
conventional sources now at hand: oil,
natural gas, coal, nuclear power, and hy-
droelectric power.
1. Oil and natural gas users tax (legisla-
lative) In order to stimulate the shift
away from oil and gas toward coal and the
conservation of oil and gas used by utili-
ties and industry, legislation will be sub-
mitted which would do the following:
-Beginning in 1979, each industrial
user of natural gas (except fertilizer man-
ufacturers and certain agriculture users)
would be taxed an amount equal to the
difference between his average cost of
natural gas and a price target keyed to
current price of distillate oil. The target
level for the first year's tax in 1979 would
be $1.05 below the BTU equivalent price
of distillate. The target price would rise
to equal the distillate price in 1985 and
beyond. Thus, in 1979, an industrial user
who paid $1.65 per Mcf would pay a tax
of $.30 per Mcf to bring the total cost of
gas up to the target level of $1.95 per
Mcf,, assuming the BTU equivalent of
distillate is $3.00. By 1985, the target level
would rise to approximately $3.30 per
Mcf, resulting in an average tax of $1.10
per Mcf based on a projected actual gas
cost of $2.20 per Mcf.
-Utility users of natural gas would be
similarly taxed, starting in 1983 at an
amount that would bring the cost of gas
to them to a level of $.50 per Mcf below
the BTU equivalent price of distillate.
The tax would rise so that by 1988 the
cost of gas to them would equal the cost
of an equivalent amount of distillate. The
later starting date for the tax on utility use
of natural gas reflects the longer lead time
required by utilities to convert to coal.
-Industrial and utility users of petro-
leum would be taxed at a flat rate since,
unlike natural gas prices, petroleum prices
are relatively uniform nationwide. Begin-
ning in 1979, industrial use would be
taxed $.90 per barrel; the tax would rise
to $3.00 per barrel by 1985. A tax on util-
ity use of petroleum would begin in 1983
683
