Apr. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
overlook the opportunity to make the
President work long hours. [Laughter]
So, we are all in it together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
we can together solve the energy problems
facing our country.
Sincerely,
NOTE:
JIMMY CARTER
This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
National Energy Legislation
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. April 29, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
On April 18, 1977, I addressed the
American people to impress upon them
the gravity of our national energy situa-
tion. On April 20, 1977, before a Joint
Session of the Congress, I outlined a series
of recommendations for dealing with our
energy problem.
Today, I am transmitting to the Con-
gress the proposed National Energy Act,
which includes the legislative measures
needed to implement the National Energy
Plan. I am also releasing a comprehensive
National Energy Plan which describes in
detail the nature of our current and fu-
ture energy problems, the hard facts which
our national energy policy must address,
and my proposals for dealing with these
realities.
I recognize that the measures proposed
will impose burdens on all Americans, and
that many of these measures will be highly
controversial. There is no doubt in my
mind that during the next several months
these proposals will receive intense scru-
tiny and attention from the Congress. I
want to assure you that I and members of
my Administration will work closely with
the Congress toward the prompt enact-
ment of the National Energy Act so that
National Energy Plan
Message of the President. April 29, 1977
In each period of our history, the nation
has responded to challenges which have
demanded the best in all of us.
This is one of those times.
Our energy crisis is an invisible crisis,
which grows steadily worse-even when
it is not in the news. It has taken decades
to develop, as our demand for energy has
grown much faster than our supply. It will
take decades to solve. But we still have
time to find answers in a planned, orderly
way-if we define the changes we must
make and if we begin now.
This report explains why we have to
act, and gives you the details of our Plan.
The Plan is complicated. I am sure that
many people will find some feature of it
they will dislike along with features they
can support. But it is a carefully balanced
Plan, which depends for its effectiveness
on all of its major parts.
Above all it is fair. Our guiding prin-
ciple, as we develop the Plan, was that
none of our people should be asked to
bear an unfair burden, and none should
reap an unfair advantage. There will be
sacrifices, but they will be gradual, reason-
able and fair.
The changes the Plan recommends will
mean a new direction in American life.
742
