Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
So, I think this is a good approach. But
I want you and the American people to
know that we are not mooching off the
American taxpayers. All of our family's
expenses are paid for out of my own
pocket.
up.
MR. KNISKA. Okay, and a quick follow-
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
MR. KNISKA. Last week or so you had
your grandson born in the Naval hospital.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. KNISKA. Is he entitled to special
military benefits or government benefits
also?
THE PRESIDENT. No, sir.
MR. KNISKA. Okay, then why were they
using a military hospital?
THE PRESIDENT. The Bethesda Hospital
is available for all top officials and their
families.
MR. KNISKA. Yes, because we're a mili-
tary family, too.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. And I was
an old military man myself. But we have
health insurance and we pay the routine
charges for the hospital expenses.
I might say, though, that in complete
honesty with you that there is a physician
who is attached to the White House and
who always has been. He follows me when
I go somewhere in case I get hurt or have
a heart attack or something. And his serv-
ices are available to the members of my
family as well.
MR. KNISKA. Okay. So, in other words,
that's where he sent them.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. He's
not an obstetrician, but he is available in
case I or any of my family members, or
even guests in the White House who get
ill during the night-he's available to take
care of them. That's done at public ex-
pense.
MR. KNISKA. Okay. Thank you very
much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Goodby, Nick.
MR. CRONKITE. Mrs. Esther Thomas
of Villanova, Pennsylvania, Mr. President,
is on the phone. Go ahead, Mrs. Thomas.
MRS. THOMAS. Thank you.
INCOME TAX REFORM
Good afternoon, Mr. President. First,
I'd like to say as a mother of an American
officer in the United States Army, a career
officer, I hope you go into history books as
the first Democratic President that did not
solve our Nation's financial and unem-
ployment problems by going to war.
ployment problems by going to war.
Now for my question. How can we, as
middle-class earners, expect legislation or
reforms that would remove tax loopholes
the rich or affluent use as deductions, when
rich? There are no poor people, no poor
all laws and legislation are made by the
or no lower-class wage earners in either
the House or the Senate.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mrs. Thomas, I
think, you may have noticed during the
campaign that I made an issue of this al-
most constantly, and in my acceptance
speech, at the Democratic Convention,
said that I thought the income tax system
of this country was a disgrace.
MRS. THOMAS. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't changed my
opinion about that, and I have initiated a
comprehensive analysis of the income tax
structure. And before the end of Septem-
ber we will propose to the American peo-
ple and the Congress, in a highly publi-
cized way, basic reforms in income tax
structure. In the stimulation package that
I mentioned earlier this afternoon, we
have one provision in there that helps
people like yourselves. It increases the per-
sonal exemption for a family up to
$3,000, and this is a permanent change
and also greatly simplifies the income tax
forms which, as you noticed for 1976 cal-
endar year that you are filling out now,
are very complicated.
296
