Apr. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cerned to ensure the adequacy of his agen-
cy's dam safety program.
I. Agency Dam Safety Reviews
The head of each Federal agency re-
sponsible for, or involved with site selec-
tion, design, construction, certification or
regulation, inspection, maintenance and
operation, repair and ultimate disposition
of dams shall immediately undertake a
thorough review of practices which could
affect the safety and integrity of these
structures. This review will encompass all
activities which can be controlled or regu-
lated by the agency.
Several aspects of the problem require
special attention. In particular, the fol-
lowing items should be investigated: the
means of inclusion of new technological
methods into existing structures and pro-
cedures; the degree to which probabilistic
or risk-based analysis is incorporated into
the process of site selection, design, con-
struction, and operation; the degree of
reliance on in-house, interagency, and out-
side expert interpretation of geologic data
in site selection and design development;
the effect on dam safety of earthquake or
other earth movement hazards; the effects
of cost-saving incentives on decisions both
prior to and during construction; the pro-
cedures by which dam safety problems are
identified, analyzed and solved; the in-
volvement of local communities in iden-
tifying, analyzing and solving dam safety
questions; and the major outstanding dam
safety problems of the agency.
II. Interagency Report and Proposed
Guidelines
The Chairman of the Federal Coordi-
nating Council for Science, Engineering
and Technology (FCCSET) shall con-
vene an ad hoc interagency committee to
coordinate dam safety programs, seeking
consistency and commonality as appro-
priate, and providing recommendations
as to the means of improving the effec-
tiveness of the Government-wide dam
safety effort. The agency reviews de-
scribed above should be provided to the
FCCSET as a basis for the interagency
analysis on a timetable established by the
FCCSET group as reasonable and con-
sistent with the October 1, 1977 deadline
for a final report. Representation on the
FCCSET for this activity should be ex-
panded to include other appropriate Fed-
eral agencies or departments including,
but not limited to, the Tennessee Valley
Authority, the United States Section-In-
ternational Boundary and Water Com-
mission and the Federal Power Commis-
sion. The FCCSET effort will include
preparation of proposed Federal dam
safety guidelines for management proce-
dures to ensure dam safety. FCCSET
should report on all these items.
III. Independent Review Panel
In addition, the Director of the Office
of Science and Technology Policy will
arrange for review of agency regulations,
procedures and practices, and of the pro-
posed federal dam safety guidelines, by
a panel of recognized experts to be estab-
lished immediately. The panel will obtain
the views and advice of established orga-
nizations, professional societies, and
others concerned with the safety of dams.
The purpose of this review is to advise
the President as to the adequacy of pro-
cedures and regulations throughout the
Federal Government to ensure the safety
of dams which are in any way affected by
a Federal role.
The review and a report thereon should
be completed no later than October 1,
1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was
released on April 26.
724
