Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
It's $5 billion. It continues about $12
billion in the earned-income tax credits.
So, it's a tremendous boost to the people
who need it most, and it's with great
pleasure that I sign this legislation into
law.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 3477
into law.]
I'd like to congratulate again the two
chairmen. You've done a good job. Thank
you very much.
One of the most pleasant things for a
Member of Congress or a President is to
be able to reduce taxes and, at the same
time, to get our economy moving again
and, also, to simplify the complicated tax
codes. And to have this done all in the
same bill is a notable achievement. And
I'm very deeply grateful to all of you for
having helped in this respect.
Last week, I visited California and was
able to go on one of the farms there to
witness at firsthand the adverse conse-
quences of the continuing drought. We
have experienced in the last number of
months, the worst drought in more than
40 years. The prospects for a continua-
tion of this problem are very real. Water
levels are dropping in many areas of the
country. Streams are drying up. Reser-
voirs which I examined, which ordinarily
would be full and overflowing, are down
to a 25-percent level. The mountaintops
in many regions of our country, which or-
dinarily are covered with 4 or 5 feet of
packed snow, are bare of any snow. And
we feel that in the months ahead the
drought conditions are going to get much
worse.
Through the leadership of Senator
Quentin Burdick in the Senate, who's the
author of this bill, and Bizz Johnson in
the House, we've been successful in hav-
ing the Congress consider favorably Sen-
ate bill 1279 which provides drought
relief. This is a bill that provides immedi-
ate relief. All the projects to be financed
by direct grants or loans under this leg-
islation must be completed by April 1978.
This will help the small communities in
drilling new wells and providing viaducts
for the transportation of water, for con-
servation measures, and for other proj-
ects to overcome the consequences of the
continuing drought.
I'm very proud that this has been
passed so expeditiously. The money to fi-
nance this program was included in the
appropriation bill that I signed last week.
And I think these Congressmen are to
be congratulated on pursuing this effort
so rapidly and in focusing in a very nar-
row way, but an accurate way, the direct
help that is needed at this time. So, con-
gratulations to Senator Quentin Burdick,
to Bizz Johnson, and all those on my right
who were instrumental in passing this
drought relief measure.
Our hope is that with rains this year
and with heavier snowfall in the next win-
ter, that 1978 might be better. But at the
present time, in many parts of our country
the effects of the drought are just now
beginning to be experienced. They're go-
ing to get much worse in the future, and
this is a good step forward to prevent the
adverse consequences of the drought con-
ditions that can affect very quickly our
whole country.
[At this point, the President signed S. 1279
into law.]
Quentin, would you like to say a word
about your legislation? Please do. Why
don't you have a seat?
SENATOR BURDICK. I'd like to thank the
President for signing this much needed
legislation. As the President said, with the
assistance of the House and the Senate,
we acted quite expeditiously on this
matter.
The drought in the West is serious, and
this is going to be a very valuable tool
963
