June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
stands me in good stead. Just getting my
family back together in what you might
call a collegial atmosphere has been very
beneficial to me.
So, that's a dramatic change from the
campaign period, but it's very similar to
what we experienced when we first moved
into the Governor's Mansion.
Maybe one more question and then I'll
let you go.
AMY CARTER
Q. How does Amy feel about you being
President and living in the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. The question was,
how does Amy feel about my being Presi-
dent and living in the White House?
Amy would rather live in Plains. [Laugh-
ter] If Amy has the option of going to the
beach, going to the circus, going to the
fair, going on a vacation, going to a movie,
or going to Plains, she'd rather go to
Plains. She really feels strongly about this.
But she's a well-adjusted child. Amy
was only 2 years old when I ran for Gov-
ernor and she was only 3 years old when
we moved into the Governor's mansion. So
she's resilient, she's strong-willed, but a
very well-behaved child. She's not spoiled.
She studies all the time. She reads con-
stantly, as you may have read in the news-
paper, and I never have discouraged
that.
When Amy and I are alone together,
which we have been this past week with
my wife gone, we have a very entertain-
ing, almost adult-level conversation at the
supper table. But when other members
are there to substitute for Amy, she reads
while we eat.
But I have to admit that when I grew
up, as a child, when I was Amy's age, I
did the same thing. My mother always
read at the meal table, so did I, and so
did my sisters, so did my brother, Billy.
So does my daughter, Amy. And we don't
consider it to be rude, but we have plenty
of time left over for conversation.
But Amy, I think, likes the life here in
the White House, although she misses her
own relatives, particularly, and friends.
And when Amy was questioned about
whether she wanted me to be elected or
to lose last year, she said she'd rather that
I lose [laughter]-so that I would move
back to Plains. But I think her concern
about moving to a strange city, Washing-
ton, D.C.-those concerns have not ma-
terialized, and she likes Washington very
much.
As you know, she goes to one of the
public schools nearby, the Stevens School.
All of her classmates have been out here
to the mansion to play with Amy's dog,
Grits, who's now in obedience school-
[laughter]—and to climb up in the tree-
house and to meet Misty, her cat, and
they go to movies and things together.
She saw "Star Wars" last night without
me, and I was really aggravated with her
because she didn't take me to the movie.
But she's had a chance to visit a lot of
places around Washington, and I think
in balance now she likes it here very
much. The only thing, as I say for the
third time, that she would rather be doing
than have me be President, living in the
White House, is to have me be a farmer
and living in Plains.
Thank you. I'm glad to be with you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:55 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Agency for International
Development
Nomination of Joseph C. Wheeler To Be an
Assistant Administrator. June 6, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Joseph C. Wheeler, of
McLean, Va., to be Assistant Adminis-
trator of the Agency for International
Development (Near East). Wheeler is
1064
