May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
our government and the private sector
can better cooperate with other nations
on health, population and nutritional
and nutritional
needs.
The United States supports the World
Health Organization's expanded immu-
nization program. My country has pio-
neered in the development of polio and
measles vaccine, and will continue to sup-
port vaccine research.
My country also supports the bold and
innovative new program of research in
tropical diseases being developed in co-
operation with the World Health Organi-
zation. These efforts will bring us closer
to our goal: a world in which all people
can live free from fear of crippling and
debilitating diseases.
The preamble of the World Health Or-
ganization's constitution says, "The en-
joyment of the highest attainable stand-
ard of health is one of the fundamental
rights of every human being."
The United States will do its best to
bring that right within the reach of all.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was released on
May 9.
Dr. Peter G. Bourne, Special Assistant to the
President for Health Issues, delivered the
message to Dr. Sione Tapa, President of the
World Health Assembly, in Geneva, Switzer-
land, on May 9, and Dr. Tapa presented the
message to the Assembly on the same day.
Four Power Summit Meeting
Joint Declaration on Berlin. May 9, 1977
The four heads of state and of govern-
ment of France, the United States, the
United Kingdom and the FRG have re-
viewed questions relating to the situation
in Germany and particularly Berlin.
The four governments expressed their
satisfaction at the positive effect which
the Quadripartite Agreement of 3 Sep-
tember 1971 has had on the situation in
and around Berlin. They agreed that the
strict observance and full implementation
of the Agreement, which are indispensa-
ble to the continued improvement of the
situation, are essential to the strengthen-
ing of détente, the maintenance of secu-
rity and the development of cooperation
throughout Europe. The governments of
France, the United States and the United
Kingdom noted that détente would be se-
riously theatened if any one of the four
signatory powers to the Quadripartite
Agreement were not to respect fully the
undertakings confirmed by the signatory
powers in the Agreement and in the
Quadripartite Declaration of November
1972.
The three Powers recalled that the
Quadripartite Agreement was based ex-
plicitly on the fact that quadripartite
rights and responsibilities and the corre-
sponding wartime and post-war four
Power agreements and decisions were not
affected. They reaffirmed that this status
of the special area of Berlin could not be
modified unilaterally. The three Powers
will continue to reject all attempts to put
in question the rights and responsibilities
which France, the United States, the
United Kingdom and the Soviet Union
retain relating to Germany as a whole and
to all four sectors of Berlin.
The four governments recalled that one
of the essential elements in the Quadri-
partite Agreement is the affirmation that
the ties between the Western Sectors of
Berlin and the FRG should be maintained
and developed in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Agreement.
This conforms with the interests and
wishes of the people directly concerned.
In this regard, the three Powers took spe-
cial note of efforts by the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany, taking into account the
provisions of the Quadripartite Agree-
840
