Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ing this matter with the representatives
from the Arab countries when they come.
BOILER FUELS
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Schlesinger re-
cently told the Senate committee that
your April 20th energy policy recommen-
dations will emphasize a switch from oil
and gas to coal, but he stopped short of
saying that you will support mandatory
exclusion of oil and gas as boiler fuel.
What is your position on that?
THE PRESIDENT. We've not addressed
that question yet. How to encourage, or
perhaps even to force the end of wasting
natural gas just for the generation of heat
at central powerplant stations is some-
thing that we'll have to address. It may
be done by legislation; it may be done by
economic penalties; it may be done by
an appeal to the stationary heat producers
to shift on a patriotic basis. I can't yet say
which of the proposals will be mandatory
and which will be voluntary.
SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. On several occasions, Mr. President,
you have spoken in terms of the U.S. be-
ing ready to move to a quick SALT agree-
ment, omitting cruise missiles, Backfire
bombers, if necessary. I'm wondering, sir,
have had any indication yet of Rus-
sian intentions on this subject?
you
THE PRESIDENT. The Soviet Union, so
far as I know, still would like to include
the cruise missile question in the present
negotiations. They don't want to discuss
Backfire bomber at all. And my hope has
been and is that by the exclusion of both
those controversial items, which will re-
quire long and tedious negotiations, that
we might move to a rapid agreement at
SALT II and immediately begin to dis-
cuss, for instance, the Backfire bombers,
the cruise missiles in subsequent negotia-
tions. But I do not have any indication
yet that the Soviets have changed their
position on that issue.
Q. Mr. President, what about nuclear
reductions?
THE PRESIDENT. Again, I think you
have two approaches to the question.
I have proposed both directly and in-
directly to the Soviet Union, publicly and
privately, that we try to identify those
items on which there is relatively close
agreement-not completely yet, because
details are very difficult on occasion. But
I have, for instance, suggested that we for-
go the opportunity to arm satellite bodies
and also to forgo the opportunity to de-
stroy observation satellites.
We've also proposed that the Indian
Ocean be completely demilitarized, that
a comprehensive test ban be put into ef-
fect, that prior notification of test missile
launchings be exchanged. And I would
like to see any of these items on which the
Soviets will agree quickly, be concluded,
and then get down to the much more
difficult negotiations on much more dras-
tic, overall commitments to atomic weap-
ons, leading ultimately to the complete
elimination of atomic weapons from the
face of the Earth.
This is going to be a long, slow, tedious
process. But I think if we and the Soviets
could agree on the easier items—and none
of them are very easy-quickly, it would
show good faith. I think it would let the
world know that we are serious in stop-
ping once and for all what has been a
continuous and rapid escalation in atomic
weapon capabilities since they were first
evolved.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's third news confer-
ence began at 10 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building. It was broadcast
live on radio and television.
348
