Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
We have created some public service
jobs. These in many instances are tempo-
rary, sometimes they are permanent. They
will be taking place among young people,
for instance, in our National Park system,
where we have a real need for additional
employment. I hope that these will lead
to permanent employment in areas where
your employees are needed after a train-
ing program.
But I saw from my own very early life,
I was not old enough to participate, that
the CCC program did permit young peo-
ple to have a job experience. It removed
the necessity for them to be permanently
dependent on the Government for welfare
payments at that time there was no un-
employment compensation payments.
And I believe this is a better alternative.
We are supporting these people anyhow,
young people, 20, 25 years old, who have
left their own home. They are eating; they
are sleeping; they are wearing clothes;
they are getting medical care. That help is
coming to them in many instances through
Government handouts.
And my own approach to it is to spend
approximately the same amount of money
giving them a useful job, which will re-
store their own self-respect and hopefully
lead to permanent independence on the
part of that person.
I am determined to hold down the total
Government employment. On the first day
of January this year it was about 1,902,-
000 employees, full-time employees. It's
been growing very rapidly the last few
years. I can't
I can't say that there won't be any
more growth, but I've asked all the Cab-
inet members to hold down their inclina-
tion to increase employment in the Fed-
eral Government structure.
So, my own basic political philosophy
is toward the private sector. In some in-
stances, though you have to use Govern-
ment programs to instigate new growth in
the GNP.
As you know-to close this long an-
swer-I've set three or four goals for my
own administration. I am working toward
them very hard. One is to have a balanced
budget by fiscal year 1981; secondly, to
cut down the unemployment rate to 4.5
percent over the 4-year period. This is
predicated on the hope that our GNP
might increase about 6 percent a year and
that business confidence might be restored
so they will invest in new factories, in new
plants, in new job opportunities. And of
course it also is based on the fact that we
are going to have a very strong anti-infla-
tion effort. And very shortly, within the
next couple of weeks, we will publicize a
comprehensive list of things that do con-
tribute to inflation. Many of them are
hard to detect. I had never thought about
a lot of them when I saw the first draft of
this proposal.
So, inflation, employment, balanced
budget, long-range projections of plans, a
more efficient use of our resources are all
parts of our program. So, I think that if
you study the proposal we made to the
Congress, it has a pretty good picture of
the answer to your question. It's a difficult
question to answer. And I can't say that
we will meet all our goals; I believe we
have a good chance to meet them all.
But I am determined to try.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Q. Mr. President, I am looking at your
statement saying something to the effect
of openness and frankness. And I know
that you have only been in office for a
short time, but the State Department—I
am with AID-has been committed for
several years to an affirmative action pro-
gram. I don't know about the State De-
partment, but it has been a dismal failure
in AID. And if I looked at the 35 people
across there, and I don't see a black face,
I don't think it's been very effective in the
State Department.
241
