May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
going to be; I don't claim to know all the
answers. So, I might ask you to help me
with the answers on occasion. But I'll try
to take one from the studio audience and
then alternate with the remote stations at
five locations in this area.
So, if somebody in the studio audience
has a question now, I guess I will-
QUESTIONS
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Larry
Roberts and I am the administrator of
the Southeast Comprehensive Health
Center which is located in south central
Los Angeles. And what I would like to
ask you, sir, is, what is your administra-
tion's policy with regard to national
health insurance?
THE PRESIDENT. I made a speech to the
United Automobile Workers, UAW, this
morning in Los Angeles. And I pointed
out that I would like to have established
a complete national health insurance pro-
gram before I go out of office. We will be
developing the comprehensive proposal,
the advisory committee will be meeting
for the first time this week, and I would
guess that I'll go to the Congress early in
1978 with the basic legislative proposal
developed by us.
In the meantime, though, we're trying
to do a lot of other things. We are trying
to have a prevention of disease among
young people, a better immunization pro-
gram, more physicians, aides, and regis-
tered nurses. We're also trying to control
hospital costs.
Take the hospitals-particularly among
people who don't have much money. Un-
der the recent circumstances we've had
a doubling in hospital costs every 5 years.
And this means that no matter what our
future hospital proposal might be, or com-
prehensive health proposal might be, or
national insurance program might be, if
the cost of medical care is doubling every
5
years, we can't afford it.
So, the first basic thrust this year is
for a series of proposals that will help us
get hold of what we have at this time.
Early next year we'll propose a com-
prehensive health program.
VIETNAM REFUGEES
Q. Sir, I'm from Vietnam and I'm
from Costa Mesa. I'm a housewife. I want
to ask the President and the people of
America to help my family from Vietnam
to reunite with us here.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
answer your question specifically, but if
you'd give your name to one of my aides,
who are in the back of the hall, we'll try
to investigate your particular problem and
see what we can do about it.
We are very proud, by the way, of the
fine citizens that people from Vietnam
have made in our own country—who are
our allies and friends. And I hope that
we can help to reunite you with your own
family.
Let me go now to the San Fernando
Valley and get a question.
FUEL-EFFICIENT AUTOMOBILES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Garrett.
I live in Sherman Oaks, California, and
I'm in the automobile leasing business.
Many clients that we have have been call-
ing us up lately. They have no idea as to
through, whether it pertains to new cars,
your new program that you want to put
old cars. People are asking me and think
it would cost as much as $2,500 taxes on
an old vehicle that they have that's a
large vehicle. This is car country. In Cali-
fornia, our gas mileage consumption is a
lot less on a vehicle because the vehicles
here have California smog pollution con-
trols on them, whereas in other States a
vehicle might get as much as 42 miles per
gallon. On a small car, as they advertise
896
