Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 18
This also permits the good civil serv-
ants, the professionals, for the first time
to have an integral role to play in the
evolution of next year's budget. It won't
be derived from the White House or from
the Cabinet secretaries' office or from the
Office of Management and Budget. The
budget proposal will be originated deep
within the departments, so that those who
have had pent-up hopes that they could
do a better job can have a chance to say
that.
I want to be sure also that I have the
opportunity, through making long-range
projections of ultimate costs, and also the
elimination of unnecessary expenditures,
even some that have been approved 15
or 20 years now, that I can meet my goal
of having a balanced budget by the end
of this 4-year administration.
Some of the things are going to hurt,
perhaps, some of you, and there might be
Government commitments that won't be
quite so attractive in the future. I am
determined to reduce the amount of reg-
ulation, not just that that interferes in
your administration but perhaps a regu-
lation that protects your business from
participating in a free and open and com-
petitive business world. I believe in strong
competition, and I am going to try to
pursue that.
And the last couple of things that I'd
like to mention are these: I am going to
be very careful about what I say, but I
believe it's better for the American people
to know as my decisions evolve on matters
that concern them domestically and in
foreign affairs.
I intend to have a press conference at
least twice a month, and I am trying to
probe now for better ways to let Ameri-
can people have direct access to me
through fireside chats, through call-in
radio programs, and so forth. And we
are trying to explore these different
mechanisms to see which ones are suc-
cessful and which ones are not.
But I want every person in this coun-
try who is interested to feel that they can
put a question to me, no matter how
embarrassing it might be or how difficult
to answer, and that I will try to get the
answer for them.
Now, I don't claim to know all the
answers, that's not the point. But I want
to be sure that there is an organic feeling
that there is a partnership between the
people and their government and not a
bridge that has to be crossed nor a wall
that has to be scaled.
And I am going to probably make
some mistakes, and we are probably going
to fumble on occasion, but I will try to
make the mistakes on the side of letting
the American people know what their
government, what your government, what
my government is doing. And I believe
it's good to discuss these things openly so
that when we do make a decision on
foreign affairs that might be very difficult
to put into effect, it's not just an isolated
Presidential voice that speaks, it's not just
an isolated Secretary of State's voice that
speaks, but it's a voice that speaks with
the full knowledge and, I hope, support
of the Congress and the American people.
I think it will strengthen us in inter-
national rounds if other nations know
that our whole country speaks and not
just the isolated leaders themselves.
I think we've had a bad time with these
salary increases. I think the salary in-
creases were warranted, but I think the
way it's been done perhaps has caused
some additional distrust. I had a meeting
yesterday morning with the Ways and
Means Committee,, and I suggested to
them that in the future we not ever let
any salary increases go into effect until
after the next general election. And I be-
lieve that one single change would let us
consider necessary increases in salary for
191
