Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
policy. Since energy is an essential com-
modity for all Americans, effective compe-
tition in the energy industries is a matter
of vital concern. The President's energy
plan calls for continuous vigilance to en-
sure that the structure, behavior, and per-
formance of the energy industries are
vigorously competitive.
-The Under Secretary for Policy and
Evaluation within the proposed depart-
ment of energy would have prime re-
sponsibility to ensure that all policies and
programs of the department promote
competition. The department of energy
would seek to preserve the competitive
viability of independents in all segments
of the energy industry.
-In recent years trends and practices
in the energy industries have created sub-
stantial public concern. Attention has
focused particularly on the oil and natural
gas industry, but also on situations in other
energy industries, such as coal and uran-
ium, joint ventures, and the international
activities of the major multinational firms.
-Horizontal diversification by oil and
gas producers, particularly into the coal
industry, has aroused fears that the major
firms will be able to restrict the develop-
ment of alternative fuel sources. The
existence of such power could be very
detrimental to the Nation as it increases
its reliance on coal, uranium, and renew-
able energy sources. The trend of oil and
gas company entry into coal mining merit
continuous close attention.
-From information available at the
present time, it does not appear that new
laws mandating either vertical or horizon-
tal divestiture are required in order to
promote or maintain competition in the
energy industries. That conclusion is sub-
ject to change. If it should appear that
there are anti-competitive problems in the
energy industries that cannot be reached
under current laws, new legislation would
be proposed.
D. STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
PARTICIPATION
-A National Energy Plan can be built
only on a foundation of partnership and
understanding among the Federal Gov-
ernment, the States, local governments,
and the Nation's Indian tribes, which own
a substantial part of the Nation's energy
resources.
-The President is committed to ensur-
ing that no State, local community, or
Indian tribe suffers as a result of energy
development. In order to assess the ade-
quacy of existing impact assistance pro-
grams and make certain that there are
no gaps, he has ordered that his assist-
ant for energy and the Director of OMB
undertake a careful review of such pro-
grams. If gaps are found to exist in cover-
age, legislation to remedy those problems
will be proposed.
E. ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-INCOME
PERSONS
Government at all levels has the re-
sponsibility for protecting low-income
citizens from the most severe effects of the
energy crisis. The plan contains several
programs to carry out the responsibility.
The weatherization program, by in-
sulating large numbers of low-income
homes, would protect low-income people
not only from the cold but also from rising
fuel bills. The rebate system for the well-
head tax on oil and the standby gasoline
tax would distribute funds to low-income
persons in a progressive manner. The
price controls on natural gas and the allo-
cation of high cost sources to industry will
protect low-income consumers whose
homes are heated with natural gas. The
price controls on oil and the rebate sys-
tem to exempt home heating oil from the
impact of taxes on oil will protect low-
income consumers whose homes are
heated with oil. For the longer run, pro-
679
