May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to review this countercyclical mechanism
to determine whether it should be made
permanent.
2. Remove the wage-base ceiling for
employers. Under present law employers
and employees pay a tax only on the first
$16,500 in wages. Under this proposal the
employer ceiling would be raised over a
three-year period, so that by 1981 the
ceiling would be removed. This action
will provide a significant source of reve-
nue without increasing long-term benefit
liabilities.
3. Increase the wage base subject to
the employee tax by $600 in 1979, 1981,
1983, and 1985, beyond the automatic
increases in current law. This will provide
a progressive source of financing.
4. Shift revenues from the Hospital In-
surance Trust Fund to the Old Age, Sur-
vivors, and Disability Trust Funds. In
part, this shift will be made possible be-
cause of substantial savings to the Medi-
care system from the hospital cost con-
tainment legislation that I have proposed.
5. Increase the tax rate on the self-
employed from 7 percent to 7.5 percent.
This will restore the historical relationship
between the OASI and the DI rates paid
by the self-employed to one and one-half
times that paid by employees.
6. Correct certain technical provisions
of the Social Security Act which differ-
entiate on the basis of sex. This will in-
clude a new eligibility test for dependent
benefits. Recent Supreme Court decisions
would result in unfinanced increases in
the cost of the system and some inequities
without this change.
These six steps, along with measures
already contained in existing law, will
eliminate the short-term financing prob-
lem and improve the overall equity of the
Social Security system.
In order to guarantee the financial in-
tegrity of the system into the next cen-
tury, two additional steps must be taken.
I will be asking the Congress to:
1. Modify the Social Security benefit
formula to eliminate the inflation over-
adjustment now in law. This modifica-
tion, known as "decoupling," should be
done in a way that maintains the current
ratio of retirement benefits to preretire-
ment wages.
2. Adjust the timing of a tax rate in-
crease already contained in current law.
The one percent tax rate increase pres-
ently scheduled for the year 2011 would
be moved forward so that .25 percent
would occur in 1985 and the remainder
in 1990.
Taken together, the actions I am rec-
ommending today will eliminate the
Social Security deficit for the remainder
of this century. They will reduce the esti-
mated 75-year deficit from the Trustee
Report forecast of 8.2 percent of payroll
to a manageable 1.9 percent.
Prompt enactment of the measure I
have recommended will provide the So-
cial Security system with financial stabil-
ity. This is an overriding immediate
objective.
In addition, I am instructing the Sec-
retary of Health, Education and Welfare
to appoint the independent Social Secu-
rity Advisory Council required by law to
meet each four years. I will ask the Coun-
cil to conduct a thorough reexamination
of the structure of the system, the ade-
quacy of its benefits, the effectiveness and
equity of disability definitions, and the
efficiency and responsiveness of its ad-
ministration. Their report, which will be
issued within the next two years, will pro-
vide the basis for further improvements.
I call upon the Congress to act favor-
ably on these major reform initiatives.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 9, 1977.
838
