Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 18
SENATOR BAYH. Mr. President, Mr. At-
torney General, my collegues:
I think this is one of the finest examples
of cooperation between the executive
branch and the legislative branch I've seen
since I've been in the Senate. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to say to you, sir, and to the
Attorney General and the Vice President,
in absentia because he's played an im-
portant role in this, too—and your respec-
tive staffs, how much those of us on the
Hill who have legislative responsibility ap-
preciate the give and take that has trans-
pired as this bill has been put together.
The Intelligence Committee was struc-
tured in response to some of the abuses
that were rather apparent. It benefits
none of us to relive those abuses, but
there are a lot of cynics out there wonder-
ing whether this committee is going to be
any more than just the paper Senate Res.
400. Last year, we started our responsibili-
ties in the legislative field by looking at
the wiretap bill. I think the hearings
brought out certain things that could im-
prove the bill and, indeed, Attorney Gen-
eral Levi was cooperative with us, and
I'm glad to say that this administration
in some areas has gone even farther than
we recommended last year.
There are still two or three areas that I
think are going to be the product of give
and take. But this, in my judgment, is a
launching pad, the first step toward bring-
ing our intelligence communities under
a rule of law and striking that delicate
balance between providing the security
necessary for our country and protecting
the rights of Americans.
Thank you,
Mr. President.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Senator,
I'm glad you mentioned the Vice Presi-
dent. He's out of the country, but I
wouldn't want the morning to pass with-
out saying that he worked a great deal on
this joint venture that we are presenting
this morning. He had a lot to do with the
legislation, with drafting it, with mediat-
ing between the various groups.
Senator Charles Mathias of Maryland
has worked very hard on this type of legis-
lation last year and the year before. He
honors us this morning with his presence.
I'd like to call on him.
SENATOR MATHIAS. Thank you, Mr.
Attorney General. It takes a lot more than
just rhetoric to run a great republic like
ours; it takes a lot of cooperation and
coordination and understanding. And
when Judge Bell was before the Senate
Judiciary Committee, he promised those
things. And I want to say that this bill is
a delivery on that promise. He has worked
very closely with our committee and with
individual Members of the Senate and
the House in developing this legislation.
When Senator Mansfield and I first
proposed the investigation of the intelli-
gence community back in 1974, we never
thought that the investigation was an end
in itself, but that it should produce re-
forms; it should produce remedies. And I
believe that this bill is one of the remedies
that we look for.
The founders of the Republic knew
that you had to restrain power with law,
and that's what we proposed to do in this
bill. As Thomas Jefferson, who built the
colonnades around us once said, “Put not
your faith in man, but bind him down
with the chains of the Constitution.” And
I believe this bill is one of the links in that
chain.
This legislation has been proposed and
is often discussed as primarily a defense
of citizen's rights. But I would suggest
that it is a shield for those dedicated men
and women who work in our intelligence
community and who for a long time have
lacked the support of defined statutory
guidelines. And this will give them that
kind of guideline and, I think, will be a
protection for them as well as for the
average American citizen.
925
