Mar. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Ms. Porter was Director of the Clear-
inghouse on Productivity and Organiza-
tional Effectiveness, U.S. Civil Service
Commission, from 1973 until 1976, when
she became Chief of the Analysis and
Development Division, Bureau of Person-
nel Management Evaluation, at the Civil
Service Commission.
She is a member of the American So-
ciety of Public Administration, the Inter-
national Personnel Management Associ-
ation, Women's Equity Action League,
and Common Cause. She has had several
articles published.
Ms. Porter is married. She and her hus-
band have six children and reside in
Alexandria, Va.
of the University of California at Santa
Barbara. He has been at the State Uni-
versity of New York since 1965, serving
as executive dean, vice chancellor of the
university, and since 1970, chancellor of
the university.
Boyer has served on the President's
Advisory Council on Women's Educa-
tional Programs, the Commission on
Critical Choices for Americans, the New
York Regional Panel of the President's
Commission on White House Fellowships,
and the National Commission on the Fi-
nancing of Postsecondary Education.
Boyer is married and has four children.
He resides in Albany, N.Y.
Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare
Nomination of Ernest L. Boyer To Be
Commissioner of Education. March 15, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Ernest L. Boyer to be
Commissioner of Education. Boyer is
presently chancellor of the State Univer-
sity of New York, in Albany, N.Y.
He was born in Dayton, Ohio, on Sep-
tember 13, 1928, and received an A.B. de-
gree in 1950 from Greenville College. He
received an M.A. in 1955 and a Ph. D. in
1959 from the University of Southern
California. Boyer pursued postdoctoral
studies in medical audiology at the Uni-
versity of Iowa Hospital.
Boyer was academic dean and a pro-
fessor of speech pathology and audiology
at Upland College from 1956 to 1960.
From 1960 to 1962, he served as director
of the Commission to Improve the Edu-
cation of Teachers for the Western Col-
lege Association.
From 1962 to 1965, Boyer was director
of the Center for Coordinated Education
Clinton, Massachusetts
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session at the Clinton Town
Meeting. March 16, 1977
ALAN JEWETT. Mr. President, members
of the clergy, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
On behalf of the board of selectmen
and all of the citizens of the town of
Clinton, I wish to extend a warm wel-
come to the President of the United
States, Jimmy Carter.
I believe I can speak for all Clin-
tonians, Mr. President, when I say your
visit to our beloved town has created a
spirit of civic pride equaled very few
times since the incorporation of this town
in the year 1850. We are proud to have
been chosen as the first town in the Na-
tion to participate in your meet-the-people
program. With the knowledge of Clinton's
proud heritage as evidenced by the many
sons and daughters who have served their
country and left their marks on the lives
of Americans, it is a warm tribute to be
number one.
382
