Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
MR. SCHLESINGER. Mr. President, the
comprehensive energy plan that you will
submit in April will require many changes
and many sacrifices. It will not be suc-
cessfully legislated or mandated from
Washington, D.C. It will require the sup-
port of the entire American people to see
to it that the details are, indeed, included
and supported throughout the land.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
I would like to close our meeting, I
think, on time, by saying that it's not just
a West Virginia problem, it's not just a
problem for the United States. I'm going
to leave here and fly up to New York to
make a speech to the United Nations to-
night at 7:30. And one of the items that
I'll talk about, briefly but very sincerely,
is that the energy problem is one of
worldwide importance and significance.
Our nations, 150 of us or more, are
now seeing an almost complete merging
of energy considerations with the eco-
nomic future of the world and also the
political future of the world. And I be-
lieve that if everyone of us individual
countries can take the proper analysis of
the future in energy and deal with it our-
selves, then accumulatively we can relieve
tensions around the world and give all
people a better chance for a good life.
I've noticed here a great concern about
environmental quality. And I hope that,
as Jennings Randolph reminded me when
I got off the plane by giving me this beau-
tiful West Virginia tie, that the phrase
"almost heaven" will always apply to
West Virginia.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. in
the State Conference Center.
UNITED NATIONS
Address Before the General Assembly. March 17, 1977
Thank you, Mr. Secretary General.
Last night I was in Clinton, Massachusetts, at a Town Hall meet-
ing where people of that small town decide their political and economic
future.
Tonight I speak to a similar meeting where people representing na-
tions all over the world come here to decide their political and economic
future.
I am proud to be with you tonight in this house where the shared
hopes of the world can find a voice. I have come here to express my own
support and the continuing support of my country for the ideals of the
United Nations.
We are proud that for the 32 years since its creation, the United
Nations has met on American soil. And we share with you the commit-
ments of freedom, self-government, human dignity, mutual toleration,
and the peaceful resolution of disputes—which the founding principles
444
