Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
and others in your administration who
have met with people from the coal in-
dustry, and are aware of the constraints
that are now involved in holding produc-
tion back in coal mines-I think we need
to take a very strong look at these con-
straints and see the ones that can be re-
lieved or reduced to the extent that we
can get some of these high-sulfur coal
mines back in production that were men-
tioned here earlier.
We've got one of the large companies
operating in West Virginia—has 6 million
tons of productive capacity-idle because
of EPA restrictions. I think that's bad. I
think it's bad for West Virginia. I think
it's one of the reasons that West Virginia
has dropped behind Kentucky.
Other reasons are differences in inter-
pretation of the Federal Coal Mine Health
and Safety Act, and another major dif-
ference is the difference between the West
Virginia and the Kentucky strip law.
But all these things have constrained to
reduce West Virginia's production and
also other mines in Appalachia.
And I am very happy to see that you
are concerned about production in Appa-
lachia, because this is the place we can
get the coal with the least amount of capi-
tal expenditure and disruption of our eco-
nomic systems in the country.
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to call on
Dr. Costle and then Arnold Miller.
MR. COSTLE. Mr. President, Mr. Jones,
I have a strong feeling that in a very few
years we will hear less and less debate
about high-sulfur versus low-sulfur coal.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me interrupt to
remind everybody that Doug Costle is the
new director of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. And in the future when I
recognize somebody, I'll try to remind the
audience who is speaking.
But, Doug?
MR. COSTLE. I've been quite impressed
in the last few years, with the progress
that is being made in scrubber technology,
for example. It is my understanding now
that there are over 100 units with scrub-
ber operations, either in operation or
under construction or planned.
There are very few powerplants at all
being planned in the West. In fact, I'm
not aware of a single power-coal-fired
plant in the West at the present time that
is now being planned without the scrub-
ber technology.
I think we are also going to see very
quickly an even more rapid evolution in
the nature of that technology, that will re-
duce even further the kinds of environ-
mental consequences of that technology
itself.
But interesting also are the economics.
The Senate now has under consideration
amendments to the Clean Air Act. One of
the key provisions of that act would re-
quire best available control technology to
be applied to all new powerplants. This
would have a tremendous effect of level-
ing the cost distribution in this country
and in terms of the cost of applying this
technology.
It would virtually eliminate any com-
petitive advantage that western coal has
over eastern coal. In fact, as best as I can
determine, West Virginia coal would
compete exceptionally favorably against
western coal once that kind of a require-
ment was put into effect around the
country.
So, I'm encouraged. And one of the
things that has struck me as we have
talked this afternoon, is that there seems
to be an implicit recognition that along
with going to coal, which we need to do,
is the absolute requirement that we pro-
tect public health in the process of doing
that. I am encouraged now that I think
we are finding ways that that can in fact
be done.
MR. KILPATRICK. I am sorry, Mr. Sec-
retary.
417
