Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I would like to know, can you-or what
will you do to get at least the Department
to show some semblance of sensitivity to-
ward this program?
THE PRESIDENT. I looked at them too
when I came in. There are not many
women behind me and there are not
are not
many minority groups. When I've gone
to other departments, there have been a
much greater percentage. We've tried
hard to do this, and I think we are
making some good progress. In the num-
ber of women, for instance, who occupy
the top five grade levels, the executive
levels of our Government, we will have,
I would say, four or five times as many
as any administration has in the past. In
the number of black citizens who serve in
those top positions, we will have four or
five times as many as we've had in the
past-three times as many; in Spanish-
speaking Americans, three or four times
as many. But that's a relatively small
total number, although the percentage is
great.
I think that the appointment of top-
level position employees who are in mi-
nority groups or who are women will help
in the long run to change that around.
In the Commerce Department, 50 per-
cent of the top-level positions are now
filled by women, for instance; several of
them black. I think Griffin Bell has done
a superb job in the Attorney General's
office by bringing in top-level minority
groups and women. It's a slow thing.
We now have a handicap in the lower
levels of employment over which we
presently have very little control as you
know, because we have such a confused
responsibility within the Federal Govern-
ment for guaranteeing equal employment
opportunities. I think we have seven dif-
ferent Federal agencies responsible for
equal employment. We have a backlog of
130,000 cases. The average time from the
initiation of a complaint to the resolution
of a case is about 3 years. And by that
time, obviously the aggrieved party and
the witnesses, and so forth, have moved
or have dropped the case or it's become
very expensive for them.
I hope to bring some order out of that
chaos. I am waiting until I get authority
from the Congress to reorganize to bring
that into being. But my own commit-
ment is totally to the resolution of this
problem.
And I think, to be perfectly frank, that
the State Department is probably the
Department that needs progress more
than any other. And I am determined
that this will be done. It has historically
been the case. And I think that Secre-
tary Vance has made a great deal of
progress already. But he and I will work
together to bring a better answer to your
question the next time I come over here
in the future.
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Q. I am concerned about the policy of
openness in regard to intelligence activi-
ties. And I was wondering if it doesn't
make it more difficult for our friends to
confide in us and for those who are not
our friends to take advantage of us?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't guess you had
time to watch the press conference yes-
terday, which was during the working
hours. I didn't get a chance to see it my-
self. I was shocked when I took office to
learn about the number of different
people who have access to highly secret,
sensitive information on which the secu-
rity of our Nation depends. There are
about 75 people on Capitol Hill who have
access to this very sensitive material.
There are too many in the executive
branch of Government. At the same time,
I know that there is a need for checks
and balances to be sure that we don't
repeat the illegalities and improprieties
that were revealed with the CIA and
242
