Mar. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
It is essential to involve the Congress in
developing a coherent water resource pol-
icy, which we have not had in the past.
Toward this end I will arrange a meeting
with Congressional leaders from all rele-
vant committees to meet personally with
me in order to establish a dialogue and
close cooperation on this issue. In the fu-
ture, when the time constraints are not as
severe as those I faced in preparing revi-
sions to the FY 1978 budget, any project
to be recommended for deletion will be
discussed with the members of Congress
in whose areas those projects are located.
Many of the country's water projects
were authorized quite some time ago,
when economic conditions and environ-
mental concerns were different. The fact
that many of these water resource proj-
ects present economic, environmental or
safety problems today is no reflection on
the Congress, the Corps of Engineers or
the Department of Interior, because dif-
ferent criteria were used at the time these
projects were initially authorized. Some
have asked me to accept, in full, judg-
ments made long ago on these projects
and not to re-evaluate them at all in light
of present, changed circumstances. But
enormous sums of money, as well as ma-
jor environmental and safety matters, are
involved. I cannot meet my commitment
to balance the budget unless the Congress
and I can cooperate in reducing unnec-
essary spending. Every ongoing program
in the government must be continually
examined in the light of the harsh realities
of a tight budget.
I approached my decision to delete
funding on certain water projects, to re-
view all current projects, and to develop
permanent, rational criteria for future
projects, out of a commitment to fiscal
responsibility, environmental quality and
human safety. You may be assured that
my decision was not arbitrary and that no
arbitrary decisions will be made in the fu-
ture. Projects will be assessed on an indi-
vidual basis, based upon criteria devel-
oped in close consultation with Congress.
The review process which we have be-
gun will be objective, complete and fair.
We will be holding hearings on projects
which pose severe economic, environmen-
tal or safety questions prior to the time.
that I make my final recommendations
to the Congress.
The criteria by which ongoing projects
will be judged cannot be as strict as the
criteria which will be applied to projects
which will be authorized in the future.
With ongoing projects we will consider
such factors as the degree of project com-
pletion, local investments, potential dislo-
cations and other factors.
Of the over 325 ongoing projects of the
Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of
Reclamation, our initial screening criteria
indicate that the vast majority of these
projects will be completed as planned.
Announcements of the results of this
initial screening will be made within the
next few days. Exaggerations of the num-
ber of projects to be deleted have been
caused by the circulation and misunder-
standing of various lists which I had
never seen and which had no official
sanction.
The 19 projects I deleted from the FY
1978 budget posed problems too severe to
ignore. Examples of some of these prob-
lems illustrate the concerns which lead to
my decision:
-One project would be built in an
earthquake zone, potentially jeopardizing
the lives of thousands of people.
-One project appeared to be in vio-
lation of an international treaty, and
Canada has repeatedly asked the United
States to suspend construction.
One project would have resulted in
a federal investment of $1.4 million for
each individual landowner benefitting
454
