Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of a series that I will submit pursuant to
Public Law 94-104. Through these re-
ports and continuing close consultations
with the Congress, I will keep the Ameri-
can people fully informed of develop-
ments in the negotiations.
Helping to promote an equitable and
lasting solution to the problems of Cyprus
is a high priority for my Administration.
The work has already begun. At my re-
quest, former Defense Secretary Clark M.
Clifford will leave on February 15 for a
special mission to Greece, Turkey and
Cyprus, as my personal emissary. Through
consultations in Greece and Turkey, he
will seek to improve our bilateral rela-
tions with these valued NATO allies.
With regard to Cyprus, I have asked for
his personal assessment of the situation
on the island, prospects for early move-
ment toward a negotiated settlement, and
how we might be of assistance in this
process. Mr. Clifford will consult with
the Congress before he departs and
again with other senior officials-after
his return, in an effort to produce policies
which are effective and which have the
broad support of the American people.
We intend to stay in close touch with
our other European friends. Vice Presi-
dent Mondale raised the subject during
his recent trip and received welcome
indications that member states of the
European Community continue to share
our interest in doing what is possible to
encourage a negotiated solution.
We will also continue to maintain close
contact with the United Nations in its
efforts to promote a peaceful solution.
Secretary General Waldheim has worked
tirelessly to this end since the summer of
1974. He will soon visit Nicosia for dis-
cussions with Cypriot leaders. We hope
that through his continued efforts the
talks between the two communities might
resume in the near future.
Recent positive developments offer
some prospect of further progress. One
such event was the meeting last month
between President Makarios and Turkish
Cypriot community leader Denktash, the
first meeting between the two in thirteen
years. I can assure the Congress that the
United States will do all it can to build
on these positive developments and ad-
vance the cause of a negotiated settlement
for Cyprus.
The White House,
February 11, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation
Executive Order 11971. February 11, 1977
ESTABLISHING THE COMMITTEE ON SE-
LECTION OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the provisions of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as
follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Com-
mittee. There is hereby established the
Committee on Selection of the Director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
hereinafter referred to as the Committee.
The Committee shall consist of a Chair-
man and eight other members to be
appointed by the President.
SEC. 2. Functions. The Committee shall
conduct inquiries to identify persons who
may be qualified to serve as the Director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
hereinafter referred to as the Director,
144
