Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Management by ob-
jective? It is hard for me to answer your
question well without knowing what
management by objective means. But I
will do my best. [Laughter]
We will initiate this year, in prepara-
tion of the 1979 fiscal year budget, a new
system called zero-based budgeting. This
is a very good management system with
which I am familiar. We had it for 4
years in Georgia. What it does, it strips
down your department's activities every
year to zero. You start from scratch. Just
because something has been there 20 or
30 years doesn't mean that it is sacred
and won't be reassessed. And you have
new programs each time, compared with
the old programs already in existence, ar-
ranged in an order of priority, so what
money is allotted to the Labor Depart-
ment would be spent for the most needed
programs for the coming year.
The second thing it does is it lets em-
ployees deep within the department have
an input into the budgetary system each
year. If you would analyze what you do,
or your supervisor will analyze what their
people do, quite deeply within the depart-
ment on a one-page form, and make
beneficial suggestions, and then that
comes on up step-by-step to the depart-
ment level, and then, ultimately, to me
and the Office of Management and
Budget.
What this does, in effect, is establishes
management by objective. You, your Sec-
retary and I decide jointly what we hope
the Labor Department will accomplish,
and that is our ultimate objective or goal.
Some of those things can be accom-
plished at the end of 1 year, some 5
years, some 10 years. And after those ob-
jectives are delineated and decided upon,
they are made public to the Nation, most-
ly through my statements or your Secre-
tary's statements-sometimes Congress-
and then we prepare the budget in order
to accomplish those goals.
So, management by objective as I have
just defined it will be part of the adminis-
tration that I will head.
LABOR DEPARTMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, do you have any spe-
cific plans for reorganizing the Labor De-
partment that you want to tell us about
today?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter] The
question was, do I have any specific plans
for reorganizing the Labor Department
that I want to tell you about today. And
the answer is no. We won't come up with
any comprehensive reorganization plan
for the Labor Department without you
process.
being intimately involved in the
We are not going to try to get off in a
corner somewhere and devise something
and spring it on you.
LABOR UNIONS
Q. Mr. President, what do you think
about the relationships that exist between
the labor unions and management within
the Department of Labor itself?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is one
that I am not prepared to answer-how
do I feel about the relationships, I guess
that presently exist, between the labor un-
ions and management within the Labor
Department itself.
I know that there have been disagree-
ments, and I am not familiar with the
points for debate and am not prepared to
answer that question.
But I know that Secretary Marshall is
a kind of Secretary of Labor who has been
out in the field, in factories, working with
people who have legitimate grievances.
He is an extremely good negotiator who
combines that with the practical knowl-
edge of the problems of working people.
106
