Apr. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
signs that we understand this. So is the
United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development which Raul Prebisch of
Argentina made into an important forum
of the developing world. Venezuela is
now cochairing the Paris Conference
on International Economic Cooperation.
The United Nations Economic Commis-
sion for Latin America is a source of
many creative ideas on development
throughout the world. The leaders of
many Latin American nations have
been the driving force behind improving
North-South negotiations.
In all these ways, the nations of Latin
America were among the first in our
changing world to see the importance of
adapting global institutions to the new
realities of our day.
The problems and the promises of our
region have become as diverse as the
world itself. The economies of most Latin
American nations have been developing
rapidly, although, of course, at different
rates. Some have an impressive rate of
growth. Some-a few are among the
poorest in the developing world. Some
have abundant energy resources; others
are desperately short of energy. Some of
our countries export primary products
only. Some have become major exporters
of advanced manufactured goods while
others export little at all. Your problems
of market access, technology transfer, and
debt management sometimes defy re-
gional solutions.
In addition to economic diversity, we
have all developed widely varied forms
and philosophies of government. This di-
versity has brought national pride and
national strength. And as you've played
more independent and important roles in
world politics, we have all begun to con-
struct more normal and more balanced
and more equal relationships.
In the light of these changes, a single
United States policy toward Latin Amer-
ica and the Caribbean makes little sense.
What we need is a wider and a more
flexible approach, worked out in close
consultation with you. Together, we will
develop policies more suited to each
nation's variety and potential. In this
process, I will be particularly concerned
that we not seek to divide the nations of
Latin America one from another or to set
Latin America apart from the rest of the
world. Our own goal is to address prob-
lems in a way which will lead to produc-
tive solutions—globally, regionally, and
bilaterally.
Our new approach will be based on
three basic elements:
First of all is a high regard for the in-
dividuality and the sovereignty of each
Latin American and Caribbean nation.
We will not act abroad in ways that we
would not tolerate at home in our own
country.
Second is our respect for human rights,
a respect which is also so much a part of
your own tradition. Our values and yours
require us to combat abuses of individual
freedom, including those caused by politi-
cal, social, and economic injustice. Our
own concern for these values will natu-
rally influence our relations with the
countries of this hemisphere and through-
out the world. You will find this country,
the United States of America, eager to
stand beside those nations which respect
human rights and which promote demo-
cratic ideals.
Third is our desire to press forward on
the great issues which affect the relations
between the developed and the develop-
ing nations. Your economic problems are
also global in character and cannot be
dealt with solely on regional terms.
However, some of our own global poli-
cies are of particular interest to other
American States. When major decisions
are made in these areas, we will consult
with you.
612
