Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We are all in it together, and we have
a common purpose. I am very pleased
now to sign an Executive order creating
the President's Commission on Mental
Health. I woud like to do that at this
time, and then I would like to intro-
duce to you one of my assistants, one of
my partners, an expert advisor on mental
health problems who has been active for
many years in an unpublicized way, some-
times in a publicized way, but whose
judgment I trust implicitly. I will let
know what that person's name is after I
sign the Executive order. This Executive
order that I will sign, let me explain to
you in a few minutes.
you
[At this point, the President signed the Execu-
tive order.]
The Executive order is signed. Now I
would like to introduce to you one of the
best partners that you will ever have in
putting together a comprehensive and ef-
fective approach to the serious question
of mental health-my wife, Rosalynn.
MRS. CARTER. Thank you very much.
Jimmy couldn't stay for the whole af-
ternoon. I wanted to be sure he got the
order signed first.
This is a great day for me. I've talked
about this Commission for so long, and
now, to have the Executive order signed
and to have you here who are so support-
ive, is just really very pleasing to me.
I became interested in mental health
while campaigning. Campaigning is a
great learning experience. I had never
been involved with mental health pro-
grams or problems at all until I cam-
paigned for Jimmy when he ran for
Governor. I had so many people ask me
then, "What will you do for my retarded
child? I have a son who is in the 7th
grade who is emotionally disturbed. I
don't know where to go for help for him.
What will your husband do to help him if
he is elected Governor?"
I really became concerned about it. I
had always worked. I knew I wanted to
have something to do. But mental health
problems touch so many people, and I be-
came so aware of this campaigning. One
night—I had decided that I wanted to
work with the mental health program
when Jimmy was Governor. This is a true
story. Many of you have probably already
heard it because I tell it all the time. But
I was campaigning in a little community
in Georgia. I had a reception at 6 o'clock
in the afternoon. When I got through
with the reception I was through for the
day, and I found out that Jimmy was
going to be in that same town that
night-which was great. I never saw him
in the campaign.
So, I stayed and got in the back of the
auditorium while he spoke. And after his
speech was over, I got in line, went down
with everybody else, shook hands with
him. He shook my hand before he saw
who I was, and then he said, "What are
you doing here?" And I said, "I came to
see what you are going to do about the
mental health program in Georgia." He
said, "We are going to have the best one
in the United States, and I am going to
put you in charge of it."
Well, he didn't put me in charge of it,
of course. But he did appoint me to the
Governor's commission to improve serv-
ices to the mentally and emotionally
handicapped.
I worked with that commission and we
were very pleased with what we were able
to do or what has been done in Georgia.
We submitted a report; we inventoried
the needs in the State; gave a report to
Jimmy. He implemented almost all of it
in his reorganization of State govern-
ment. And we are very pleased with that.
As you probably know, for the past year
and a half, or a little more, I have cam-
paigned all over the country. In my bio-
graphical sketch, I had a little paragraph
186
