Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 4
same standards we would like to see ap-
plied with us.
I endorse your statement in the Inaug-
ural Address that we should strive together
to build a quiet strength, based not merely
on the size of an arsenal but on the nobility
of ideals.
In your book, "Why Not the Best?," you
said that your country should, among the
community of nations, set an example of
courage, compassion, and dedication to
basic human rights and freedoms. We wel-
come this, and we are sure that it will pre-
vail throughout your Presidency.
Mr. President and dear friends, as you
well know, we are embarking on an am-
bitious program to rebuild our society
along lines which ensure more justice and
equal opportunity. We are revitalizing our
system with a view to enable it to cope
with the immense problems we encounter,
old and new. We are determined to build
up this new society on ideals of faith in
human dignity, which we inherited from
the ancient Egyptian civilization. This
heritage has kept us united together and
optimistic in the face of the most difficult
of challenges.
The Arab nation has succeeded in its
drive to establish a model for enlightened
cooperation among nations. The outcome
of the first Afro-Arab summit conference
held in Cairo a month ago bears witness
to this fact. The heads of state and govern-
ment of 60 developing nations assembled
together in an atmosphere of unity of pur-
pose and laid the foundation for an equi-
table system, capable of confronting the
challenge of development and moderniza-
tion. A model for man, an explorative co-
operation was set up for the benefit of all
the people of participant countries. Basi-
cally, it is a structure of self-help. The
Afro-Arab community, which is part and
parcel of the nonaligned movement,
pledged to spare no effort to promote
peace and prosperity throughout the
globe.
Mr. President and dear friends, your
recent statement on the right of the Pales-
tinians to a national homeland was wel-
comed by every Arab. It was regarded as
a positive signal because it was the first
time since 1947 that an American Presi-
dent has ever spelled out his convictions.
that the Palestinians should have their
homeland where they could establish their
state.
You would agree with me that the
Palestinians, who demonstrated modera-
tion and a great sense of responsibility,
are entitled to be heard by you and the
American people. Their leadership has
established its credentials to be part of
the peace process. A dialog with them
will reassure them and stimulate further
moderation. With the solution of the
Palestinian problem, the road to peace
would be open and clear.
What remains to be done is the with-
drawal of Israeli forces from all occupied
Arab countries after '67. That makes end-
ing the state of war a foregone conclusion.
As I have often said, we are willing to
consider any formula proposed to guaran-
tee the maintenance of peace in the area.
We will decide whose security was con-
stantly threatened for a quarter of a cen-
tury; thus, we have no objection to the
adoption of adequate measures to secure
the international borders and make the
recurrence of war a remote possibility.
We welcome your participation in provid-
ing these guarantees.
Mr. President and dear friends, you are
projecting a new image for the United
States. Its impact goes beyond the fron-
tiers of your country. The revival of
idealism and morality is not merely an in-
tellectual exercise, it is a living mechanism
that influences the course of events in
many parts of the world.
569
