Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 31
way. With 72 million people looking for
work and 20 percent of our industrial ca-
pacity idle, we can now afford to spur re-
covery without risking significant new in-
flation.
This Administration will never let its
guard down against inflation, which robs
us all. My proposed credit against payroll
taxes will tend to reduce labor costs and
will, therefore, also help hold prices down.
I will soon announce a substantial
strengthening of the Council on Wage and
Price Stability. The Council will analyze
the supply and demand trends in particu-
lar industries, so that we can spot bottle-
necks and potential shortages and try to
prevent them. It will also perform a more
active job of monitoring wage and price
developments. I believe that both business
and labor will be willing to cooperate by
giving us voluntary prior notice of im-
portant wage and price increases.
I have asked all my Cabinet officers to
evaluate continuously the inflationary im-
pact of their Departments' programs and
regulations. I have already instructed the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to develop a program for reducing
the rapid rise in hospital costs.
Most importantly, this Administration
intends to work closely and cooperatively
with both labor and business to minimize
inflation and help ensure a solid increase
in jobs, real wages, and real profits. Meet-
ings among my economic advisers and la-
bor and business leaders will begin within
the next few months.
With these principles in mind, I urge
the adoption of the following programs:
A. Expenditure Programs
1. Public Works. I recommend an im-
mediate $4 billion authorization for addi-
tional emergency public works beyond the
$2 billion authorized by the Congress last
year, with $2 billion to be appropriated
for fiscal year 1977 and $2 billion for fis-
cal year 1978.
As the public works program has been
implemented, the current formula for al-
locating funds has left some hard-pressed
communities with inadequate funding,
while their more affluent neighbors have
had substantial programs approved. The
Secretary of Commerce is now undertak-
ing a careful review to determine whether
the current 70%-30% allocation formula
between high and low unemployment
areas should be changed. After she com-
pletes her study, we will recommend legis-
lation. In the interim, I have asked the
Secretary to do everything possible under
existing law to direct greater amounts of
money into areas of high unemployment.
2. Employment and Training Programs.
The economic stimulus package is
designed to cope with both cyclical un-
employment, which is caused by the
economic recession, and structural un-
employment, which affects those who lack
the necessary training and skills to find
work even in good times. The first group
can largely be helped by general economic
stimulus. The second group requires spe-
cial training and placement programs.
I propose the following programs to
help these groups:
a. Public Service Employment. It is time
to take our people off welfare and put
them to work, with maximum emphasis
on creating jobs in the private sector. But
it will take time for an expanding private
economy to provide a large number of
jobs for the unemployed. In the meantime
we must expand temporary public service
jobs for those who would find it difficult
to obtain work in private industry.
I propose an increase in the number of
federally-funded public service jobs under
the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act (CETA) from 310,000 now
to 600,000 by the end of fiscal year 1977
51
