Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
makes us hopeful that the United States
will play its full role in this field is that
you, Mr. President, have repeatedly
stressed the importance you attach to ethi-
cal principles. What is based on these
principles and ideals would surely lead to
justice and would constitute a sound basis
for lasting peace.
Permit me to quote here what I told
my people and the world on October 6,
1973-not to record the word, not to re-
mind of the war, but merely to repeat the
meaning of what I said that day and to
assert that we lived the meaning of these
words while we were fighting the war:
"We are not lovers of killing and destruc-
tion, but we defend ourselves against kill-
ing and destruction. We are not aggres-
sors, and have never been. But we have
defended and are still defending ourselves
against aggression. We do not want any-
one to die, but we defend our people
against this. We love freedom and want it
for ourselves, as well as for others. And
we are on the defense so that our people
may enjoy freedom. We are advocates of
peace. We endeavor to secure peace to
our people and to all peoples of the world.
We defend ourselves in order to live in
peace."
Mr. President, peace is a noble aim
and the precious objective worthy to be
served by sincere exertions. Let us exert
joint efforts to achieve this objective.
Again, I thank President Carter, and I
propose a toast to the health of President
Carter and to the prosperity of the Ameri-
can people. I want to propose a toast to
our first meeting.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Many more in the
future, I hope.
NOTE:
President Carter spoke at 8:15 p.m.
in Le Carnaval Room at the Intercontinental
Hotel. President Asad spoke in Arabic, and
his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Following the dinner, President Carter re-
turned to London.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Süleyman Demirel of Turkey
Remarks to Reporters Following the
Meeting. May 10, 1977
THE PRIME MINISTER. I have visited with
the President, and we have discussed our
bilateral relations. I have expressed my
deep concern to the President. It was a
very useful meeting.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've outlined to
the Prime Minister how important the
relationships with Turkey have always
been to us, how in times of crisis we've
always been staunch friends of one an-
other. The alliance with Turkey is crucial
to the security of Europe and to our own
national future.
We are very proud of the progress that
is being made in providing a higher au-
thority for military sales to Turkey. We
just recommended to the Congress that
this be increased from $125 million to
$175 million. I have every expectation
that the Congress will act quickly to
increase this demonstration of mutual
friendship between our two countries.
We face the future with confidence that
the other differences can be ironed out,
and my meeting this morning has been of
great benefit to me when the position of
Turkey was explained very forcefully by
the Prime Minister. So, we have made
great progress.
We have a long way to go in the future.
But our historical friendship with Turkey
cannot be damaged, because [inaudible].
Q. Did you discuss the Cyprus prob-
lem?
THE PRESIDENT. Very briefly. I think
there's common hope that the Cyprus
question can be resolved. Obviously, this
is a decision to be made by the Greek and
Turkish Cypriots. Obviously, the Prime
847
