Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
dent Ford personally. And I found no
impropriety in them. But that has caused
me some concern. How to maintain in a
democracy, truthfulness and frankness
with the American people on the one
hand, through the news media, and on
the other hand preserve a mandatory de-
gree of confidentiality about intelligence
sources?
This is important even in peacetime.
But is would be crucial to us in time of an
international crisis to have the people that
give us information, completely in a legit-
imate way, know that their help to us,
their aid to us, their friendship to us,
wouldn't be revealed publicly.
That's been one thing that's been of
some concern to me. The other is that
we've had a slow change in the attitude
of some leaders in Washington, Congress
and otherwise, toward the White House.
I think we've tried to make some basic
changes and it's been slow, but I think
progressively successful-to let them know
that I am accessible; that I am depending
heavily on Cabinet officers to make basic
decisions; that they need not come to a
Haldeman or an Ehrlichman to get an
answer concerning domestic affairs; that
Cy Vance is using the entire Foreign Serv-
ice professional organization in the State
Department to pursue international mat-
ters; that we are dealing through major
emissaries simultaneously in different
troublespots around the world; that we're
not having just the Secretary of State be
the negotiator.
I think it's been a slow thing for us to
get these ideas across. We still are not
completely successful. Those are a couple
of things that come to mind.
SHOE INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, the concern of the
people of New Hampshire, I think, has
been addressed to you by Senator McIn-
tyre over the shoe industry, and we've
talked about this a little bit today. Dr.
Gramley said earlier today that to put
import quotas or tariffs on any foreign
products would be unwise, it would push
the cost up to the consumer. Have you
made
any
decisions yet regarding import
quotas or tariffs as it might affect the shoe
industry?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The thing we all
have to balance is obvious. One is the ad-
verse impact on employees in the shoe in-
dustry if imports are permitted; the other
one is the overall adverse impact on con-
sumers, as the prices would inevitably go
This recommendation has not yet got-
ten to me, and I have not made a judg-
ment on it.
up.
OIL AND NATURAL GAS PIPELINES
Q. Mr. President, oil will be flowing out
of Prudhoe Bay this year, later, and so far
there is no place for it to come into the
Lower 48. How are you trying to work to
find us some way to get oil into this coun-
try from Alaska, into the Lower 48?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, the
first pipeline will be in operation later on
this year, I hope. And I had quite exten-
sive conversations with Prime Minister
Trudeau from Canada and from his staff.
Today, his Energy Commissioner is in the
White House meeting with Dr. Schle-
singer on that particular subject, to probe
future opportunities to cooperate with the
Canadians, if that proves to be advisable,
on the routing of both oil and natural gas
from the northern parts of our continent
down here.
By September 30, I have to make a
judgment on the other pipeline routes.
The Congress has given me that respon-
sibility. I have an option under the law to
delay 60 days, I think, after September 30,
to make the recommendation.
283
