Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THIRD WORLD DEBT
Q. Mr. President, yesterday several
Congressmen accused your economic pol-
icies as being dictated by New York banks.
Now, your plans for bailing out New York
through using the IMF with a hyper-in-
flationary process indeed does sound like
a recent speech that David Rockefeller
made in which he called for hyper-inflat-
ing the advanced sector and imposing so-
called demand economies on the Third
World, which means massive austerity.
Now, at the same time, over recent
weeks a number of our NATO allies-
THE PRESIDENT. What is your ques-
tion?
Q. My question is, over recent weeks a
number of our NATO allies have indi-
cated that they would rather see the prob-
lem of Third World debt resolved through
a debt moratorium. And I am just won-
dering if there is any chance that you'd
go along with our allies in that direction,
or if you would insist on this kind of hy-
per-inflationary bailing out?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have had no
entreaties from David Rockefeller con-
cerning the New York problem, nor have
I had any of our allies that have called
on me to join them in a debt moratorium.
I am not in favor of a debt moratorium.
ZAIRE
Q. Mr. President, would you mind tell-
ing us what our commitments are in Zaire
and what the ramifications of those com-
mitments might be to us?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no out-
standing commitments in Zaire. Over a
period of years, President Mobutu has
been a friend of ours. We've enjoyed good
relationships with Zaire. We have sub-
stantial commercial investments in that
country.
After the recent, very disruptive con-
flict within Zaire when the country was
finally formed a number of years ago
it has been fairly stable since then. Zaire
was involved, I think at least indirectly,
in the Angolan conflict, and there are
some remaining hard feelings between
Angola and Zaire on that part. Some of
the Katangans who lived in the southern
part of Zaire are now involved in trying
merly lived.
to go back into the area where they for-
We have no hard evidence or any evi-
dence, as far as that goes, that the Cubans
or Angolan troops have crossed the border
into Zaire. We look on them as a friendly
nation, and we have no obligations to
them as far as military aid goes. But we
have been cooperating in exchanging in-
formation with the Belgian Government,
the French Government, and others, just
to try to stabilize the situation and to les-
sen the chance of expanding the conflict.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, I don't ask this ques-
tion in a churlish way or an argumentative
way-
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sure you don't.
[Laughter]
Q. —but taking-recalling the un-
willingness of the United States to inter-
vene at the time of the Hungarian uprising
or at the time of Dubcek's ouster in Czech-
oslovakia, what do you really think that
you can accomplish for political dissidents
in the Soviet Union, not in other parts of
the world, but in the Soviet Union? And
I have a followup I would like to ask.
THE PRESIDENT. Why don't you ask
your followup now and I will try to
answer.
Q. My followup is this: You are saying
that all of the evidence that you have from
Mr. Brezhnev is that he is willing to go
forward or he is receptive to SALT II
negotiations.
502
