Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
grams, who both happen to be black; the
Secretary of the Army also happens to be
black, and within those departments, not
only the top level, we are hiring a lot of
people who
Q. But they didn't come from Cali-
fornia, and that's what I'm interested in.
And my health center is in one of the big-
gest designated poverty sections of all and
my house still-Martin Luther King is in
there-
THE PRESIDENT. I've been there.
Q. I know you've been there. And you
also know that we didn't, as I say, play
tic-tac-toe with you in the election, and
we do not expect for you to play tic-tac-
toe with us in these jobs.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me go to UCLA;
and then I'll be back. The lady in the red
dress, I will get you next.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Hi. My name is Torve Carlson. I
live in west L.A. I major in motion pic-
tures here at UCLA. My question is this:
Why does your energy package ask the
American people to sacrifice more than it
does the large corporations?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe it does,
Torve. I believe we've got a well-balanced
energy package. The thrust of it is that
we have got to conserve and quit wasting
energy. There are several things that we've
done, I think, to make sure we don't favor
the large corporations. For instance, the
oil companies will not be permitted to
raise the price of the oil that has already
been discovered. We are requiring that
many of the companies around the Na-
tion that presently use very scarce oil and
natural gas shift to coal. They pay their
share of the taxes and they don't get any
of the rebates.
As we increase, for instance, the price
of gas, natural gas, the homeowners will
be refunded the amount of increase in
the tax on gas, but businesses will not. But
I think in balance, neither the private citi-
zens nor the large business managers, say
either one, get an unfair advantage. The
energy package is now being debated in
the Congress, and I think if there are any
inequities or unfairness about it, they were
caused by error on our part; they'll be
corrected. But I don't think it is an ac-
curate assessment to say that business gets
a break.
Q. Why wasn't solar energy given more
of a push?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is. In the
past we've spent almost all of our money
on nuclear power research and develop-
ment, particularly with heavy emphasis
on the breeder. I don't think we need to
build the breeder reactor anytime soon.
I've terminated that project and I
hope the Congress will go along with me.
And we're going to shift a lot of the re-
search and development money that used
to go almost exclusively for nuclear power
research into solar power. So, we're going
to get a much heavier emphasis on solar
energy in the future.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Torve.
DRUG ADDICTION
Q. Thank you, Mr. President, I love
you, too. [Laughter]
Mr. President, pregnant addicts and
juvenile drug abusers and battered chil-
dren have absolutely no resources for
which to turn. Will you be setting aside
some special fund to help these people?
My name is Marion Grendell. I'm the
division chief for the Narcotics Informa-
tion Service under the department of
community development.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Director of
the drug program in the Federal Govern-
ment now is Dr. Peter Bourne, who was
903
