Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 30
that are beneficial, I think, to our own
Nation and to the rest of the world. It
was to have substantial reductions in the
level of deployment of missile launchers
and the MIRV'd missiles below the 2,400
level and the 1,320 level that were estab-
lished under the Vladivostok agree-
ments—substantial reductions; secondly,
to stop the development and deployment
of any new weapons systems. A third point
was to freeze at the present level about
550 intercontinental ballistic missiles, our
Minuteman and their missiles known as
the SS-17, 18, and 19.
Another was to ban the deployment of
all mobile missiles, their SS-16 and
others, or ours-that is under the devel-
opment stage, the MX.
Another one is to have a strict limit on
the development of the Backfire bomber
and a strict limit on the range that would
be permitted on cruise missiles.
Another element of the proposal was to
limit the number of test firings of missiles
to six firings per year of the interconti-
nental range and also of the medium-
range missiles and to ask the Soviet Union
to give us some assured mechanism by
which we could distinguish between their
intercontinental mobile missile, the SS-
16, and their limited-range mobile mis-
sile, the SS-20.
The sum total of all this proposal was
a fair, balanced, substantial reduction in
the arms race which would have guaran-
teed, I believe, a permanent lessening of
tension and a mutual benefit to both our
countries. The Soviets, at least at this
point, have not accepted this proposal
either.
Both parties which will be promul-
gated in a joint communique tomorrow-
have agreed to continue the discussions
the first half of May in Geneva.
You might be interested in knowing
that a few other points that we proposed
were to have adequate verification, an
end of concealment, and the establish-
ment of a so-called data base by which we
would tell the Soviet Union the level of
our own armaments at this point, and they
would tell us their level of armaments at
this point, so that we would have an as-
sured, mutually agreed level of weapon
capability.
I might cover just a few more things.
In addition to discussing the SALT agree-
ments in Geneva early in May, we have
agreed to discuss other matters-South
Africa, the upcoming possible Middle
Eastern talks. And we've agreed to set up
eight study groups: one, to develop an
agreement whereby we might forgo the
development of a capability of destroying
satellite observation vehicles, so that we
can have an assured way to watch the
Soviets; they can have an assured way of
watching us from satellites.
The second is to discuss the terms of a
possible comprehensive test ban, so that
we don't test in the future any more nu-
clear weapons. And we've also asked the
Soviets to join with us in a prohibition
against the testing of peaceful nuclear
devices.
Another study group that has been mu-
tually agreed to be established is to dis-
cuss the terms by which we might demili-
tarize or reduce the military effort in the
Indian Ocean.
Another group will be set up, of ex-
perts, to discuss the terms by which we
can agree on advanced notice on all mis-
sile test firings, so that perhaps 24 hours
ahead of time, we would notify the So-
viets when we were going to test fire one
of our missiles; they would do the same
for us.
Another group will be studying a way
to initiate comprehensive arms control in
conventional weapons and also the sale
of weapons to third countries, particu-
larly the developing nations of the world.
539
