Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
others could know what we hope to
achieve at the end of a year, 5 years, 20
years, in natural gas, oil, coal, atomic en-
ergy, solar energy, conservation, imports,
exports, prices, ships, and so forth.
By the end of April-we have a dead-
line date set for ourselves of April 20-
Dr. James Schlesinger and I and many
others will come forward for the first time
with a national energy policy. And we will
be addressing that kind of question that
you just raised.
I've got to go back. I've got another
conference over in my Oval Office.
Let me say in closing, I'm very glad
that you came. The questions that you
asked are equal in quality and difficulty
to any that I get from any group.
As you probably know, I've always
treated young people as adults. I've never
been disappointed. In Georgia, we have
had 18-year-old voting for more than 35
years. We put it into effect back in the
forties. And I would hope that we could
pass a law in this country which would
not require any registration at all, so that
whenever an American citizen reached
the age of 18, that you would be auto-
matically registered to vote. This is some-
thing that I'm going to propose to Con-
gress, and I hope you will help me get it
passed.
I hope that you will not only just enjoy
the visit of beautiful places like the White
House and Smithsonian Institution and
looking at the Washington Monument,
but that you will recognize what our Na-
tion is—its failures and its shortcomings
and its weaknesses and mistakes, plus its
tremendous potential—and invest at least
part of your own life in making our coun-
try what it ought to be.
I'm going to do the best I can. I've got
a lot to learn, and I'm going to welcome
hearing from you and from your parents
and others. This is a great opportunity for
me to have a chance to meet with you.
Good luck to all of you. Thank you for
coming.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:33 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the is-
sue are not included.
January 24
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-the Cabinet.
The President announced the follow-
ing appointments:
BARRY JAGODA as Special Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Media and Public Affairs;
JAMES FALLOWs as Chief Speechwriter to the
President.
The President announced that door-to-
door limousine service for White House
staff members has been terminated. The
White House will continue to operate a
limited courier service for trips during
the business day which will be available
only for work-related trips.
Vice President Walter F. Mondale tele-
phoned the President from Brussels, Bel-
gium, to discuss the progress of his trip to
Europe and Japan.
The White House announced that Pres-
ident José López Portillo of the United
Mexican States has accepted the Presi-
dent's invitation to make a state visit to
the United States. President López
Portillo will be in Washington on Feb-
ruary 14 and 15.
30
