Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 25
rights. And both nations that are founded
on freedom and those that are founded
on totalitarian governments are now do-
ing some reassessments and saying, what
are our policies toward our own citizens
and what does the rest of the world think
about us?
So, even in these early, few days, we
are making some progress. I've got to be
careful not to make a serious mistake. At
the same time, I've got to be careful not
to be too timid, and when I make a judg-
ment, that it's a proper one. And that's
where you come in, because collectively,
you have a sense of what the world is and
what the world might be.
won't
I want to be a good President. And I
want to serve in such a way
that you
be disappointed in me. But my good re-
lationship with you and the other senior
and the other senior
officials in this Department are the basis
on which I might succeed.
So, we are partners, and I believe to-
gether we can give the American people
an accurate sense that they have a good
government in what is and always has
been the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:37 p.m. in
the Dean Acheson Auditorium at the Depart-
ment of State, after having toured the Depart-
ment's Communications Center. While at the
Communications Center, the President typed a
message on a teletype machine linked to the
United States Embassy in Paris, in which he
greeted all State Department employees sta-
tioned overseas.
Meeting With Secretary General
Kurt Waldheim of the
United Nations
Remarks of the President and the
Secretary General. February 25, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say
that I am very deeply grateful that Sec-
retary General Waldheim and his wife
Elizabeth
Elizabeth and his beautiful daughter
Christa have come to be with us at noon
today.
This is not an official meeting but is
one of great importance. It is going to be
a working luncheon.
We have been greatly impressed at the
ability of the Secretary General in his
travels around the world to the trouble
spots that concern us all to search out
common ground on which future peace-
ful agreements might be reached. His re-
cent reelection as the first leader of the
world is an indication of his stature
among all those who participate in the
United Nations deliberations.
This is a year, I believe, when he and
I will be drawn much closer together than
perhaps has been often the case in the
past. And I think it is accurate to say that
my appointment of Ambassador Andrew
Young to the United Nations and the
close relationship that Ambassador
Young and Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance and I have with each other will
provide a common base on which we can
demonstrate to other nations of the world
our deep commitment to the United Na-
tions and what it stands for-peace in the
world and a commitment to human
rights, which has been the characteristic
of Secretary General Kurt Waldheim in
his long experience and service as one of
the world's foremost diplomats.
So, we welcome you here, and your
family, Kurt Waldheim. And I look for-
ward to a long and continuing and, hope-
fully, mutually successful effort between
our country and the United Nations to
bring about peace in the world and to pro-
tect human rights and to meet those
needs that are so vivid in our world today.
Welcome to the White House.
THE SECRETARY GENERAL. Mr. Presi-
dent, Mrs. Carter:
245
