Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 18
tention of running their governments or
their economies, but we expect them to
mobilize their own resources in the effort
to develop, to ensure that the poor share
in the benefits, and to respect basic hu-
man rights.
I am asking the Congress to provide
$1.3 billion for the bilateral development
assistance program for fiscal year 1978.
This is a 20% increase over the amount
provided for fiscal year 1977, which I be-
lieve is clearly worthwhile.
Last year, the Congress, on its own initi-
ative, appropriated $5 million to help de-
velop a comprehensive long-term recovery
plan for the Sahel region, which had un-
dergone a disastrous drought. As the first
major U.S. contribution to this program,
I am requesting $50 million for fiscal year
1978. We will cooperate with other inter-
ested nations in making further contribu-
tions to the Sahel development effort in
the future.
-The PL-480 Program. The enormous
vitality of U.S. agricultural production
permits us to share a portion of our bounty
in the form of food aid. Our PL-480 pro-
grams should not only help the poorer
countries improve the quantity and qual-
ity of their nutrition, but also encourage
self-help programs that will improve their
capacity to feed their people in the future.
And these programs let us offer relief from
famine and privation in the wake of nat-
ural and man-made disasters. In fiscal
year 1978, our food aid programs will dis-
tribute $1.4 billion in agricultural com-
modities.
-Security Assistance Program. Only
where peace and security are assured can
free nations devote their full energies to
development. Our security assistance pro-
grams are keyed to these goals, and to ad-
vancing the security interests of the
United States in cooperation with our
friends and allies. Nearly two-thirds of the
funds requested for security assistance will
be for economic supporting programs. I
have increased the amounts proposed by
the previous Administration for the Mid-
dle East; this will strengthen the economic
underpinnings so essential to achievement
of our goal of peace and stability in this
vital region.
For FY-1978 the major elements of my
program on security assistance are:
• Grant military aid $284.6 million to
eight countries, in most of which we also
have U.S. military facilities essential to
our global interests. This includes $224
million in programs plus $60.6 million in
general and administrative costs, most of
which will be reimbursed from other
sources.
• Grant military education-$35.7 mil-
lion to train future military leaders.
Financing for foreign military sales—
$708 million, which will finance $2.2 bil-
lion in loans to help foreign governments
eventually to meet their essential security
needs by themselves, instead of depending
on U.S. handouts.
• Security supporting assistance-$1.9
billion to finance programs for countries
whose economic condition is a factor in
our efforts to assure international security.
The two areas where most of these funds
will be used-Middle East, and depend-
ing on events, Southern Africa—testify to
the significance of these programs.
These proposals are fully consistent
with my wish to limit budget increases to
essentials. My assistance program is part
of an effort to combine support of our
country's economic interests and security
with compassion for the impoverished mil-
lions of fellow human beings who share
the world with us.
I hope that the economic assistance pro-
gram now before you will receive your
careful, prompt, and sympathetic atten-
tion. It represents a vital step toward part-
457
