May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tional Capital has been developed for this
purpose.
The Kennedy Center is a place that I
personally love very much. We've been
there often since I have been President.
Rosalynn and I go there every chance we
get. We have seen a wide variety of pro-
grams and we've seen people enjoying the
opera and the other performing arts that
in many parts of the country would never
have that opportunity.
I remember one time when I was at
Carters Warehouse selling fertilizer to
farmers, and the New Orleans Symphony
Orchestra came to Americus, Georgia, to
a very tiny college—no auditorium, no air
conditioning—and the dean of liberal arts
told all his students that they would get
an extra grade on their final report card if
their parents came to hear the New Or-
leans Symphony Orchestra. And you
should have seen the farmers struggling to
avoid that confrontation.
So, they finally went over to the basket-
ball gymnasium, and there were 3,000
people stacked in there on a day even
warmer than this. And for 2 weeks around
the circle of symbolic pot-bellied stoves of
Carters Warehouse, the topic of conver-
sation among those farmers who had
never before heard any sort of classical
music was about that experience which
was one of the most exhilarating of their
lives.
That made a great impression on me,
and I hope that as President I can work
with you generous people, successful peo-
ple, blessed with all the pleasures of life,
to make this kind of enjoyment available
to as many Americans as possible.
It's not proper to raise funds at the
White House. We are not raising funds.
But I just want to join with you in a com-
mitment to make sure that the Kennedy
Center is adequately financed. And, as you
well know, the contributions that are
made by fortunate and affluent Ameri-
cans, men and women, are used in the
most efficient way to provide enjoyment
for many thousands of Americans who
would never otherwise have this pleasure.
And we form a partnership, those of us
who are influential, relatively wealthy in
all the material things, to share this with
others that are not quite so fortunate as
we.
So, I want to thank Mr. MacNaughton
and Mr. Kennedy and particularly Pete
Williams in the back, who came and asked
me to help out-Pete, thank you. And
think that this will be the kind of project
that will make all of us proud, not only
because of what we have achieved in our
own lives but just proud to be part of a
country where this kind of contribution
can be coming back to us with such rich
personal reward.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:15 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. In his re-
marks, he referred to Donald S. MacNaughton,
chairman of the Corporate Fund, Senator Ed-
ward M. Kennedy, and Senator Harrison A.
(Pete) Williams, Jr.
The Corporate Fund for the Performing Arts
is a voluntary association of officers of major
corporations. It was formed to provide continu-
ing corporate support for the ongoing activities
of the Kennedy Center.
White House Conference on
Handicapped Individuals
Remarks at the Opening Session of the
Conference. May 23, 1977
Do you
you think we are making some prog-
ress now? Do you think we have a long
way to go? Do you think we are going to
get there? Right on.
I'm very proud to be here tonight in
what I think is an historic occasion that
will perhaps go down in the history of our
country as a turning point in the minds
988
