Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
I've tried to do it differently up here.
I've tried to give my Cabinet officers
credit for all-[laughter]-
Well, I've
really tried to give them credit for all the
good things. When we decided to cancel
$5.1 billion worth of water projects, I let
Cecil Andrus get the credit-[laughter]—
for all the savings that he brought to the
taxpayers. When I get invitations to ex-
plain to the Texas State Convention or
the Chamber of Commerce the repeal of
14(b), I'll let Ray Marshall go down in
his home State and take responsibility for
that. When we have an international
problem, I try to turn to the people with
the most experience.
As you know, my first week in office I
asked Fritz Mondale, the Vice President,
to go on a round-the-world trip. And he
did so well-I haven't announced it be-
fore-but Mr. Idi Amin¹ has asked me
to send a delegation. [Laughter]
I want to send the most experienced
person I have to do the negotiations. In
the future, when we close down military
bases, Harold Brown has volunteered to
take the credit for that.
So, you can see there are a lot of advan-
tages both ways. I have been particularly
blessed, yesterday afternoon, to have you
come up and to let me and my Cabinet
and Vice President Mondale spend 22
hours or a little bit more meeting with
you.
I believe in our country, and I believe
in the system of federalism. It's ever-
present on my mind after 2 years of cam-
paigning that your constituents are mine.
And when something goes wrong
in your
State and I hear it on the news or read
about it in the paper, I think about the
lonely days that I spent campaigning
through your States and the hospitality
that I and Rosalynn and all our family
received. And it's not an artificial sense
1
President Field Marshal of Uganda.
of a common sharing of responsibility
with you for the welfare and happiness
and benefit of your own people at home.
And this is a sobering thing, but it's also
a very gratifying thing.
I know that I'm going to make a lot
of mistakes-economically and, perhaps,
in foreign affairs, as well. But the thing
that gives me a reassuring feeling is my
sense of partnership with you. I've learned
a lot about government as a Governor.
And I know that the cumulative experi-
ence and ability and sensitivity and
idealism in this room by the men and
women who serve as executive officers of
the 50 States is a tremendous resource for
me and the Cabinet and others in Wash-
ington to tap. You have a practical
understanding of what goes on, where
services are delivered. And I'm very
eager to continue that close relationship
with you.
It was particularly beneficial, I think,
to the members of the Cabinet yesterday
to get to know you and for you to get to
know them. This is a time, I think, of
restoration in our country of some of the
higher ideals and the surest sense of con-
fidence in the future-not because of me
at all, but just because our country has
come through a difficult time. And as we
look back on it, there is a growing reali-
zation of the basic, unchangeable strength
of the American people. And I think this
gives us all a sense of assurance about the
future.
I've got an awful lot to learn. And I
think that you can help me with it and,
perhaps, we can learn together. I've had
a chance to learn about matters concern-
ing defense and matters concerning intel-
ligence and matters concerning foreign
affairs. And I've seen in other parts of
the world a great sense of dependence
and a growing trust in our country and
what it stands for. I just want to be true
269
