Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
the Belgrade conference, to assess the
progress made under the Helsinki agree-
ment, demonstrate along with us that we
have moved very strongly toward correct-
ing human rights violations within our
own countries-and we have been guilty
on occasion. These are the kinds of things
that would be very helpful.
MR. WEISS. But you are not-obviously
not going to draw-to engage the Soviet
Union into a much stronger ideological,
global dispute?
THE PRESIDENT. You know, I have no
objection to that. We have our own demo-
cratic form of government which we think
is best. In everything that I do concerning
domestic or foreign policy, I like to try to
make other people realize that our system
works, that freedom of elections, freedom
from persecution, that basic human rights
being preserved, that a move toward
peace, reduction in weapons, prohibition
against suffering from inadequate health
care and so forth, are part of our national
consciousness and that we can demon-
state that it works in this country and
serve as an example to others.
I am sure the Soviet Union has always
maintained that an ideological struggle
was legitimate and they have never re-
frained from doing so. I don't feel any
in-
clination to refrain from doing it, either.
EUROCOMMUNISM
MR. DE LA TAILLE. Mr. President, I
would like to ask you a question which is
not related directly to the East-West rela-
tions, but maybe could be. What's go-
ing to be your attitude if there are some-
day Communist leaders participating in
governments as cabinet members, I mean,
in Italy or in France in the case of a vic-
tory of the leftist coalition? And how do
you see the impact of this question of Com-
munists participating in governments in
Europe-in Western Europe, I mean?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a question that
is hard for me to answer, and I have got
a lot to learn from other leaders of the na-
tions with whom I'll be meeting in Lon-
don. President Giscard can help me a lot
to understand that question. So can
Mr. Andreotti.
We have taken the basic position that
it's not up to us to tell other people how to
vote or how to choose their leaders or who
those leaders should be.
Secondly, we strongly favor the election
of leaders who are committed to freedom
and democracy and who are free from
Communist philosophy, which quite often
has been dominated from the Soviet
Union or other nations.
Third, we believe that the best way to
prevent a shift toward communism in
Italy or France or other countries is to
make sure that the democratic govern-
ment that's presently in existence works,
that it's open to change when neces-
sary, that it's sensitive to the needs of
people, that its economic structure is
sound, and that the administration of gov-
ernment is both competent and honest.
It's important for us to do this in our
own Nation. It's important for other free
societies to do that in their countries. And
to the extent that there is a demonstrable
incapability of governing either because
of incompetence or lack of sensitivity or
honesty, that opens the door for increased
Communist intrusion into the govern-
mental process.
I think that's the best way to approach
it, not for us to tell other nations what
to do.
BERLIN
MR. WEISS. Sir, do you foresee any
changes in the United States attitudes or
policies or priorities concerning Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We will be con-
sulting with the other nations involved, as
you know-the Federal Republic, Great
767
