May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter,. 1977
unprofitable as well as illegal by imposing
penalties on firms that have failed to
abate their pollution on schedule; provi-
sions to make law enforcement more
stringent; and provisions necessary to
ensure that actions are taken in accord
with water quality management plans.
SOLID WASTE
"Solid wastes" are the discarded left-
overs of our advanced consumer society.
This growing mountain of garbage and
trash represents not only an attitude of
indifference toward valuable natural re-
sources, but also a serious economic and
public health problem.
The Resource Conservation and Recov-
ery Act, passed in 1976, gave the Environ-
mental Protection Agency the authority it
needs to regulate hazardous wastes and to
assure the safe disposal of other residues.
Now it is important to move beyond the
symptoms and address two principal
causes of the solid waste problem: exces-
sive packaging and inadequate use of re-
cycled materials.
The Act requires the EPA to undertake,
through an Interagency Resource Conser-
vation Committee, a two-year study of
ways to encourage waste reduction, re-
cycling, and resource recovery with finan-
cial incentives like solid waste disposal
charges, refundable deposits on contain-
ers, federal procurement of recycled ma-
terials, and excise taxes for litter clean-up.
I am asking the Committee to accelerate
its study and within six months present to
me its first recommendations which are to
address the use of solid waste disposal
charges (levies on materials and products
which reflect the costs associated with
their ultimate disposal).
In addition, I am taking several actions
to encourage resource conservation within
the federal government. In the White
House itself, recycled paper will be used
wherever practicable as soon as present
stocks of paper have been exhausted. I am
instructing the Administrator of the Gen-
eral Services Administration and the
heads of other appropriate federal agen-
cies to institute a waste paper recycling
program wherever practicable by the end
of this calendar year. I am also instructing
the GSA to revise its paper-product speci-
fications to encourage the purchase of
more recycled paper.
PEST MANAGEMENT
For several decades, chemical pesticides
have been the foundation of agricultural,
public health, and residential pest control.
Approximately 1400 different chemicals
are used in pesticide products, and some
of these, as we have begun to discover, im-
pose an unacceptable risk to our health
and our environment.
To improve the safety and effectiveness
of pest management, I am recommending
two measures—one a short-term legisla-
tive step, and the other a long-term
change in the way we approach this
problem.
(1) I am asking the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to
work with the Congress in enacting an
amendment to the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act which
would allow the EPA to regulate directly
these 1400 active chemical ingredients,
rather than the 40,000 different commer-
cial products which contain them in vary-
ing amounts. This change will help speed
the registration of safe and desirable pest
control compounds, and it will permit
swifter revocation of registration for those
which pose unwarranted risks.
(2) I am instructing the Council on En-
vironmental Quality, at the conclusion of
its ongoing review of integrated pest man-
agement in the United States, to
recommend actions which the federal
government can take to encourage the
development and application of pest man-
972
