Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
difference between this plan and others which merely encouraged crash
production efforts. Conservation is the quickest, cheapest, most practical
source of energy. Conservation is the only way that we can buy a barrel
of oil for about $2. It costs about $13 to waste it.
The seventh principle is that prices should generally reflect the true
replacement cost of energy. We are only cheating ourselves if we make
energy artificially cheap and use more than we can really afford.
The eighth principle is that Government policies must be predictable
and certain. Both consumers and producers need policies they can count
on so they can plan ahead. This is one reason that I'm working with the
Congress to create a new Department of Energy to replace more than
50 different agencies that now have some control over energy.
The ninth principle is that we must conserve the fuels that are scarc-
est and make the most of those that are plentiful. We can't continue to use
oil and gas for 75 percent of our consumption, as we do now, when they
only make up 7 percent of our domestic reserves. We need to shift to
plentiful coal, while taking care to protect the environment, and to apply
stricter safety standards to nuclear energy.
new,
The tenth and last principle is that we must start now to develop the
unconventional sources of energy that we will rely on in the next
century.
Now, these 10 principles have guided the development of the policy
that I will describe to you and the Congress on Wednesday night.
Our energy plan will also include a number of specific goals to
measure our progress toward a stable energy system. These are the goals
that we set for 1985:
—to reduce the annual growth rate in our energy demand to less
than 2 percent;
—to reduce gasoline consumption by 10 percent below its current
level;
—to cut in half the portion of U.S. oil which is imported—from a
potential level of 16 million barrels to 6 million barrels a day;
-to establish a strategic petroleum reserve of one billion barrels,
more than a 6-months supply;
—to increase our coal production by about two-thirds to more than
one billion tons a year;
-to insulate 90 percent of American homes and all new buildings;
-to use solar energy in more than 22 million houses.
660
