Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 17
Oklahoma Graduate School of Human
Relations.
Siegel will work with Hamilton Jordan.
He served as executive director of the
Democratic National Committee from
1975 to 1977, and before that was execu-
tive officer of the national committee co-
ordinating the party's reform efforts.
He was born December 23, 1946, in
Brooklyn, N.Y., and is a graduate of
Brooklyn College of the City University
of New York. He holds a master's degree
and doctorate in political science from
Northwestern University.
A former American Political Science
Association Congressional Fellow, he has
served as an assistant professor of politi-
cal science at Loyola University of Chi-
cago, legislative assistant for domestic
affairs to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey,
elementary schoolteacher in the New
York City school system, and with the
Office of Economic Opportunity's North-
east Regional Headstart and Community
Action components. He resides in Silver
Spring, Md.
President's Commission on
Mental Health
Remarks of the President and Mrs. Carter
at the Signing Ceremony of Executive
Order 11973. February 17, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This is a pleasant ex-
perience because I see around the room
a lot of old friends who worked with me
and Rosalynn in the broad and exciting
and challenging field of mental health.
This is one of the most gratifying experi-
ences that a human being could have-to
deal with those who have been bereft of
care for years and who are at the mercy
of governmental agencies and sometimes
neighbors and friends who haven't seen
their affliction and haven't shown a per-
sonal interest in them, and then to see
what apparently was an almost wasted
life be enhanced and revived and a great
spirit come forth.
I've seen, as a Governor and as a local
official, and recently as President, the
complexity of dealing with the mental
health field. Because of a diversity of in-
terest and the complexity of responsible
groups who each have an almost fervent
commitment to do something for those
about whom we are concerned, I want to
do a good job as President and I want to
be able to achieve some progress in the
field of mental health.
But to sit, from my perspective in the
White House, in the Oval Office, and look
out, it is almost impossible to understand
what I ought to do.
I know Paul Rogers and the other
Congress members here have the same
frustration. There have been a number of
private groups formed, and there have
been a number of governmental agencies
at all levels of government formed. They
have got to be brought together.
Well, the cost is enormous. I think
Rosalynn and her group have computed
$37 billion in dollar cost. And this applies
to mental illness and mental retardation
and drug problems and emotional dis-
turbance and alcoholism. I want to be
sure that when we end this next few
months of study that we haven't rein-
vented the wheel, that we haven't re-
peated the superb work that has been
done in the past, that no group is
cluded from the process, and that we've
torn down the tight walls that sometimes
have been built around groups because
they didn't want to have someone else en-
croach on their special concern because
they were afraid that they might relin-
quish a chance to get their share of the
money and the care for people whom they
love so much.
185
