May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
United States Foreign
Intelligence Activities
Executive Order 11985. May 13, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, including the
National Security Act of 1947, as
amended, and as President of the United
States of America, in order to reflect cer-
tain organizational changes for the con-
trol and direction of intelligence activi-
ties, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Table of Contents of
Executive Order No. 11905 of February
18, 1976, is amended by deleting "Com-
mittee on Foreign Intelligence" and
"Operations Advisory Group" and sub-
stituting therefor "NSC Policy Review
Committee" and "NSC Special Coordi-
nation Committee" respectively.
SEC. 2. Section 2(d) of Executive Or-
der No. 11905 is amended by deleting
"Committee on Foreign Intelligence" and
substituting therefor "NSC Policy Review
Committee".
SEC. 3. Section 3(a) of Executive Or-
der No. 11905 is amended by adding
thereto the following new paragraph:
"(4) The National Security Council
Policy Review
Review Committee and the
National Security Council Special Coor-
dination Committee assist the National
Security Council in the performance of
its functions. Membership on each com-
mittee includes, in addition to the Na-
tional Security Council, such members as
the President may direct. In addition to
the performance of policy development
and coordination responsibilities which
may be assigned by the President, these
committees are responsible for those
duties specified by this Order.".
SEC. 4. Section 3(b) of Executive Or-
der No. 11905 is amended as follows:
(a) In the title, delete "Committee on
Foreign Intelligence" and substitute
therefor "NSC Policy Review Commit-
tee".
(b) Delete paragraph (1) and sub-
stitute the following new paragraph:
"(1) Whenever the NSC Policy Review
Committee, hereinafter referred to as the
PRC, performs the functions assigned in
this Order, the PRC shall be chaired by
the Director of Central Intelligence, here-
inafter referred to as the DCI, and
include as members the Deputy Secretary
of Defense, the Deputy Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs,
and a senior representative of the Secre-
tary of State.".
(c) In paragraphs (2) through (5),
delete "CFI" wherever it occurs and sub-
stitute therefor "PRC".
(d) Insert in paragraph (3) immedi-
ately after the word "supported" the
words "in its functions under this Order".
(e) Insert in paragraph (4) immedi-
ately after the last word the words “under
this Order".
(f) Insert in paragraph (5) immedi-
ately before the word "may" the words
"under this Order".
SEC. 5. Section 3(c) of Executive Or-
der No. 11905 is amended as follows:
(a) In the title, delete "The Opera-
tions Advisory Group" and substitute
therefor "NSC Special Coordination
Committee".
(b) Delete paragraph (1) and substi-
tute therefor the following new para-
graph:
"(1) Whenever the NSC Special Co-
ordination Committee, hereinafter re-
ferred to as the SCC, meets to perform
the functions assigned in this Order, the
SCC shall be chaired by the Assistant to
the President for National Security Af-
fairs and include the Secretary of State,
Secretary of Defense, Director of Central
Intelligence and Chairman of the Joint
880
