June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
gence data give a direction to the intelli-
gence community about the relative prior-
ities that are important.
In the past, the intelligence community
itself has set its own priorities. I think in
the future the Defense Department, State
Department, the President, and others
ought to set the priorities. But I don't have
any predisposition yet about the exact or-
ganizational structure.
One other comment is that I have met
with the congressional leaders about this
subject. My own hope is that if we can
reach reasonable agreement within the
executive branch, that we can work very
closely with the Congress in setting into
law the charge to the intelligence com-
munity and the organizational structure
of the intelligence community. So far this
has been done by Executive order.
But I think that progress is good. There
are bound to be differences of opinion and
strong differences of opinion. If they are
not resolved otherwise, I'll resolve them
myself.
ROBERT MENDELSOHN
Q. Mr. President, during the campaign
you advocated removing the regulatory
agencies and departments from the con-
trol of regulators too friendly with the
people they regulate, and you also advo-
cated environmental protection. Your
nominee for Assistant Secretary of the In-
terior for policy, budget, and administra-
tion, Robert Mendelsohn, of California,
has consistently voted against environ-
mental protection in favor of the inter-
ests of large campaign contributors as a
member of the California Coastal Zone
Conservation Commission.
However, since he began consulting for
the Interior Department in February, he
has accepted over $110,000 in campaign
contributions and/or forgiven loans from
the same interests. In view of your state-
ments and his record, why have you nom-
inated him to this position of influence
over the Government's environmental
protection efforts?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar
with this record that you have described,
but I will immediately become more fa-
miliar with it. [Laughter] And if there are
conflicts of interest, we can always change
the appointment if it is in error.
I believe, however, that as a general
rule that my nominations and my selec-
tions for important positions relating to
the environment have been overwhelm-
ingly approved by environmental groups,
quite often who are very
fervent and very
demanding and whose standards are very
strict. But in this particular instance, I
am not familiar with it. But I will let you
know later on if you will check with me.
¹On May 5, the President had nominated
Robert H. Mendelsohn to be Assistant Secretary
of the Interior for Management, Program De-
velopment, and Budget.
At his news conference at the White House
on June 14, Press Secretary Jody Powell made
the following statement:
There was a question yesterday with regard
to a nomination of Mr. Bob Mendelsohn, which
unfortunately contained some allegations
against him which are not true. And I think, in
addition to the fact we promised to respond on
the question, it is important that the record
be set straight with regard to this individual
to the extent it can be.
I might say to begin with that everything
which I am now about to tell you has been
available on the public record for a matter of
weeks, if not months. There have been in the
past several weeks extensive committee hear-
ings and several press statements from Interior
on this specific matter, so that none of this
information, in fact, was in a position that was
not available to any reporter that wanted to
look for it.
A question was raised about a fundraising
event which Mr. Mendelsohn had. Let me say
that event took place only after checking with
the counsel in this office and at Interior. It took
place before his nomination to the Senate.
Every contributor to that fundraiser was
screened by the White House counsel and the
counsel of Interior to make sure that they were
1104
