Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
nationwide evaluation of the water supply
needs and availability for development of
various energy resources. He should pre-
pare his report in cooperation with the
Water Resources Council, the Adminis-
trator of the Energy Research and De-
velopment Administration, and other
federal agencies.
The newly enacted Coal Leasing
Amendments and the Federal Land Man-
agement and Policy Act provide the Sec-
retary of the Interior with the necessary
authority to carry out environmentally
sound, comprehensive planning for the
public lands. His duty now is to implement
an affirmative program for managing coal
lands and associated resources in a man-
ner that fully protects the public interest
and respects the rights of private surface
owners.
To accomplish this, I am directing the
Secretary of the Interior to manage the
coal leasing program to assure that it can
respond to reasonable production goals by
leasing only those areas where mining is
environmentally acceptable and compati-
ble with other land uses. Specifically:
• The Secretary of the Interior, using
environmental reviews, coal assessments,
and indications of market interest, should
determine which lands are appropriate to
offer for lease.
Land use plans should be completed
before a decision to offer specific tracts
for sale.
• No tract should be leased unless the
Secretary is satisfied that the environmen-
tal impact of mining would be acceptable
and that the federal government will re-
ceive a fair market value for the lease.
In response to concern about the large
numbers of non-producing federal coal
leases in the Western states, I am direct-
ing the Secretary of the Interior to scruti-
nize the existing leases (and applications
for preference right leases) to determine
whether they show prospects for timely
development in an environmentally ac-
ceptable manner. He should take what-
ever steps are necessary to deal with non-
producing and environmentally unsatis-
factory leases and applications. These may
include the following:
• Exchange of environmentally unsat-
isfactory leases or application for environ-
mentally acceptable coal lands of equiva-
lent value;
• Reassessment of the basis for grant-
ing or denying preference right leases;
• Submission of legislation to authorize
the condemnation of outstanding rights
upon payment of reasonable compensa-
tion, if necessary to prevent environmen-
tal damage.
III. THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT
The National Environmental Policy
Act speaks of the need to assure every
American safe and healthful surround-
ings in which to live and work. For many
of our citizens in urban areas, this goal is
still remote.
Many existing environmental protec-
tion programs directly benefit the cities,
of course, because that is where most of
our pollution problems are. For example,
controls on the emission of lead from
automobile exhaust are of serious concern
to inner-city residents. And as water pol-
lution programs make rivers and streams
cleaner, there will be more recreational
opportunities in urban areas.
City life need not be a discouraging
struggle against adversity; it can be an
enriching experience. But it will take
more than stopping pollution to make our
cities the congenial, livable places they
ought to be.
To halt the degradation of the urban
environment and to conserve and develop
its rich historic and physical resources,
the place to begin is with the neighbor-
hoods themselves. In the past, wholesale
destruction and rebuilding have led to a
975
