May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tenant Governor Merv Dymally, and fel-
low farmers:
I'm glad to be out of the White House
back into one of the most beautiful farm-
ing areas in the whole world. Thank you
for coming out to meet me.
This is my third trip to the Fresno Air-
port. This is the largest crowd I've ever
had, and I've got the largest plane I ever
had.
Part of the reason that I have the large
plane and the large crowd is your own
confidence in me. And one of the reasons
that I wanted to come here today is to
learn at first hand, as a farmer, myself,
and as a President, about the special prob-
lems that face our country because of your
own drought conditions.
When we came in from Los Angeles,
we passed over Fresno and went up into
the mountain area to look at the water
reservoirs that ordinarily this time of year
are filled to the brim by melting snow.
They're almost empty, and there is very
little snow, if any, in the mountains.
There's no way that any of us, includ-
ing the President, can make it rain. But
we can share the experience of prospec-
tive agricultural disaster by making very
careful plans ahead of time and by under-
standing the consequences of a lack of
rain.
We all know that you've already suf-
fered. The first ones who feel the effect
of drought are the cattle producers who
have had to start depleting their crop-
their herds, by sale of even breeding stock,
because of the high cost of hay and the
lack of adequate grazing land.
Areas which ordinarily are natural
grazing areas, instead of being a beautiful,
springtime green are a brown color. And
we know also that the recreation areas in
the mountains, the ski resorts are suffer-
ing very badly.
Water levels are falling underground,
and some of the irrigation ditches that
ordinarily bring in water to replenish your
underground supplies are bone dry. This
is a time of careful planning for the future
between the Federal Government, the
State and local governments, and the
farmers and residents in this beautiful
supply area for food.
We now have a total Federal drought
program that consists of about $1,200
million. About $400 million of this money
will be available for direct grants in aid
for the farm areas. About $800 million of
that total are available for guaranteed or
low-interest loans. But this is not going to
be an adequate amount if you don't re-
ceive rain this year and snow in your
mountains next winter. We all pray that
we'll return to a normal degree of rain
and snowfall. But if not, we ought to
make plans now on how we can use a
limited supply of money and a limited
reservoir of water in the most careful and
conservative fashion.
We need to start thinking about deeper
wells. I think you still have an adequate
area to go and deeper supplies of water
before you hit the salt water content that
would be damaging to your crops. We
need to make sure that we shift very
rapidly to the kinds of irrigation that
don't waste water. The drip area, the drip
supply system, which was developed in
Israel, is now being used, which makes
every drop of water go a maximum degree
in growing a crop.
We need to make plans to be sure that
the surface of small reservoirs is covered
with materials that cut down on the
amount of evaporation, and everyone who
lives in an urban area needs to be aware
that when you use an extra gallon of
water, it robs you in the future.
I'm very proud of the resilience and
the strength and the courage and the in-
916
