Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 4
THE PRESIDENT. We are very proud of
you.
The President spoke at 2:40 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. He
presented the award to entertainer Minnie
Riperton on behalf of the American Cancer
Society.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress Transmitting
the Deferrals. April 4, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
two new deferrals of Energy Research
and Development Administration funds
totaling $127.2 million. The deferrals
have no effect on budgetary outlays for
fiscal year 1977 or subsequent years. In
addition, I am reporting a revision to a
previously transmitted Department of
Commerce deferral.
The details of each deferral are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
April 4, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachment detailing the defer-
rals is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
April 8, 1977.
The message was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
to honor one of my very close, personal
friends.
I've been looking forward to the visit
by President Sadat for a long time. I
think everyone that I've talked to who's
been to Egypt, no matter what their po-
litical persuasion might be or under what
circumstances they went to that great
country, have come back impressed with
him.
He's a man from a small village. And
when I met with him early this morning,
he said that the consciousness of the vil-
lagers was the guiding concept in his own
political life--a commitment to the close-
ness of families, a pledge to the individual
human being and the individuality that
exists there; an unswerving religious com-
mitment, a pride in one's heritage. And
no nation on Earth has a heritage as
admirable as does the country of Egypt.
He talked to me about the need for his
visiting his home people frequently to re-
cement his ties with the people of Egypt
who look to him for great leadership.
He's a man who, when he first took
office, played a strong role in the estab-
lishment of a firm commitment to basic
human rights. Although they were turbu-
lent times, the release of political prison-
ers was an instantaneous action on his
part.
He's a man who has been courageous
in proposing, boldly, new ideas and new
concepts which might be the basis for
peace in his troubled region of the world.
I've found, and all the visitors to Egypt
Visit of President Sadat of Egypt have found, that he's a man of superb
Toasts of the President and President Sadat
at a Dinner Honoring the Egyptian
President. April 4, 1977
PRESIDENT CARTER. First of all, I'd like to
say how grateful I am to all the Members
of the Congress and distinguished guests
who have come here tonight to be with us
frankness; if he believes something, he
tells you.
You never know from one moment to
another exactly how political conse-
quences might evolve. But he analyzes
complicated issues and is able to express
himself quickly and clearly. He's a man
of his word, and within the Arab nations,
567
