May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I think that the unfortunate experience
that we had in Vietnam has impressed on
the American people deeply, and I hope
permanently, the danger of our country
resorting to military means in a distant
place on Earth when our own security is
not being threatened, except under those
conditions as it relates to approved treaties
that have in effect been ratified by the
American people, as is the case with, say,
Japan and NATO.
FOREIGN POLICY
MR. DIMBLEBY. Mr. President, our
time is coming towards a close. Can I just
ask you lastly, you came into this office in
January very confident about how you
would handle it, not particularly im-
pressed by people who had done it before
you, thinking you would be able to do it
perfectly well with your own achieve-
ments.
Are you chastened in any way by the
difference between what you found since
you came into office and what you ex-
pected when you first walked into the
White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have been al-
most permanently chastened in my own
political career. I have had victories and
defeats. I have had high expectations and
some of those haven't been realized. But
on the whole I have been very pleased,
and I see the future of my own adminis-
tration of the Nation which I serve and of
the world community in which we play a
part as being one that provides me with a
great deal of hope and expectation for
improvement.
I do feel chastened, to use your word,
to the extent that I know I have got a lot
to learn. I see that there is now way for us
to make progress without the closest pos-
sible harmony, consultation with our allies
and our friends, who share with us the
blessings of strong and viable economy
and free people. That's why the summit is
so important to me and to the people of
the United States. I hope that I can con-
tribute something as we meet with other
leaders, but I am going to learn as well.
I am not an expert on finance. I know
that the Chancellor of Germany, the
Prime Minister of Great Britain, the
Prime Minister of Japan have all been
finance ministers. I expect to learn a lot
from them.
MR. DE LA TAILLE. The French Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. And the French Presi-
dent, too.
I think to the extent that we can under-
stand each other and see our common
problems and derive strength from one
another, I think to that extent we can ap-
proach the future with confidence and
hope and the expectation of progress.
I feel very good about the future.
MR. DIMBLEBY. Mr. President, thank
you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:35 a.m. in
the Library at the White House. It was trans-
mitted via satellite to London where it was
videotaped for broadcast on the BBC and on
member stations of the European Broadcast
Union.
Welfare
Welfare Reform
Remarks at a News Briefing on Goals
and Guidelines. May 2, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This afternoon I have
an explanation to make concerning a basic
undertaking that we assumed shortly after
I became President. I announced that a
comprehensive reform of the Nation's wel-
fare system would be one of our first pri-
orities. Under the general leadership of
Secretary of HEW Califano, we've
worked with other private and Govern-
ment agencies during the last 3 months to
770
