Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I want each of you and your staff to co-
operate fully with the Commission on
Federal Paperwork, which is pursuing a
broad inquiry into matters relating to
paperwork generated by Federal agencies
and its impact on the public.
Finally, report to OMB by March 31
the goal of your agency for reduction of
required reporting which will be achieved
by September 30, 1977, plus other recom-
mendations concerning legislation and co-
operation with other agencies.
JIMMY CARTER
Landing Rights for the Concorde
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. February 16, 1977
During the last few days, Prime Minis-
ter Callaghan of the United Kingdom
and President Giscard d'Estaing of
France sent personal messages to the Pres-
ident on the subject of landing rights for
the Concorde aircraft at John F. Ken-
nedy Airport in New York, on a 16-month
trial basis, as provided for in the decision
of former Secretary of Transportation
Coleman on February 4, 1976.
Yesterday, the President replied to
these messages, indicating that he shared
the desire of the two European leaders to
approach this matter in a way that reflects
the close friendship between our coun-
tries.
The President stated that he cannot di-
rect the Port of New York Authority or
the Governor of New York to reach a
particular decision that is theirs alone to
decide.
He further stated, however, that this
administration will reaffirm the 16-month
trial period for Concorde landings as pro-
posed in the decision of former Secretary
of Transportation Coleman. This position,
of course, does not prejudice the outcome
of the administration's later decision on
whether Concorde should be given perma-
nent permission to and at United States
airports.
The President further expressed his
hope that this action will be a basis for
reaffirming the close ties between the
United States and Britain and France as
we work together to meet problems that
we face in common.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at his February 16 news conference
at the White House. It was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
Visit of President López Portillo
of Mexico
United States-Mexico Joint
Communique. February 17, 1977
President Jimmy Carter of the United
States of America and President José Ló-
pez Portillo of the United Mexican States,
during two days of discussions in Wash-
ington, reconfirmed the special impor-
tance each places on close and friendly re-
lations between the two neighboring na-
tions. The two Presidents pledged that
they would examine closely in the next
few months the multiple aspects of the re-
lations between Mexico and the United
States with a view to developing pol-
icies that reflected the interrelated nature
of mutual problems. The two Presidents
concluded that the primary objective of
each government would be to develop a
mutually beneficial relationship that
would contribute to the well-being of their
nations. To this end they agreed to meet
to review progress in the development of
comprehensive policies of each of their
governments.
The two Presidents also discussed the
global situation and agreed to consult reg-
178
