Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Each new inventory of world oil reserves has been more disturbing
than the last. World oil production can probably keep going up for an-
other 6 or 8 years. But sometime in the 1980's, it can't go up any more.
Demand will overtake production. We have no choice about that.
But we do have a choice about how we will spend the next few years.
Each American uses the energy equivalent of 60 barrels of oil per person
each year. Ours is the most wasteful nation on Earth. We waste more
energy than we import. With about the same standard of living, we use
twice as much energy per person as do other countries like Germany,
Japan, and Sweden.
One choice, of course, is to continue doing what we've been doing
before. We can drift along for a few more years.
Our consumption of oil would keep going up every year. Our cars
would continue to be too large and inefficient. Three-quarters of them
would carry only one person-the driver—while our public transportation
system continues to decline. We can delay insulating our homes, and they
will continue to lose about 50 percent of their heat in waste. We can con-
tinue using scarce oil and natural gas to generate electricity and continue
wasting two-thirds of their fuel value in the process.
If we do not act, then by 1985 we will be using 33 percent more
energy than we use today.
We can't substantially increase our domestic production, so we
would need to import twice as much oil as we do now. Supplies will be
uncertain. The cost will keep going up. Six years ago, we paid $3.7 billion
for imported oil. Last year we spent $36 billion for imported oil—nearly
10 times as much. And this year we may spend $45 billion.
Unless we act, we will spend more than $550 billion for imported
oil by 1985-more than $2,500 for every man, woman, and child in
America. Along with that money that we transport overseas, we will con-
tinue losing American jobs and become increasingly vulnerable to supply
interruptions.
Now we have a choice. But if we wait, we will constantly live in fear
of embargoes. We could endanger our freedom as a sovereign nation to
act in foreign affairs. Within 10 years, we would not be able to import
enough oil from any country, at any acceptable price.
If we wait and do not act, then our factories will not be able to
keep our people on the job with reduced supplies of fuel.
Too few of our utility companies will have switched to coal, which
is our most abundant energy source. We will not be ready to keep our
658
