Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 4
ing as head of the U.S. delegation to the
Fourth Session of the Diplomatic Con-
ference on the Reaffirmation and De-
velopment of International Humanitarian
Law Applicable in Armed Conflicts. The
conference is scheduled to be held in
Geneva, Switzerland, from March 17
through June 10, 1977.
Aldrich is currently a deputy legal ad-
viser of the Department of State. From
1965 to 1969, he was assistant legal ad-
viser for East Asian and Pacific Affairs in
the State Department, and from 1963 to
1965 he was legal adviser to the U.S.
delegation to the North Atlantic Council
in Paris.
Aldrich was chairman of the U.S. dele-
gation to the 1971 and 1972 Geneva
Conferences of Government Experts on
International Humanitarian Law Appli-
cable in Armed Conflicts and to the 1974,
1975, and 1976 Diplomatic Conferences
on the same subject.
Aldrich was legal adviser to Dr. Henry
Kissinger for the Vietnam negotiations in
Paris in 1972 and 1973, and principal
crafter of the protocols to the Agreement
on Ending the War and Restoring the
Peace in Vietnam.
He was also head of the U.S. delega-
tion to the Conference of Government
Experts on Possible Prohibitions or Re-
strictions on the Use of Certain Conven-
tional Weapons in Lugano, Switzerland,
in 1976.
Airline Industry Regulation
Message to the Congress. March 4, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As a first step toward our shared goal
of a more efficient less burdensome Fed-
eral government, I urge the Congress to
reduce Federal regulation of the domestic
commercial airline industry.
One of my Administration's major
goals is to free the American people from
the burden of over-regulation. We must
look, industry by industry, at what effect
regulation has-whether it protects the
public interest, or whether it simply blunts
the healthy forces of competition, inflates
prices, and discourages business innova-
tion. Whenever it seems likely that the
free market would better serve the public,
we will eliminate government regulation.
This will take time, careful study, and
extensive participation by all affected par-
ties. But we can start with domestic com-
mercial aviation, an area where Congress
has already led the way toward regulation
reform.
The statute which governs this industry
has not been fundamentally changed
since it was first enacted in 1938. At that
time, the aviation industry was in its in-
fancy. Many people believed that, unless
the government intervened to set prices
and control competition, the industry
would never develop in a sensible way.
Since 1938, the industry has grown
enormously. The regulatory scheme de-
signed nearly 40 years ago to protect a
developing industry is no longer suited to
today's mature industry. Regulation, once
designed to serve the interests of the pub-
lic, now stifles competition. It has dis-
couraged new, innovative air carriers
from offering their services and it has
denied consumers lower fares where they
are possible.
The effect of such regulation has been
recently documented. Since 1950 the
Civil Aeronautics Board has received ap-
proximately 80 applications to enter
scheduled trunk service from firms out-
side the industry. It has granted none.
On February 23, 1977, the General Ac-
counting Office released a report which
shows that regulation of domestic airlines
has kept air travel costs up. The report
concludes that:
277
