Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 7
Q. Will you have a confrontation with
Schmidt tomorrow?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We're going to
have breakfast in the morning at 7:30.
Q. It's a lot different than the first
summit, isn't it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:33 p.m. on
his return to Winfield House, following the
dinner at the Prime Minister's residence, 10
Downing Street, for heads of state and minis-
ters who were in London to attend the inter-
national economic summit meeting.
United States Circuit Court
Judgeships
Appointment of Five Merit Selection Panels
To Recommend Nominees for the Positions.
May 7, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of five merit selection panels
to recommend nominees for United
States circuit court judgeships.
The five panels are the first of 13 to be
named by President Carter in accordance
with an Executive order he signed on
February 15. The Executive order calls
for one panel for each judicial circuit and
two panels each for the geographically
large fifth and ninth circuits.
Each panel has 11 members. They will
submit, within 60 days, five names from
which the President may select a nominee.
The panels announced today will fill
one vacancy each in the first and the
eastern and western fifth circuits and two
vacancies each in the sixth and southern
ninth circuits. (The only other current
vacancies are in the tenth and fourth
circuits.)
Letters have been sent by President
Carter to the five panels announced today
specifying the States or other areas from
which the President wishes the panel to
select candidates. The President's choice
of States was based on tradition, popula-
tion, and share of the circuit's workload.
The vacancies for which the panels will
recommend nominees, and the areas from
which they will choose, are as follows:
In the first circuit, for the vacancy
created by the retirement of Edward W.
McEntee, candidates to be chosen from
New Hampshire and Puerto Rico;
In the eastern fifth circuit, for the va-
cancy created by the retirement of Walter
P. Gewin, candidates to be chosen from
Alabama;
In the western fifth circuit, for the va-
cancy created by the retirement of John
Minor Wisdom, candidates to be chosen
from Louisiana;
In the sixth circuit, for the vacancy
created by the death of William E. Miller,
candidates to be chosen from Tennessee;
and for the vacancy created by the retire-
ment of Wade H. McCree, candidates to
be chosen from Michigan;
In the southern ninth circuit, for the
vacancy created by the retirement of Ben
C. Duniway, candidates to be chosen from
Nevada; and for the vacancy created by
the retirement of Richard H. Chambers,
candidates to be chosen from Arizona.
Members of the panels announced to-
day are:
For the first circuit:
PAUL A. FREUND, professor of law, Harvard,
Cambridge, Mass., Chairman
RAE B. CONDON, executive director, Governor's
Commission on Conflict of Interest, Provi-
dence, R.I.
SHANE DEVINE, attorney, Manchester, N.H.
CAROLYN DIK, activist on court reform, Wor-
cester, Mass.
RICHARD K. DONAHUE, attorney, Lowell,
Mass.
DANIEL M. KEYES, JR., attorney, Springfield,
Mass.
REV. THOMAS R. PETERSON, president, Prov-
idence College, Providence, R.I.
MARTIN A. ROGOFF, professor of law, Univer-
sity of Maine, Portland, Maine
815
