Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
• Prohibit U.S. firms from responding
to requests for boycott-related infor-
mation;
• Prohibit the use of so-called negative
certificates of origin within a year of
enactment.
At the same time, the agreement sup-
ports limited exceptions which recognize
that other countries, like the United
States, may seek to impose their own laws
within their own countries.
I urge the Senate, and the Congress,
to adopt these agreed upon amendments
to the anti-foreign boycott legislation.
With adoption of the amendments, I be-
lieve passage of this legislation can occur
very soon, and I look forward to signing
the legislation.
American Society of Newspaper
Editors
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session by Telephone With Members
of the Society. May 3, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
how delighted I am to have a chance to
talk to all of the newspaper editors who
are assembled in Honolulu. I would like
very much to be there myself. As George
has just pointed out, I missed the last an-
nual meeting and hope that next year
I can be with you.
I understand that I am supposed to
give you a 3- or 4-minute summary of the
first hundred days and then respond to
questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I would like to say that the basic thrust
of my own administration in its early life
has been to try to carry out the campaign
commitments that I made for the last 2
years, without regard to the difficulty of
the questions that we face and regardless
of how long they've been either deliber-
ately ignored or avoided by officials in
past administrations.
We've already completed work on a
comprehensive national energy policy
which has been very well received, I think,
in the Congress, and particularly in for-
eign countries. And the American reac-
tion has been favorable to a degree that
surprised me. We've now got authority to
reorganize the executive branch of Gov-
ernment, which is what we wanted. We've
done a great deal of work on a compre-
hensive welfare reform package that will
be presented to the Congress in the legis-
lative form prior to their summer work
period in August.
Within the next 2 weeks, I'll have a
proposal to the Congress on illegal aliens,
or undocumented workers. This has been
a growing problem. We now have, per-
haps, more than a million a year who en-
ter our country from other nations
illegally.
I've made proposals to the Soviet Un-
ion on nuclear weapons, advocating-
and I will continue to advocate-substan-
tial reductions in the level of armaments.
We have taken a very controversial posi-
tion that has aggravated some of our nat-
ural allies and trading partners on the
control of proliferation of nuclear explo-
sive capability. This relates almost directly
to international energy supplies in the fu-
ture, and this is one of the things that
we will be discussing at the summit meet-
ing beginning this weekend in London.
We are trying to get both supplier na-
tions and consumer nations to hold down
purchases of conventional arms, particu-
larly the sales to the developing nations
of the world.
I have issued a statement today an-
nouncing and endorsing, I believe, a reso-
lution to the very controversial issue of the
antiboycott legislation. We've empha-
789
