Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
common sense would suggest that since
there have been three summits at some
point there will be a fourth. But I don't
have the faintest intention when that will
be, faintest idea when that will be. As to
NATO summits, we know when the next
one will be. It will presumably be in May
of 1978 in Washington.
WEAPONS SYSTEMS
Q. Did any specific weapons come up,
the F-16 or AWACS?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. No. There were
no discussions of specific weapons issues.
Yes, someone back there. I can't see
that far.
EUROCOMMUNISM
Q. Sir, in the past there have been
rather dire, prolonged-
AMBASSADOR OWEN. I can't hear you.
Can you come a little bit forward?
Q. In the past, sir, there have been
rather dire warnings given lest any of the
NATO governments included or broad-
ened their base of Government including
that Alliance NATO. And I would sus-
pect that would govern future French at-
tendance, as it has governed past French
attendance at NATO heads of govern-
ment meetings.
Any other questions? Thank you very
much.
REPORTER. Thank you.
MR. POWELL. Let me elaborate on one
response here. With regard to U.S. posi-
tion on application or admittance of Spain
to NATO, I believe the time that the
Spanish President of government was in
Washington, that he was told by President
Carter that at such time as Spain might
wish to apply for membership, that the
United States was prepared to support
that application with, of course, the un-
derstanding that the view of the organi-
zation will prevail.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 5:40 p.m. in the press center at the Churchill
Hotel in London.
communism? Was there any discussion or Meetings in London and Geneva
was that at any time brought up?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. The question
was: Was there any discussion of includ-
ing Communists in NATO governments.
The answer is no. The issue did not arise.
Any other questions?
FUTURE SUMMIT MEETINGS
Q. Sir, is it reasonable to suppose that
all the chiefs of government would attend
the next NATO summit?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. Of course, the
French head of government does not at-
tend NATO meetings. He didn't attend
this meeting, and I would be surprised if
he attended the next meeting.
As you know, the position of the French
Government is it belongs to the Alliance,
and is a cooperative and faithful member
of the Alliance, but it does not belong to
the organization which was created by
Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
Following the Meetings. May 10, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, could you sum
up the results of this visit here?
THE PRESIDENT. The whole visit?
Well, it's been very productive for me.
I had a chance to meet with more than a
dozen heads of state, many of whom I had
not known before, and I learned from
each conversation about their own par-
ticular country's needs and opportunities.
So I was a good student.
I think I've been extremely impressed
with the genuine outpouring of friendship
and affection by the British people toward
our own country.
And this has been very stimulating to
me. I've had a renewed confidence in the
strength of the Western democratic socie-
ties, and I believe that this confidence is
857
