Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
GREGORY H. CANAVAN, 33, of Falls Church,
Va., Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Air Force,
Program Manager for Advanced Laser Re-
search, Advance Research Projects Agency,
Arlington;
MARTHA A. DARLING, 32, of Seattle, Wash.,
executive director, Governor's Select Panel
on the Department of Social and Health
Services, Olympia;
NELSON A. DIAZ, 30, of Mt. Holly, N.J., execu-
tive director, Spanish Merchants Associa-
tion, Philadelphia, Pa.;
THOMAS M. Downs, 33, of Leavenworth,
Kans., city manager, city of Leavenworth;
THOMAS E. HARVEY, 35, of New York, N.Y.,
attorney, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & Mc-
Cloy, New York City;
BEVERLY J. HAWKINS, 30, of Los Angeles,
Calif., instructor, School of Public Adminis-
tration, University of Southern California,
and policy consultant to Councilman Robert
Farrell, city of Los Angeles;
ROBERT O. HEAVNER, 35, of Colorado Springs,
Colo., Major, U.S. Air Force, associate pro-
fessor, U.S. Air Force Academy;
JAMES S. JARDINE, 30, of Salt Lake City, Utah,
associate, Ray, Quinney & Nebeker, attor-
neys, Salt Lake City;
ROBERT R. KING, 34, formerly of Wyoming,
assistant director of research, Radio Free
Europe, Munich, Federal Republic of Ger-
many;
JACK A. LECUYER, 34, of West Point, N.Y.,
Major, U.S. Army, instructor in economics
and international relations, U.S. Military
Academy, West Point;
J. STUART LEMLE, 28, formerly of White
Plains, N.Y., Fulbright Fellow, New Delhi,
India;
LOUISE L. LIANG, M.D., 27, of Grosse Pointe
Park, Mich., division head, division of pedi-
atrics and adolescent medicine, Henry Ford
Hospital, Dearborn;
BRYANT L. YOUNG, 28, of San Francisco,
Calif., attorney, Dinkelspiel, Pelavin, Steefel
& Levitt, San Francisco.
The White House Fellowship program
was established in 1964 to provide out-
standing young Americans with firsthand
experience in the process of governing the
Nation. It is open to U.S. citizens from
all occupations and professions. (Employ-
ees of the Federal Government are not
eligible, with the exception of career
Armed Forces personnel.)
In addition to their educational assign-
ments with the Vice President, members
of the Cabinet, and members of the White
House staff, the Fellows participate in an
extensive seminar program that typically
includes some 300 off-record sessions with
top Government officials, scholars, jour-
nalists, and leaders from various other
segments of private life.
Leadership, intellectual and profes-
sional ability, and a commitment to com-
munity and Nation are the broad criteria
employed in the selection process.
Applications for the 1978-79 program
will be available in August 1977. Appli-
cation forms and additional information
on the program can be obtained by send-
ing a postcard to the President's Commis-
sion on White House Fellowships, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20415, or by calling (202)
653-6263.
Corporate Fund for the
Performing Arts at
Kennedy Center
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the
Corporate Fund. May 23, 1977
First of all, let me thank all of you for
coming out this afternoon to what I be-
lieve will be a very important and perhaps
even historic meeting.
One of the finite aspects of our own sys-
tem of life, our political structure, our
economic structure, and our social struc-
ture is a pride that we have in an ability
of people to excel and a proper interrela-
tionship between government and our
private citizens.
We've always felt that music, art,
drama ought to be available to people
without regard to their social or economic
status, and I think it's only been in recent
times that the focal point of our own Na-
987
