Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
must save oil and gas for uses where there
is no good substitute. One obvious ex-
ample is moving vehicles. We must shift
to other sources when possible, and we
must develop new sources, such as solar
energy.
There are no workers in America
whose future jobs depend more than
yours on a good energy program based on
strict conservation. Now, you know and I
know that meeting our energy goals is not
going to be easy. It will require sacrifice
from everyone in the country.
We cannot use the fuel crisis as an ex-
cuse for not cleaning up our air. I have
proposed tough but fair air pollution
standards. We've got to improve the effi-
ciency of our cars, and that's why I pro-
posed a gas-guzzler tax.
Now you and I have honest differences
of opinion over some aspects of my pro-
posals. But I don't hesitate to call on you
for help, because I know what you've done
in the past. You've never lost sight of the
broader interests of our Nation. Walter
Reuther helped to make possible the
Clean Air Act as it was originally passed.
And your members are already building
cars highly efficient, getting more than 30
miles per gallon.
It's absolutely inevitable, no matter
who's the President of the United States,
that we will have to shift to more efficient
automobiles with a clean exhaust. This
past quarter, unfortunately, a larger per-
centage of Americans bought foreign-
made cars than ever before. Now, I know
that you agree that the solution is not to
erect trade barriers to keep out foreign
competition because it only leads to trade
wars, to retaliation, and added inflation.
The solution lies in using our great Amer-
ican ingenuity to design and produce the
right cars for the future.
I can think of no more disastrous as-
sumption for the American automobile
industry to make than that we cannot
successfully compete with foreign com-
panies that produce and sell such cars.
We can compete, and we will compete
successfully.
Now I want to discuss something that's
important to you and me both—our social
security system. This is a problem for all
Western democracies. Social security,
which is probably the greatest legacy left
over for us from the New Deal, has served
us now for 40 years. But since 1975, social
security has been paying out more than
it's been taking in. Unless we take action
now, the Disability Insurance Fund's re-
serves will be gone in 2 years, and the
retirement reserves will be gone 4 years
from then.
Some have proposed a simple solution
for this: to tax the American worker to
the hilt. Well, we are not going to do
that. Too many people are already pay-
ing more payroll taxes than they do in-
come taxes, and we are not going to go
this route to save the social security sys-
tem. And we are not going to let social
security go broke.
We're going to keep faith with the 33
million Americans who already enjoy so-
cial security benefits and with the 104
million of us, who are paying into the so-
cial security system with the expectation
that we will receive benefits when we re-
tire, or when we become disabled, or those
that are necessary to take care of our fam-
ilies if something happens to us.
Now, there's no easy answer, but the
changes that I have already submitted to
the Congress will make social security fi-
nancially sound for the rest of the century
and will correct most of the problems for
the next 75 years and without a higher
tax rate than already scheduled by law
for the average wage earner. I'm going to
need your help in Congress to get this
bill passed, and I hope you'll help me
with it.
891
