Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 18
Dr. Schlesinger and Cecil Andrus have
spent hours delineating properly the re-
sponsibilities as they relate to energy. We
anticipate the creation of a new energy
department and we will make this pro-
posal to the Congress no later than the
first of March.
I am interested, as a businessman and
as an ancient scientist, in the proper man-
agement of my own responsibilities and in
the reorganization of the Government and
the preparation of zero-base budgeting
techniques, personnel management, elec-
tronic data processing. I want to make
sure that we make it easier for you to ex-
pend your own professional careers in a
much more effective way.
This will involve you directly, and it is
very important that you respond in an at-
titude of enthusiasm and vision. If things
of the past have been good, let's preserve
them. If there is a better way to do things
for the people of this country, let's not be
reluctant to change.
In the area of water resources, the con-
struction of dams, and other projects, I
want to be sure that in the future these
projects are assessed on the basis of mod-
ern economic circumstances and that we
inject into the process of authorization for
existing and future projects the very im-
portant characteristic of conservation and
environmental quality. I hope that we can
start a program which is similar to the
one that I had in Georgia, called the Her-
itage Trust, to inventory the precious
places in our country in a systematic way
and to move working with private and
local and State agencies to establish those
that are of highest priority, and to make
sure that they are preserved for future
generations.
I could go on and on listing things that
come to my mind as I stand here about
the responsibilities of your own Depart-
ment. But I think in order to make this
meeting more productive for you and
more enjoyable for me, I won't continue
with other remarks, except I would ask
you now if you have any questions that
you would like to ask me. Cecil Andrus is
close and I will let him answer the ques-
tions that I can't answer myself.
Does anyone have a question?
QUESTIONS
TELEVISION AND THE DEAF
in the TV call-in program, which allows
Q. Most deaf people are very interested
for a jab at you. How do you feel about
using Channel 21 for that purpose? [In-
audible]
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine, thank you.
[The President communicated in sign lan-
guage.] Just so you don't confuse me with
Nelson Rockefeller, that means I love you.
[Laughter]
When I have made by inauguration
speeches and when I have been around
to visit with the departments, I have al-
ways requested through my staff that in-
terpreters might be present to speak to
those who are deaf.
I think that perhaps in response to your
question I could direct a letter to the
leaders of all the television networks in the
country and ask them to make a special
effort in the future to open up to the deaf
people of our country a way to understand
the program. So, before the day is over,
this letter will be in the mail to those net-
work executives.
FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT OF INDIANS
Q. Mr. President, the 94th Congress
passed a bill, H.R. 5465, which provided
for early retirement of non-Indian Bureau
of Indian Affairs employees. The major
objective of that legislation was to allow
the Indian people to more fully direct the
operations of the key governmental activ-
ities which so vitally affects their daily
lives. This legislation, supported by the
199
