Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
The President. Thank you. The Sec-
retary of Interior said he's familiar with
that problem.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Except Agricul-
ture has the Forest Service, but I know
what you're talking about.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Randolph?
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President,
not only is your reorganization of the Fed-
eral structure important—and I commend
you for it—but we've tried to do that in
the Senate of the United States and in the
House, as you know. For example, with
Ed here sitting at my right, we have
changed the name of our committee from
the Public Works Committee to Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee. I
think this is just an indication, hopefully,
of the commitment on Capitol Hill to the
quality of life in which we can all join in
a common purpose in the future.
Mr. President, West Virginians have
not only respect for you, we have great
confidence in your ability to do the job.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir, very
much.
Mayor Hutchinson?
MAYOR HUTCHINSON. Mr. President, I
think that at all levels of government the
greatest challenge is the lack of credibility
between the governmental leaders. It's a
problem which your administration is at-
tacking head-on, which I think is ex-
cellent.
I would like to add, to Doug, when you
said that EPA had a lot to learn out in the
field, you can add the letters FEA to that.
But, Mr. President, as a followup to
this type of thing, if this type of meeting
deserves additional attention in the fu-
ture, if the meeting itself cannot be re-
structured as it is today, a year from now
new lines of communications be opened
up between people that are here and
direct representatives of your administra-
tion-I think if you do nothing more than
that, you've done a great thing for this
country.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Mayor.
Herbert Jones?
MR. JONES. Mr. President, lest the
capital of the world be moved from Wash-
ington to the Persian Gulf by this great
outflow of capital, I think we need to in-
crease coal production. And the coal
industry certainly stands ready to do its
share and cooperate any way we can.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Judy?
Ms. STEPHENSON. Well, it seems we
concluded we need coal, and I'm sure if
there's money in it, somebody will find a
way to mine it. And I think that in the
energy policy we should think very much
in terms of something we haven't unfor-
tunately thought of in the past, and that's
the ultimate public interest, sometimes
versus various things, including private
profit.
And I would suggest that with H.R. 2,
that the regulations of H.R. 2 be strongly
enforced. It adds to the credibility of the
Government, plus it will protect us here.
The other thing I'd like to second, what
Mayor Hutchinson
Mayor Hutchinson said, we do need
avenues that we know are there and that
we can use, and we need to know that
they're open for us.
THE PRESIDENT. They are open.
Mr. Secretary?
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Mr. President, I
just underscore what Doug Costle said a
moment ago. We've learned a lot. I would
hope that we'll force ourselves, even in
the crunch of time, to come back to West
Virginia and other States to listen to what
really the people are concerned about.
That's why we are here today.
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely.
Dr. Schlesinger?
443
