Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cial Representative of the President for
the Law of the Sea Conference.
The Law of the Sea Conference, which
began officially in 1974, involves negotia-
tions among more than 150 nations-vir-
tually all of the nations of the world. Its
purpose is to develop a Law of the Sea
Treaty, to provide a stable legal frame-
work for the governance of the world's
oceans.
President Carter has previously demon-
strated an interest in sea laws. In 1974, as
Governor, he proposed and had adopted
by the National Governors' Conference a
resolution to send a representative to the
Law of the Sea Conference in Caracas.
In announcing Elliot Richardson's ap-
pointment, President Carter noted: "The
oceans comprise over two-thirds of the
Earth's surface. But we have been slow to
appreciate their increasing importance-
the importance of their environmental
integrity to our quality of life; their vast
potential as a source of minerals, energy,
and protein; and the essentiality of their
freedom of use for the security and well-
being of all nations.
"While there has been some progress
toward the negotiation of a satisfactory
treaty, many important issues remain
unresolved. At stake are competing na-
tional interests in freedom of navigation
and use of the seas, in ocean resource de-
velopment, in the advancement of ocean
science, and in environmental protection.
"The Secretary of State and I consider
the Law of the Sea negotiations to be a
very high priority. My nomination of
Elliot Richardson, with his extensive ex-
perience and abilities, testifies to the im-
portance I personally attach to achieving
success in these negotiations.
“Elliot Richardson brings to this chal-
lenge a unique combination of legal and
international experience, including direct
experience with the complex issues in-
volved in Law of the Sea negotiations.
"I am confident that the United States
will be most ably represented in these
negotiations and hopeful that, with the
good will of other nations, a treaty may be
successfully negotiated to serve the in-
terests of all mankind."
Selected biographical facts regarding
Elliot L. Richardson are as follows:
Elliot Richardson's legal experience in-
cludes: editor, Harvard Law Review;
partner in Boston law firm, Ropes Gray;
United States attorney for the district of
Massachusetts; Massachusetts attorney
general; and United States Attorney
General.
His international experience includes
service as legislative assistant to the
chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee; Under Secretary of State (in
which capacity he chaired the NSC com-
mittee which had jurisdiction for Law of
the Sea); Secretary of Defense; and Am-
bassador to the Court of St. James.
As Secretary of Commerce, Elliot
Richardson took a special interest in the
oceans. He worked to develop, enact, and
implement the Coastal Zone Management
Act Amendments of 1976-and the asso-
ciated $1.2 billion Coastal Energy Impact
program-and worked with the State
and Transportation Departments to im-
plement the Fisheries Conservation and
Management Act of 1976, known gen-
erally as the 200-mile limit bill. He ad-
vanced the argument for creation of a
Cabinet Committee on Oceans.
Elliot Richardson is the only American
to have served in four Cabinet positions.
This appointment is his ninth Presidential
appointment under four Presidents.
18
