Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
accounting for everything that's done for
me and my family and all our guests, even
when we have a head of state come and
stay with us in the White House. We pay
for the food.
And we got our bill for the last 10 days
of January, from January 20 until the
end of the month. It was $600 for 10
days. So, I know from firsthand. We've
been really watching the food bill since
then. So, I'm in the same boat with you.
I might say one other thing: The 1979
fiscal year budget which is the one that's
being prepared this year, will be prepared,
Bill, in its entirety using the zero-based
budgeting system. Zero-based budgeting
means that every year you start from
scratch. And when the budget is put to-
gether, ordinarily, the only thing that the
President and the Congress look at is the
new things that are added on. Anything
that has been there all the time is not
even looked at.
Under zero-base budgeting you start
from zero, and you not only look at the
new things but you look at all the old
things. So, I think we can save a lot of
money using zero-base budgeting. And if
we can get the Federal Government re-
organized-and the Congress is really
moving well on this proposal of mine-
and put in zero-base budgeting and then
go forward with the idea of what they
call "sunset legislation"—and sunset legis-
lation means that when you set up a regu-
latory agency or something, at the end of
5 years, the Congress has to look at that
agency and if it's not doing a good job,
it's automatically terminated; the Con-
gress has to vote a new law for that
agency to continue on-so, I believe if we
can put into effect some of these things
that have been done in many States
around the country, we'll have a much
better chance to meet my goal of a bal-
anced budget before my term is over.
Yes, sir?
THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
Q. Mr. President, my name is Billy
Constantino, and I live on Layton Ave-
nue.
The theme of this meeting seems to be
citizen participation. I have a question
appropriate to that, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
Q. During the last several adminis-
trations, many of the major domestic
questions have been decided by the Fed-
eral judiciary and not by the consent of
those people that are governed. Many
decisions seem to be made in judicial
chambers and not in the halls of Congress
and not in the White House.
I know, Mr. President, that there are
many well-meaning Federal judges and
that they must interpret the Constitution.
But it seems to me that sometimes, in the
guise of constitutional interpretation,
some Federal judges impose their biases
and their ideologies on the average Amer-
ican citizen.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. You didn't ask
me a question, but I want to say-
Q. No, I've got a question. The ques-
tion was, is this situation going to con-
tinue during your administration?
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I agree
with you, and second, I hope to cut it
down as much as I can.
One of the reasons that this occurs is
that there hasn't been an adequate
amount of cooperation in the preparation
of new laws, Billy, among local officials,
State officials, the White House, and the
Congress. Quite often the Congress has
passed legislation without consulting with
the local and State officials and the Pres-
ident and vice versa.
I think if we can make sure that when
we come up with a new welfare program
that everybody who's interested is in-
volved in it, we can cut down on the
squabbles and disharmonies in the future
395
