Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 21
the times. And I know that in our own
State this has been true. Senator Tal-
madge, whose father, you know, was char-
acterized as strongly supported by those
who were against integration, has now be-
come strongly supported himself by the
blacks and other deprived people in
Georgia.
So, I think it's true to say that not only
have the people themselves as voters
changed but also the elected officials have
changed to accommodate those new in-
clinations on the part of voters.
Q. Very good.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I was trying to be skillful. [Laughter]
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN OF ISRAEL
Q. Have you been in touch with Mr.
Begin since his election, and do you plan
any meeting with him? And what changes
in our Mideast policy does this suggest
may be necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not been in
touch with Mr. Begin. I think it's proper
for me to wait for congratulatory messages
and also to contact Mr. Begin until the
President of Israel officially designates him
as the new leader. At this point, of course,
Mr. Perez is still the Prime Minister, and
until the President designates Mr. Begin
as the one to put a government together,
I don't intend to communicate with him.
After, though, he is designated to put
the government together, my intention is
to congratuate him and also to let him
know that I would welcome a visit and a
discussion with him about the future of
the Middle East.
I am very hopeful that the election will
not change the long-time commitment of
Israel to searching for a permanent peace
settlement. And I have never met Mr.
Begin. He has been here earlier to meet
with Dr. Brzezinski since I have been
President, but I was not here and did not
get a chance to meet him. But we are
being very reticent about making any
statements concerning the Israeli election
until we can understand the prospects of
the new government as it relates to a pos-
sible
peace settlement, and I doubt that I
will know, even have a firm opinion, on
how much that's changed until I have a
personal meeting with him.
We have successfully concluded talks
with the leaders of Israel, when Mr. Rabin
was there, of Egypt and Jordan and Syria.
I found all those talks to be very construc-
tive and my hope is that these constructive
remarks made to me by the leaders accu-
rately represents the strong inclination of
the people whom they lead. If so, I think
that the identity of particular leaders will
be much less a factor than is generally be-
lieved in the immediate aftermath of an
election.
So, I hope that the election of Mr.
Begin will not be a step backward toward
the achievement of peace.
WELFARE PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, it has been a long
time since the Colony Square for your
formal announcement. I have heard that
you have made the statement to the effect
that the welfare program is no good. And
if this is true, and you say that it should be
scrapped, and it's conceivable that you
have some idea, concept as to some type
of program that might be instituted in
place of it, can you today enlighten us to
that effect since this is not for print (sic)
or what have you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we will present a
comprehensive welfare program to the
Congress, as I said, before they go home
in August for what they call the summer
work session. We have made a lot of
progress in the last 2 weeks. We had a
very strong, apparently conflicting opin-
ion between the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare on the one hand
and Labor on the other about whether
951
