Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cold. And I want everyone in the country
to know that we are doing the best we can.
I, perhaps, would be well served now to
answer some questions that you might
have. I don't know all the answers, but
I think your questions themselves might
help me to learn. And I will be going
back this afternoon to the White House.
Between now and tomorrow morning
when the Congress convenes, I will be
meeting with a few key Congress Mem-
bers to discuss amendments to the emer-
gency legislation derived from my experi-
ence today.
And if you have any questions now-
first of all, the people here at the West-
inghouse Plant-I will answer them, and
then I can take a few questions from the
news media before we have to leave.
Does anyone have a comment or
question or suggestion?
QUESTIONS
NATURAL GAS
Q. Is there for sure a natural gas
shortage?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I don't think
there is any doubt that there is a natural
gas shortage in this area. The emergency
legislation that will be passed this week,
I believe, helps to correct a problem
that is now guaranteed by the restrictions
on our natural gas distribution system.
We are asking for authority for myself,
working through the Federal Govern-
ment, to transfer natural gas from pipe-
lines that have an excessive amount into
gas
a natural line where there actually is
a shortage. That is prohibited now by
law, but in the case of emergency we
want to be able to do that. So, if in the
southern part of the country or, perhaps,
in parts of the West, where there are very
moderate temperatures and the natural
gas supplies are adequate, we will want
to be sure, without violating antitrust
laws, that we can get the gas companies
to cooperate and move gas from one area
to another in order to meet shortages.
So, nationwide, if we could distribute
the gas that we have exactly where it is
needed, we would probably have enough
at this point. The supplies, the reserves
are dwindling very rapidly. But in order
to meet isolated areas which comprise 11
States at this point, where there is a very
serious shortage, we need to transfer gas
around the country, which we cannot do
at this point.
ENERGY PRICES
Q. We, as union members, would like
to have the gas companies investigated
because of the shortage they claim that
they do have. The people in this area-
many aged and pensioners-they can't
afford to pay the price we are paying on
gas bills now. And it is unfortunate, and
they say "no gas." We request that you
investigate that and see if that is a fact.
THE PRESIDENT. We will do that. In the
process of developing a comprehensive
energy policy that will be completed, as
I said, with the target date of 90 days
after I went into office, we will investigate
the accuracy of reports on the reserve sup-
plies of oil, coal, uranium, natural gas.
And we will also make sure that there is
not any possibility for energy companies
to get a windfall profit in dealing with
shortages, whether they actually exist or
not.
But I believe that a thorough discussion
of the energy problem by all people who
are involved-consumers, both private
homes and commercial consumers on the
one hand and suppliers on the other-
will help us to understand and detect
where there has been cheating, where
there have been misleading statements
made, where incorrect reports have been
40
