Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
ing the legal basis in which the reciprocal
fisheries of the two countries would go
forward in 1977.
The White House,
February 28, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The message was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
Department of Energy
Remarks Outlining Proposed Legislation
To Create the Department. March 1, 1977
I'm going to give a brief outline, and
then Dr. Schlesinger is going to explain
the details of the proposal.
Today we sent to the Congress a pro-
posal for the creation of a new and com-
prehensive Department of Energy. This
is long overdue. We now have more than
50 different Federal agencies who have
divided among themselves the responsi-
bilities for the evolution and the carrying
out of an energy policy for our country.
I think that you can see from the two
charts on my left and right the difference
between what we presently have and what
is being proposed. This is just a block dia-
gram of the departments that now are in-
volved in the energy question, and on my
left is the proposal that we have presented
to the Congress.
This morning, Dr. Schlesinger met with
a number of key Members of Congress
who are interested in the energy field and
the production and distribution of
energy
along with the pricing concepts clearly
and, I believe, cohesively.
It will also permit us to channel re-
search and development funds in a way
that would be consistent with the long-
range needs of our country. It will let us
insure to a maximum degree that the data
that we obtain concerning energy reserves
are accurate and, also, that the American
people might trust the information pro-
vided to them about how much energy
we have available in different forms. And
it will greatly simplify the bureaucracy.
Dr. James Schlesinger, who is energy
adviser to me, will now proceed with the
briefing and will answer your specific
questions on this Department. I hope that
the Congress will act expeditiously in this
matter because it is so important to our
country.
On April 20, we will present to the
Congress our presentation on a compre-
hensive energy policy. And this is the first
time, I believe, that this has yet been at-
tempted. And I believe that because of
Dr. Schlesinger's ability and my interest
and the enthusiasm of the Congress and
the great need for the American people,
it will be a successful effort.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:31 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
began to brief them. And of course, ever Department of Energy
since last summer, we've been working
with the Members of Congress for this
purpose.
This Department will make it possible
for us to evolve very quickly a compre-
hensive energy policy which we've missed.
It will give us an opportunity to regulate
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. March 1, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit to the Congress pro-
posed legislation which will create a new
Cabinet Department of Energy.
257
