Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
So, uniformity and elimination of at-
tention, of recognition given to a citizen
because they happen to be Jewish, and a
prohibition against the deprivation of
human rights, and a secondary and ter-
tiary boycott are all things that I hope to
root out.
The right of the Arab countries to boy-
cott Israel is something with which we
have no authority and in which I do not
want to become involved.
MINORITY EMPLOYMENT
Q. I have a comment on something
that was previously said.
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. We in the Office of Export Admin-
istration, we commend your choice of
Secretary of Commerce, but we also
would like to see other blacks and minor-
ities given key positions within Com-
merce, people who can relate to problems.
that your GS-5's and on to 2's can iden-
tify with. I guess that is about it.
THE PRESIDENT. That is enough. It is
a very good point. And I don't want to
have an opinion among you that I am
satisfied even with the Commerce De-
partment just because we got 50 percent
men and 50 percent women in the lead-
ership roles. We still have a long way to
go.
In my travel around the country at all
levels of government, and in private life
as well, this is a constant question. I tried
to address it adequately. We still have a
long way before we can be satisfied. But
I don't want you to be satisfied either.
And it is very hard to change from prac-
tically no minority groups in government
to an adequate number or very few
women in government to an adequate
number overnight. But in an evolution-
ary way and with great attention to that
problem, I will do the best I can to alle-
viate those legitimate concerns.
HOME IMPROVEMENTS; MINORITY
ENTERPRISE
Q. Mr. President, muchas gracias.
THE PRESIDENT. Gracias, too.
Q. Mr. President, we all know that en-
ergy is one of your administration's pri-
orities and that you are moving aggres-
sively in this area. I recently heard about
a concept which is being discussed within
the high ranks of your energy teams
which expect to have energy producers
and consumers jointly sharing conserva-
tion efforts by having producers of energy
invest money in insulating homes, which,
in turn, will save energy rather than mak-
ing investments in further exploration of
energy.
This appears to be a very innovative
concept. And I wonder if minority busi-
ness development is also a priority in your
administration, and would not a similar
concept be equally applicable? I refer to
something like having the Government
use incentives to private industry in the
forms of tax credits and other allowances
and incentives to induce private industry
to make more profitable investments in
developing minority enterprise, rather
than expanding their own corporations to
a point where antitrust actions and other
antimonopolistic practices would not be
necessary. What is your feeling of this,
Mr. President. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Would you repeat the
question, please? [Laughter]
Q. Should I repeat it in Spanish?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter]
I will give just one brief statistic. It
costs $1.50 a barrel to save energy, to
save oil. It costs $15 a barrel to buy oil
to waste. We are now wasting more en-
ergy than we import. And that is waste
that we can eliminate. It is not engineer-
ing waste that theoretically can't be
avoided. The last 2 months, we have im-
ported over half the oil we have con-
117
