Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 31
Yesterday morning, in the privacy of
my own little office adjacent to the Oval
Office, Andrew Young and Cyrus Vance
and Zbigniew Brzezinski and I spent 2
full hours talking about the most difficult
and challenging international questions
that face our country. And on a basis of
equality of exchange, and so forth, we
tried to evolve what our Nation ought to
do. And it was a reassuring thing to have
Andrew Young there. And I am very
grateful this afternoon that he is willing
to serve. I look forward to greater things
from him in the future.
I hope to measure up as President to
the standards that he sets as Ambassador
to the United Nations. His status will be
equal to that of the Secretary of State or
the Secretary of the Treasury or anyone
else. And his closeness to me personally
will ensure that there is never a division
of sense of purpose or a need for action
between him, as he deals with almost 150
other nations' leaders in New York and
around the world, and I and Cyrus
Vance, who is here, as we deal from
Washington with those same countries on
a different leadership basis. So that com-
patibility will greatly magnify his own
good influence.
I am thankful that Thurgood Marshall
has agreed to come this afternoon, at the
invitation of Andrew Young and myself,
to give the oath of office to our next Am-
bassador to the United Nations. So, I'd
like to turn the program over to Justice
Thurgood Marshall. And after the oath
of office is administered, with Jean hold-
ing the Bible, then Andy will say a few
words at my request.
I present to you now Justice Thurgood
Marshall.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Supreme
Court Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall ad-
ministered the oath of office.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Ambassador Young's wife, Jean.
Economic Recovery Program
Message to the Congress. January 31, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am proposing to you today a two-
year $31.2 billion economic recovery
package, whose budgetary costs will be
divided almost equally between fiscal
years 1977 and 1978 (Table 1). The main
components of the program are:
-an increase of $4 billion in authori-
zations for local public works;
-an expansion of public service em-
ployment by 415,000 jobs;
-an expansion of training and youth
programs under the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act (CETA) by
346,000 positions;
-an increase in the countercyclical
revenue sharing program designed to pay
out an additional $1 billion a year at cur-
rent rates of unemployment;
-a $4 billion program of tax reform
and simplification for individuals, through
an increase in the standard deduction;
-individual tax rebates, and payments
to Social Security, Supplemental Security
Income (SSI) and Railroad Retirement
beneficiaries, which will total $11.4
billion;
-an optional credit against income
taxes equal to 4 percent of payroll taxes
or an additional 2 percent investment tax
credit for businesses.
critical to economic recovery, this area
While a healthy housing industry is also
requires long-term commitments, rather
than a short-range program. The Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development
is now developing a long-term housing
program for low and middle income fam-
ilies, which will contribute to sustained
economic growth.
The economy I found when I took
office had 7.5 million Americans out of
work, 1.4 million full-time workers forced
47
