May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Executive Order No. 11514, as amended,
including the development of procedures
to accomplish this objective for Federal
actions whose impact is not significant
enough to require the preparation of an
environmental impact statement under
Section 102 (2) (C) of the National En-
vironmental Policy Act of 1969, as
amended.
(b) Any requests for new authorizations
or appropriations transmitted to the Office
of Management and Budget shall indicate,
if an action to be proposed will be located
in a floodplain, whether the proposed ac-
tion is in accord with this Order.
regu-
(c) Each agency shall take floodplain
management into account when formulat-
ing or evaluating any water and land use
plans and shall require land and water
resources use appropriate to the degree of
hazard involved. Agencies shall include
adequate provision for the evaluation and
consideration of flood hazards in the
lations and operating procedures for the
licenses, permits, loan or grants-in-aid pro-
grams that they administer. Agencies shall
also encourage and provide appropriate
guidance to applicants to evaluate the ef-
fects of their proposals in floodplains prior
to submitting applications for Federal li-
censes, permits, loans, or grants.
(d) As allowed by law, each agency
shall issue or amend existing regulations
and procedures within one year to comply
with this Order. These procedures shall
incorporate the Unified National Program
for Floodplain Management of the Water
Resources Council, and shall explain the
means that the agency will employ to pur-
sue the nonhazardous use of riverine,
coastal and other floodplains in connec-
tion with the activities under its authority.
To the extent possible, existing processes,
such as those of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality and the Water Resources
Council, shall be utilized to fulfill the re-
quirements of this Order. Agencies shall
prepare their procedures in consultation
with the Water Resources Council, the
Federal Insurance Administration, and
the Council on Environmental Quality,
and shall update such procedures as
necessary.
SEC. 3. In addition to the requirements
of Section 2, agencies with responsibilities
for Federal real property and facilities
shall take the following measures:
(a) The regulations and procedures es-
tablished under Section 2(d) of this
Order shall, at a minimum, require the
construction of Federal structures and fa-
cilities to be in accordance with the stand-
ards and criteria and to be consistent with
the intent of those promulgated under the
National Flood Insurance Program. They
shall deviate only to the extent that the
standards of the Flood Insurance Program
are demonstrably inappropriate for a
given type of structure or facility.
(b) If, after compliance with the re-
quirements of this Order, new construc-
tion of structures or facilities are to be
located in a floodplain, accepted flood-
proofing and other flood protection meas-
ures shall be applied to new construction
or rehabilitation. To achieve flood protec-
tion, agencies shall, wherever practicable,
elevate structures above the base flood
level rather than filling in land.
(c) If property used by the general pub-
lic has suffered flood damage or is located
in an identified flood hazard area, the re-
sponsible agency shall provide on struc-
tures, and other places where appropriate,
conspicuous delineation of past and prob-
able flood height in order to enhance
public awareness of and knowledge about
flood hazards.
(d) When property in floodplains is
proposed for lease, easement, right-of-way,
or disposal to non-Federal public or pri-
vate parties, the Federal agency shall (1)
reference in the conveyance those uses that
are restricted under identified Federal,
1000
