Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ACTION
Nomination of Mary E. King To Be Deputy
Director of ACTION. February 22, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Mary E. King to be Deputy
Director of ACTION. In addition, Ms.
King was appointed Special Advisor to
the President on Women. The President
indicated he would continue to counsel
with her as he had in the past, and would,
from time to time, send her as his repre-
sentative to meetings pertaining to
women.
Ms. King is the president of Mary King
Associates, Inc., which she formed in 1972.
The firm provides voluntary organizations
and government agencies with research,
technical assistance, planning and policy
studies in health care, criminal justice,
and drug and alcohol abuse.
In the 1976 Carter presidential cam-
paign, Ms. King served as national direc-
tor of the Committee of 51.3%, named
for the proportion of females in the popu-
lation of the United States. She was also
then-Governor Carter's adviser on women
and steered the Health Policy Task Force.
She is a founder and president of the
National Association of Women Business
Owners. She is a member of the board of
the Women's Action Alliance and served
on the Committee on Women and Em-
ployment of the U.S. National Commis-
sion for International Women's Year. She
is also a member of the American Public
Health Association Task Force on Jails
and Prisons.
Ms. King was born in New York City
on July 30, 1940. She received a B.A.
degree in 1962 from Ohio Wesleyan
University.
In 1962 she was a human relations spe-
cialist under a Marshall Field Foundation
grant to the College Division of the
YWCA in Atlanta. From 1963 to 1965,
she was assistant director of communica-
tions for the Student Nonviolent Coordi-
nating Committee in Atlanta, Ga. and
Jackson, Miss.
From 1968 to 1972, Ms. King served as
a project officer with the Office of Health
Affairs of the U.S. Office of Economic
Opportunity, and developed prototype
health programs for rural and urban low-
income areas.
She is married to Dr. Peter G. Bourne,
a psychiatrist who serves as Special Assist-
ant to the President for Mental Health
and Drug Abuse. They reside in Washing-
ton, D.C.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
FEBRUARY 23, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body.
ADMINISTRATION ACTIVITIES
I would like to make a very brief state-
ment as a progress report to the American
people on some items that are important
to us.
We have submitted and the Congress is
now considering legislation to give me the
authority to reorganize the executive
branch of government. The Senate com-
mittee under Senator Ribicoff has now
completed their hearings and they will be
marking up the bill beginning tomorrow.
The House Committee on Government
Operations, under Congressman Jack
Brooks, has scheduled hearings to begin
on March 1. So, because of the interest
of the American people and the Congress
and myself in completing this very crucial
project, I think the Congress is moving
with great expedition to give me that
authority.
216
