May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to 1972, she was an international relations
officer at the State Department.
In 1972 and 1973, Ridgway was Dep-
uty Director of Policy Planning and Co-
ordination in the Bureau of Inter-Amer-
ican Affairs. She was Deputy Chief of
Mission in Nassau from 1973 until 1975,
when she became Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of State for Oceans and Fisheries
Affairs.
Ridgway received the Superior Honor
Award in 1966 and 1975, the Meritorious
Honor Award in 1970, and the William
Jump Meritorious Award from the Na-
tional Fisheries Institute.
Presidential Task Force on the
District of Columbia
Announcement of Formation and
Membership. May 3, 1977
President Carter today announced for-
mation of a 14-member Presidential Task
Force on the District of Columbia. The
Task Force, designed as an intergovern-
mental working group on District prob-
lems, will consist of representatives of
Congress, the District government, and
the executive branch. The Task Force will
establish a mutual agenda of issues for
the city and the Federal Government to
explore and will help provide recommen-
dations for Presidential review.
The President said the Task Force will
be an informal vehicle for discussing
short- and long-term issues affecting the
Federal-District relationship. The group
will consider alternative ways for ap-
proaching problems that require Federal
and local collaboration.
Vice President Mondale has been des-
ignated as the Convenor of the Task
Force, with White House District Liaison
Martha "Bunny" Mitchell as Coordinator.
The Vice President will convene the in-
itial Task Force meeting within the next
few weeks, oversee the activities of the
executive branch working group, and help
formulate recommendations to the
President.
The congressional representatives on the
Task Force are House District Commit-
tee chairman Charles Diggs (D-Mich.);
District Delegate Walter Fauntroy (D-
D.C.); Representative Stewart McKin-
ney (R-Conn.), ranking Republican on
the House District Committee; Repre-
sentative William Natcher (D-Ky.),
House Appropriations District Subcom-
mittee chairman; Senate District Subcom-
mittee chairman Thomas Eagleton (D-
Mo.); Senator Charles Mathias (R-
Md.), ranking Republican on the Sen-
ate District Committee; and Senator Pat-
rick Leahy (D-Vt.), Senate Appropria-
tions District Subcommittee chairman.
The District government will be repre-
sented by Mayor Walter Washington and
Council Chairman Sterling Tucker.
Besides Mrs. Mitchell the executive
branch representatives are Jim Dyke, of
the Vice President's staff; Peter Fannon,
of the Office of Management and Budget;
and Kurt Schmoke, of the Domestic
Policy Council.
The permanent Task Force members
were asked to serve because of their offi-
cial positions and responsibilities.
Other governmental officials will be
asked to contribute to the discussion of
issues related to their specific concerns.
Citizen input should be made through the
locally elected District representatives-
the mayor, Chairman Tucker, and Dele-
gate Fauntroy.
The idea for such a Task Force was
first suggested during a recent meeting
between the President, Vice President,
and congressional Members on March 15
to discuss District issues. That meeting
was requested by House District Commit-
784
