Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
their independence as well. So, we share
a great, common history with our friends
and neighbors and visitors from Mexico,
and we also share a tremendous commit-
ment to the early vision of those who
sought equality and who sought freedom,
who believed in individuality and the
rights of common people to make their
own decisions.
So, our sharing of history and our shar-
ing of a common purpose has always
bound us together. The Mexican people
know what Yankee imperialism means,
and being from Georgia [laughter-I
have also heard the same phrase used.
But we also share the realization that that
is a time of ancient history and the equal-
ity of opportunity within our own Nation
in recent decades is the same sort of spirit
that exists among all the nations in our
own hemisphere.
This is a good change, and now with a
common border we see renewed opportu-
nities to bind ourselves ever closer to-
gether to face the future with confidence,
with hope, with the feeling of friendship,
and with the feeling of common purpose.
This is the first state visit that Rosalynn
and I have enjoyed having in your White
House and ours, and it was not any acci-
dent that those that we wanted to come
first of all were our close friends from
Mexico.
About 12 years ago, I believe, our fam-
ily took the best vacation of our lives.
When my oldest son, Jack, finished high
school, he and my other two sons, my
wife, and I traveled for 3 weeks through
Mexico. We all could speak a little
Spanish.
We went to the small towns and villages
where not many people could speak Eng-
lish. We had a hard time communicating
in language, but there was an instant
sense of appreciation for our being there
and for the interest that we showed in
those who took us into their hearts and
into their homes. We've always looked
back on that experience with great ap-
preciation and fondness and pleasure.
And I believe that the future holds an
even closer opportunity for mutual enjoy-
ment and to get to know one another and
to share a common destiny.
There has been a saying of one of Presi-
dent López Portillo's predecessors, "Po-
bre Mexico. Tan lejos de Dios, tan cerca
de los Estados Unidos," which means in
English, "Poor Mexico. So distant from
God, so close to the United States." But I
know that under President López Portil-
lo's administration the distance from God
has become much less, and the proximity
to the United States, I hope, will become
a blessing and not a curse. So, we believe
that we are very fortunate to have with us
tonight Carmen and José.
I'd like to repeat, to show what kind of
person he is, something he told me at sup-
per tonight. He is a very talented artist,
and when his daughter was 3 years old she
was the one that he was so much in love
with that he wanted to paint a special
painting. He had just outlined her little
face and he had to go to work. She had
never been outside at night and he left her
there with her grandmother, and she went
out on the terrace and she looked up, and
for the first time she saw the evening star
Venus. And she said, "Grandmother, what
is that?" and her grandmother said, “That
is a star." She said, "Give it to me," and
her grandmother said, "I can't give you a
star, little girl," and his daughter said,
"When my father returns, he will give it to
me."
So, when President López Portillo came
home and he was told about this story and
recognized the faith that his daughter had
in his ability, he drew in the painting her
152
