Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The basic thrust of human affairs points toward a more universal
demand for fundamental human rights. The United States has a historical
birthright to be associated with this process.
We in the United States accept this responsibility in the fullest and
the most constructive sense. Ours is a commitment, and not just a political
posture. I know perhaps as well as anyone that our own ideals in the area
of human rights have not always been attained in the United States,
but the American people have an abiding commitment to the full realiza-
tion of these ideals. And we are determined, therefore, to deal with our
deficiencies quickly and openly. We have nothing to conceal.
To demonstrate this commitment, I will seek congressional approval
and sign the U.N. covenants on economic, social, and cultural rights, and
the covenants on civil and political rights. And I will work closely with our
own Congress in seeking to support the ratification not only of these two
instruments but the United Nations Genocide Convention and the Treaty
for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, as well. I
have just removed all restrictions on American travel abroad, and we are
moving now to liberalize almost completely travel opportunities to
America.
The United Nations is a global forum dedicated to the peace and
well-being of every individual—no matter how weak, no matter how
poor. But we have allowed its human rights machinery to be ignored and
sometimes politicized. There is much that can be done to strengthen it.
The Human Rights Commission should be prepared to meet more
often. And all nations should be prepared to offer its fullest cooperation to
the Human Rights Commission, to welcome its investigations, to work
with its officials, and to act on its reports.
I would like to see the entire United Nations Human Rights Division
moved back here to the central headquarters, where its activities will be
in the forefront of our attention and where the attention of the press corps
can stimulate us to deal honestly with this sensitive issue. The proposal
made 12 years ago by the Government of Costa Rica, to establish a U.N.
High Commission [er] for Human Rights, also deserves our renewed
attention and our support.
Strengthened international machinery will help us to close the gap
between promise and performance in protecting human rights. When
gross or widespread violation takes place―contrary to international com-
mitments-it is of concern to all. The solemn commitments of the United
Nations Charter, of the United Nations Universal Declaration for Human
450
