Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
counted three major cost factors in his
nuclear versus coal song and dance that
he gave the West Virginia Legislature. If
the cost factors on the current plants un-
der construction are not in there, 100-
percent cost overruns that have occurred
in the past couple of years, are not given
a thorough and objective review. I think
that the TVA and your appointee or ap-
pointees, as I hear you may get two
rather shortly, are really not serving the
public interests or the consumers of the
Tennessee Valley.
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
The other thing it seems to me, Dr.
Schlesinger, needs to be done is to have a
thorough cleaning out of the Nuclear Reg-
ulatory Commission's pronuclear people
pronuclear people
so that you have got some people in there
that are at least halfway objective.
And as an example, I give you the en-
vironmental statement for the Marble Hill
plant in Indiana in which the cost com-
parisons done by the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission show that low-sulfur coal
costs more on a fuel basis than high-sul-
fur coal even though it cost $2 a ton to
barge low-sulfur coal from Amherst or
some other site in West Virginia to this
site. And then they show the nuclear pow-
er is much cheaper, and when you check it
out, you find the only low-sulfur coal the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission recog-
nizes in existence is in the West. So, they
threw $20-a-ton transportation costs in
there.
This is just a specific example of what
many of us feel are deliberate efforts by
Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff to
make nuclear better economically, only
aside from environmental issues, than in
fact it really is.
There needs to be an objective review
of these things.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Mr. Lloyd?
ENERGY AND THE ECONOMY
MR. LLOYD. Mr. President, I know that
as chief executive officer of this country,
your main concern is keeping our econ-
omy strong. There's just no doubt about
it, as so goes the energy, so goes the
economy.
It's interesting to note that in the Wall
Street Journal this past Monday, it said
our energy use rose last year 74.8 percent.
I think Secretary Andrus was quoted in
this article.
And I know that we have to conserve
and we have to practice every conservative
measure known to man that there can be.
At the same time, I don't think we can let
up on the supply. And that as we go down
the road in years to come, if we're going
to enjoy the economy we enjoyed today, if
we enjoy sitting in a room that's air-con-
ditioned, ample lighting, ample energy to
meet the needs of the people, we're going
to have to increase that energy supply.
There's just no other way we can do it.
When we start talking about deterring
our energy, deterring our energy growth,
we're talking about deterring our econ-
omy. They just ride hand in hand or like
a camel's back, they go up and down the
same way.
THE PRESIDENT. I have a hard time be-
lieving though that waste contributes to a
healthy economy. I think if we can start
eliminating waste and get our growth
down to maybe in the neighborhood of 2
percent or less, it would probably be ade-
quate. This is the kind of economic con-
sideration that will have to be done by
many people in private life and also in the
Government itself. But I think that we've
got a long way to go before we damage
423
