Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 4
3. Abolishing or transferring all of the
functions of an Executive Department;
4. Consolidating two or more Executive
Departments or all of their functions;
5. Continuing an agency beyond its
statutory termination date;
6. Authorizing an agency to perform a
function not expressly authorized by law;
or
7. Increasing the term of an office be-
yond that provided by law.
The existing Act contains several limi-
tations on reorganization plans that I
pro-
pose to change:
1. Authority to Amend a Reorganiza-
tion Plan.
Under the existing Act, the President
cannot amend a reorganization plan once
he has submitted it to the Congress.
I am proposing that the President be
allowed to amend a plan within thirty
days after sending it to Congress, unless
the Government Operations Committee
in either House of Congress has already
rejected the plan. This change would give
the President greater flexibility to im-
prove the plan and meet objections to it.
2. Authority to Submit Additional
Plans.
Under the existing Act, the President
may submit only one plan during a thirty-
day period.
I am proposing that the President be
allowed to submit more than one plan
within thirty days. This change would
permit the President and the Congress to
speed up the reorganization process by
dealing with more than one plan at a
time.
I am aware that troubles could arise if
this provision were abused. The Congress
needs time for careful and orderly review
of the plans, and both Congress and the
Executive Branch would be overbur-
dened if they had to prepare and review a
large number of plans at once. Therefore,
the President must coordinate very closely
with the Congress to keep the volume of
the plans within reasonable limits.
3. Authority to Submit Plans Covering
Different Subjects.
Under the existing Act, each reorgani-
zation plan must be limited to one "logi-
cally consistent" subject.
I am proposing that the President be
allowed to submit plans covering more
than one subject. This change would
avoid difficulties in defining "logically
needlessly hinder work or plans which
consistent subject matter," which could
deal with a several functionally-related
agencies or departments.
4. Requirement of Management Im-
provement.
Under the existing Act, the President
must specify, in submitting each plan,
how much money it will save the govern-
ment.
I am proposing that the President must
provide a different set of information with
his plans. Instead of detailed savings esti-
mates-which are very difficult to make
accurately the President would provide
information on the improvements in man-
agement, efficiency, and delivery of Fed-
eral services that his plan would produce.
5. A Four-Year Extension of Authority.
I am proposing that the Act be ex-
tended for a four-year period. Reorgani-
zation will be a four-year effort, which
should not be halted because the author-
izing Act has run out.
Renewing this Executive reorganiza-
tion authority will help rebuild the pub-
lic's confidence in government, redeem
commitments made to the electorate, and
prove to the people who have given us
their trust that we are ready to make a
fresh start.
83
