Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 30
think, a unique independence to make
available to the Nation his superb quali-
ties. He and I have never had a cross
word. We spend several hours together
every day.
He has the secret briefings in their en-
tirety that I get. He has a permanent invi-
tation to attend every conference in which
I participate. And I believe that there is a
growing recognition in the Congress and
among special interest groups in our coun-
try and among foreign leaders that we do
have a Vice President now who can speak
for me. And I've benefited greatly from
this relationship.
I think the other thing I've tried to
do—and then I'll answer questions—is to
have a maximum amount of accessibility
to the core of Government, among people,
through the news media. I've been criti-
cized on some occasions for being too
frank in discussing sensitive and contro-
versial issues publicly. I have no qualms
about what I've done and I intend to
maintain this position.
As we approach difficult decisions in-
volving nonproliferation or SALT negoti-
ations or our relationships with Vietnam
or the People's Republic of China or
Cuba, or when we have a difficult ques-
tion to resolve about a complicated inter-
national question like the Middle East,
my own belief is that it's best for the
American people to know what the op-
tions are, what my thinking is. And quite
often, the things that I have said publicly
have been long understood among those
who negotiate or plan in secret.
And I feel much surer that I will make
the right decision about these difficult
questions if there has been an open and
public debate about them among the
American people. The sound judgment
and intelligence and competence and
common sense of the American people is
a reservoir that I consider to be very
precious to me. And if there is additional
controversy on occasion because these
matters have been brought to the fore-
front of the American consciousness, I
think those slight problems are vastly cor-
rected by the sense of strength that I have
that the American people know what's
going on.
I think the last thing is that when I do
speak on a matter or when the Secretary
of State speaks on a matter there is a
general feeling now, that's accurate, that
the American people and the Congress
are familiar with what we are saying. And
I think this has a much greater impact on
international councils than if we spoke
after a private, closet agreement just be-
tween me and the Secretary of State.
So, I think that some changes have
taken place of which I'm very proud. We
still have a long way to go. We are ad-
dressing some difficult questions that have
been pushed under the rug too long, try-
ing to evolve a comprehensive energy
policy that's fair and adequate and ac-
ceptable. I think we've done that.
We are also now constrained by law to
reorganize the executive branch of Gov-
ernment. This will be a long-term com-
mitment of mine. We have 3 years'
authority, and it may be extended if we
see it necessary.
We will this year have proposed to the
American people and to the Congress a
comprehensive revision of the welfare
system-which is long overdue—of the
income tax structure, of the social secu-
rity system, and other matters of equal
importance. And I think it's time to ad-
dress these matters.
It would be possible, maybe politically
advisable, for me just to ignore them for
a while and hope that they wouldn't reach
a crisis stage until my successor is in office.
But I think that it's better to go ahead
and do the best we can with these prob-
lems, even though it does create a lot of
749
