June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
group. The North-South dialog is very
important to us.
So, in these different areas, we have
very high goals established for ourselves.
And I think if you would like to look over
my own concept of what we hope to
achieve in foreign affairs, my speech at
Notre Dame was very carefully prepared
by me and expresses our hopes and aspi-
rations succinctly.
I can only mirror what the American
people want and what the American peo-
ple are willing to accept. But I think we
have changed some of those concepts, and
I think we've modified our own Nation's
position in human rights, the sale of
weapons, the reduction in the spread of
congressional efforts will be worthy of ap-
probation and appreciation by the Ameri-
can people.
But I've enjoyed it very much so far.
And I think that if we can just keep the
American people aware of what our Na-
tion is and what our Nation can be, we'll
all have a legitimate sense of pride in
having participated. And that means that
you are equally responsible with me about
achieving those noble aspirations.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
nuclear explosive capability. And I hope Non-Rubber Footwear Imports
that those efforts will continue to be
successful.
I'll answer one more question, and then
I'll have to go.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, in seeing you and
hearing you, I think we have the an-
Proclamation 4510. June 22, 1977
IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDERLY MARKET-
ING AGREEMENTS-AND THE TEMPO-
RARY QUANTITATIVE LIMITATION ON
THE IMPORTATION INTO THE UNITED
STATES OF CERTAIN FOOTWEAR
swer. Are you happy in your new job? By the President of the United States
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I enjoy my new
job very much. This is the loneliest week
I will have spent since I quit campaign-
ing. My family are all gone, and this is a
mighty big house when you're by your-
self. That's one reason I'm glad to see you
here. [Laughter] But I've enjoyed it. I've
gotten a lot of good support.
I think I've chosen a Cabinet that is
superlative. There's not a single member
of my Cabinet that publicly or privately
has ever had any criticism from me. I'm
very proud of them. There's not a single
change that I would make.
And
my relationships with the Congress
have been very gratifying. I think when
the final tabulations are made and the
temporary debate publicity is forgotten,
that the accomplishments of this year's
A Proclamation
1. On February 8, 1977, the United
States International Trade Commission
(USITC) reported to the President
(USITC Publication 799) the results of
its investigation under section 201 (b) of
the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2251(b)) (the
Trade Act). The USITC determined that
footwear provided for in items 700.05
through 700.85, inclusive (except items
700.51, 700.52, 700.53, 700.54, and
700.60, and disposable footwear designed
for one-time use provided for in item
700.85) of the Tariff Schedules of the
United States (TSUS), are being im-
ported into the United States in such in-
creased quantities as to be a substantial
cause of serious injury to the domestic in-
dustry producing articles like or directly
1148
