Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We will cut down also on Government regulations, and we will make
sure that those that are written are in plain English for a change. When-
ever a regulation is issued, it will carry its author's name. And I will re-
quest the Cabinet members to read all regulations personally before they
are released.
This week, I will ask the Congress for enabling legislation to let me
reorganize the Government. The passage of this legislation, which will
give me the same authority extended to every President from Franklin
Roosevelt through Richard Nixon, and used by many Governors across
the country, is absolutely crucial to a successful reorganization effort. So
far, news from the Congress, because of their support, is very encouraging.
The Office of Management and Budget is now working on this plan,
which will include zero-based budgeting, removal of unnecessary Govern-
ment regulations, sunset laws to cancel programs that have outlived their
purpose, and elimination of overlap and duplication among Government
services.
We will not propose changes until we have done our best to be sure
they are right. But we will be eager to learn from experience. If a program
does not work, we will end it instead of just starting another to conceal
our first mistakes.
We will also move quickly to reform our tax system and welfare
system.
I said in the campaign that our income tax system was a disgrace
because it is so arbitrary, complicated, and unfair. I made a commitment
to a total overhaul of the income tax laws.
The economic program that I have already mentioned earlier will,
by enabling more taxpayers to use the standard deduction, be just a first
step toward a much better tax system.
My advisers have already started working with the Congress on a
study of a more complete tax reform which will give us a fairer, simpler
system. We will outline the study procedures very soon and, after con-
sultation with many American citizens and with the Congress, we will
present a comprehensive tax reform package before the end of this year.
The welfare system also needs a complete overhaul. Welfare waste
robs both the taxpayers of our country and those who really and genuinely
need help. It often forces families to split. It discourages people from
seeking work.
The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare, and others have already begun a review of the entire welfare
system. They will, of course, work with the Congress to develop proposals
74
