May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
being circumvented when a decision is be-
ing made.
For instance, getting away from nuclear
power for a minute, our three States have
already found sites that are acceptable to
environmentalists, local and State officials,
oil companies, five different places along
our coast where we would be glad to bring
oil from offshore areas into the main-
land, five places where we would be glad
to see oil refineries built long before oil is
ever discovered. So, there won't be the hot
controversy and long delays and court
suits when that occurs.
I think another thing that obviously
needs to be done that does involve safety
is the siting of atomic powerplants away
from earthquake fault zones and a stand-
ardization of design of the powerplants.
We have other needs that don't indicate
that atomic powerplants are unsafe, but
just are cautionary measures. One is a
clear concept among people in a commu-
nity about how to evacuate if you should
have I wouldn't say a catastrophe-but
if you do have an accident, adequate in-
surance coverage. But in the provision of
these factors which are designed to allevi-
ate concern, that doesn't, I think, follow
that they are an indication of the danger
of atomic powerplants.
So, I think that the siting is just one of
the things to alleviate, in most cases, un-
warranted fears. I think everybody prob-
ably knows that it's impossible for a light
water nuclear powerplant to explode. It's
physically impossible. It can melt down. I
have seen this happen in one instance in
Canada, and radioactive gases can escape.
But now in any sort of heavily popu-
lated area we are putting the atomic
powerplant in a tightly sealed building
with a heavy vacuum maintained so that
if you do have radioactive gases released,
they are contained within the building for
a period of years until the radioactivity
dissipates. So, it's no indication they are
unsafe because we want to put them
where people don't live.
How are you doing?
SOUTHERN POLITICAL FIGURES
Q. Hi. Nice to see you, Mr. President. I
remember sitting beside you at a luncheon
and urging you to continue to be active
after your term as Governor ended, and
you said that you would and you had
some plans. You are certainly a man of
your word. [Laughter]
Your election in the South seems to
have accentuated a new set of political
and psychological assumptions of a more
confident nature. It seems that what that
is likely to produce is the elimination of
some old symbols of self-respect that
seemed to be important when the South
thought of itself as a scorned region—
such symbols as Strom Thurmond, George
Wallace, Jim Eastland, McClellan. Those
symbols no longer seem to be emotionally
necessary in the South. So, there may be
a purge without your lifting a hand. Do
you agree with this interpretation, and, if
so, do you think it's a good thing for the
South and the Nation?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I certainly
wouldn't want to associate myself with
the statement that Jim Eastland is an
anomaly or an anachronism that needs to
be purged. [Laughter]
I think that it just proves that the South
is heterogeneous in nature, that the time
for racism as a factor in political success is
past. And I think it also proves that this
change was made not by political figures,
but among the people themselves. And I
hope that the reassurance of the South has
not been commensurate with a cause of
consternation in the rest of the country.
But I don't think that it's likely that these
political figures will necessarily be purged.
I think that my own belief is that many
of the political figures that you mentioned
have had an inclination to change with
950
