Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
officer whom I have already grown to love,
and she and I had a very close and very
friendly relationship when I first met her
to interview her for this job. I believe she
is the first woman who ever attended a
National Security Council meeting as a
full participant. And I am very grateful
that she has been willing to leave the vice
presidency of Duke University to come
and be Secretary of Commerce. Juanita
Kreps, and her husband, Clifton.
The next Secretary that I would like to
introduce is one who has shown herself
to be a very strong, able business executive.
She is a superb attorney. She has been in
the forefront of carving out a proper role
for minority groups and for women, but
all of her achievements have been made
because of her own superb qualities. I feel
very close to her, too, and am very grateful
that Patricia Harris has decided to be-
come our Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development. She has come here with her
husband, William. Patricia Harris.
The next man has been in the Congress
in one of the most responsible positions
there as chairman of the Budget Commit-
tee. And he was instrumental in evolving
within the Congress a much more sound
and businesslike way to handle budget
and appropriations questions. When I met
for the first time with the present Speaker
of the House, I drove to the Capitol with
him, and as we approached, he said that
he had been in Congress more than 25
years and the best Congressman he had
ever known in his life was Brock Adams.
And I am very grateful to Brock Adams,
a very close friend of mine, for being Sec-
retary of Transportation. Brock Adams
and his wife, Elizabeth.
The next appointee whom I will intro-
duce has been either blessed or afflicted by
having served with me 4 years in the past
when I was Governor of Georgia. He is
being appointed to a Cabinet double post,
in spite of the fact he comes from my own
home State. And I am sure he will do a
superb job in one of the most difficult po-
sitions within the Federal Government as
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget. He follows in the footsteps of sev-
eral former Cabinet members who were
promoted, in effect, into this extremely
challenging job. And I am very grateful
that my good friend, one of the closest
friends I have in the world, Bert Lance,
is going to take on that responsible posi-
tion with his beautiful wife, La Belle.
The next person that I would like to
introduce has already presented me with
my first challenge and also with a partial
response to it. Our Nation is perhaps the
only developed nation in the world that
doesn't have a comprehensive policy on
energy.
It is a challenge to the American people
that has for a long time been almost in a
crisis stage, and the undetected nature of
this crisis is rapidly growing more impor-
tant to us all. And the frank facing of this
challenge required, in my opinion, some-
one with superlative credentials, someone
who is strong and aggressive, someone
with a mind of his own, someone with a
good background in both budget matters
or energy matters, defense matters, and
in the academic field.
I first met James Schlesinger when he
had just returned from a trip to the Far
East, to China. He helped me as I pre-
pared for my second debate with President
Ford. We formed an almost instant per-
sonal friendship. And I believe that his
own stature as a leader will impress upon
the consciousness of America the impor-
tance that we do attach to the challenge
of the energy problem.
James Schlesinger will work very closely
with me within the White House as an
assistant. He will be in charge of energy
policy, and I hope that we can create with-
out much delay a new energy department,
14
