May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
spurious "renewal" that destroys the sense
of human community on which a city's
vigor depends. By redirecting the re-
sources of the federal government into
neighborhood preservation and conser-
vation, we can begin the work of in-
telligently restoring our cities. These
proposals are part of that program:
I am directing all federal agencies to
assess their programs to ensure that they
take advantage of our rich architectural
heritage wherever possible, for example
by locating federal offices in historic build-
ings and by supporting projects that are
compatible with and contribute to the
local cultural and historic environment.
I have instructed the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to
expand the urban homsteading program
by making available more and better-
quality houses; by ensuring that adequate
rehabilitation assistance is available to
participants; and by coordinating the
program more closely with other federal,
state, and community efforts.
IV. NATURAL RESOURCES
Protection of this country's natural re-
sources depends in large part on the
actions, leadership, and example of the
federal government. Too often our water,
wetlands, minerals, timber, and other re-
sources have been managed imprudently,
in disregard of sound environmental prin-
ciples. Too often, narrow economic inter-
ests have enjoyed undue influence over
the use of our public domain. As a result
the resources which belong to all our
citizens have sometimes been carelessly
squandered.
My Administration is committed to a
policy of effective stewardship of our
public lands and natural resources. That
policy includes conservation, multiple use
of resources, and a reluctance to disrupt
natural ecosystems. At a time when it has
become apparent that we can no longer
afford the waste and misuse of any natu-
ral resources, the need for these steps is
clear.
WATER RESOURCES POLICY
One of the pressing domestic issues
facing this Administration and this Con-
gress is the establishment of a national
water resources management policy.
I believe that it is essential to confine
the public works efforts of the water
development agencies to projects that can
meet such defensible criteria as economic
efficiency, safety, environmental protec-
tion, and fair distribution of project bene-
fits. I have already recommended to the
Congress a number of cost-saving adjust-
ments in our water resource programs.
Beyond that, we need comprehensive re-
form of water resources policy, with water
conservation as its cornerstone.
I am therefore directing the Office of
Management and Budget, the Council on
Environmental Quality, and the Water
Resources Council to conduct, in consul-
tation with the Congress and with the
public, a review of the present federal
water resource policy. I have requested
them to complete this joint study within
six months and to present me with con-
crete recommendations for policy coordi-
nation and reform.
In addition, as a first step in redirecting
present practices, I am today issuing an
Executive Order designed to minimize
the potential loss of human life and prop-
erty from floods. This Order directs all
appropriate federal agencies to refrain
from supporting, funding, or issuing per-
mits and licenses to new construction
projects located in floodplains unless the
agency determines that no practicable
alternative location exists.
WETLANDS
The important ecological function of
coastal and inland wetlands is well known
976
