Mar. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the Japanese before we make a decision
that's of import to our own people.
So, exchange of ideas and common
trust and a mutual desire for friendship,
democracy, the free enterprise system, and
a powerful and benevolent impact on the
rest of the world-these things we have in
common.
I would like to propose a toast now to
the Prime Minister and the people of
Japan: May their life ahead be as long
as it has been in the past, and blessed with
permanent peace.
To the Prime Minister.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
distinguished guests:
This is my first visit as Prime Minister
to Washington. In Japan, the cherry blos-
soms do not bloom until April. But here
in Washington, you were gracious enough
to have the cherry blossoms in full bloom
for my visit here. And I would like to
thank all of you here for your gracious
welcome, too.
When I did meet you, this was the year
before last, in Tokyo. Since then, you ran
for the Presidency. Your photograph was
on television and in the papers every day
in Japan.
Last year, you sent your friend from
Georgia, Mr. John Pope, and he had a
letter from you to me, and in that letter
you said that the next time we might meet
in an official capacity. This, I think, re-
flected your confidence. You were very
confident that you would win your elec-
tion. You did truly win the mandate of
the American people, and I am really
happy from the bottom of my heart. And
so, although this is the second time that I
tragic period, we have enjoyed the closest
of friendship between our two countries.
When I look at the world situation, I
am quite concerned about the present
state of the world economy, which I may
describe as being rather chaotic. I'm con-
cerned that this might lead to political
chaos, and we must do our best in order
to save the world economy. For this our
two countries must consult closely and
take the lead in the world towards solv-
ing this problem.
And at the same time, when I do look
at this question, we must realize the fact
that we are now in an age of limited
energy resources. And in the background
of this age of limited energy resources, I
feel it is more difficult to secure the peace
and prosperity of the world. We are faced
with new challenges and more difficulties.
And so, the cooperation between our
two countries is even more required in
this present age. So, facing today's diffi-
culties and the difficulties of tomorrow, I
hope that we can meet it with a spirit of
peanuts, if I may say that. [Laughter]
The peanut that I am describing there
are two fruits inside-one is the United
States and one is Japan, and the shell that
surrounds this peanut is individual liberty
and human rights.
I'd like to propose a toast to President
Carter and also to the people of the
United States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
The Prime Minister spoke in Japanese, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
have seen you, I feel as if I have known Secretary of the Air Force
you for a long time.
The United States for Japan is a most
important ally. About 110 years ago, you
opened our doors to modern civilization
as such. And just excluding a very short,
Nomination of John Stetson.
March 22, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate John Stetson, of Winnetka,
474
