Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 17
magazine. The couple has three sons,
David, Robert, and Richard.
Joseph F. Timilty, 38, is a Massachu-
setts State senator from Boston and is
currently serving on the Joint Committee
on Urban Affairs.
He was appointed teaching fellow at
Harvard University's Kennedy Institute
for Politics in 1972, and is now on the
faculty of the Boston University urban
affairs department, teaching a course on
urban legislating and lobbying techniques.
He is married to the former Elaine
Benson and has six children, Kelly, Kara,
Joseph, Jr., Patrick, James, and Gregory.
Judge Cruz Reynoso, 45, is an associate
justice for California's Third District
Court of Appeals in Sacramento, Calif.
He was a professor of law at the Uni-
versity of New Mexico Law School for 4
years, and he served as deputy, and later
director, of the California Rural Legal
Assistance, Inc., for 4 years. He also
served as Associate General Counsel for
the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission in Washington, D.C.
A native of Brea, Calif., Judge Reynoso
received his undergraduate degree from
Pomona College and his law degree from
the University of California at Berkeley.
He also received a Ford Foundation stu-
dent research grant at the National Uni-
versity of Mexico in Mexico City.
He is married to the former Jeannene
Harness and has four children, Trina,
Ranene, Len, and Rondall.
Tom Bradley, 59, has been mayor of
Los Angeles, Calif., since 1973.
He was a member of the Los Angeles
Police Department from 1940 until 1961,
when he left to enter private law practice
for 2 years. He was on the Los Angeles
City Council for 2 years before being
elected mayor.
A native of Calvert, Tex., he attended
the University of California at Los An-
geles and received his law degree from
Southwestern University. He is married
to the former Ethel Arnold and has two
daughters, Lorraine and Phyllis.
Charles Morgan, Jr., 46, former head
of the Washington legislative office of the
American Civil Liberties Union, practices
law in Washington, D.C.
A native of Birmingham, Ala., Mr.
Morgan received his undergraduate and
law degrees at the University of Alabama.
He was in private practice in Birmingham
from 1955 to 1963, when he was the
principal attorney in Reynolds v. Simms,
the one-person, one-vote legislative re-
apportionment case.
In 1963 Mr. Morgan joined the Amer-
ican Civil Liberties Union and founded
the ACLU's southern regional office,
which he directed until he went to Wash-
ington in 1972 to head the legislative
office.
He is a visiting professor at New York
Law School and is president of the Fund
for Constitutional Government. He is
married to the former Camille Walpole
and has a son, Charles III.
Frederick August Otto Schwartz, 41,
former chief counsel to the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence, is a partner
in the New York law firm of Cravath,
Swaine, and Moore.
A graduate of Harvard Law School,
Mr. Schwartz was a law clerk for the late
Judge J. Edward Lumbard, Chief Judge
for the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.
He also served as an assistant commis-
sioner for law revision for the government
of northern Nigeria and was a research
associate at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. He joined the present law
firm in 1963 and became a full partner
in 1969.
He is the grandson of F. A. O.
Schwartz, the founder of the New York
City toy store. He is married to the former
Marian Ladd Latsley. The couple has
183
