Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
MILK PRICE SUPPORTS
Q. Mr. President, you say your anti-
inflation program will require hard
choices by you. How do you reconcile that
with your recent approval of higher milk
subsidies that will raise the price of milk
by an estimated 6 cents a gallon and also
raise the price of other dairy products?
THE PRESIDENT. Milk is a special case.
Within the last few months the market
price of milk has dropped 9 percent. Feed
for dairy cows has more than doubled.
And the profit margin of dairy farmers
was precariously imbalanced even before
these changes took place. Other farm
price supports, as you know, have been
held down, by my administration's recom-
mendations, lower than milk.
I might point out also that the approxi-
mately 9-percent increase in the price of
milk was much lower than dairy interests
requested and demanded. But there was
an extraordinary circumstance surround-
ing milk which caused the Secretary of
Agriculture to make that decision, which
I think was proper.
THE ENERGY CRISIS
Q. Mr. President, the latest public opin-
ion poll suggests that a majority of the
people still don't think there is an energy
crisis. What do you think it's going to take
to jar their consciousness, and are you
planning a massive public information
program beyond the two speeches you'll
be giving next week?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm going to do all I
can in addition to the two speeches next
week to convince the American people of
the truth. The CIA has just completed
this week a long and detailed analysis of
international oil supplies, natural gas sup-
plies. Their findings are quite disturbing.
Reserve estimates that had been used as a
basis for decisions in the past were found
to be quite excessive. Reserves are not as
great as we thought they were.
If I can simply convince the American
people of the truth, using whatever means
that I have at my command, that is the
commitment that I have. And I believe
that when they see the truth, they'll co-
operate in trying to cut down the waste
of energy.
UNEMPLOYMENT; TAX REBATE
Q. Mr. President, on the tax rebate, last
week you sent a letter to the Senate in
which you said the rebate itself would pro-
duce 250,000 jobs. Even with the remain-
ing elements of your stimulus package and
even with the upturn in the economy,
won't your decision yesterday cost most of
those jobs, and does it in any sense repre-
sent a trimming back of your ultimate
goal on unemployment?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't believe so.
At the time we decided on the $50 tax
rebate, I and the congressional leaders, of
course, jointly we were experiencing
about an 8-percent unemployment rate.
That's now dropped down to 7.3 percent,
which is much too high.
At the same time, we had a very slug-
gish or dormant economy growing at an
annual rate of only 3.2 percent. That's
now almost doubled its rate of growth.
My own economic advisers, who will be
answering questions from the news media
in about 15 minutes after I go off of this
podium, have estimated that for the next
3 or 4 months these favorable economic
indicators on growth will continue.
Another very important factor is that
back in December we thought that we
might get the economic stimulus apart
from the $50 rebate in the mail to Ameri-
cans in April. And we depended on the
public works jobs programs and so forth
to come along later this year to maintain
the stimulus impetus. Obviously, now it's
635
