Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 30
Mozambique and 8 or 10 other countries,
sometimes just three or four, sometimes a
larger number.
We would like very much for Cuba to
refrain from this intrusion into African
affairs in a military way. Obviously, this
is one of the problems that Cuba creates.
Another major concern of ours is the
large number of political prisoners in
Cuba, between 15,000 and 20,000. We
see, though that it would be better for our
hemisphere if Cuba did have good rela-
tions with the other nations here. And this
is something that we hope to see in the
future.
Q. What do you mean by this "in a few
weeks?" What's going to happen?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we don't know
for sure, but I think we've demonstrated
an ability to work with Cuba on the fish-
eries agreement and also on the maritime
agreement. We have some hopes that
there will be other similar kinds of small
steps toward an increased ability to com-
municate and to discuss mutual concerns.
It would be a mistake to be too optimistic
about it.
Q. Mr. President, how long will it be,
do you think, before the trade embargo
finally comes to an end?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any way
to know.
Q. How are you and Amy going to get
along for the next 2 weeks? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I'm not
accustomed to my wife being gone. I feel
lonesome already. She will be gone 12
days. She will be sending back messages
at least once a day through diplomatic
channels. We will stay very close to one
another that way. I don't like for Rosa-
lynn to be gone.
Q. How do you account for the differ-
ence in view between your optimism and
Brezhnev's pessimism on SALT?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think I've al-
ready discussed this adequately. It's the
same difference that existed between Gro-
myko and Vance, both describing the
same circumstances.
I think, compared to what the Soviets
indicated in Moscow, it was a great step
forward. We felt, for a change, that they
genuinely wanted to have discussions
leading to an agreement. And they didn't
exhibit this inclination when we sent Cy
Vance to Moscow.
So, in that way it was an improvement.
But it again would be a mistake to under-
estimate the great differences that exist
between us.
The main thing they have that con-
cerns us is the increasing reliance on very
large missiles with multiple warheads.
And the thing that we have that concerns
them obviously is the capability to deploy
large numbers of cruise missiles at an
early date.
We hope to-we'll be very persistent
about it without being in a hurry. I don't
feel constrained every time we have a
meeting with the Soviets to sign some
kind of an agreement just to be signing
something. But they know very clearly, I
think, our own position now, and we know
their position much more clearly than we
did before the Geneva meeting.
My goals have not changed and won't
change. We want to do everything we can
to reduce dependence on atomic weapons.
We'll be trying to induce the Soviets to
join with us in this purpose.
Q. Do you still have hopes of meeting
Brezhnev in late September?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have never
put a date. I think that we certainly
would keep that hope alive when we see
how Gromyko and Vance get along at
their next meeting. So, I think we might
make a decision on a possible meeting
with me and Mr. Brezhnev. But that's not
sure yet.
Q. At the next meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to say.
1043
