Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 8
PUBLIC WORKS EXPENDITURES
Q. Mr. President, the first distribution
of emergency public works funds left ap-
proximately 23,000 communities, rather
20,000-odd communities, with approxi-
mately $22 billion in requests unfulfilled.
Your administration has proposed $2 bil-
lion additional this year and $2 billion the
next. Isn't that still going to leave a long
trail of disappointed communities in the
country?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. However, I think
it is part of a comprehensive package of
2-year duration that is well balanced.
There is a limit on how much money you
can spend on public works without wast-
ing money.
And we are asking, through Secretary of
Commerce Juanita Kreps, for the Con-
gress to change the allocation formula so
that we can orient the available public
works money much more accurately where
the unemployment rate is highest and
where the need is greatest.
FEDERAL PAY INCREASE
Q. Mr. President, do you agree with the
procedure under which Congress will get
a 29-percent pay increase next week along
with other top Federal officials? The ques-
tion is the procedure. And secondly, do
you think this increase is warranted, aside
from the procedure?
THE PRESIDENT. President Ford called
me before I was inaugurated to ask if I
would join him in support of the pay in-
crease that was recommended by the so-
called blue ribbon panel. There had not
been a pay increase for public officials—
judges, and the senior grade executive of-
ficers-I think, in 8 years. In many in-
stances, it was greatly disproportionate. I
told him I would agree to join him in sup-
port of the pay increase, provided he
maintained his support along with me for
the strict ethics requirement that was also
recommended by the blue ribbon study
commission. I have received assurance
from both the majority leader and the
Speaker of the House—the majority lead-
er of the Senate and the Speaker of the
House that they will push hard for and
pass, if possible, strict ethics legislation.
So, I think that the pay increase is justi-
fied in most instances. I haven't studied
the details of it. And if tied to a compre-
hensive ethics bill to put restraints on out-
side earnings and perhaps conflict of in-
terest, I think it overall would be good for
our country.
THE OIL INDUSTRY; ENERGY RESOURCES
Q. Mr. President, two of the massive
economic dislocations followed the natural
gas crisis: the factory closings, the school
closings, and the threat of homes going
without natural gas. I would like to ask
you, who do you think, philosophically,
owns America's energy resources? Is it the
private oil companies that extract these
from the ground or is it the American peo-
ple? And I'll ask my followup as well.
What are your views on nationalization of
the oil industry?
many
ization of the oil industry, to answer the
THE PRESIDENT. I am against national-
last part first. It is obvious that of
our oil and natural gas resources plus
major portions of our coal resources, par-
ticularly in the West, are derived from
publicly owned lands, both on-shore de-
posits and the Outer Continental Shelf
underneath the surface of the ocean.
Those oil and natural gas and coal re-
sources are made available to private
firms on a competitive bid basis to explore
and then to extract and distribute.
I think this is the best approach to be
maintained. I think nationalization of the
oil and natural gas business would not be
advisable. At the same time, recognizing
that the public must be protected, there is
a strict regulation of oil and natural gas
97
