Mar. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
-because of Federal regulation, air
fares are between 22 and 52% higher than
they otherwise would be.
-between 1969 and 1974, Federally
regulated airlines in the United States
could have operated at lower costs than
they did, and travelers could have saved
$1.4 billion and $1.8 billion annually.
-travelers' savings would probably
have been even higher, since lower fares
would encourage greater travel.
I am pleased that Congress has recog-
nized that the outdated airline regulatory
scheme must be reformed. During the last
Congress, both the Senate and the House
of Representatives held extensive hearings
on various proposals to reduce govern-
ment regulation and allow the airlines to
compete.
I urge Congress to enact, without delay,
regulatory reform of domestic commercial
aviation.
The legislation should be directed to-
ward certain specific objectives:
1. To the maximum extent possible,
our domestic commercial airline industry
should be governed by competitive mar-
ket forces, not the decisions of a govern-
ment bureaucracy.
2. We should ease the restrictions which
now prevent entry into the industry and
into currently protected routes, so that
the new, innovative companies can offer
their services to the public. A financially
responsible firm which meets applicable
safety standards should be denied entry
only if the Civil Aeronautics Board can
show that entry would be detrimental to
the public interest.
3. Carriers should be allowed to expand
their routes, within limits, without obtain-
ing approval from the Board.
4. After a short, initial phase-in, carriers
should be free to set competitive prices,
with only such regulation as is necessary
to prevent predatory, below-cost pricing.
5. Carriers should be given more flex-
ibility to leave markets without prolonged
hearings or onerous restrictions.
6. Small communities must be pro-
tected against the loss of needed air
service.
It will take time to change from a sys-
tem of extensive government regulation
to one emphasizing the natural forces of
the marketplace. As we make this change,
we must take care to protect the legiti-
mate interests of the public and of the air
industry and its employees.
My Administration will cooperate fully
with Congress throughout the legislative
process so that legislation can be enacted
by summer.
The White House,
March 4, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue, Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
February 26
The White House announced that Jack
H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President
for Intergovernmental Affairs, will serve
as the coordinator of Federal drought
assistance. In performing these responsi-
bilities, Mr. Watson will be assisted by
designated regional representatives and a
White House staff group. Information
has been requested from the Government
of drought-afflicted States with respect to
the particular situations in those States.
278
