Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
the courts of the other country to serve
their sentences in their home country; in
each case the consent of the offender as
well as the approval of the authorities of
the two governments would be required.
This Treaty is significant because it
represents an attempt to resolve a situa-
tion which has inflicted substantial hard-
ships on a number of citizens of each
country and has caused considerable con-
cern to both governments. It received the
approval of the Senate of the United
Mexican States on December 30, 1976. I
recommend that the Senate give favorable
consideration to this Treaty at an early
date.
The White House,
February 15, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Office of Management
and Budget
Nomination of James T. McIntyre, Jr.,
To Be Deputy Director. February 16, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate James T. McIntyre, Jr.,
to be Deputy Director of the Office of
Management and Budget. McIntyre is
presently Director of the Georgia Office
of Planning and Budget.
McIntyre was born in Vidalia, Ga., on
December 17, 1940. He received his A.B.
from the University of Georgia and his
J.D. from the University of Georgia
School of Law in 1963. He is a member
of the State bar of Georgia.
In 1964 McIntyre was employed by the
University of Georgia's Institute of Gov-
ernment and practiced law in Athens, Ga.
He served as general counsel to the
Georgia Municipal Association from July
1966 to April 1970. In that capacity, he
represented GMA on various boards and
commissions and assisted in implement-
ing the legislative programs affecting local
governments.
In April 1970, McIntyre was appointed
Deputy State Revenue Commissioner. He
was appointed Director of the Office of
Planning and Budget in October 1972 by
then Governor Jimmy Carter, and reap-
pointed to that position by Governor
George Busbee in January 1975.
As director of OPB, McIntyre's respon-
sibilities have included managing the
State's budget and directing State efforts
in planning, intergovernmental relations,
management improvement, energy con-
servation, arts promotion, regional com-
missions, and Coastal Zone management.
McIntyre served as legal counsel to then
Governor Carter's Reorganization and
Management Improvement Study in 1971
and as project director of the State and
Local Government Coordination Study in
1972.
McIntyre is married to the former
Maureen Ball. They have three daughters
and live in Alpharetta, Ga.
Save Your Vision Week, 1977
Proclamation 4488. February 16, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Over the past half-century, we have
made remarkable progress in the preven-
tion, diagnosis, and treatment of eye prob-
lems. Methods are available today that
can restore vision or sharply reduce the
risk of blindness that were unknown not
long ago. Research conducted and sup-
ported by the National Eye Institute and
many private organizations offers very
real hope for finding ways to treat eye
problems that are now beyond the reach
of prevention or cure.
157
