May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
plosives among nations that don't share
it, for a discussion about the proper uses
of energy and the sharing of world trade
with others, for loans and direct aid to
the less-developed countries, and the es-
tablishment of basic mechanisms by which
these discussions can continue, not just at
the summit level on special occasions but
on a continual day-by-day interrelation-
ship.
All these things are our hopes for this
meeting at the summit with six other na-
tions, on discussions of Berlin with three
other nations, our discussions with our
NATO allies, and a special meeting that
I shall have with President Asad from
Syria in Geneva.
I feel good about the prospects for suc-
cess, and I believe that I will come back
after this 5-day trip with a major step
having been made forward in dealing
with the world's problems with the other
leaders of our closest friends.
I want to thank the ones who have
come out this afternoon-this morning to
see me off. I will try to do a good job for
you. And I think when I come back, we
will have had a successful trip.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
London, England
Remarks on Arrival at Heathrow
Airport. May 5, 1977
I'm very proud to come to London,
Great Britain, as the first country that I
have visited outside my own Nation as
President of the United States.
It's not an accident that this is my first
overseas trip because of the historical ties
that have always bound the United States
of America and the United Kingdom to-
gether in a special and very precious
relationship. Our political system, our
sense of justice, the pride that we take in
individuality and human freedom, our
system of laws came from Great Britain.
We have a special mutual commitment
toward world peace, toward addressing in
a courageous fashion the special problems
that afflict human beings in the need for
better health care and better education
and jobs so that we won't be robbed by
inflation.
I'm looking forward tomorrow to going
to Newcastle and also to Washington to
visit the ancestral home of our own first
President, George Washington. This is
symbolic of the ties that have always
bound us together. My own ancestors
came from England more than 300 years
ago. And many of my own personal
neighbors and friends trace their lineage
and their background and their commit-
ment to human, values to this great
country.
It's also a proper place for the leaders
of some of the industrial nations of the
world to assemble here in London. This
is the first time that an American Presi-
dent has been able to visit Great Britain
since you assumed, Mr. Prime Minister,
such a strong position in the European
Community. You're now the leader of
that community, and it is entirely appro-
priate that I and you and five other na-
tional leaders should come here to discuss
matters of common import.
I'd like to say also that we are deeply
grateful in the United States for your re-
cent visit to Washington, when we had a
chance to discuss matters of importance
to our people and to form a friendship in
a personal way that will be valued by me
the rest of my life. And we are especially
greatful that your own Queen, Her Maj-
esty, was able to come to our country last
year when we celebrated our Bicentennial
birthday. And I'm very grateful to be able
to come over here on the special occasion
310
