Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 22
Union has become less intensive, even though the competition has become
more extensive.
The Vietnamese war produced a profound moral crisis, sapping
worldwide faith in our own policy and our system of life, a crisis of confi-
dence made even more grave by the covert pessimism of some of our
leaders.
In less than a generation, we've seen the world change dramatically.
The daily lives and aspirations of most human beings have been trans-
formed. Colonialism is nearly gone. A new sense of national identity now
exists in almost 100 new countries that have been formed in the last gen-
eration. Knowledge has become more widespread. Aspirations are higher.
As more people have been freed from traditional constraints, more have
been determined to achieve, for the first time in their lives, social justice.
The world is still divided by ideological disputes, dominated by
regional conflicts, and threatened by danger that we will not resolve the
differences of race and wealth without violence or without drawing into
combat the major military powers. We can no longer separate the tradi-
tional issues of war and peace from the new global questions of justice,
equity, and human rights.
It is a new world, but America should not fear it. It is a new
world, and we should help to shape it. It is a new world that calls for
a new American foreign policy—a policy based on constant decency in its
values and on optimism in our historical vision.
We can no longer have a policy solely for the industrial nations as
the foundation of global stability, but we must respond to the new reality
of a politically awakening world.
We can no longer expect that the other 150 nations will follow the
dictates of the powerful, but we must continue-confidently—our efforts
to inspire, to persuade, and to lead.
Our policy must reflect our belief that the world can hope for more
than simple survival and our belief that dignity and freedom are funda-
mental spiritual requirements. Our policy must shape an international
system that will last longer than secret deals.
We cannot make this kind of policy by manipulation. Our policy
must be open; it must be candid; it must be one of constructive global
involvement, resting on five cardinal principles.
I've tried to make these premises clear to the American people since
last January. Let me review what we have been doing and discuss what
we intend to do.
957
