Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
would have to if you did get those deep
cuts?
THE PRESIDENT. Deep cuts would af-
fect both of us about the same. Shallow
cuts, say, from 2,400 down to 2,200 on
launchers would affect the Soviets much
more adversely than it would us. Part of
our package involved the very heavy mis-
siles, the SS-9 and SS-18, which now
stand at a 308 level. We included in our
package a substantial reduction below
that figure.
I think that the details of our proposal
would probably best be revealed later.
I'm a little constrained about the details,
because Secretary Vance and Mr. Gro-
myko still have agreements among them-
selves about revelations of the negotia-
tions with which I'm not yet familiar. But
I think later on those exact figures can be
made available.
Thank you.
REPORTER. Thank you.
civil rights movement, Fanny Lou
Hamer. And you've also just recognized a
woman who will move into Government,
I hope very shortly, to continue that very
strong and able fight for civil rights, par-
ticularly for women and minority groups,
Eleanor Holmes Norton.
I've had the pleasure lately of working
with Midge Costanza in choosing some of
the women who will meet this year in a
continuation of the 1975 Women's Year
conventions. They include, as you know,
Gloria Steinem, and they include Betty
Ford, who's agreed to serve-I'm very
grateful for that—and Bella Abzug, who
will be the chairman, and others, about
40 other women, who will represent our
Nation in a continuing international dis-
cussion of women's rights. I'm proud of
this effort, and I'm proud to be part of it.
I'd like to say just a couple of other
things, though, that relate, some directly,
to you and to women who look to you for
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. in leadership which are kind of tied in with
the Briefing Room at the White House. Prior
to his remarks, the President discussed the
status of the negotiations with congressional
leaders in the Cabinet Room.
National Women's Political
Caucus
the other responsibilities that I have as
President.
I spent this afternoon receiving reports
from Secretary of State Cy Vance on his
discussions with the Soviet leaders con-
cerning the control, the strict limitation,
and the drastic reduction in nuclear
weapons. This is a subject that hasn't
been raised in a forceful way before. Pre-
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the viously, we have talked and the Soviets
Organization. March 30, 1977
First of all, I want to thank you for let-
ting me interrupt your meeting. If it's one
person I don't like to follow, it's Barbara
Mikulski. She always makes me feel inept
and tongue-tied and without humor.
But I do thank you for having me come
over. I'm glad to bring my wife, Rosalynn.
I think you've just done two things.
One is to stand in silence to honor a
woman who was a pioneer in a demon-
stration of courage in the early days of the
have talked about ultimate limits well
above where we presently have stood.
Now we are talking about an end to the
development, the design, the deployment
of new weapons systems; a drastic reduc-
tion in intercontinental ballistics missiles
we have now; a comprehensive test ban,
both military weapon testing and peace-
ful nuclear device testing; a demilitari-
zation of the Indian Ocean; a strict limi-
tation on the proliferation of nuclear
weapon capability to other countries; a
strict limitation and reduction in conven-
544
