Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
FBI and the intelligence agencies so that
we can do what is legal again. We must
narrowly define which people need to
know sensitive information so that we can
let those who need information have it,
but not overly spread potentially damag-
ing information, if revealed, among those
who might reveal it inadvertently.
We also must decide how to distinguish
between useful information to a recipient
and the techniques or sources of that in-
formation which a recipient does not
need, but which, if revealed, might sever
the friendship between ourselves and
other nations or cause danger or loss of
life to those who are helping to serve us
in the collection of information.
This is such an extremely complicated
effort, that I have been impressed with
the need for superb leadership. I have no
doubt that Admiral Stansfield Turner
can provide that leadership. He needs
your help and he needs my help, and
those with whom he works need the sup-
port and confidence of the American
people. His own integrity is the surest
guarantee that no future abuses will em-
barrass us.
And I know that all of you share with
me the deepest appreciation to him for
being willing to undertake this enormous
task. And I think the good groundwork
that has been laid by Dr. Jim Schlesinger
and by George Bush, who are in front of
me, and other leaders, will be a rich op-
portunity for him to make even better
progress in the future.
So, to all those men and women who
have served in the past and who serve
now to help protect our Nation's security,
I say thank you. And to Stan Turner,
who will be your leader and my closest
possible associate in the future, I say
again, thank you.
I am part of your effort and you are
part of mine. And to the extent that we
can share this partnership, we can carve
out for our Nation and perhaps even the
world, a clearer sense of what peace
might be and a more sure realization of
that peace which is the goal of us all.
Thank you very much for letting me
participate in this fine ceremony.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:38 p.m. at
the Central Intelligence Agency in Langley,
Va. Prior to the ceremony he attended a brief-
ing in the Agency's main building.
Budget Rescission and Deferrals
Message to the Congress. March 9, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I am withdrawing
one previously proposed rescission and re-
porting revisions to three deferrals pre-
viously transmitted.
The withdrawal is for the business loan
and investment fund of the Small Busi-
ness Administration. Two of the revised
deferrals are increases which relate to
programs in the Department of Defense
while the third reflects a decrease in a
Department of Transportation deferral.
The combined effect of these revisions is
to increase the amount deferred by $27.7
million.
The details of the rescission withdrawal
and each deferral are contained in the
attached reports.
The White House,
March 9, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The message was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
The attachments detailing the rescission and
revisions to deferrals is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of March 16, 1977.
352
