May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
slavia's independence, political unity, and
territorial integrity, and we recognize
Yugoslavia's and President Tito's vital
role in providing leadership to the non-
aligned world. I believe these early con-
sultations with President Tito will be of
great value.
Finally, I have asked the Vice Presi-
dent to include a stop in the U.K. to con-
tinue the close consultations we are con-
ducting with the British Government on
developments related to southern Africa.
Ethics in Government
Message to the Congress. May 3, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
During my campaign I promised the
American people that as President I
would assure that their government is
devoted exclusively to the public interest.
I began fulfilling that promise by making
information on my own financial interests
publicly available. I have also required
that all Presidential appointees disclose
their business and financial interests, to
remove any possibility of hidden conflicts
of interest. In addition, I have obtained a
commitment from these officials to ad-
here to tighter restrictions after leaving
government, in order to curb the "revolv-
ing door" practice that has too often per-
mitted former officials to exploit their
government contacts for private gain.
To expand upon the actions I have
taken so far, I am submitting to Con-
gress the Ethics in Government Act of
1977. This bill will establish far-reaching
safeguards against conflicts of interest and
abuse of the public trust by government
officials. The bill incorporates the stand-
ards I have required of my own ap-
pointees, and extends their coverage to
other high-ranking officials. It builds
upon the Comptroller General's two-year
investigation of conflict of interest en-
forcement in the Executive Branch. It also
parallels the unprecedented efforts the
Congress has made to strengthen ethical
standards for its members.
In addition to strengthening conflict of
interest controls through the Ethics in
Government Act, I am today announcing
support for legislation to authorize ap-
pointment of a temporary Special Prose-
cutor to handle cases of misconduct by
high-ranking Executive Branch officials.
Both Houses have recently adopted
new Codes of Conduct which are mile-
stones in the history of government action
to prevent actual or potential conflicts of
interest. The leadership of both Houses
have also pledged personal support for
enactment of these new Codes into law.
The Senate is currently considering
S. 555, the Public Official Integrity Act of
1977, and the House, in addition to cre-
ating a Select Committee on Ethics to
enact its new Code into law, has also been
working on legislation to establish gov-
ernment-wide ethical standards. I am
confident that through our joint efforts,
legislation prescribing government-wide
standards of conduct will be considered
and passed this year.
The Ethics in Government Act calls for
a three-part program of financial disclo-
sure, creation of a new Office of Ethics in
the Civil Service Commission, and
strengthened restrictions on post-employ-
ment activities of government officials.
First, the Ethics in Government Act
would require policy-making officials,
whether political appointees or top-level
career civil servants, to disclose publicly
their financial interests. Currently, policy-
making employees must file statements of
financial interest, but these statements are
not available to the public. In addition to
requiring public disclosure, the Act would
require collection of more extensive in-
formation about employees' financial
786
