Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 22
staff members, and the Vice President.
There were 1,334 applicants who were
screened, of whom 14 were chosen. And
we have a distinguished panel for making
the selection whose reputations are be-
yond reproach and beyond any doubt.
I have not been involved at all in the
selection process. I say that so that the
1,320 people who were not chosen-
[laughter]—will know that I'm not re-
sponsible.
We have high hopes for you. In addi-
tion to the detailed knowledge that you
will gain from observing the White House
in operation, you'll also have a chance to
participate in roughly 300 private discus-
sions with leaders both in and out of gov-
ernment-in Government, in the execu-
tive and legislative branches in every
phase of the administration of our own
Nation's affairs.
So, it's a great credit to you that you
have been chosen, and it's a great credit
to John Gardner's chairmanship that the
quality of our selection committee has
been maintained. And I believe that it
will be a great credit to our Nation, the
service that you will provide. So, con-
gratulations to all of you, and my sincere
thanks again to John Gardner for con-
ceiving this noble and beneficial idea and
for helping to perpetuate its qualities.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:30 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
Advertising Council, Inc.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the Council. June 22, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very sorry to keep
you waiting a few minutes. I had meetings
this noon with the Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia, and our discussions lasted a few
minutes longer than we had anticipated.
Then we had a meeting with the White
House Fellows, both the current year's
group and those that will be serving in the
White House beginning in September.
This is a highly competitive group, as
you know. John Gardner is the head of
our new selection committee. We had
1,334 people who were considered, and
we could only choose 14 of them. They
will be working in the White House with
the Cabinet members and with the Vice
President, and also will have a chance to
meet with about 300 leaders of our Gov-
ernment and private industry as well dur-
ing the next 12 months.
It's a superb program, and as you can
see, the competition is very similar to
what it is in the advertising indus-
try—[laughter]—when you seek a good
client.
I'd like to say a few words, about 3 or
4 minutes, and then spend a few addi-
tional minutes answering, perhaps, a few
questions that you might have. I know
that you've already had a chance to listen
to Jim Schlesinger, and perhaps I could
add a little to what he said.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We have spent the last 4, 5, 6 months
trying to bring some commitment among
the American people to correct a long-
standing deficiency in the consciousness
and in the lifestyle of our great country.
We have an impending shortage of energy
which can be almost catastrophic if it's
not dealt with early and effectively.
I've evolved, along with Dr. Schlesin-
ger and many others, a comprehensive
proposal and presented it to the Congress
on April the 20th. They are now dealing
with its component parts in a very diffi-
cult way. I recognize the complexity of it.
The Congress, I think, and I will be
much better able to constantly improve
our own Nation's husbanding of scarce
energy supplies and the more efficient use
1143
