Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 28
Commission as many vice presiding offi-
cers as necessary.".
The White House,
March 28, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:58 a.m., March 29, 1977]
NOTE: The Executive order was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
For the text of Executive Order 11980, which
amends Executive Order 11979, see page 527
of this volume.
National Commission on the
Observance of International
Women's Year, 1975
Appointment of Members and Presiding
Officer of the Commission. March 28, 1977
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of former New York Congress-
woman Bella Abzug as presiding officer
of the National Commission on the Ob-
servance of International Women's Year.
He also announced that former First Lady
Betty Ford will serve on the Commission.
The President has signed on Executive
order increasing the maximum number of
members on the Commission from 35 to
42. Members of the Commission and
the presiding officer serve without
compensation.
Congress has authorized the Commis-
sion to sponsor 56 State and territorial
meetings on the rights and responsibilities
of women by mid-July. A National Wom-
en's Conference scheduled for Novem-
ber 18-21, 1977, in Houston, Tex., will
include representatives selected by the 56
meetings and appointed by the IWY
Commission.
The National Conference will draw up
recommendations for ending the barriers
to women's equality in the United States.
Their report will be submitted to the Pres-
ident and to Congress in March 1978.
The members of the Commission are:
BELLA S. ABZUG, of New York, N.Y., presiding
officer-former U.S. Congresswoman (D-
N.Y.); attorney; founder and former chair,
National Women's Political Caucus; U.S.
delegate to the U.N. World Conference on
IWY in Mexico City, July 1975.
RUTH J. ABRAM, of New York, N.Y.-executive
director, Women's Action Alliance; former
program director, American Civil Liberties
Union; executive director, the Norman
Foundation.
MAYA ANGELOU, of Sonoma, Calif.-poet, ac-
tress, playwright; author, "I Know Why The
Caged Bird Sings" and "And Still I Rise"
(Broadway musical opening in autumn,
1977).
ELIZABETH ATHANASAKOS, of Fort Lauderdale,
Fla.-practicing attorney; former municipal
judge; former presiding officer, IWY Com-
mission, 1976.
BETTY BLANTON, of Nashville, Tenn.-First
Lady of Tennessee; member, 51.3%
Committee.
LIZ CARPENTER, of Austin, Tex.-co-chair,
ERAmerica; public relations executive;
former press secretary to Lady Bird Johnson.
John Mack Carter, of New York, N.Y.—edi-
tor-in-chief, Good Housekeeping magazine;
former editor, Ladies' Home Journal, Mc-
Call's, American Home, and assistant editor,
Better Homes and Gardens.
SEYMOUR M. CHASSLER, of New York, N.Y.—
editor-in-chief, Redbook magazine; former
editor, McCall's magazine.
RUTH C. CLUSEN, of Green Bay, Wis.-presi-
dent, National League of Women Voters;
alternate U.S. delegate to the U.N. World
Conference on IWY in Mexico City, July
1975.
AUDREY ROWE COLOM, of Washington, D.C.—
president, National Women's Political Cau-
cus; director of women's activities, Corpora-
tion for Public Broadcasting.
JANE CULBRETH, of Leeds, Ala.-president, Na-
tional Federation of Business and Professional
Women's Clubs, Inc.; corporate officer and
secretary, Moss-Thornton Co.
525
