Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
was to designate and preserve a national
system of recreational and scenic trails.
Nine years later only two have been des-
-Niobrara River, Nebraska;
-Tangipahoa River, Louisiana and
Mississippi;
Yellowstone River, Wyoming and ignated: the Appalachian Trail and the
Montana;
-Ogeechee River, Georgia;
-Salt River, Arizona;
Wenatchee River, Washington;
Gulkana River, Alaska;
-Delta River, Alaska;
-Madison River, Montana.
I am also transmitting to the Congress
reports on the Gasconade River in Mis-
souri and the Penobscot River in Maine.
After thorough study, both of these rivers
have been found to qualify for inclusion
in the National System with the recom-
mendation that they be administered by
the states. I am pleased at the number of
states taking positive action to protect
their natural resources and assure them
that any proposals to add State-adminis-
tered rivers to the National System will be
sympathetically considered by the Secre-
tary of the Interior.
I am also submitting legislation to the
Congress to withdraw authority for future
construction of the Cross-Florida Barge
Canal, to extend the boundaries of the
Ocala National Forest to protect the Ok-
lawaha River, and to authorize study of
the Oklawaha River for possible designa-
tion as a Wild and Scenic River. Enact-
ment of this legislation will put an end to
the long controversy over this ill-advised
project. I am also directing the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Army,
and other appropriate federal agencies, in
cooperation with the State of Florida, to
recommend ways to dispose of canal
lands and structures, as well as ways to
restore the Oklawaha River portion of the
project area.
NATIONAL TRAILS
In 1968 Congress passed the National
Trails System Act, the purpose of which
Pacific Coast Trail. Other unprotected
trails on public lands have in the mean-
time become unusable. In some areas al-
most half the once-available trail mileage
has been lost.
To restore and broaden the National
Trails System, I am submitting legislation
to designate three new Scenic Trails:
-a Continental Divide Scenic Trail of
3100 miles along the Rocky Moun-
tains crest from Canada to Mexico;
-a North Country Scenic Trail of 3200
miles from eastern New York to
North Dakota; and
-a Potomac Heritage Scenic Trail of
847 miles along the Potomac River
from Chesapeake Bay to West Vir-
ginia and Pennsylvania.
In the near future I will also submit
legislation to amend the National Trails
System Act by adding a new category-
Historic Trails-and I will give early at-
tention to submitting trails in this new
category.
WILDLIFE
When explorers and settlers from Eu-
rope first came to America, they were
astonished at the richness and variety of
wildlife in our lands and waters. Faced
with such abundance, for years most
Americans have valued only game species
of wildlife. Our allocation of federal
funds for wildlife research and manage-
ment still reflects this outdated view.
Ninety-seven out of every hundred fed-
eral wildlife dollars are devoted to the
less than one percent of vertebrate species
that are hunted or fished for commerce or
sport. To the rest, little attenion has been
given, even though they are part of the
biological system that sustains us. To
correct this imbalance, I am directing the
981
