Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Thank you very much indeed for your
very warm welcome this morning and for
your very kindly words and for the
weather, if I may say so, too.
I am very grateful to you for what you
said. I am not sure it is all true about me,
but it is certainly true that I have held
all the major offices. But I feel a little like
the French aristocrat after the revolution
who was asked what he did. And he said,
"I survived." And I have got a feeling
that in politics, to survive is probably the
most you can hope for. You can influence
events a little, but that is about it.
At any rate, I always arrive here, Mr.
President, as you well know, with a very
keen sense of anticipation for the discus-
sions that we have and, on this occasion,
it is especially invigorating to be here at
the beginning of your new administration.
Now you know, sir, as I know, that the
friendship between our two countries em-
braces all parties and all administrations
on both sides of the Atlantic, whatever
they may be. But nevertheless, in renew-
ing the bonds of friendship-and I hope,
sir, that you and I will be able to strike
up a personal friendship-let me say that
I do so with a particular sense of excite-
ment, an excitement of sharing your new
hopes, your new aspirations, your inten-
tions, your new policies, being here at the
beginning of a new administration.
And Vice President Mondale, whose
words I found very valuable when he
came to London-I am not sure that his
singing was quite up to that standard-
but certainly, he communicated to us
some of the excitement of being in at the
start of this new administration in the
United States.
You bear much of the burdens of the
free world-military burdens, economic
burdens, aid burdens. But what is more,
Mr. President, what you can do and what
you have already begun to do is to influ-
ence the political tone of the world in a
very marked degree. And I would like to
thank you, sir, and indeed the whole
American people, that in the leadership
that you give to the world today, that you
carry your responsibilities with spirit and
with a marked constructive thinking, and
imaginative thinking, too.
You referred, sir, to the fact that for
the time being, I am President of the
European Community. Let me hasten to
disabuse our friends who gather here, that
has nothing to do with my capacity. It is
as we say in the United Kingdom, “It just
happened to be Buggins' turn," and I am
Buggins.
But what I can say on behalf of them
all is that every member of the Commu-
nity is desirous that there should be a close
partnership and a strengthening of rela-
tions between the United States and
Europe.
You and I, Mr. President, will be hold-
ing our discussions in a world which has
now experienced 4 years of recession, the
deepest since the 1930's. Of course, the
free world can and will emerge from this
recession, but we need concerted inter-
governmental action if we are to do so as
speedily as possible.
No one group of nations and no one
nation can survive permanently as an
island of prosperity if the remainder of
the world is in recession. And our task,
sir, if I may be bold enough to say so, is
to see how we can help poverty and un-
employment among the world's people, in
an era of rapid change that has been
caused by the unprecedented speed of
technological development.
This is going to cause us many prob-
lems. And I was heartened yesterday, sir,
to see you calling for a new program to
help the young people of the United
States who need training and who are un-
employed and who you wish to see trained
and get back into employment.
354
