Apr. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the American people overwhelmingly be-
lieve that our Nation ought to be a bea-
con light for the rest of the world in an
unequivocal commitment to the basic
principles on which our own Nation has
been founded. And I believe that we can
do this and suffer, perhaps, some tempo-
rary disturbance in our relationship with
a few countries around the world, but
eventually we can have a good influence
in etsablishing human rights even in
countries where they are endangered at
the present time.
I think our Nation ought to take the
leadership in addressing for the first time,
in a comprehensive way, the rapidly
the rapidly
dwindling supplies of oil and natural gas
and other energy sources.
No nation has yet established a strong,
comprehensive, well-thought-out conser-
vation plan. Our Nation has been blessed,
as you know, with large quantities of en-
ergy, but we ought to be the one, I think
first, to strive for strong conservation
measures because we waste more.
We can have a better conservation ef-
fort because we're the most wasteful
nation on Earth. We have about the same
standard of living, as I said on my televi-
sion speech the other night, as Sweden,
Japan, Germany, but we use twice as
much energy per person.
And if there is one group of people in
our country who could play a leadership
role in trying to save energy, it's you. You
could monitor what goes on in your
schools, in your public buildings that are
owned by the State and local govern-
ments, in your own home, the kind of
automobiles you buy, the kind of trans-
portation that you use. I think this is the
kind of thing where you could mount a
nationwide effort to help me with all these
conservation matters.
And the last thing that I'll mention, in
order to save your time, is that I've tried
to bring to our Government a new open-
ness. I think that it's obvious, if you read
the editorial comments, that sometimes we
are criticized because I tell the American
people things that haven't been made
public before.
If I have a group of options in dealing
with Turkey and Greece, or dealing with
the Zairean problem, or dealing with the
Middle East, or dealing with the SALT
negotiations with the Soviet Union, or
how to reopen relationships with Viet-
nam or Cuba or the People's Republic of
China, I feel much more secure as Presi-
dent if I let the American people know
what my thoughts are and let them know
the facts about these international and
very sensitive discussions. Because to the
extent that the American people debate
these issues, and to the extent that I can
learn from the debate, I feel more sure
that I will make the right decision. And
when I do express an opinion or take a
position with foreign leaders, I want to
be sure that my position accurately repre-
sents what the American people are and
what the American people want me to do.
So, we are trying to make some changes.
We've made a lot of mistakes. We're go-
ing to make some more. But I hope that
to the extent that you can, you'll stay
involved in what we do, monitor the de-
cisions that I make, and feel that you're
part of the Government, just as I am.
I wouldn't be at all surprised if some-
one in this group, or some of those that
are in this organization that are left be-
hind, would be in Government in the
future, perhaps President of the United
States.
I never thought about being President
when I was your age. All I wanted to do
was to be sure I went to college and to
get off the farm for a while. But the way
things have worked out, with the help of
Midge Costanza and others, I have been
successful in reaching this very important
position.
694
