Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
adequate roads or the threat of death
from nuclear weapons, I hope that in the
future you will say that "my elected offi-
cials in Washington or in Boston will help
me work out of this problem."
I haven't always had that feeling in the
last 7 or 8 years-but I want to restore
that. So, the basic strength and the basic
aid that I will have, and Senator Ken-
nedy and Senator-I mean Congressman
Early, Tsongas, and others who are in the
audience—I'm sorry I started naming
people, Mike Dukakis is up there, a
good friend of mine. He's helping a great
deal with the welfare program. But the
thing all of us have to fall back on is
you.
The thing all of us have to fall back on
are people like you.
I'd like to leave tonight by reminding
you that we are partners. I don't have
any more intelligence or ability than you
do. I've been elected President because of
the confidence of the American people.
But I need your help, I need your pray-
ers, I need your advice, and I also need
and welcome your tough criticisms when
St. Patrick's Day, 1977
Message of the President. March 17, 1977
On St. Patrick's Day, Rosalynn and I
extend our warmest good wishes to all our
fellow citizens of Irish ancestry and to the
many others who join with us in becom-
ing Irish in spirit on this traditionally fes-
tive day.
Irish wit and wisdom are as much a
part of our national life as the millions of
Irish Americans who have helped to build
and preserve the greatness of our society.
This Day gives all of us the opportunity
to honor and take pride in the very sig-
nificant precious part of our American
heritage that is rooted in the Emerald
Isle.
NOTE:
JIMMY CARTER
The text of the message was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
I make a mistake. And I'm going to try Charleston, West Virginia
to serve out my own administration by
staying close to you. It's not an easy thing
for a President to stay close to the people.
But I'm going to do my best. And I hope
that you will help me overcome my diffi-
culties and learn when I'm ignorant about
your needs and repair the damage that
might occur that separates me from you
so that we can work together to realize
the greatness of our country which ex-
ceeds that of any other nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The meeting began at 7:40 p.m. at the
Clinton Townhall. The President was intro-
duced by Alan Jewett, chairman of the Clinton
Board of Selectmen.
Following the meeting, the President spent
the night at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Thompson, residents of Clinton.
Remarks in a Panel Discussion and
Question-and-Answer Session on
Energy. March 17, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to say
that I'm very delighted to be back in West
Virginia. I've always felt at home here.
And I was particularly grateful to see that
West Virginia and Georgia have a lot in
common. One thing that comes to mind
immediately is the election returns when
they came in last November. I was very
pleased with that. [Laughter]
Senator Byrd says that West Virginia
is a kind of a steep Georgia. And we have
a lot in common, I think, with one an-
other.
This afternoon we are participating-
I'm going to learn a lot-in a discussion
402
