Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
about my neighbor to have doubted the
system that we are involved in. There are
others just as good. But I think there is a
real fact. There are $800 million Federal
research dollars on coal this year to be
spent, of which three, with less than half
percent, go to flue gas cleaner.
I submit, Mr. President, I think this is a
very urgent thing, that part of the devel-
opment should be put into the new DOE
[Department of Energy]. It is not in there.
now. I think it's not in there on political
grounds. But I think this is one of the real
needs, because this country cannot con-
tinue without high-sulfur coal. This is
one of the things we've got to continue
to use. In fact, broadly speaking, if I may
add, the United States is in the fortunate
position where we have all the coal we'll
possibly need. And I think more than that,
we can produce and mine all the coal we
can possibly need.
The constraint and the limitation of
the future contribution that coal can
make is in the facilities for its use-power
stations, gas plants, if you please, and
some day maybe liquid plants further
down the line. But it is this limitation on
building the power station or converting
the power station. You are not going to
convert the boilers of this country in 5
minutes from oil and gas to coal. It's
going to take 10 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. I might
say that some of the experimental proj-
ects that you describe that are presently
in EPA might very well be used in the
DOE later on. And Doug Costle and Sec-
retary Schlesinger will be working on that.
I promised to recognize Governor
Rockefeller.
STRIP MINING
GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER. Secretary
Andrus wanted us to talk a little bit about
the strip mine bill. We didn't; I think we
should. I'd want to say, from my point of
view, I think it is very important that that
legislation be passed in essentially the
form that it now is, but with some
changes. I think the most important part
of it, in the real heart of the bill, is the
phrase "return to approximate original
contour," which we have shown in West
Virginia that we can do, but which we
do to a substantial competitive disad-
vantage.
Our coal sells at $5 to $8 more per ton
than does that coal of even some of our
neighboring States, because we choose to
enforce regulations which will make that
restoration, reclamation, come to reason-
able standards. So, I think that's very im-
portant, but I think it's important that
there be left at the top of the reclamation
area, the spoil area, that there be a very
small amount of drainage area-and
we've discussed this before-so that when
the sod is just put back, the dirt is just
put back, that there can be protection in
the event of heavy rain, so that the drain-
age is carried down the mountain without
causing a big problem with siltation.
And the other thing I think is impor-
tant, and we have discussed this before,
sir, is that in controversial, and that is, I
think the variance requirements on
mountaintop removal should be removed.
I think that mountaintop removal can be
and is, if done properly, not only high
production oriented but high, environ-
mentally sound system.
And I guess finally, I would say that if
States are being deemed to do an ade-
quate job of inspecting, self-inspecting,
deemed by you to do an adequate job of
self-inspecting, I think they should be al-
lowed to continue to do so without Fed-
eral inspection. If they are not deemed to
be doing an adequate job of self-inspec-
tion, reclamation, then I think that the
Federal Government should move in and
make sure they do.
415
