Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
maximum degree of cooperation and
harmony.
And as you deal with your clients, the
people of your country, whether it might
be in revenue sharing, or whether it might
be in enforcement of the laws that relate
to drugs, or whether it might be in Secret
Service protection, or whether it might be
in Treasury, or whether it might be in
overall international trade agreements-
no matter what it is, I hope that you will
always remember, as I will try to do, that
we are not bosses of anyone; we're the
servants of the American people.
And I hope that I can exemplify this
attitude in such a way that it might in-
spire you to do the same thing. I've tried
to eliminate some of the artificial trap-
pings and respect that's openly paid to me.
I feel that the Office of Presidency is sub-
stantial enough and has an adequate
amount of respect already.
But I want all of us to take the de-
meanor of a government as it should be
in a democratic society. We're servants,
not bosses. And to the extent we can rec-
ognize whom we serve the people of our
country—in a fair way and an enlight-
ened way, I think we will be all-successful.
I have a few minutes now. If you have
any questions, I'll try to answer them. If
I can't answer them, I'll let Mike Blu-
menthal answer them.
QUESTIONS
DEPARTMENT VISITS
Q. Mr. President, I work at Customs.
I would like to know when you are com-
ing to Customs, because we don't have a
chance to see you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say this: I
doubt if the people in Customs have seen
very many Secretaries of the Treasury.
Let me let Mike Blumenthal come and
get acquainted first, and then later on,
I'll try to come.
When I got elected Governor of
Georgia, I had a similar desire to meet
with the people who work in the govern-
ment, so I went over to our revenue com-
missioner's office. And I was
was going
through from one office to another, and
there was a very old gentleman there who
had obviously been there 20 or 30 years.
I shook hands with him and I said "Have
you ever met a Governor before?" He
said, "I've never even met a revenue com-
missioner before." [Laughter]
I want you all to insist that Mike
Blumenthal come, and I'll come when I
can.
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. In your plan for government re-
organization, do you foresee any chang-
ing of the law for the Treasury Depart-
ment? Specifically, do you see us taking
on any new responsibilities or losing any
old ones?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question yet. What we will do, first of all,
is get the authorizing legislation and then
start an analysis. The staff work will be
done by the Office of Management and
Budget, primarily. I'll probably appoint
someone directly to represent me as a
coordinator of the entire process. But
nothing would be done, obviously, with-
out the full participation of you who are
involved, working through Mike Blumen-
thal, before a change was made.
But I can't answer your question about
specific changes that might ultimately be
recommended to the Congress.
What I'm asking for is the same au-
thority that was given to all the Presidents
from Franklin Roosevelt, in the early
thirties, right on up through Richard
Nixon. And we've introduced a bill now
that I think will get rapid passage in the
Senate and, I think, without delay get
approval in the House that will restore
that authority.
129
