Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
really look at the data as far as the im-
pact on health is concerned.
program, because they, better than any-
one else, know what the factors are that
bring about catastrophic injuries to the
individual and casualties like we suffered
through here in West Virginia, Kentucky,
and other places.
But there is one thing we do know. If
everybody has the scrubbers, it will sig-
nificantly increase the cost to the con-
sumer. There is just no way out of that.
And I think there is nothing wrong with
it either, if it's properly explained by you
why we do it. But you cannot have in-
audible]—at the same cost as we're doing
it now.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Mr. Mc- very well in administering those programs
Manus?
MR. MCMANUS. Mr. President, I want
to get back to Secretary Andrus' com-
ment about research and development
earlier in this session. My observation in
looking at a U.S. Bureau of Mines pub-
lication, December of 1976, shows that of
all the research and development projects
going on in that area having to do with
coal mining, only 5 percent of it is being
done in the area of West Virginia and
Kentucky-the two largest producers of
coal in the United States. In fact, only 1
percent comes to West Virginia; 4 per-
cent to Kentucky-out of a total contracts
in effect at that time of about $174.5 mil-
lion.
I think it important, Mr. Secretary,
that these research and development
projects, if in fact they are to be of value,
should be conducted in the area of most
activity in the field.
In addition, Mr. President, in follow-
ing up on what Mr. Miller said a little
bit ago about training, I think it impor-
tant that some meaningful gains be made
in training new miners. We're going to
need upwards of 200,000 new miners in
the next few years, nationwide, and un-
less we make the jobs attractive from a
physical point of view and from a safety
point of view, we will be unable to attract
the young miner to those jobs.
And it's important that the miners
themselves be involved in that training
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good point.
As you know, we've got a substantial eco-
nomic stimulus package with training
and job placement as a major factor of it.
I think the Labor Department can work
to meet these real needs. It's much better
to train people for jobs that are needed,
rather than to train people and then try
to find or create a job for them after-
wards.
We're going to have to move on very
rapidly through the rest, other parts of
this hour's discussion, because I wanted
to spend most of the time on coal.
I would like to ask Dr. Schlesinger very
briefly to cover oil and gas and nuclear
power, all at one time, and then if any-
body has a brief comment to make about
that, we will. We want to save enough
time for the audience to ask questions
later on.
NUCLEAR AND SOLAR ENERGY
MR. SCHLESINGER. Just as coal will
have to carry more of the load, so will
nuclear as oil and gas disappear. In re-
cent weeks, we have come down to the
point where we are importing 10 million
of the total, though that's seasonal. And
barrels of oil a day, more than 50 percent
in the longer run we cannot be the great
stabilizing power of the West if we be-
come so dependent on foreign sources of
supply.
Oil and gas is our principal area for
conservation. As the President indicated
earlier, only through conservation can we
buy a barrel of oil, in effect, for $1.50.
Otherwise, we are going to pay $15 for
420
