June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of those that we consume if the public
is aware of the facts. And I can't do this
alone.
The first week, I was on television fre-
quently and tried to project to the Ameri-
can people my own deep concerns. But
that cannot be a continuing thing. Your
cumulative education program can cor-
rect this inherent deficiency in our system
of
government.
I have never had any doubts about the
ability of American people to make the
right judgment if they are given the facts.
And if they can assess those facts, their
cumulative decision, in my opinion, will
always be for the best interest of our Na-
tion and, in almost every instance, the rest
of the world.
We have a major challenge here, be-
cause the insidious growth of the problem
is not easily detected at this early stage.
But the deterioration in our supply levels
of all kinds of energy is inevitable.
I know the effectiveness with which
you have undertaken public programs in
the past at great sacrifice to yourselves.
There would have been no way to pay for
the beneficial effects that you generated
in our Nation in times of war, in combat-
ing forest fires, in dealing with the prob-
lems of the handicapped, in educating the
American people about our veterans'
needs, and in many other fields, including
the purchase of American Government
bonds-things that are beneficial to those
who participate but which have to be ex-
plained before they can help themselves.
This program, in spite of the great im-
portance of those I've outlined, is likely
to be the most important one you've ever
undertaken. And I consider you to be my
partner in this process and the partner of
those in the Congress who now have
undertaken this very difficult assignment.
I know that you realize the value of
our free enterprise system which is part
of our free societal structure, which values
the independence of human beings, which
recognizes the innate worth of individuals,
and which also puts a premium on self-
reliance and the exertion of extraordinary
energies to bring about exemplary results.
And the merger which has always been a
part of our societal structure between
business and the professions, our educa-
tional institutions, agriculture, govern-
ment at all levels, is very important to us
now.
I expressed as best I could at Notre
Dame a few Sundays ago my complete
confidence in the strength and in the fu-
ture of the democratic societies in the
world. In the past, there had been doubts
expressed about whether or not we could
withstand challenge in the world on a
peaceful basis. I have no doubt about it.
But it will require a concerted effort by
enlightened people and you, as well as any
group imaginable, can bring about that
desired result.
So, I deeply appreciate your willingness
to help and appreciate the fact that you
are partners with me and others and
pledge to you to do the best I can to
make your efforts successful.
Perhaps you might have a comment or
a question. I only have a couple of minutes
more to be with you, and then I'd like to
shake hands with a few people. If not, I'll
just start shaking hands now. [Laughter]
Does anybody have a comment or a
question?
QUESTIONS
ENERGY SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, as you well know,
there are diametrically opposed opinions
from the scientific community with the
information that comes regarding the
amounts of potential fuel and so forth,
which obviously is very confusing to the
American public.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
1144
