Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 3
N.Y.U. since 1962 and with Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz since 1968.
United States Circuit Judge
Nominating Panel for
the Tenth Circuit
Appointment of the Members of the
Panel. June 3, 1977
The President today announced the
membership of the United States Circuit
Judge Nominating Panel for the Tenth
Circuit.
The panel will submit a list of five
names to the President for each of two
vacancies, from which he will select a
nominee. For the vacancy created by the
retirement of Delmas C. Hill, the Presi-
dent has requested that the panel con-
sider persons from Kansas; for the vacancy
created by the prospective retirement of
David T. Lewis, he has asked that per-
sons recommended be from Utah.
The members of the panel are:
ALFRED M. PENCE, Laramie, Wyo., attorney,
chairman;
ANNE K. BINGAMAN, Santa Fe, N. Mex., attor-
ney;
PATRICIA BOOTH, Denver, Colo., active in local
civic affairs;
RICHARD COULSON, Oklahoma City, Okla., in-
structor, Oklahoma City Law School;
CARL S. HAWKINS, Provo, Utah, professor,
Brigham Young Law School;
JOSEPHINE W. HEATH, Boulder, Colo., active
in local civic affairs;
United States-Romania Trade
Agreement
Message to the Congress. June 2, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 402 (d) (5),
of the Trade Act of 1974, I transmit here-
with my recommendation that the au-
thority to waive subsections (a) and (b)
of section 402 be extended for a further
period of twelve months.
This recommendation sets forth the
reasons for extending waiver authority
and for my determination relating to con-
tinuation of the waiver applicable to the
Socialist Republic of Romania, as called
for by subsections (d) (5) (b) and (d)
(5) (c) of section 402.
I include, as part of this recommen-
dation, my determinations that further
extension of the waiver authority, and
continuation of the waiver applicable to
the Socialist Republic of Romania, will
substantially promote the objectives of
this section.
The White House,
June 2, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
RECOMMENDATION FOR EXTENSION OF
WAIVER AUTHORITY
Pursuant to section 402 (d) (5) of the
Trade Act of 1974, (hereinafter referred
to as "the Act") I have today determined
that further extension of the waiver au-
thority granted by section 402 (c) of the
RICHARD HUGHES, Tulsa, Okla., chairman of Act, and continuation of the waiver ex-
the board, Florafax International, Inc.;
KARLIN LAWING, Wichita, Kans., attorney, in-
structor of American government, Wichita
State University;
DONALD R. NEWKIRK, Wichita, Kans., attor-
ney;
DONALD PACHECO, Denver, Colo., attorney,
professor, Denver University School of Law;
JEAN SHUMWAY, Oklahoma City, Okla., State
Highway Department.
tended by Executive Order 11854 of April
24, 1975 currently applicable to the So-
cialist Republic of Romania pursuant to
section 402 (c) (1) of the Act, will sub-
stantially promote the objectives of section
402 of the Act.
Further extension of the waiver au-
thority conferred by Section 402 (c) of the
1055
