Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
King Faisal and now King Khalid have
strengthened this cooperation between
our country and theirs.
Tomorrow, Prince Saud will go to Fair-
fax County, in Virginia, for instance, to
dedicate a solar heating project which has
been sponsored by Saudi Arabia. From
the memorial fund dedicated to King
Faisal, they have also been gracious
enough to give two very fine gifts to my
alma mater, Georgia Tech.
These projects also involve solar energy,
and many of the distinguished leaders
from Saudi Arabia tonight wished us well
in establishing for our country a compre-
hensive energy policy based on conserva-
tion, which we proposed to the Congress.
When Senator Humphrey and Senator
Percy and others formed the Alliance for
Conservation of Energy in our Nation to
save the consumption of oil, the Saudi
Arabians came forward and offered to
help us with a major part of the financing
of this effort. Although their generosity
was not accepted in this instance, it shows
their deep commitment to reducing the
waste of oil around the world.
Saudi Arabia is a nation which has
grown in many ways in the last few years
in world importance. Their supplies of
energy are crucial to the well-being of
people in many nations. They produce
their own oil for world consumption be-
yond the level which perhaps would be
best for them.
The wealth that has flowed to Saudi
Arabia from these sales has been invested
around the world in a very responsible
and productive and constructive way.
This responsible and unselfish action has
saved the entire economic structure of the
world from disruption and has alleviated
the fears that did exist when the price of
oil was raised in 1973.
Saudi Arabia has about $60 billion in-
vested in our own country, and they are
one of our largest customers since we sell
them about $32 billion worth of United
States-produced goods each year. This
trade relationship is very important, and
it helps to tie us together in dealing with
political problems which we face in a mu-
tual way.
I think it is accurate to say that the
future of Saudi Arabia and the future of
the United States are tied together very
closely in an irrevocable way. It is very
valuable to us to understand and to pre-
serve and to strengthen this important
friendship.
The visit of Crown Prince Fahd to us is
another demonstration of the mutual in-
terest that we share. We are proud to have
him here. And on behalf of the American
people, I would like to propose a toast to
King Khalid, to the Royal Family, and to
the great people of Saudi Arabia, our
friends.
THE CROWN PRINCE. Mr. President,
your excellencies, and friends:
It gives me a great pleasure and pride
to meet with you this evening. I am also
delighted and honored to convey to you,
Mr. President, and to the friendly Ameri-
can people, through you, the warm greet-
ings of His
ings of His Majesty King Khalid Ibn
Abdulaziz and the esteem of the Saudi
Arabian people.
By conveying these genuine feelings, I
can clearly see the historical facts and the
propitious events reinforcing the strong
links between our two friendly nations.
Both the United States of America and
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia follow a
free economic system that seeks the well-
being of man, not only in their respective
countries but also in the world at large.
Both nations believe in individual free-
dom, necessary for the well-being of man
and for justice. Both countries believe in
working towards securing a better life for
man in every part of the world.
1007
