May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
established to protect the honesty and in-
tegrity of our government.
To complement the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act, I am also announcing my sup-
port for legislation which would require
appointment of a Special Prosecutor to
investigate and prosecute alleged offenses
by high government officials. I am not
submitting my own bill, for legislation has
already been introduced in the Congress
which, with relatively small revisions, will
conform to my own principles for sound
Special Prosecutor legislation. Under
those principles the Special Prosecutor
would be appointed by a specially em-
paneled court. He or she could be re-
moved from office only upon a finding of
extraordinary impropriety or incapacity.
The Special Prosecutor's jurisdiction
would extend to alleged misconduct by
the President, the Vice President, mem-
bers of the Cabinet, and White House
staff members.
This approach will eliminate all ap-
pearance of high-level interference in
sensitive investigations and prosecutions.
The American people must be assured
that no one, regardless of position, is
above the law.
I look forward to working with the
Congress to enact both the Ethics in
Government Act and Special Prosecutor
legislation, so that we can help restore the
faith of the American people in their
government.
The White House,
May 3, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Anti-Foreign Boycott Bill
Statement on an Agreement Between Certain
Jewish Organizations and the Business
Roundtable. May 3, 1977
I am pleased to announce that an
agreement has been reached by the Anti-
Defamation League, the American Jewish
Committee, and the American Jewish
Congress with the Business Roundtable
on legislative language for the anti-
foreign boycott bill presently being con-
sidered by the Senate, and that I can
strongly recommend congressional ap-
proval of that language.
I would like to commend these organi-
zations and their leaders for the skill and
cooperation shown in the negotiations
leading to today's agreement, which em-
bodies concepts previously outlined in a
joint statement of principles agreed to by
the Anti-Defamation League and the
Business Roundtable.
I would also like to commend the many
members of Congress who have devoted
so much time and effort toward achieving
strong antiboycott legislation-Senators
Proxmire and Stevenson and Congress-
men Zablocki, Rosenthal, Hamilton,
Bingham, Solarz, and Whalen. Without
their efforts, I doubt that the Congress
would have ever come close to passage
of anti-foreign boycott legislation.
In my view, one of the most gratifying
aspects of the agreement is its reasonable
balance between the need for stringent
controls over the undesirable impact on
Americans of foreign boycotts and the
need to allow continuation of American
business relations with countries engaging
in such boycotts.
The agreement supports legislative lan-
guage which would impose the following
restrictions:
• Prohibit all forms of religious or
ethnic discrimination arising out of a
foreign boycott;
• Prohibit U.S. firms from refusing to
do business with a boycotted country
as a condition of doing business in
another country;
• Prohibit U.S. firms from acting as
enforcers of a foreign boycott;
788
