Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
trust of the American people in public
officials is for the public officials to be
trustworthy, to tell the truth, and to make
sure that there is a closeness and an inti-
macy between leaders who've been elec-
ted and the people who put them in office.
This is something that's crucial to me.
I mentioned earlier in my talk that I
think that the American Government
ought to stand strongly for basic human
rights, whether it's in Northern Ireland
or whether it's in other parts of the world.
The human rights issue is one that no
single President can solve successfully.
But one voice, particularly the voice of
the American President, can set a stand-
ard for the world to start thinking about.
And I believe that over a period of
time, we will accumulate a deep concern
for human beings, for the right of individ-
uals to make their own decision, not to be
tortured, not to be punished.
Also, I think that openness of govern-
ment is important. I've had so far, and I
will have as long as I'm in the White
House, a full-scale press conference at
least twice a month to let the very
knowledgeable Washington news media
cross-examine me, quite often with live
television and other coverage, and ask me
the most difficult questions they can con-
trive. I'll do the best I can to answer
them.
And on my radio call-in show a couple
of days ago, I had 42 American people
who got through to me; 92 million tried
to call me. I'm sure a lot of them were
listening. About 24 million people listened
to that program. I don't claim to know all
the answers, but I want the American peo-
ple to know that there is a partnership.
I closed, I guess, a thousand speeches
during the campaign by saying all we
need is a government that's as good and
decent and honest and truthful and open
and compassionate and as filled with love
as are the American people. I know it by
heart. And I believe if our Government
can measure up to the people, we can do
that.
SMALL BUSINESS
Q. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening.
Q. If I am slow and deliberate, it's be-
cause I have never spoken to a President
before, and I thoroughly enjoy it.
Mr. President, Clinton is representative
of New England as having a resurgence in
small business and craft industries. I won-
der if you could tell us what your adminis-
tration is going to do to help those small
businesses and craft industries?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. I might say that
I took my first ride today on Air Force
One, and I've never met a Democratic
President in my life. So we've got some
things in common.
I'm a small businessman myself. I came
home from the Navy back in 1953. I lived
in a government housing project, and I
went to work selling fertilizer. I was my
only employee. I didn't make any money
that year, not even enough to pay my
house rent. The second year my wife went
to work with me, and the third year I
hired my first employee to work under me,
and I built up a business that's still small
compared to most of them.
that quite often the small business person
One of the things that we have seen is
has had tremendous handicaps by unfair
taxes. The higher up in income that a cor-
poration goes, on the average, the lower
percentage of the income is paid in income
taxes. So, a revision of the income tax
structure would help a great deal, and
elimination of paperwork and forms and
reports and guidelines and directives and
regulations, that pour out in a constant
stream from Washington, ought to be
stopped to a major degree. And I'm com-
mitted to do that.
397
