Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 24, 1977
Swearing-In Ceremony
Remarks at the Swearing In of the
United States Attorney for the Southern
District of Indiana, the Chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, and
the State Department Coordinator for
Human Rights and Humanitarian
Affairs. June 17, 1977
First of all, I want to welcome all of you
here to participate in what I think is both
an historical occasion and also a memo-
rable occasion and one that I'm sure will
bring great hope and gratification to the
people of our country.
All over the world, I believe this year
perhaps more than any other time in the
history of humankind, there is a concern
and an awareness of the question of hu-
man rights, the basic dignity of human
beings, the hope for peace and freedom, a
realization that the individuality of people
needs to be recognized and preserved and
even enhanced, and a sense that the strug-
gle for these things is making progress.
We have no right to be proud. We have
had notable achievements in the last re-
cent years or perhaps, decades, attribut-
able in some degree to those who assemble
around me on this step. But we've got a
long way to go. We've seen progress made
in the South and throughout the Nation
on the race question, and I'm very proud
of it. Had it not been the case, I would not
be President.
And we are now recognizing that there
is a majority of people in our country who
felt and who still feel discrimination, and
that is women. And there's a sense that
those who have tested themselves in a
courageous way and an innovative way
ought to be recognized. Well, all those
subjects tie together this afternoon in these
three appointments.
Virginia McCarty, from Indiana, is a
good politician. She understands people.
She's demonstrated a deep commitment
about the rights of women and the rights
of minority groups. And she's achieved a
position that is almost unprecedented. In
the 200 years of our Nation's existence, a
woman has been a U.S. attorney only 1
year. That was a transient appointment
in 1918. And as you know, we have many
U.S. attorneys.
And for her now to be recognized is
something that is not a subject of pride
on my part, but just a sense of long over-
due recognition of the women's great
achievement in the field of law and the
other professions. I am very glad that she
will be the U.S. attorney from that State.
Eleanor Holmes Norton has been cou-
rageous. Her ideals and hopes and aspira-
tions for poor and weak and inarticulate,
sometimes uneducated, noninfluential
1131
