May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment in Vietnam. Leonard Woodcock did
a superb job. And although he is retiring
as president of this international union,
he will continue to serve his country in a
new, international role. I will soon submit
his name to the Senate to be Chief of the
U.S. Liaison Office in China, with the
rank of Ambassador.
I don't believe anyone in the world
who's familiar with international rela-
tions would doubt the importance of this
assignment. Now some people may won-
der why I'm sending a labor leader in-
stead of a professional diplomat to handle
such important negotiations. But I think
there are some executives at Ford and
General Motors and Chrysler and Ameri-
can Motors who might be able to answer
that question very well.
We want a tough negotiator. We want
someone who understands human sensi-
tivities. We want someone who has the
personal integrity to build up trust where
doubt now exists. And I know that Leo-
nard Woodcock will fill this role as com-
petently and with as much grace as he
has the important job of being president
of the UAW.
I have complete confidence in him.
And if he'll just help me with a few sensi-
tive things in the Congress, I'm going to
even send a translator to China with him
to help him out with the language.
[Laughter]
Today, I want to talk to you briefly
about some domestic problems which
prey on my mind and rest on my shoulders
as your President.
The domestic problems which we do
face as Americans are difficult, indeed,
but we have the courage and the in-
genuity and the greatness of spirit to meet
these challenges. I believe that we can
build an America in which our day-to-day
practices live up to our democratic ideals,
in which the family life, mine and yours,
is strong and stable, in which the neigh-
borhoods of our cities are vital and safe,
in which work is available and is justly
rewarded, in which opportunity is not
limited by color or sex or religion or eco-
nomic or educational background, in
which there is schooling and employment
for the young and dignity and security for
the old.
We must work together to control in-
flation and to get our economy moving
again. We must come to terms with the
growing shortage of energy which, if ig-
nored, will gravely damage the very fabric
of our society. We must safeguard the in-
tegrity of our social security system. We
must totally reform our tax and our wel-
fare systems. We must ensure the health
of the American people. And we must
develop a government which is open
enough to earn the trust and support of
the people in addressing these and other
crucial issues, and efficient enough and
competent enough to ensure that our ef-
forts will bear fruit.
The achievement of all our goals de-
pends on the first one that I mentioned-
a strong and a growing economy.
At the beginning of this administration,
less than 4 months ago, our economy was
still floundering from the worst recession
in 40 years. The well-being of our people
was squeezed between the twin pressures
of high unemployment and inflation.
That picture has already improved be-
cause we have restored the confidence of
consumers and business. Last month, the
number of Americans with jobs in the pri-
vate sector of our economy went over 90
million for the first time in our country's
history. Eight hundred thousand people
have gone off the unemployment rolls
since December. Half a million found
jobs in April alone. Private surveys have
shown that business investment plans for
1977 are up significantly, more than 15
percent, compared to 1976.
888
