Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MRS. RITCHEY.- -with our ancestors.
They've all died. This is something that
they've all talked about. These are hopes
and dreams that have never been fulfilled.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I think,
as you probably know in Maine, in Massa-
chusetts, in several places around, further
west and south, there's a great new analy-
sis of whether or not Indians have been
treated fairly and legally in the past.
MRS. RITCHEY. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I would believe that I
and the Congress would want to treat
your ancestors or their descendants, in-
cluding yourselves, fairly about it. But I'll
look into the bill personally and let you
hear from either me or my staff about it.
MRS. RITCHEY. Okay. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck. Thanks for
calling.
MRS. RITCHEY. Bye-bye.
MR. CRONKITE. The next call, Mr.
President, is from the Reverend James
Baker, Ridgeland, South Carolina. Rev-
erend Mr. Baker.
CONSUMER PROTECTION LEGISLATION
REVEREND BAKER. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
REVEREND BAKER. First, sir, I would
like to commend you for the efforts you
have made to restore ethics and morality
in Government. I think you have taken a
splendid action in that direction. And I
wonder if more cannot be done to protect
the consumer from shoddy merchandise
or warranties that are not honored and
similar unconscionable profit actions on
the part of a minority in our country,
either through the Federal Trade Com-
mission or a consumer protection bureau
sort of setup.
THE PRESIDENT. If I don't do that,
Reverend Baker, before I go out of office,
I will consider my administration being a
failure. You are absolutely right.
In many instances the regulatory agen-
cies in Washington have been staffed and
led by men and women whose primary
interest is not to the consumer at all, but
to the industries being regulated.
REVEREND BAKER. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. So far we've not been
able to get passed the legislation for es-
tablishing a consumer protection agency
and the consumers' interests quite often
are supposed to be protected by a little tiny
group of people in many dozens, even
hundreds of agencies scattered through-
out the city of Washington.
So, I'm in favor of establishment of the
consumer protection agency itself to focus
the consumer's interest in one agency as
much as possible. This agency would be
quite small. I think the budget would be in
the neighborhood of $11 million a year for
the entire nationwide coverage, and it
would let you and I and other people
know where to go to register a complaint.
And it would also have a group of people
there whose only interest would be to pro-
tect people like you from being cheated.
So, I am strongly in favor of that. And I
believe that before the next year or two
goes by, we'll have the new agency in op-
eration, and I wish that you would exam-
ine every one of my appointments in these
regulatory agencies that have taken place
now and that will take place over the next
4
years, and I believe, in every instance,
you'll see that the people that I do appoint
have their obligation to the consumer.
That's the way it should have been in the
past.
REVEREND BAKER. Thank you. Since
you're interested in the small consumer,
you see, the consumer with a small com-
plaint is not able to hire an attorney, nat-
urally, to handle it for him, where a con-
sumer, you know, has a $25 or $50 com-
plaint. He has nowhere to turn unless he
312
