Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
industry. For example, we should encour-
age HMOs and other organizational
arrangements which give providers an
incentive to reduce costs, and we should
encourage consumers to become more
aware of the charges of different
providers.
Finally, all of us-consumers and pro-
viders-must work together to reduce the
unnecessary use of hospital facilities and
services. By cutting down excessive utili-
zation we can help preserve our valuable
resources.
these needs. But the CHAP program is
urgently needed to assure that more low-
income children receive regular, high-
quality primary and preventive care.
Currently, twelve million children are
eligible for Medicaid yet the EPSDT pro-
gram is reaching only two million. Fur-
ther, only slightly more than half of all
children screened actually receive treat-
ment for conditions that are identified.
The CHAP program will assist the states
in rectifying these deficiencies.
I call upon the Congress to act favor-
II. Child Health Assessment Program ably on both of our new health initiatives.
(CHAP).
The second piece of legislation I am
proposing today, the CHAP Program, will
replace Medicaid's Early and Periodic
Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment Pro-
gram (EPSDT) for children. The CHAP
legislation, which calls for new expendi-
tures of $180 million, will:
per-
-Raise from 55 percent to over 75
cent the average federal payment to the
states for health care provided to children
whose health needs are assessed under the
program.
-Extend benefits to children under
age six whose family income level makes
them eligible for assistance but who do
not meet additional state eligibility re-
quirements.
-Encourage states to assure the avail-
ability of comprehensive health providers
for low-income children.
-Assure continuity of treatment by
providing care for children six months
after the family's eligibility for assistance
otherwise terminates.
-Improve the federal program en-
forcement mechanism.
Like the cost containment program, the
CHAP legislation is a crucial first step.
Other children's health programs also re-
quire significant improvement, and the
Administration will take steps to meet
The White House,
April 25, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
Visit of King Hussein I
of Jordan
Toasts of the President and King Hussein
at a Dinner Honoring His Majesty.
April 25, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. The first thing I want to
do tonight is to welcome all of you to the
White House to join with me in express-
ing our appreciation to a courageous man
who's come to visit our country again.
This is his silver jubilee year. He's been
in office now 25 years. And as I said this
morning when we had the welcoming
ceremony, he has been here to visit fre-
quently; the first time, I believe, 18 years
ago.
On this trip, he's going to be traveling
around the country. He's going down to
one of the better parts of our Nation,
Atlanta, and then further south, a little
too far south, perhaps, to Orlando. He's
going to bring his young children over to
join him and enjoy our beautiful country.
For a number of years we've enjoyed
his friendship, and the close interrelation-
720
