Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 11
additional property shall be held and dis-
tributed under the terms of this Agree-
ment as though it had been an original
part of the trust.
3. Distributions of Income.
The Trustee shall manage the trust
property, receive the income therefrom,
pay all necessary expenses incident to the
administration of the trust, and distribute
the income remaining thereafter (but
only to the extent that cash is available
therefor) to the Grantor (or, in the event
he becomes incapacitated, for Grantor's
benefit) at least annually except to the
extent that the Grantor directs the Trus-
tee in writing to accumulate all or a por-
tion of such income or to distribute all or
a portion of such income to other per-
sons or corporations. The Trustee shall
give the Grantor reasonable notice before
making a distribution of such income to
him so that the Grantor can determine
whether he wishes to give the Trustee any
directions concerning such distribution.
The Trustee is authorized to borrow funds
so that cash will be available to make dis-
tributions of income as provided above.
4. Distributions of Principal.
The Trustee in his sole discretion may
distribute principal which consists of cash
to the Grantor, or as the Grantor may re-
quest in writing. The Trustee is author-
ized to use any or all of the principal of
the trust to provide for the support in
reasonable comfort of the Grantor, his
wife, and any of his minor children, tak-
ing into consideration any other sources
of support available to any of them. The
Grantor may direct the Trustee at any
time to distribute principal of the trust
(in cash or in kind) to one or more orga-
nizations described in ยง 170 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code. The Grantor also
may
direct the Trustee to distribute to or for
his benefit principal (to the extent cash
is available therefor, including borrowed
funds) so that capital gains taxes gen-
erated in the trust and owed by the Grant-
or may be paid as required by law, or so
that any indebtedness of the Grantor
(whether principal or interest) may be
paid. The Grantor shall also have the
right from time to time to direct the
Trustee to distribute to him all principal
of the trust held in cash or cash equiva-
lents which is not required (as the Trustee
in his sole discretion shall determine) for
the proper administration of the trust,
taking into consideration its reasonably
foreseeable cash requirements.
5. Termination of Trust.
Unless the trust has been fully distrib-
uted under the foregoing provisions at an
earlier date, this trust shall terminate
upon the earlier of (i) Grantor's death
(in which event the trust property then
remaining shall be delivered to the per-
sonal representatives of Grantor's estate)
or (ii) Grantor's ceasing to be President
of the United States (in which event the
trust property then remaining shall be
distributed to the Grantor or as he may
otherwise direct the Trustee in writing).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grant-
or and the Trustee may agree in writing
that the trust shall be continued in re-
spect of some or all trust assets for a set
period after the Grantor ceases to be
President of the United States and upon
such terms as they may determine in writ-
ing at that time. The personal representa-
tives of Grantor's estate shall not be re-
quired to inquire into or audit the acts or
doings of any Trustee or to make any
claim against such Trustee or his estate,
but the personal representatives may de-
mand such accounting by the Trustee as
they deem appropriate.
6. Reports and Accountings to the
Grantor.
The Trustee shall not make any reports
or accountings whatsoever to the Grantor
141
