Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
few problems in getting this oil out. A
partially, federally funded ERDA project
by a private oil company 25 miles from
here has raped the landscape in an effort
to get more of this oil out of the ground.
I would like to show you these pictures.
This is just the beginning of the project.
I'd like to stress the hazard of going
ahead with this project until some plans
to minimize the environmental hazards
are completed on this. There is no envi-
ronmental impact statement. There are no
environmental constraints in the project.
The surface owners in this area are very
upset about the pollution and rape of the
landscape on their farms that this project
appears to be bringing.
Also, I'd like to mention that some of
our oil reserves, as well as our gas and coal
reserves, would be flooded by one of these
unnecessary dam projects. We strongly
support your efforts to slow down the
Corps of Engineers.
There's one dam that you missed that's
coming here in central West Virginia, the
Stonewall Jackson Dam. This would flood
thousands of acres of farms-would also
wipe out some coal, oil, and gas reserves.
These projects are unnecessary. They
would also prohibit us from getting this
energy out of the ground.
THE PRESIDENT. I just wished they'd
named it something else. It's hard for me
to take action against it. [Laughter] I had
a hard enough time cutting out the Rich-
ard B. Russell Dam.
I'd like to ask Cecil Andrus and Dr.
Schlesinger briefly to outline the new Gov-
ernment organization bill, which sets up
a department of energy. Since Cecil An-
drus gave up a good bit of authority over
some elements of Government function
that were in the Department of Interior,
let him start off and let Dr. Schlesinger
wind it up. And then I think we'll move
to the audience questions.
MR. SMITH. May I ask you one ques-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir. Ed.
BLACK LUNG PROGRAM
MR. SMITH. What about that black lung
bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. I'd like to let the
Senator respond. The question is about
the black lung bill.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. May I take an ex-
tra half-minute?
In 1969, as you know, Ed, we passed
the initial bill. That was 1 year before the
occupational health and safety act,
which was for businesses, industry, gener-
ally throughout the country. We recog-
nized the need in the black lung area.
We found that the Social Security Ad-
ministration was not carrying out the in-
tent of the Congress. So, in 1972, we
passed another bill on the subject of black
lung-for the first time we included the
ailments of pulmonary and respiratory di-
seases so that more persons could have
other than the X-ray, this further proof
that they were suffering from black lung.
That has been helpful.
We do find, however, that today there's
a tremendous backlog of cases that are not
being heard. We do feel they are the con-
tested cases that must move more quickly
through the courts.
At the present time, the House is begin-
ning its hearings on the third black lung
measure. We'll begin possibly next week
`on our Senate hearings before the Human
Resources Committee.
I want to say to you that there is a com-
mitment in the Congress. It began in '69,
and we will follow through on it, I prom-
you that.
ise
MR. SMITH. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Cecil Andrus, about
our reorganization proposal.
425
