Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
vehicles except those areas or trails which
are suitable and specifically designated as
open to such use pursuant to Section 3 of
this Order.".
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:43 p.m., May 24, 1977]
Protection of Wetlands
Executive Order 11990. May 24, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
furtherance of the National Environmen-
tal Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), in order to avoid to
the extent possible the long and short
term adverse impacts associated with the
destruction or modification of wetlands
and to avoid direct or indirect support of
new construction in wetlands wherever
there is a practicable alternative, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) Each agency shall pro-
vide leadership and shall take action to
minimize the destruction, loss or degrada-
tion of wetlands, and to preserve and en-
hance the natural and beneficial values
of wetlands in carrying out the agency's
responsibilities for (1) acquiring, manag-
ing, and disposing of Federal lands and
facilities; and (2) providing Federally
undertaken, financed, or assisted con-
struction and improvements; and (3)
conducting Federal activities and pro-
grams affecting land use, including but
not limited to water and related land re-
sources planning, regulating, and licens-
ing activities.
(b) This Order does not apply to the
issuance by Federal agencies of permits,
licenses, or allocations to private parties
for activities involving wetlands on non-
Federal property.
SEC. 2. (a) In furtherance of Section
101(b)(3) of the National Environmen-
tal Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331
(b) (3) to improve and coordinate Fed-
eral plans, functions, programs and re-
sources to the end that the Nation may
attain the widest range of beneficial uses
of the environment without degradation
and risk to health or safety, each agency,
to the extent permitted by law, shall avoid
undertaking or providing assistance for
new construction located in wetlands un-
less the head of the agency finds (1) that
there is no practicable alternative to such
construction, and (2) that the proposed
action includes all practicable measures
to minimize harm to wetlands which may
result from such use. In making this find-
ing the head of the agency may take into
account economic, environmental and
other pertinent factors.
(b) Each agency shall also provide op-
portunity for early public review of any
plans or proposals for new construction in
wetlands, in accordance with Section 2
(b) of Executive Order No. 11514, as
amended, including the development of
procedures to accomplish this objective
for Federal actions whose impact is not
significant enough to require the prepara-
tion of an environmental impact state-
ment under Section 102 (2) (C) of the
National Environmental Policy Act of
1969, as amended.
SEC. 3. Any requests for new authoriza-
tions or appropriations transmitted to the
Office of Management and Budget shall
indicate, if an action to be proposed will
be located in wetlands, whether the pro-
posed action is in accord with this Order.
SEC. 4. When Federally-owned wet-
lands or portions of wetlands are proposed
1003
