Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This approach will better meet U.S. non-
proliferation objectives than would an at-
tempt to impose unilaterally new export
licensing conditions.
5. The bill provides the flexibility
needed to deal with the many different
situations and nations involved. For ex-
ample, it makes the necessary exceptions
for licenses under existing multilateral
agreements. It also establishes an effi-
cient mechanism for the President and
Congress to review cases where the exec-
utive branch and the independent NRC
differ on the granting of a proposed ex-
port license. And it permits the President
to grant exceptions from the stiff new
conditions required for new agreements
for cooperation, if he considers that this
is in our overall non-proliferation interest.
6. The bill creates sanctions against the
violation of nuclear agreements by pro-
viding that no nuclear export shall be
granted to any non-nuclear weapons
state that, after enactment of this
legislation:
—detonates a nuclear explosive device;
-terminates or abrogates IAEA safe-
guards;
-is found by the President to have
materially violated an IAEA agree-
ment or any other guarantee it has
given under an agreement for coop-
eration with the United States;
unless the President determines that such
a cutoff would hinder the achievement
of U.S. non-proliferation objectives, or
would jeopardize the common defense
and security.
7. The legislation proposes the estab-
lishment of an international Nuclear Fuel
Cycle Evaluation Program, aimed at
furthering the development of alternative,
nuclear fuel cycles which do not provide
access to weapons usable material, as an-
nounced by the President in his April 7
statement.
8. As an essential element of the inter-
national evaluation program, the legis-
lation proposes a number of policies to
assure that adequate nuclear fuel supply
will be available to all nations as a non-
proliferation incentive. These include:
-A policy to assure adequate U.S.
uranium enrichment capacity;
-A policy assuring that nuclear ex-
ports will be licensed on a timely
basis once statutory requirements
are met;
-U.S. initiatives to promote interna-
tional consultations to develop mul-
tilateral means for meeting world-
wide nuclear fuel needs.
The bill further requires the President
to report to the Congress on the progress
of these discussions and to propose any
legislation he may consider necessary to
promote these objectives.
9. The bill commits the United States
to work with other nations to strengthen
the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) through: contribution of tech-
nical resources, support and funding; im-
proving the IAEA safeguards system;
and, by assuring that IAEA receives the
data needed for it to administer an effec-
tive, comprehensive international safe-
guards program.
United States Information
Agency
Nomination of Charles W. Bray III To Be
Deputy Director. April 27, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Charles W. Bray III, of
Bethesda, Md., to be Deputy Director of
the United States Information Agency.
Bray is Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs.
He was born on October 24, 1933, in
New York, N.Y. He received a B.A. from
732
