Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 23
bors and relatives of those who will share
with me the responsibility for the top
leadership positions. I thank you for com-
ing to the White House.
I am very grateful to welcome to the
stage as the first person a very fine and
wonderful leader who has been an in-
spiration to the American people, Chief
Justice Warren Burger.
And now, in order of seniority in the
Cabinet and other leadership posts, I
would like to welcome first of all Cyrus
Vance, who is coming with his wife,
Grace. Cy and I have spent a lot of time
together in the last couple of years. I guess
of all the Cabinet members who were rec-
ommended to me, he had closest to the
most unanimous recommendation, and I
am very grateful that Cy has come. Cy
Vance as Secretary of State.
Next is the Secretary of the Treasury,
who attended with Cy Vance and myself,
yesterday morning, our first National Se-
curity Council meeting, Mike Blumenthal
and Eileen. Mike has been the president
of Bendix. He was not born in this coun-
try, but he came here as a young man via
China, and he has risen to the top ranks
of executive leadership because of his
qualities. He is going to be the one to
make sure we stay on a sound basis in
making decisions on economics and fi-
nance. Mike, thank you very much.
The next man who has been strongly
recommended, both for the position he
will hold and also as a chief scientific
adviser for the President-he is a man
who has had exceptional leadership back-
ground as Secretary of the Air Force. He
has just recently been a president of one
of the finest technical schools in the coun-
try, I guess, second only to Georgia Tech,
the California Institute of Technology.
And I would like to ask Harold Brown to
come forward with his wife, Colene. He
will be Secretary of Defense.
I asked Harold to give me some recom-
mendations on scientific adviser, by the
way, and he gave me five recommenda-
tions, all of them physicists. He is going
to be my physics adviser, and I am going
to get someone else, I think, to help me
in the other position.
Next, I guess of all the Cabinet mem-
bers he is the one who has been closest to
me in the past. He is a man whom I
met at the beginning when I was elected
Governor. We were elected at the same
time. I have to say that he is the only
Cabinet member I never had to hesitate
at all about. He will be the next Secre-
tary of the Interior. Cecil Andrus and his
wife, Carol.
Although I feel close to all of them,
I think the next one is the one with whom
I have the deepest sense of mutual sym-
pathy. He makes his living with a 600-
acre farm. He has been the Member of
Congress who serves furthest north in our
country except for those who are from
Alaska. He is a man who has worked hard
all his life, manual labor. He knows the
problems of the consumers in a very in-
timate way.
He is from a great State that
produced the Vice President. And it is
Bob Bergland from Minnesota, and his
wife, Helen.
As Secretary of Agriculture, he will do
a superb job, and I am very grateful to
him for being willing to serve.
The next will be Secretary of Com-
merce. This is a position that, as you know,
has far-reaching effect on our own busi-
ness community, our free enterprise sys-
tem, and consumers. It also has a pro-
found impact on the quality of our metro-
politan areas.
When Fritz Mondale was preparing
yesterday morning, with the National Se-
curity Council meeting, to make his foray
throughout the world on trade, this Secre-
tary of Commerce was at the National Se-
curity Council meeting. This is a Cabinet
13
