Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
But I would do all I can, and am mov-
ing as aggressively as possible, to stamp
out the traffic in drugs like cocaine or
heroin. I believe they are a devastating af-
fliction on our society and ought to be
eliminated as much as we can.
MR. LIPMAN. Mr. President, do you
know the drug origin of heroin?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know it comes
from poppies.
I've just seen some public opinion poll
results this week that showed that about
45 percent of the American people
thought I made a mistake, about 45 per-
cent of the American people thought I
did the right thing, and the other 10 per-
cent didn't have any opinion. So there's
no way to suit people.
I feel that it is time for us to get over
the Vietnam war as soon as we can, and I
Mr. Lipman. No, but the purpose of believe that those that have been excluded
this-
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. Lipman, thank
you very much for your call, but we're
running a little short of time. We do want
to get in as many calls as possible, so we're
going to move right along to Paul Guertin
of Cudahy, Wisconsin.
MR. GUERTIN. Hi, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Paul?
SELECTIVE SERVICE PARDONS
MR. GUERTIN. One thing I've always
wished I could tell you, and now I have
the chance, that's, pardoning the draft
dodgers or evaders was one of the best
things you could probably ever do, because
I feel that if somebody dodged the draft
or was an objector of it, obviously they had
a reason, and they should be listened to.
And forcing somebody to do something,
even if they object to it or don't believe in
it, is just taking away their rights.
MR. CRONKITE. Do you have a ques-
tion, Mr. Guertin, for the President?
MR. GUERTIN. Not really. I just wanted
that.
to say
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say that
that was one of the most difficult decisions
I made. I made my decision, though, quite
early in the campaign. I never did mislead
the American people about it. I made the
major public announcement at the Amer-
ican Legion Convention out in the State
of Washington last year-one of the most
critical audiences that I could have had.
from living in our wonderful country for
the last 10 or 12 years have been punished
pretty severely.
MR. GUERTIN. I agree with it.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the de-
serters and all, as I said earlier on this
program, ought to be handled on an in-
dividual case basis within the Department
of Defense, and they are expediting their
assessment of cases and will handle them
under normal military legal procedures.
MR. GUERTIN. Okay. Well, it's really
nice being able to talk to you. Thank you
very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
MR. CRONKITE. The next call is from
John Raymond Lau of Yorktown
Heights, New York, Mr. President. Mr.
Lau?
MR. LAU. Hello, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Go right ahead.
MR. LAU. Yes, how are you doing, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
CONCORDE SST
MR. LAU. I would like to know what
your opinion is of the French-English
Concorde, and with the elections in
France this week, do you feel that rejec-
tion of the Concorde would bring the
power to the French Communist Party?
And also I'd like to say that many
French citizens are counting on the SST
to keep France from going the Commu-
321
