Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 18
ence is becoming increasingly vulnerable. Unless profound changes are
made to lower oil consumption, we now believe that early in the 1980's
the world will be demanding more oil than it can produce.
The world now uses about 60 million barrels of oil a day, and demand
increases each year about 5 percent. This means that just to stay even we
need the production of a new Texas every year, an Alaskan North Slope
every 9 months, or a new Saudi Arabia every 3 years. Obviously, this can-
not continue.
We must look back into history to understand our energy problem.
Twice in the last several hundred years, there has been a transition in the
way people use energy.
The first was about 200 years ago, when we changed away from
wood-which had provided about 90 percent of all fuel—to coal, which
was much more efficient. This change became the basis of the Industrial
Revolution.
The second change took place in this century, with the growing use
of oil and natural gas. They were more convenient and cheaper than
coal, and the supply seemed to be almost without limit. They made pos-
sible the age of automobile and airplane travel. Nearly everyone who is
alive today grew up during this period, and we have never known any-
thing different.
Because we are now running out of gas and oil, we must prepare
quickly for a third change—to strict conservation and to the renewed use
of coal and to permanent renewable energy sources like solar power.
The world has not prepared for the future. During the 1950's, people
used twice as much oil as during the 1940's. During the 1960's, we used
twice as much as during the 1950's. And in each of those decades, more
oil was consumed than in all of man's previous history combined.
World consumption of oil is still going up. If it were possible to keep
it rising during the 1970's and 1980's by 5 percent a year, as it has in the
past, we could use up all the proven reserves of oil in the entire world by
the end of the next decade.
I know that many of you have suspected that some supplies of oil
and gas are being withheld from the market. You may be right, but sus-
picions about the oil companies cannot change the fact that we are run-
ning out of petroleum.
All of us have heard about the large oil fields on Alaska's North
Slope. In a few years, when the North Slope is producing fully, its total
output will be just about equal to 2 years' increase in our own Nation's
energy demand.
657
