Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 18
transportation system running with smaller and more efficient cars and
a better network of buses, trains, and public transportation.
We will feel mounting pressure to plunder the environment. We will
have to have a crash program to build more nuclear plants, strip mine and
burn more coal, and drill more offshore wells than if we begin to conserve
right now.
Inflation will soar; production will go down; people will lose their
jobs. Intense competition for oil will build up among nations and also
among the different regions within our own country. This has already
started.
If we fail to act soon, we will face an economic, social, and political
crisis that will threaten our free institutions. But we still have another
choice. We can begin to prepare right now. We can decide to act while
there is still time. That is the concept of the energy policy that we will
present on Wednesday.
Our national energy plan is based on 10 fundamental principles.
The first principle is that we can have an effective and comprehensive
energy policy only if the Government takes responsibility for it and if
the people understand the seriousness of the challenge and are willing to
make sacrifices.
The second principle is that healthy economic growth must con-
tinue. Only by saving energy can we maintain our standard of living and
keep our people at work. An effective conservation program will create
hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
The third principle is that we must protect the environment. Our
energy problems have the same cause as our environmental problems—
wasteful use of resources. Conservation helps us solve both problems at
once.
The fourth principle is that we must reduce our vulnerability to
potentially devastating embargoes. We can protect ourselves from un-
certain supplies by reducing our demand for oil, by making the most of
our abundant resources such as coal, and by developing a strategic pe-
troleum reserve.
The fifth principle is that we must be fair. Our solutions must ask
equal sacrifices from every region, every class of people, and every interest
group. Industry will have to do its part to conserve just as consumers will.
The energy producers deserve fair treatment, but we will not let the oil
companies profiteer.
The sixth principle, and the cornerstone of our policy, is to reduce
demand through conservation. Our emphasis on conservation is a clear
659
