Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 23
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Robert Carswell To Be
Deputy Secretary. March 23, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Robert Carswell, of
New York, N.Y., to be Deputy Secretary
of the Treasury. Carswell is a partner in
the New York law firm of Shearman and
Sterling.
He was born on November 25, 1928, in
Brooklyn, N.Y. He received an A.B. de-
gree from Harvard College in 1949 and
an LL.B. from Harvard Law School in
1952. He served in the U.S. Navy from
1952 to 1955, mainly in the Far East,
as a lieutenant (jg.), USNR, and an
agent in the Office of Naval Intelligence.
From 1956 to 1962, Carswell was an
associate with Shearman and Sterling.
He served as special assistant to the Secre-
tary of the Treasury from 1962 until 1965,
when he returned to Shearman and Ster-
ling as a partner.
Carswell is vice president and former
treasurer of the Association of the Bar of
New York City, a director of New York
Lawyers for the Public Interest, and a di-
rector of Caledonian Hospital of the City
of New York.
He is a director and member of the
executive committee of the Private Ex-
port Funding Corp., a director and chair-
man of the audit committee of the Gran-
iteville Co., and a director of Aiken In-
dustries, Inc.
Drought in the Western
and Plain States
Message to the Congress. March 23, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Over the past two years, many of the
Western and Plains states of our nation
have been victims of a prolonged, severe
drought. The effects of the drought have
built up over many months, and they will
take a long time to correct. Even long pe-
riods of rain would not wholly relieve the
problem now.
The human and economic costs of the
drought have been high. It has jeopar-
dized municipal water supplies, damaged
crops and pastureland and depleted live-
stock numbers. The drought has inflicted
financial hardship on countless farmers,
ranchers, businessmen and others, and it
continues to pose a serious threat to their
livelihood.
The Federal government has already
made available almost a billion dollars
in drought assistance through loans and
cost-sharing programs. Although we do
not have enough money to meet every
requirement or indemnify every loss, we
can provide additional help in certain
areas. I am recommending a variety of
assistance programs which will be applied
in each area depending on how severely
the drought has affected the people of
that region.
In addition, we can encourage water
conservation through several existing
government programs. In many cases,
water conservation is our only hope for
immediate relief. As a nation, we must
begin to conserve our water supplies, and
government-at all levels-must lead the
way.
The measures I propose will allocate
benefits fairly, will mitigate some of the
worst effects of the drought, and will sup-
port individuals and communities in their
efforts to conserve water. Some of these
proposals will require modification of ex-
isting programs or additional funding.
Others will require totally new legislation.
All of these will be temporary authorities;
they are designed to cope with short-term
problems, and they will expire on Septem-
ber 30, 1977.
487
