Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 22
In foreign affairs-by the way, we've
got about 60 or 70 other items on the
domestic agenda that I'm going over with
the Speaker and the majority leader on. I
won't list them all. But in the inter-
national field, we've taken some initiatives
that I think have restored a lot of the
legitimate pride and commitment to the
American people.
The human rights issue is one that I
consider to be of crucial importance. I
think it reestablishes our country as kind
of a beacon light for something that's
right and decent and proper and humane
and compatible with the basic concepts
on which our country was founded 200
years ago.
And although we can't ever detect tan-
gible progress measurements, as I've said
many times, there's not a national leader
on Earth who hasn't now in the forefront
of his or her consciousness the question of
human rights. "Am I treating, as a gov-
ernment, the citizens of my own nation
fairly? Am I subject to legitimate inter-
national condemnation?" And whether
it's a totalitarian government or a demo-
cratic government like our own, we are
all now trying to reassess what we are,
what we stand for, and how we treat
human beings.
We are also moving aggressively to con-
trol the spread of atomic weaponry, to cut
down on the sale of conventional weap-
ons. We are negotiating with the Soviet
Union today in Moscow on a comprehen-
sive test ban.
We've induced Great Britain-and
they did it very enthusiastically—to join
with us and the Soviet Union in this
field. If we three are successful in setting
a termination to the testing of nuclear
weapons or nuclear explosives, I think we
can then hope that France and China
might join in with us later on.
We have taken some strong initiatives,
some of which have been criticized, in the
Middle Eastern area. I've met with all the
Middle Eastern leaders and have just re-
ceived this morning an acceptance from
Mr. Begin to come to Washington, I think
the 19th of July, to continue those discus-
sions with me. We hope to bring the
parties together to consider a resolution
of the historic disharmonies in the Middle
East which threaten world peace.
We are also trying to go with the British
and the Germans, the French, the Cana-
dians, and others to help resolve the
Namibian question, formerly Southwest
Africa. We've had some recent successes
there, and we are cooperating with the
British and with the African frontline
states in trying to bring some resolution to
the Rhodesian question to eliminate the
threat of war in southern Africa.
I think we've also strengthened our ties
on an individual basis with the nations in
this hemisphere. My wife returned re-
cently from a visit with seven nations in
South and Central America and in the
Caribbean. She went hoping to get an
appointment just to meet the heads of
those nations. As her own purpose be-
came more clearly defined, and as the
publicity preceded her, she spent 7 hours
with the Prime Minister of Jamaica and
5 hours with the President of Colombia
and 5 hours with the President of Costa
Rica, 41/2 or 5 hours with the Presidents
of Ecuador and Peru, 3 or 31½ hours with
the President of Brazil. And this is a good
indication that those nations are eager to
respond to us if we treat them fairly and
as equals and if we genuinely try to under-
stand their own national identity and in-
dividuality. In the past, we've had too
much of an inclination to look on the
Southern Hemisphere as a kind of a con-
glomerate, homogeneous group.
The last thing I'll point out is that we
are trying to find some equitable way to
deal with the developing nations as a
1147
