Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
areas subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States to issue similar proclama-
tions.
I also urge the health and medical pro-
fessions, educators, the communications
media, and all other concerned indi-
viduals and organizations to join during
this period of time in activities which are
designed to impress upon the people of
the Nation the importance of our con-
tinuing commitment to cancer control.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
of the information contained in this re-
port is available to Congress during
nual appropriations and oversight hear-
ings, and HEW will inform Congress
immediately of any scientific break-
throughs in the field.
The White House,
March 8, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The message was not issued in the form
of a White House press release.
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde- Department of Agriculture
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:41 p.m., March 8, 1977]
Coal Mine Health and Safety
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report of Health Activities Under the
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety
Act of 1969. March 8, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith the Fifth Annual
report on Health Activities of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
(HEW) as required by the Federal Coal
Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969.
I recommend that the statutory report-
ing requirement for this report be changed
from once every year to once every three
years. HEW staff resources and time
could be better spent on more research
rather than on the preparation of annual
reports of largely repetitious material.
Basic information in this field has been
known for some time, and new findings
develop only slowly and infrequently. All
Nomination of John C. White To Be
Deputy Secretary. March 9, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate John C. White to be
Deputy Secretary of Agriculture. White
is presently Texas commissioner of agri-
culture.
White was born on November 28, 1924,
on a tenant farm near Newport, in Clay
County, Tex. He attended rural schools,
and in 1946 he received a B.S. degree in
agriculture from Texas Tech University.
For many years, he maintained a work-
ing interest in the family farm, purchased
by his father with one of the first Farm
Security Administration loans in 1937.
He now operates a small cattle farm in
central Texas.
Between 1947 and 1950, White was a
teacher of veterans vocational agricul-
ture in north central Texas, and then
managed farms and taught agricultural
courses at Midwestern University, Wichi-
ta Falls, Tex.
In 1950 White was elected Texas com-
missioner of agriculture, defeating a field
of five candidates, including the incum-
bent, who had held the office for 20 years.
He has since been reelected 13 times.
339
