Mar. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We are now reforming the policies
which have, on occasion, awarded liberal
grants and loans to repressive regimes
which violate human rights.
-We will root out mismanagement
and inefficiency where they exist in our
foreign assistance programs in order to
guarantee that benefits will always be de-
livered to those for whom the programs
were designed.
-We recognize that salaries and living
styles of some employees have been too
lavish, and we will insist that the inter-
national programs we support do more to
control their administrative overhead.
-I will work closely with the Congress
to see that our aid efforts are more closely
correlated to international economic and
political circumstances and talk frankly to
American citizens about the economic,
political, and security benefits we receive
from our foreign assistance programs.
Close cooperation and support from
the Congress is essential to the effective-
ness of our efforts. In a few areas the pro-
gram I have submitted requires a signifi-
cant increase in funding but I have
asked for this only where I am sure that
the increase will be worthwhile.
To achieve our goals of helping the
people of the world toward economic
self-sufficiency, relieving the victims of
disasters, investing in a healthy world
economy, and supporting the security of
friendly nations, I ask your favorable
consideration for the following:
-Multilateral Development Assist-
ance. International financial institutions
such as the World Bank group-in par-
ticular the International Development
Association-and the Inter-American and
Asian Development Banks are major
sources of assistance loans to the world's
poor nations. These institutions have been
highly professional in their work. They
help remove political considerations from
development efforts, and they encourage
developing countries to pursue sound do-
mestic policies. They enable many donors
to pool their efforts including some of
the oil-exporting nations. An initial,
modest U.S. contribution to the African
Development Bank will provide our en-
couragement to this promising regional
effort.
We are asking $540 million in supple-
mental appropriations for fiscal year 1977
to fulfill past pledges to the international
financial institutions, and $2.7 billion in
new appropriations for fiscal year 1978.
This is an increase (of approximately
one-third) for an effort which has proved
to be very effective. The largest single ex-
penditure is for U.S. participation in the
5th replenishment of the International
Development Association, which makes
loans on favorable terms to the world's
poorest nations.
The United Nations Development Pro-
gram, which provides important techni-
cal assistance to the developing world, has
also proven its effectiveness and worth.
We are seeking an appropriation of $130
million for fiscal year 1978, a 30% in-
crease over last year.
-Bilateral Development Assistance.
Congress has played a major role in de-
veloping our bilateral programs, which
provide direct American support for de-
velopment programs in the poorer coun-
tries. Through these programs we have
shared our expertise and our resources
with other countries. Our bilateral pro-
grams are directed at the poorest people
in these countries' populations; they em-
phasize food and nutrition, population
and health, education and human re-
source development, and science and
technology, including energy develop-
ment.
We have certain expectations of the
countries which we help. We have no in-
456
