Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. That is not the heart
of it at all. We are prepared to accept re-
strictions on the cruise missile if it's part
of an overall and balanced package. We
are not prepared to accept a unilateral
prohibition against the development or
deployment of the cruise missile absent
some equivalent response from the Soviet
Union, including the Backfire bomber.
But we put together a package which was
fair and balanced. But we are not pre-
pared, unilaterally, to forgo an opportu-
nity, unless it's equivalent to a Soviet
response.
Q. Yes, sir, I didn't mean unilaterally,
but on the January 1976 trip by Secretary
Kissinger to the Soviet Union, there was
active negotiation regarding a balanced
reduction involving some limitations on
cruise missiles.
So, when you say, sir, that the Soviets
say we agreed to restrict cruise missiles,
aren't they referring to 1976 and not to
Vladivostok when indeed the cruise mis-
sile was on the drawing board and not a
real thing?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that—
I don't want to get myself into the position
of speaking for Secretary Kissinger. I
don't think there has ever been any insin-
uation of an American agreement that the
Soviets could build and deploy the Back-
fire bomber without limitation while we
limited cruise missiles. And that's the posi-
tion that the Soviets adopted as the Vladi-
vostok agreement.
Q. Mr. President, have the Russians ex-
plained why they were turning down the
comprehensive proposal? Was it because
they did not want such drastic reductions
as you proposed, or was it because they
felt the limitations on cruise were not ade-
quate? Did they give any reasons?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not know yet. I've
not received a definitive analysis from
Secretary Vance. He, a few minutes ago,
was in the American Embassy in Moscow
preparing for me a detailed report on
what has occurred. So far at I know, at
this point, there were not any specific
reasons given for the Soviets' turning
down of our proposal.
My guess is that this proposal is so sub-
stantive and such a radical departure in
putting strict limits and reductions on ex-
isting missiles and a prohibition against
the development or deployment of new
missiles in the future, that the Soviets sim-
ply need more time to consider it. Whether
they'll accept it or not at the May meet-
ings in Geneva or subsequently, I don't
have any way to know yet.
Q. To follow that up-the May meet-
ings, are they to be between Mr. Gromyko
and Mr. Vance?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. Mr. President, Senator Baker, just
outside a few moments ago, said that
during your briefing of the congressional
leadership you said you intended to
"hang tough." Did you say that, and what
did you mean by that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I do. I think that
it's important for us to take advantage of
an opportunity this year to negotiate not
just a superficial ratification of rules by
which we can continue the arms race but
to have a freeze on deployment and de-
velopment of new missiles and an actual
reduction in launchers and MIRV'd
missiles below what was agreed to previ-
ously. And on those items, I intend to re-
main very strong in my position.
I don't think it's to our Nation's advan-
tage to put forward in piecemeal fashion
additional proposals. Our experience in
the past has been that the Soviet Union
extracts from those comprehensive pro-
posals those items that are favorable to
them and want to continue to negotiate
the other parts of the proposals that might
not be so favorable to them.
So, I do intend to continue strong ne-
gotiations to let the leaders of our country
542
