Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 13
He's a man who also leaves a very
challenging job, and I have complete con-
fidence in him.
The last person I'd like to introduce
is one that has created a great deal of
problem for me. [Laughter] Yes, already.
So, these four people, different in their
background, different in their future re-
sponsibilities, but having a common pur-
pose to serve our country to the best of
their own ability, is what brings us to-
gether this morning.
Judge Griffin Bell will administer the
oath of office to these people who make
me proud to be President.
Thank you very
you very much.
NOTE:
The U.S. Civil Service Commission is
an area where policies are established
pro-
tecting the basic rights of employees of
our Government, and also where oppor-
tunities exist, I think, for better service of
the professionals who have one life to live,
who have decided to devote it on a full-
time basis-not just a part-time basis, for
elected officials-to service their fellow
human beings. And quite often, there's a
breakdown in that relationship between
hard work in a bureaucracy, the protec- United States Ambassadors
tion of the employee's own rights, orderly
promotion, adequate salary, and effective-
ness of service.
The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House. Following his remarks, Attorney Gen-
eral Griffin B. Bell administered the oath of
office.
Alan Campbell had just agreed to go to
the University of Texas. The Texans were
very proud of him. And it was a notable
achievement for the university to have
acquired his services.
When I asked him to come and take on
this important job, he was in a quandary.
And I can let you know that Lady Bird
Johnson and many other people were
deeply involved in the process, and there
was a great reluctance in letting him come
back to Washington. And I can tell
that typical of Texans, they yielded to the
greater interest of our country.
you
And I'm very grateful that Alan Camp-
bell has come. This is a thankless job, but
it's one I believe that will tap his tre-
mendous capabilities, background, and
experience. He's come here at a sacrifice
as well, because that's a very fine position
that he had agreed to take originally, and
I know he would have been proud to
serve in that capacity.
Nomination of Seven New Ambassadors.
May 13, 1977
The President today announced six
persons who will be nominated to be Am-
bassadors. They are:
DONALD C. BERGUS, to be Ambassador to the
Democratic Republic of Sudan;
LAWRENCE S. EAGLEBURGER, to be Ambassa-
dor to the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia ;
ARTHUR A. HARTMAN, to be Ambassador to
France;
JAMES G. LOWENSTEIN, to be Ambassador to
Luxembourg;
ROBERT H. MILLER, to be Ambassador to Ma-
laysia; and
HARRY W. SHLAUDEMAN, to be Ambassador to
Peru.
The President also announced that he
will nominate Philip H. Alston, Jr., now
Ambassador to Australia, to serve con-
currently and without additional compen-
sation as Ambassador to the Republic of
Nauru.
NOTE: The announcement of the nomination
of Mr. Alston to be Ambassador to Australia,
including biographical information on him, is
printed at p. 576 of this volume.
873
