Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
propose would go to the Congress, and if
either house of the Congress disapproved
it, within 60 days, my proposal would be
cancelled. So, there is an adequate pro-
tection built in so that we don't make a
mistake. And to the extent that you will
cooperate and give suggestions, I think
there is a very good chance that your
suggestions would be adopted.
Anyone over on this aisle?
COMPUTERIZATION IN GOVERNMENT
Q. Robert Stephens, computer engi-
neer, Bureau of the Census. Mr. Presi-
dent, since the computer is no strange
monster to you, I have a two-part ques-
tion. One, can we expect a major change
in the acquisition, utilization, and techni-
cal services of data-processing equipment
in the new administration? Two, are you
planning to appoint a competent group of
computer specialists to serve as advisers in
all aspects of data processing?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question yet. I can tell you that when I
was Governor of Georgia, we did exactly
what you have just asked me about. I am
not familiar enough yet with the method
of acquisition, of computer systems, the
compatability of the different computer
systems that the Government does have,
the effectiveness of a backup-type com-
puter use so that if one breaks down there
might be an automatic supplementation
of it.
We need some uniformity of the han-
dling of computer programing data. We
also need some uniformity so that we can
train people that might shift from one de-
partment to another, and some of the
small entities in the Government might
not need a computer themselves, but they
might need to share a major computer
center. Also, we need adequate security.
I am not quite sure yet that the Federal
Government computer centers are secure,
for instance, from sabotage or perhaps
from destruction by fire or some other
force. As you know, our Nation could be
badly damaged if somebody with a small
but very powerful magnet should go
through your statistical analysis centers or
through the HEW records center and just
wipe out vast numbers of data that exist
on those computer tapes and disks.
So, I would say that we will analyze
the need for the changes. I think OMB
would probably be the proper central en-
tity to supervise that analysis, and I would
not be hesitant at all to make changes if
they are determined to be needed. But at
the present time, I don't know what the
need is. We will know within a year.
I would like to have your ideas on things
that we need to do to improve services.
FEDERAL JOB DISCRIMINATION
Q. Mr. President, I am Magda Tenser.
I am a statistician for the Maritime Ad-
ministration. I am also the president of
the Commerce Committee for Women.
First of all, thank you so much for Juanita
Kreps. In her first 3 weeks as Secretary of
Commerce, she has done more for our
morale-I am speaking for women most-
ly-than all former Secretaries put to-
gether. We are looking forward to a great
future through the new spirit that perme-
ates from her office and her leadership.
Now my question: Would the White
House support removal of the equal op-
portunity monitoring of Federal Govern-
ment employment practices from Civil
Service Commission, title VII? In other
words, CSC always backs the departments
on all or almost all discrimination cases.
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Kreps has also
done a lot for morale of people in the
Government who are not women, includ-
ing mine.
We now have seven major Federal
agencies responsible for elimination of sex
115
