Feb. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
right that they should. Last year the Red
Cross responded more than 32,000
times-once every sixteen minutes, on
the average to disaster situations in
our country, coping with the emergency
needs of victims and doing those things
that a good neighbor does in time of
trouble.
But the Red Cross does much more.
Through its network of blood centers and
with the help of voluntary donors, the
Red Cross meets over half the country's
needs for blood-an essential resource for
healing the sick and injured. The men
and women of our armed services depend
on the Red Cross for emergency contact
with their loved ones, for counseling, and
for financial assistance. And the Red
Cross provides trusted, reliable programs
to educate Americans in first aid, home
nursing, and water safety.
Traditionally, March is Red Cross
Month. During this period I hope all
Americans will reflect on the selflessness
that has led so many of our neighbors to
serve the Red Cross-and their fellow
Americans—with their time, their energy,
and their love. We can follow their ex-
ample by supporting our local Red Cross
chapter.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America
and Honorary Chairman of the American
National Red Cross, do hereby designate
March, 1977, as Red Cross Month. I urge
all Americans to give generous support to
the work of their local Red Cross chapters.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of
February, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:04 p.m., February 25, 1977]
Red Cross Month, 1977
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies.
February 25, 1977
Memorandum for Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I have just issued a proclamation
which designates March as Red Cross
Month.
This has been an especially tragic year
for hundreds of thousands of our fellow-
The Red Cross—once every sixteen min-
countrymen left destitute by disasters.
utes-has helped bring relief in disaster
situations in what has proven to be the
costliest disaster year in its 96-year
history.
I am a Red Cross blood donor myself
and I know the value of its Blood Pro-
gram's efforts to insure that we constantly
have an adequate supply, voluntarily
given. Also, through the Red Cross, we
help the millions of men and women in
uniform, veterans and their families cope
with emergency situations and provide
knowledge and skills to prevent accidents
and save lives through training in first
aid, water and boating safety, and health
and nursing courses.
Within the Federal Government, the
Red Cross is a part of the Combined Fed-
eral Campaign, but more than half of its
3,000 chapters raise all their funds in
March. All chapters use the month to in-
form the public of Red Cross services
available to citizens and to recruit new
blood donors and volunteers.
As President of the United States and
Honorary Chairman of the American
National Red Cross, I urge all civilian em-
ployees of the Federal Government and
members of the Armed Forces to support
250
