Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 25
Health Care Legislation
Remarks at a News Briefing on the
Administration's Proposals.
April 25, 1977
Good morning, everybody.
This morning I have a statement to
make about a message that I've just sent
to Congress concerning health for the
American people. This year in the United
States we'll spend about $160 billion on
health, which is about $700 for every
man, woman, and child in our country.
Just to pay health bills for a family,
the average wage-earner has to labor for
an average of one full month. The cost of
health care has increased 1,000 percent,
way the last number of years, at an infla-
tion rate roughly double the cost of other
items in the American family budget.
Since 1950, for instance, the cost of
health care has increased 1,000 percent,
costing eight times more now than it did
back in 1950. And unless we do something
about it, the cost of health care will
double again in the next 5 years, at an
annual inflation rate that we are presently
experiencing of about 15 percent per year.
I've sent to the Congress today, with
the help of Secretary Joe Califano, a pro-
posal for hospital cost containment which,
through a carefully defined and a very
fair formula, will put a limit on the in-
crease in hospital costs. We anticipate
that this proposal, if implemented by Con-
gress, would save about $2 billion next
year alone. Mr. Califano can explain the
exact formula, but it would permit an
increase in hospital costs within the next
12 months of about 9 percent.
Along with that proposal, we are also
sending to the Congress a separate one
involving a child health assessment pro-
gram wherein early in a child's life ade-
quate examinations will be given to the
child to detect at a very early age pres-
ently existing or potential health prob-
lems, so that with a minimum expenditure
of effort and funds and with a minimum
adverse effect on the child's life, those
potential problems might be corrected.
These two proposals go well together.
And I don't believe that we are going to
be able to solve our Nation's health prob-
lems and to have a comprehensive health
program-which we will evolve-unless
we have these two early proposals well on
their way to control the runaway costs of
hospital care and to deal in a preventive
fashion with threats to the health of
American citizens at an early age.
I'd like to introduce now for a question
period, the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare-Joe Califano.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House Press
Office released the transcript of the news brief-
ing by Secretary Califano on the legislation.
Health Care Legislation
Message to the Congress. April 25, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
This country spends more on health
care than any other nation-$160 billion
this year, almost nine percent of our Gross
National Product. We have the finest
medical facilities and highly skilled, dedi-
cated health professionals. Yet many of
our people still lack adequate medical
care, and the cost of care is rising so rap-
idly it jeopardizes our health goals and
our other important social objectives.
I am transmitting to the Congress two
major pieces of legislation to improve our
health care system: The Hospital Cost
717
