Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION
Q. Mr. President, when will the new
director of OSHA be named?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, when
will the new director of OSHA be named?
Within the next week; she has already
been chosen.
PAPERWORK REQUIREMENTS
Q. Mr. President, how do you eliminate
the conflict between the Government re-
quiring information on which to base
proper decisions, and the overburdening
of business leaders and others in the prep-
aration of reports?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, how
do
you eliminate the conflict between the
Government requiring information on
which to base proper decisions, and the
overburdening of business leaders and
others in the preparation of reports.
That's compatible with my concern
about excessive paperwork that originates
with the Government. In many instances,
there is a possibility that several depart-
ments might share one form report that
comes from, say, a small businessman like
myself. There is no reason why HEW,
HUD, Commerce, Labor, for instance,
can't get together over a period of the
next few months, prescribe one form that
might be submitted to you either annually
or quarterly, and let the form be such that
the different departments can get a copy
of it. But if the businessman has to prepare
each individual form different months of
the year,
it creates an extraordinary
amount of work on them and an aggrava-
tion that makes sure that they don't do a
good job in the preparation of that infor-
mation.
Also, I think it is good for us to reassess
the actual need for information that comes
in from around the country. A lot of infor-
mation that I have to fill out at Carters
Warehouse, I would doubt ever is looked
at when it gets to Washington. But 20
years ago, there may have been a real need
for it, for instance, during the Second
World War, during the Korean war. But
I think we need to reassess the amount of
information that is requested to make
sure that the information is not duplicated
among departments and also make sure
that information that you got last quarter,
which doesn't change, is not required
every quarter of every year. This is a very
tedious
process.
And I might say one other thing. Talk-
ing about regulations and about reports
from around the country, I am not the
proper person to decide what information
is needed, and I am not the proper person
to decide what goes into a regulation. The
best persons able to do that are the ones
who presently fill out the forms or prepare
the forms to be filled out by the business
people and the ones who write the regula-
tions.
I would hate for there to be a difference
of opinion between you and me on that
subject. And I hope that you will join in
the spirit of the suggested change to make
your own jobs easier and to make the in-
formation derived from around the coun-
try more accurate.
Now, I get most of my assessment of the
labor market, the number of unemployed,
how well the product of training schools,
colleges, high schools are matched with
jobs available, from you. And to the extent
that that information is accurate, I can
make a proper decision about what to do
in the future of our country. But I don't
want you to feel that you and I have a bat-
tle going on, with you continuing to write
regulations the way they have been writ-
108
