June 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
pany. [Laughter] I'm one of their best cus-
tomers. I just don't have time to wear out
my blue jeans as much as I used to.
And the King Supermarkets, and Mont-
gomery Ward, and Mobil, and Gulf and
Western, and Atlantic Richfield and
many others-I can't name them all,
more than 100-in business to make a
profit, but also in business to be fair and
in business to serve their customers, and
also in business to meet legitimate com-
petition without fear in the greatest sys-
tem, economic system on Earth. What
could possibly be so fearful about guaran-
teeing that all businesses adopt the same
attitude and the same posture?
So, I would just like to ask you to join
with me and these men and women be-
hind me in putting forward our best
effort to improve our Government in this
simple but very profound fashion.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing.
American Convention on
Human Rights
Remarks on Signing the Convention.
June 1, 1977
This morning, my wife is in Costa Rica,
and yesterday when she arrived at the air-
port she reported that today, after waiting
for many years, the United States would
ratify this Convention on Human Rights.
In 1969, when this agreement was
reached in this hemisphere, the other na-
tions came forward to commit themselves
to a legally binding document which
would express the aspirations that have
existed among all our countries since the
first governments were formed in North
and South America.
As far back as the 1820's, Simón Bolívar
put forward a concept of human freedom
and the responsibility of government to
protect the rights of individuals.
In 1948, another agreement was
reached in our hemisphere to pursue this
noble endeavor of democratic and free
governments. In 1969, this covenant was
signed by the other nations.
This blank place on the page has been
here for a long time, and it's with a great
deal of pleasure that I sign on behalf of
the United States this Convention on Hu-
man Rights which will spell out in clear
terms our own belief in the proper rela-
tionship between free human beings and
governments chosen by them.
I believe that no one nation can shape
the attiudes of the world, and that's why
it's so important for us to join in with our
friends and neighbors in the south to pur-
sue as a unified group this noble commit-
ment and endeavor. And I think that it's
accurate to say that among almost all the
leaders of the 150 nations of the world
this year, there is a preoccupation with
and a concern about basic human rights.
Part of it is because of actions like
these on behalf of free people. Another, of
course, is the upcoming conference in
Belgrade on the progress that has been
made by the 35 signatories of the Helsinki
agreement.
But we are very glad this morning to
join in this commitment and to follow the
leadership of other countries in this hemi-
sphere who have preceded us in the sign-
ing of this agreement.
I'm very grateful to be honored by the
presence here of these distinguished rep-
resentatives of their governments, and I
therefore sign now for the United States
this agreement.
[At this point, the President signed the
convention.]
1050
