Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 31
I'm going to get some wild plums-this is
the plum season-and just look at our
farms.
We have had a terrible drought here.
And this is probably one of the worst crops
we have ever had this time of year. But I
think, in general, I feel unconstrained
about moving around. I don't mind meet-
ing people and having them shake hands
and talking to them briefly.
When I leave this place, I am going
over and vote. We have an election today
in Sumter County about some tax matters
and some free port zones. And I will be
visiting my wife's mother, who is helping
to run the polls today.
Q. President Carter, have you heard
from your wife?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I talked to Rosa-
lynn this morning about 7:15. She called
me from Jamaica. She spent about 312
hours yesterday with the Prime Minister,
Manley, and with some of his government
officials.
She was very pleased at the conversa-
tions that they had. She said that all the
studying that she's been doing for the last
number of weeks paid off, that they went
into quite some depth and specificity on
questions that affect our relationships with
Jamaica. She was very pleased at the
response.
We have been quite concerned in re-
cent years that we had lost a lot of the
friendship that used to tie us very closely
to the people of Jamaica.
She was getting ready this morning,
early, to go out to one of the plantations,
and she'll be there with the Prime Minis-
ter again, and this afternoon will leave for
Costa Rica.
Q. Mr. Carter, to go back to Plains,
what about the problems in your church
here? I know you are aware of them. Are
you planning to go back to the church at
all and try to help out in that situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, it's my church,
and I don't ever intend to leave it. While
we are in Washington, as you know, we
transferred our membership to the First
Baptist Church there. But when I come
back to Plains, the Plains Baptist Church
will be my church.
They have had some very difficult times.
And there is still some misunderstanding,
even some animosities in the church, un-
fortunately. Bruce Edwards, our pastor, is
out in Hawaii this week, I think, with his
wife. He was invited by one of the
churches out there to come out and
preach what the Baptists call a trial ser-
mon, and they'll be looking him over. But
I think he's had several opportunities for
a new position. He's a fine young man.
And I think this is just one of those things
that have been brought on our church by
the publicity that surrounded my presence
there.
I feel responsible for it in a way because
it was a very disruptive thing to have enor-
mous crowds coming to the little church.
But I believe that God will take care of it.
Q. Mr. President, when you are up at
the White House, what do you miss most
about Plains, now that you are back?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, I miss
the friends and relatives that are so close
to me. I had a very fine career in the
Navy. I guess I had just about the number
one position of a naval officer of my rank
at the time. And I gave all that up to come
back to Plains because of the strong ties
that I have here.
I'm still a farmer at heart, and I miss
the planting season and the crops being
produced. I had a chance to go with Billy
this morning down to our peanut shelling
plant. And it's just a basic part of my life.
I don't find any conflict between an af-
fection for Plains and also a gratification
at being President. But just the commu-
nity, the attitude, the closeness, the shar-
ing of a common life in a small group of
people—and I guess between Rosalynn
1045
