May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment, many of the regulatory agencies that
were designed originally to protect con-
sumers have been seduced, and now they
protect the industry that's supposed to be
regulated. This needs to be changed.
This bill would consolidate consumer
advocacy programs that are now scattered
ineffectively throughout the maze of Fed-
eral agencies. It would just give consum-
ers a voice in Government offices where,
too often, the only voices heard have been
those of lobbyists for the wealthy and
powerful. Now, there are enormous pres-
sures to kill this legislation creating this
new consumer agency. I want to make
sure that they don't get away with it.
The UAW has long supported the con-
sumer agency and easy registration pro-
cedures to vote. Together, I believe we
can get both these measures passed this
year.
We must also make government more
efficient, because we don't have the money
to waste on inefficiency, on duplication,
or to give handouts to those who can take
care of themselves. Waste robs us all. It
prevents the realization of our hopes and
dreams.
An efficient government means spend-
ing money only where it will actually bene-
fit our people. We've proposed a $350-
million increase in the Title I education
funds for poor and deprived little chil-
dren. We've proposed raising the basic
opportunity grants from $1,400 to $1,800
a year, to help families put their children
through college.
But when spending is wasteful-when
spending is wasteful-we've moved vig-
orously to cut it out. We found $4 billion
in water projects that simply couldn't be
justified or were more expensive or elab-
orate than they needed to be.
We are moving to get rid of some of
the more than 1,100 advisory commissions
in the Federal Government. We are insti-
tuting zero-based budgeting, and we are
supporting sunset legislation to help us
get rid of programs that have outlived
their usefulness.
The more money that we can save that's
now being wasted, the more money we'll
have without increasing taxes to meet the
needs of our people.
We've also begun a complete reorgani-
zation of the executive branch, and we
are starting at home in the Executive
Office of the President.
Now, I believe that we can be fiscally
responsible and still satisfy the needs of
our people. And I believe that we cannot
satisfy our needs unless we are competent
and efficient. We can cut both unemploy-
ment and inflation. And I believe that our
policies will help us reach both goals.
In closing let me say this: We can do
these things if we remember that nothing
good comes quickly or easily. Every one
of these programs that I've outlined to
you this morning has been too long
ignored.
When I became President, I could see
very clearly, as can you, that 4, 8, 12, 20
years ago, these difficult problems should
have been addressed. We must make hard
choices about how to use our resources,
and we must realize that only a lean and
efficient government can translate good
intentions into actions that will improve
the lives of our people.
That's the kind of government I'm
determined to have. And I'm going to
stick to that determination in spite of
whatever criticism may come. And I need
you to be partners with me in the next
4 years. [Applause]
Just remain standing. And I want to
say one other thing. I've just got one final
comment to make.
In his final report to this convention,
President Leonard Woodcock wrote: "In
the United States, we are moving from a
period of depression, despair and de-
spondency into a time of renewed hope."
894
