Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 1
(USITC) dated February 8, 1977, con-
cerning the results of its investigation on
non-rubber footwear. This investigation
was undertaken at the request of the Sen-
ate Finance Committee.
I have determined that the import re-
lief remedy recommended by the USITC
does not provide a balance among the
various interests involved. Therefore, I
am directing you to negotiate and con-
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
The memorandum was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
American Non-Rubber
clude the necessary agreements with the Footwear Industry
appropriate foreign exporting countries
to moderate the problems caused to our
domestic footwear manufacturers, work-
ers, and communities by rapid shifts in
foreign exports of non-rubber footwear to
the United States. This should be a short
term program sufficient to allow the
domestic industry to become more
competitive.
Memorandum for the Heads of Certain
Departments and Agencies. April 1, 1977
In seeking these agreements you should
remain mindful of the interests of Ameri-
can consumers and the difficult economic
problems faced by a number of our trad-
ing partners, in particular the developing
country suppliers with serious balance of
payments deficits.
I am also asking the Secretaries of
Commerce and Labor to work closely
with you to ensure effective use of the re-
sources available under existing law for
the benefit of the shoe industry and the
communities in which shoe plants are
located.
In addition, I am ordering a full review
of the Government's trade adjustment
assistance program and will recommend
to the Congress within the next 90 days
any legislation which may be warranted.
This will coincide with your negotiating
effort, and in accordance with the law, I
will present a program of relief to the
Congress no later than 90 days from
today.
Memorandum for the Secretary of State,
Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of
Defense, Secretary of Agriculture, Secre-
tary of Commerce, Secretary of Labor,
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations, Administrator, Small Busi-
ness Administration, and Chairman,
Council of Economic Advisers
I have today decided upon a program
to assist the domestic non-rubber footwear
industry to become more efficient. The
goals of the program are threefold: to
help the industry become more competi-
tive; to support the industry in the devel-
opment of new business opportunities;
and to provide jobs for affected workers.
I am charging the Secretary of Com-
merce, in coordination with the Secretary
of Labor and the Special Trade Repre-
sentative, with the responsibility of en-
suring effective use of the resources avail-
able under existing law for the benefit of
the non-rubber footwear industry, its
workers and the communities in which
non-rubber footwear plants are located,
including, where necessary, developing
alternative employment opportunities for
the affected workers. It is imperative that
your Department or Agency give its full
assistance to these efforts.
553
