Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 22
I don't look on it as something that
separates me from you. I don't look on it
as something that makes me better than
anyone else. I hope that I can always
serve you as President during this term
of office in a way that would make you
proud. I want you to stay close to me,
let me have your suggestions, your sup-
port, your advice, your counsel, and your
criticisms when you think I do the wrong
thing.
But feel free always to try to shape the
decisions that are made in Government,
because it belongs to you as much as it
does to me.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. The
CLOSE-UP program, which was established
as a memorial to Senator Allen Ellender of
Louisiana, brings high school students and
their teachers from cities around the country
to spend a week in Washington where they
attend seminars with administration officials
and Members of Congress.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
APRIL 22, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body.
I don't have a statement to make. I am
prepared for questions.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
GASOLINE TAX
Q. Mr. President, I have heard some
people suggest-maybe you'd call them
cynics-that your proposal for a standby
gasoline tax is a bargaining chip to be
traded later for something else that you
really want. I want to know, are you
deeply committed to the tax idea or are
you a little queasy about it?
THE PRESIDENT. I am deeply com-
mitted to the standby gasoline tax as part
of a comprehensive and well-balanced
overall energy program. In my opinion,
the gasoline tax is a good idea. As a mat-
ter of fact, it will help greatly families
who participate in the program by cutting
down on gasoline consumption.
When the 5-cent gasoline tax is put into
effect, if people don't conserve, then that
means that the Federal Treasury will re-
ceive about $6 billion in additional in-
come. This will be refunded directly to
every person in the United States on their
income tax as a direct tax credit.
A family of four, for instance, would
receive $100 either reduction in their tax
payment or, if they don't pay taxes, they
would get that much of a refund in any
case. So, a family with a car that gets,
say, 27 miles per gallon, travels 10,000
miles per year, would pay $91 more in
taxes. They would get back a credit of
$500 if the 25-cent tax goes into effect.
So, the benefits are great for families
that conserve. The taxes will not be se-
vere when they go into effect. And if the
people conserve, the tax won't go into
effect at all. So, I am deeply dedicated to
the gasoline tax and will fight for it until
the last vote in the Congress.
TAX CREDITS FOR BUSINESS
Q. Mr. President, the Senate has voted
to increase the business tax credit to the
tune of billions of dollars. And you have
approved millions of dollars in a tax
break for the oil drillers, which is contrary
to the tax reform law. What's the average
taxpayer supposed to think about all this?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I am
not in favor of continuing the business
tax credit that the Senate voted yester-
day. This will be taken up either this
695
