Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
to prevent health care costs from going
up faster than other parts of our econ-
omy. There's been a great deal of malad-
ministration or poor administration of the
health costs.
I hope that over a period of years—and
it's not going to come easily-that we can
have a comprehensive health care plan in
our country. It will be very expensive, but
the first step has got to be to bring some
order out of chaos in the administration
of the health problems we have already
got, and to help poorer people like, per-
haps, yourself—I don't know what your
income is be able to prevent rapidly in-
creasing costs of programs like medicare.
So, we are at least freezing your medi-
care costs, if the Congress goes along with
our proposal, and over a period of years
we'll try to expand the coverage of the
health care services for all citizens like
you.
MRS. HELLER. Well, thank you very
much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, maʼam.
MR. CRONKITE. The next caller is Miss
Phyllis Dupere of Rehoboth, Massa-
chusetts. Miss Dupere, the President is on
the line.
MISS DUPERE. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good
Good afternoon,
Phyllis.
SPACE SHUTTLE PROGRAM
MISS DUPERE. I'm a recent graduate
from college and I majored in science.
And my question is about the space
shuttle program. If you had the oppor-
tunity to go on one of the missions, would
you go, and why or why not?
MR. CRONKITE. You are talking about
a space mission, Miss Dupere?
MISS DUPERE. The shuttle program.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I see. Miss Du-
pere, I'm probably too old to do that. I
don't know if I could start now and train
and get ready to go. When I was a
younger person I was always very eager to
do the most advanced and sometimes
quite dangerous things. As soon as our
country had the idea of having atomic
power to propel submarines, I was one
of the first ones to volunteer and was one
of the very earliest submarine officers to
go
into the atomic power program. And
I am thinking about, in the next few
weeks, going with Admiral Rickover out
on one of our atomic submarines to ride
on that as a President, as part of my duty
to learn about things of that kind.
But I can't tell you that I'm ready to
go on the space shuttle. I think I just
don't have the time to get ready for it.
I might say that my sons would like very
much to do it. But not me.
MISS DUPERE. You think your daugh-
ter would?
THE PRESIDENT. I think perhaps she
would, yes. She is a very innovative
young lady and is always trying for new
things, and I think she's competent to be
a pilot in a space shuttle in the future or
to be a Member of Congress or even to
be President. Yes, ma'am.
by.
MISS DUPERE. Okay, thank you. Good-
MR. CRONKITE. You know, Mr. Presi-
dent, with that shirtsleeve environment,
so-called, with the shuttle, they're hold-
ing out a little hope that some of us fel-
lows may get a chance to go along.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm interested in that
program, by the way. I think that it's go-
ing to be a much cheaper means by which
we can perform our very valuable flights
in space and still return the costly vehicle
back to Earth. I'm very interested in that.
MR. CRONKITE. It's going to mean the
utilization of space. We are getting past
the exploration stage, I think, now.
THE PRESIDENT. It is. We are using it
now. I think, as you probably know, with
the space satellite photography we not
303
