Preface
This book contains the papers of the 39th President of the United States
which were issued by the White House Press Office during the period January 20–
June 24, 1977. The material has been compiled and published by the Office of
the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Service, General Services
Administration.
The material is presented in chronological order within each week, and the
dates shown in the headings are the dates of the documents or events. In instances
when the release date differs from the date of the document itself, that fact is shown
in the textnote. New to the Public Papers series this year are a digest containing the
President's daily public schedule and other items of general interest, a list of
nominations submitted to the Senate, a checklist of White House press releases
not printed in the book, and a list of acts approved by the President. This informa-
tion is compiled on a weekly basis and appears at the end of each week's coverage.
Every effort has been made to ensure accuracy. Tape recordings are used to
protect against errors in transcription of Presidential remarks, and unless noted,
signed documents are checked against the original to verify the correct printing.
Textnotes, footnotes, and cross references have been provided by the editors for
purposes of identification or clarity. Remarks were delivered in Washington, D.C.,
and other documents released there, unless indicated. All times noted are local
times.
The index covers only material in this book. However, Book II, containing
documents issued between June 25 and December 31, 1977, will include an index
to documents for all of 1977. In addition to the usual subject-matter entries in the
index, the material has been classified in categories reflecting the type of Presi-
dential activity. For example, a reader interested in the President's speeches will
find them listed in the index under "Addresses and Remarks."
The Public Papers series was begun in 1957 in response to a recommendation
of the National Historical Publications Commission. An extensive compilation of
the messages and papers of the Presidents, covering the period 1789 to 1897, was
assembled by James D. Richardson and published under congressional authority
between 1896 and 1899. Since then, various private compilations have been issued,
but there was no uniform publication comparable to the Congressional Record or
the United States Supreme Court Reports. Many Presidential papers could be
found only in the form of mimeographed White House releases or as reported in
the
press. The Commission therefore recommended the establishment of an official
vii
