Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 4, 1977
International Clergy
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4484. January 28, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In a civilization marred by disputes
and conflicts, the ministers of God, repre-
senting all faiths, help lead the human
family to an understanding of His love
and His peace. Clergymen of all denomi-
nations point the way to a richer, more
fulfilling life through higher moral stand-
ards.
The clergy inspire all of us to hold firm
to what is right-against what is wrong.
They call upon us to practice charity and
compassion. They bring us together and
nearer to our Creator.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, in recognition of the spiritual and so-
cial contributions of the clergy in our
Country and throughout the world, do
hereby proclaim the week beginning Jan-
uary 30, 1977, as International Clergy
Week in the United States. I
all our
people to honor these servants of God
and man through appropriate activities
and ceremonies.
urge
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of January in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-seven, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:28 p.m., February 1, 1977]
NOTE: The proclamation was not issued in the
form of a White House press release.
Ambassador-Designate Andrew
Young's Trip to Africa
Designation as United States Representative
at Celebrations in Tanzania and
Nigeria. January 29, 1977
The President announced today that
U.S. Ambassador-designate to the United
Nations Andrew Young will represent
the United States at celebrations in Tan-
zania and Nigeria during the next 10
days. The Ambassador-designate will at-
tend the 20th anniversary celebration of
the founding of Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi
Party on February 5. This is also the date
of the merger of the Afro-Shirazi Party
and the mainland Tanganyika African
National Union (TANU) and the 10th
anniversary of Tanzania's Arusha Decla-
ration of Socialism and Self-Reliance.
33
