Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
outside the country since I've been Presi-
dent, perhaps my only trip outside the
country this year. Many of the leaders
I've had a chance to know in the past in
my travels as Governor, and we've had
visitors here quite often.
Prime Minister-or President Suarez
from Spain, I think was the fifth head of
state who's been here in the last 10 days.
And we have an average of about one
prime minister or president or king com-
ing every 2 weeks the rest of this year. In
each instance, before they come I do a
lot of study about their nation—its back-
ground, economic, social, political struc-
ture, history with us, bilateral problems,
multinational agreements.
Some of the things that we'll discuss at
the summit are our relationships with one
another; the strengthening of NATO at
an immediately following meeting; ques-
tions concerning human rights; prepara-
tion for the Belgrade conference to assess
the efficacy of the Helsinki agreement;
nonproliferation questions concerning re-
processing of spent nuclear fuels, the
plutonium society.
We also will discuss among us our deal-
ings with the less-developed countries of
the world, how much to strengthen the
International Monetary Fund, how much
to depend on other multilateral lending
institutions like the World Bank or re-
gional banks, how much to cooperate in
trade matters.
We'll discuss quite frankly with our
friends and allies from Japan, Canada,
and Europe, the possible approaches to a
SALT agreement.
We'll discuss the mutual and balanced
force reduction talks in Vienna that have
been stalemated now for about 3 years. I
think we'll form personal friendships and
interrelationships that will stand us in
good stead in a time of trouble or crisis.
In fact, when I called Prime Minister
Callaghan this morning-we have a per-
sonal and easy relationship because we've
had a chance to be together for a number
of hours when he visited us.
I don't know President Giscard from
France. I do know Chancellor Schmidt.
And I think I'll come away from there
with a new sense of what their special
problems are and opportunities in the
nations involved.
We'll talk at length about energy, and
we'll talk about the entire fuel cycle. We
hope to get a multilateral cooperation
begun in the very expensive research and
development projects concerning energy.
For instance, we are just about ready
to go ahead with a very large, solar
energy power production plant in Spain.
This has been worked out before I was in
office. But as we approach a very difficult
question of solar power use, fusion power,
of breeder reactors, it's important for us to
do it with a common commitment to
share the expense, to share the informa-
tion and experience derived, and to make
sure that we also share a protection
against the increased capability to make
explosives from nuclear fuels.
These are the kinds of things that we'll
discuss, and the agenda is quite full. I
think everyone involved is making an
extra effort to prepare thoroughly.
There was a general feeling that at the
last summit conference on economics, that
the preparation was not adequate. And
I've already exchanged three or four
letters, for instance, with Chancellor
Schmidt and the same with President
Giscard from France.
I wrote and sent to Chancellor Schmidt
early this morning a four- or five-page
response to his recent communication
with me.
We've had numerous meetings already
with our official representatives to prepare
for the summit, and we have, in addition
to what I've just described, scheduled
bilateral meetings between myself and al-
756
