Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
And I want us to tell the Saudi Arabians
and the Syrians and the Egyptians and
the Lebanese and the Jordanians and the
Israelis the same thing, so that there never
is any sense of being misled. These are
the kinds of hopes that I have, that I be-
lieve can be realized.
We've got, additionally, a responsibility
to let the American people know what
challenges we face and the possible reso-
lution of problems and the possible
answers to complicated questions. I don't
want to give anyone a false sense that the
answers are easy or that the solutions will
necessarily come quickly. But we will be
tenacious and determined in our search
for a greater world peace.
The final point I want to make before
I answer your questions is this: We have
some potential adversaries and some past
adversaries with whom we want to have
better relationships. And that applies to
Vietnam and Laos and Cambodia. It ap-
plies even to North Korea and to Cuba.
It applies to the People's Republic of
China and to Russia and to countries like
Iraq. With some we have relations; some,
as you know, we do not. But our constant
search will be to find common ground on
which we can reach agreement so that we
can set an example for the rest of the
world in a friendly and mutually respect-
ful attitude.
I have been pleased so far at the re-
sponse that has been received from our
embryonic efforts to carve out grounds for
understanding and peace. I think so far
the Soviet Union has responded well.
And we will continue these kinds of ef-
forts, sometimes anticipating discourage-
ments. But we will not be deterred, and
we will not be discouraged ourselves.
I want the American people to be part
of it. I am going to have a press confer-
ence at least twice a month. I will have
frequent fireside chats. My next one will
be devoted exclusively to foreign affairs
and defense matters. And I am going to
have trips around our country where I
might meet in town meeting forums. And
we will have call-in type radio programs
so that people can ask me questions about
domestic and foreign affairs and so that
to the best of my ability I can give them
straight answers.
I think that when our country speaks,
it ought to speak with a strong voice. And
when a foreign policy is evolved, even
though it might be the right foreign policy,
exclusively by the President and the Secre-
tary of State, and then promulgated to
the world without the understanding or
participation of the Congress, the other
Cabinet members or the people of our
country, the rest of the world knows that
the President and the Secretary of State,
powerful people, still speak with a hol-
low voice. So to the extent that you are
involved in the evolution of an idea or a
new approach or a consistent old ap-
proach, to that extent, we will all be
strengthened.
We are partners. I can't succeed as
President unless you succeed. And if you
make a serious mistake, I am the one who
will be the focal point for that criticism
and that despair and that disillusionment
that will follow. I think when we do make
a mistake we ought to be frank about it
and say we erred and this is the corrective
action that we will take. And we will try
to correct our error, and we will try to do
better next time.
I think the American people will re-
spond well. And I think other nations that
look to us for leadership will respond well,
also.
I want to make sure that we eliminate
in our own country those vestiges of hatred
or discrimination or deprivation of human
rights that we still retain so that when we
do criticize other countries, or when we
do speak out to deplore the loss of those
237
