Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 16
in Namibia. The United Nations has a
major role to play here as do the British
in Rhodesia. And we have encouraged the
South African Government to move ex-
peditiously in releasing that country to its
own leadership.
Of course, in South Africa, which has
a legally constituted government, what we
need there of course is to pursue our own
commitment of the ending of apartheid
and move eventually toward majority rule.
The difficult question is, you know, how
much to push the South African Govern-
ment and to drive them into a corner and
to alienate them from us, because to a
major degree the South African Govern-
ment is a stabilizing influence in the south-
ern part of that continent and they have a
major role to play in the peaceful resolu-
tion of Rhodesia and Namibia.
So, I think we do have an evolving pol-
icy toward South Africa. David Owen will
be back from his tour having met with
many of the African leaders, both black
and white. On the 18th of this month,
which I think is Monday, he'll make his
report to the British Cabinet and then
make his report to us as well. We get daily
communiques from Foreign Minister
Owen on this trip.
Q. The Kissinger plan-it makes pro-
visions for the whites who are there in
Rhodesia. And my feeling is that Ian
Smith, with the kind of control that he's
retaining now-he could more or less im-
plement a peaceful transition that will
also provide some reparations for the
blacks who are going to be displaced. I
think my question is, will the Kissinger
plan be figured in a new conference that
the United States will sponsor?
THE PRESIDENT. Certain component
parts of it. As you know, one of the major
questions is who is going to control the
army or the military force that exists in
Rhodesia? I think that in the past when
a so-called reserve fund was set up to com-
pensate white families and others who de-
cided to leave, the reserve funds have not
been used. In Kenya and some other coun-
tries, these kinds of reserves have been vol-
untarily contributed by nations; they have
never been used because in the history of
those countries—and it may be completely
different in Rhodesia, of course--the land
was simply transferred through routine,
open market means.
So, the fact that Kissinger did agree, I
think with substantial congressional ap-
proval, to contribute to a fund to compen-
sate white landowners and others, doesn't
mean that we are putting that much
money out for good. It just means that we
agreed back then to contribute our part to
a fund that may or may not be used. It is
obviously extremely complicated and we
could talk for hours about it.
CUBAN EXPEDITIONARY FORCE IN AFRICA
QOn the same subject of Africa, do
you agree with Andy Young that the Cu-
ban expeditionary force is a stabilizing
influence?
THE PRESIDENT. I have called publicly
for the Cuban expeditionary force to be
withdrawn from Africa. I read the whole
text, of course, of Andy's statement, and
what he said, I do agree with it. It obvi-
ously stabilized the situation. And I think
that the present Angolan Government un-
der Neto is likely to stay in power. The
Cubans ought to withdraw their forces
from Africa.
Q. Would this be a precondition in the
present talks of normalizing relations with
Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't say
that it would be a precondition to the
talks. We are talking to Cuba now for the
first time in a number of years.
Q. Precondition of normalizing rela-
tions?
647
