Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I don't know what is going to be the
ultimate outcome, but I believe that we
are so closely tied together with Canada
on a mutually beneficial basis, sharing
problems, sharing opportunities, sharing
trade, sharing manufacturing companies
that have joint ownership, our exchange
of energy sources, our sharing of the St.
Lawrence Seaway, the Great Lakes, as
far as water pollution is concerned, the
bringing of Alaskan oil and natural gas
down to us, that we have got to have a
continuing relationship with Canada.
My own personal preference would be
that the commonwealth stay as it is and
that there not be a separate Quebec prov-
ince. But that's a decision for the Canadi-
ans to make. And I would certainly make
no private or public move to try to deter-
mine the outcome of that great debate.
I promised Ann [Ann Compton, ABC
News].
CAMPAIGN PROMISES
Q. Mr. President, you've had a month
now to enjoy the view from the Oval Of-
fice. Do you think you will be able to
keep fully all the campaign promises you
made?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, we have
issued what I believe is a complete book
of my campaign promises which is, I pre-
sume, being made available to all of you.
My determination is to keep all those
promises. Obviously, if circumstances
should change, I would have to reserve the
right to go back to the American people
and say now that circumstances have
changed, this is a better approach to that
particular problem. But I will do my ut-
most to keep all the campaign promises
that I made to the American people.
B-1 BOMBER
Q. Mr. President, with respect to the
B-1 you said at various times during the
campaign that the B-1 was a waste; you
also promised to cut the waste out of the
defense budget. When would you expect
to stop production of the B-1, as opposed
to research and development on the B-1?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I cut out about
more than $200 million from the B-1 pro-
gram in the budget just submitted to the
Congress. I have serious questions about
whether or not the B-1 ought to be in the
future the center of our airborne defense
capability. I have several more months
before I have to make a decision on that
matter.
And the National Security Council,
which combines, as you know, State,
Treasury, Defense, and other elements of
the Government, working very closely
with me, is now making a complete reas-
sessment of the need for the B-1 bomber.
I don't know whether we will decide to
go on with it or not, and I don't know
whether we will expedite production of it
or not at this time. Part of the factor to be
assessed is the attitude of the Soviet
Union. If we can have a general lessen-
ing of tension, a demonstrated commit-
ment on their part toward disarmament,
it would certainly make it less likely that
we would go ahead with the B-1.
But I can't answer the question until
I complete my own study, and I think
that would have to be terminated by the
end of May.
ELECTION REFORM
Q. Mr. President, I was a little unclear
about what you are going to propose in
the campaign finance law. Are you say-
ing that you will propose to have all con-
gressional elections publicly financed?
THE PRESIDENT. That's my preference,
yes.
Q. Mr. President, is that what you
have proposed to Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. The Vice President is
now doing a study on a complete election
law package, and I'd like to reserve my
224
