June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have also moving towards 1981 and a
balanced budget, and going back to some
of the promises that were made prior to
your election in terms of looking at a com-
prehensive program for the revitalization
of the cities, can you have the four-point
program that you described this morning
and you
you alluded to here and still point and
move towards a revitalization of the cities
that is so needed?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think so. Where
are you from?
Q. New York City.
THE PRESIDENT. New York.
Q. We have one or two problems in
New York. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I've heard. I think that
this is such a broad question that I don't
have the time to answer it and couldn't
give you a definitive answer anyhow. But
in almost every proposal that we have
made to the Congress-and we've been
making good progress there in their ac-
ceptance we are shifting the impact of
limited Federal funds-and they'll al-
ways be limited-to the redressing of prob-
lems in the older and more dilapidated
and deteriorating neighborhoods where
the need is greatest.
I think it's accurate to say, just to give
you one example, that the housing pro-
grams in the past have been not only in-
adequately financed, that's being beefed
up, but also when the financing was avail-
able, it quite often went to the rapidly
growing new areas of the country. It went
to the suburbs where the more affluent
citizens live, where they are better orga-
nized, more articulate, and where they
understand the Federal laws best, and the
central city areas where the needs are
greatest were deprived. Well, we're try-
ing to change that in a generic sense. I
just use that as one example.
But I think in the overall thrust of our
programs concerning energy, transporta-
tion, welfare reform, tax reform, housing,
education, that you will see a constant
pattern to try to rebuild the strength of
the cities. When I mentioned a few min-
utes ago the retirement problem, this has
been one of the questions in New York
City, in Philadelphia, and other places
where inadequate long-range projections
of cost are proving to be sometimes an al-
most financial catastrophe. Now some
cities have taxed themselves heavily to
maintain the integrity of a retirement
fund. Others have simply approved the
very liberal retirement benefits and
haven't funded it at all.
And so we are having to deal with this
to the extent that the law prescribes, from
the Federal point of view. But I think in a
generic and an adequate sense, the goals
that we've established on the budget
being balanced under normal, healthy,
economic circumstances is completely
compatible with redressing some of the
long, unmet needs of the downtown urban
areas.
I want to say in closing that I thank
you for coming by to see us. We can't give
you a complete understanding of the Fed-
eral Government in one day and neither
have they been able to give me a complete
understanding of the Federal Govern-
ment in 5 months. [Laughter] But I'm
learning and so are you. But I think that
this program that we've established to let
you come in and meet with some of our
people and cross-examine us and learn is
very healthy for us, because your questions
are very instructive to me. And we're
always eager to let your readers and your
viewers, your listeners, know how we are
running your Government.
Thank you again.
Q. Thank you.
The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on June 11.
1096
