Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Department of Commerce
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 9, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say to
Dr. Taylor¹ that as a farmer, as an engi-
neer, as a scientist, I am not familiar with
the protocol either, but it has been a very
pleasant exchange between me and him.
There are some new things that are oc-
curring in our country, some that relate
directly to your Department. I don't know
how many former Presidents have come
over here to visit, but I doubt that you
have ever seen a President kiss a Secretary
of Commerce before. [Laughter]
As you know, I had literally tens of
thousands of people in this country who
were willing to serve as Secretary of this
great Department. One of the major re-
sponsibilities on my shoulders after the
election in November was to choose the
best Cabinet members I could find. I
wanted people with superb professional
qualifications. I wanted those who could
bridge the gap that quite often exists be-
tween government and people.
I wanted someone who could under-
stand the complexities of the enormous
bureaucratic entities that comprise the de-
partments like your own. I wanted some-
one with sensitivity, someone with intelli-
gence, someone with a vision of what our
Nation is, and more importantly, what it
can be; and someone who was compatible
with me.
I made the right choice in the Secre-
tary of Commerce, and I am very proud
that you have a leader who meets all these
qualifications.
Juanita Kreps is someone who can
bring to you, I think, a renewed oppor-
1 John Taylor, a Commerce Department em-
ployee for 48 years, introduced the President.
tunity to take your own valuable lives, the
tremendous talent and ability and experi-
ence and training that
you
have individu-
ally, and to use those talents with the
maximum degree of service to our people.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Your Department is so important. I
know many of you see the function of your
Department perhaps as Dr. Taylor men-
tioned from the viewpoint of a single en-
tity responsible for our Nation's standards,
the collection of data, the analysis of in-
formation about employment opportuni-
ties, the protection of the quality of our
environment, the concern about the
oceans, the development of our cities, the
problem of assessing long-range projec-
tions on weather, and the development of
an adequate maritime structure.
So many things are in your hands, and
I know you always feel the importance of
your service to the greatest government on
Earth.
We have a long way to go, however. In
the aftermath of the recent years, with an
unfortunate war in Vietnam and with the
revelations about the CIA violating the
law and with the Watergate revelations,
there have been evolved in the hearts and
minds of American people an alienation
from government and sometimes a dis-
trust of government and a lack of appre-
ciation of the constant, dedicated, some-
times sacrificial service that
you exhibit.
I want to do what I can as an embry-
onic President, who has never served in
Washington before, to strengthen the ties
that exist between people who don't serve
in government and you and me.
We are absolute equal partners in shar-
ing that responsibility. It is just as much
a part of life as it is mine. And when
your
I stand before the television cameras or
when I travel around this country or when
I answer questions for the news media, in
110
