Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 7
Everything our people stand for, every-
thing we believe in derives from the Bib-
lical definition of what is right and good.
In the words of Solomon in the Book of
Proverbs, "Righteousness exalts a nation."
It has been the moral standing of
America that induces help among mil-
lions longing for a better, a more decent,
and a more peaceful world. It is the
understanding and support which Amer-
ica has throughout displayed for the se-
curity and welfare of my own nation that
moves me now to express to you and
through you to the American people our
deepest gratitude.
Mr. President, I come knowing that
our aspirations and goals are one. It is
in this spirit that I look forward to our
forthcoming talks, and it is in this very
same spirit that I bring to you from
Jerusalem our sincere greetings of shalom.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Department of Agriculture
Nomination of Carol Tucker Foreman
To Be an Assistant Secretary. March 7, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Carol Tucker Foreman
to be an Assistant Secretary of Agricul-
ture (Food and Consumer Services). Ms.
Foreman is executive director of the Con-
sumer Federation of America.
She was born May 3, 1938, in Little
Rock, Ark. She received an A.B. degree
from Washington University in St. Louis
in 1960 and has done graduate work at
American University in Washington.
In 1961 Ms. Foreman worked as a re-
rearch assistant for the Permanent In-
vestigations Subcommittee of the U.S.
Senate Government Operations Commit-
tee. From 1961 to 1963, she was an asso-
ciate in Federal Counsel Associates and
represented the Metals Committee of the
New York Commodity Exchange.
Ms. Foreman taught American gov-
ernment and U.S. history at William
Woods College in Fulton, Mo., in 1963-
64. In 1965 she worked as a writer-
researcher for National Educational
Television.
From 1965 to 1966, she was director
of research and publications for the Dem-
ocratic National Committee and editor
of "The Democrat." She served as a con-
gressional liaison aide for the Department
of Housing and Urban Development
from 1966 to 1969.
Ms. Foreman was chief of information
liaison for the Center for Family Planning
Program Development of Planned Par-
enthood-World Population from 1969 to
1971. From 1971 to 1972, she was di-
rector of policy coordination for the
Commission on Population Growth and
the American Future.
From 1972 to 1973, she was executive
director of the Citizens' Committee on
Population and the American Future, a
privately funded project to disseminate
the findings and recommendations of the
Commission on Population Growth and
the American Future.
Since 1973 she has been executive di-
rector of the Consumer Federation of
America and of the Paul Douglas Con-
sumer Research Center, which is the edu-
cation and research arm of the Consumer
Federation of America.
She is a member of Women's Equity
Action League and past president of its
National Capital chapter. She was a
member of the District of Columbia
Commission on the Status of Women in
1973-74.
331
