Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to believe that that had to be guaranteed
in advance in an agreement. Is that a
view to which you subscribe, and could
you explain why or why not?
THE PRESIDENT. I know Mr. Warnke
very well. I've met with him several times
to discuss his attitude on disarmanent
matters. I have complete confidence in
him. The first two times I asked him to
take the job, he turned me down. We
tried to find an alternative who is as well
qualified as he is to express my own views
and those views that would be acceptable
to our country. I was unsuccessful in find-
ing someone to equal him. He finally
agreed to take the job, at my insistence, as
a public service. I believe that his views
are well considered by me. And I've ac-
cepted them. I think when the Members
of the Senate consider what Mr. Warnke
stands for, he will be approved over-
whelmingly.
I obviously believe that we both have
to take initiatives, the Soviet Union and
the United States. Most of our discussions
will be bilateral in nature. Subsequently,
I hope to bring in other nations to dis-
cuss, for instance, comprehensive test ban
questions, and others, the European na-
tions who are nuclear powers and also the
Chinese. That would come later.
But I believe that Mr. Warnke's pro-
posals are sound. And I have no concern
about his attitude. There will be instances
on nuclear weapons where each country
has to take some initiative. But the overall
balance of mutual restraint, cutting down
on the overall dependence on nuclear
weapons is what counts.
And I might add one other point. Mr.
Warnke's positions will be carefully coor-
dinated with my own, working closely
with State Department, Defense Depart-
ment officials. Our decisions with the So-
viets will be made public. We will consult
with our allies whenever possible. Any
ratification of an agreement with the So-
viet Union would obviously require sena-
torial approval. So, even if I or Mr.
Warnke or one other person in the nego-
tiation process should make a mistake, in-
advertently, that mistake would be closely
scrutinized by the public and, I think,
would be corrected. But I have complete
confidence in him.
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR PUBLIC
OFFICIALS
Q. Mr. President, have you plugged all
the holes so there won't be another
Watergate or an executive branch scan-
dal, or do you intend to do something
more to raise the standard of conduct?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that all
of the country has learned a great lesson
from Watergate: to have a maximum
amount of openness; to have much strict-
er standards of conduct required by pub-
lic officials, those appointed and those
elected; to scrutinize very closely the ap-
pointment procedure so that if someone
does have a concealed conflict of interest
financially, it might be revealed.
And I think the new election laws have
brought us through the 1976 Presidential
elections and others with a minimum of
obligation on my part to anyone. I was
elected not ever having promised anyone
to be appointed to a major position.
And I think that all of these concerns
that were so vivid during the Watergate
months have now been pretty well ratified
in the people's minds. And, therefore, I
believe that we won't have any danger of
a recurrence of Watergate.
I know I will be cautious as President
to avoid any legitimate semblance of dis-
honesty or concealing information the
public has a right to know. I know the
Congress and others will be watching me
closely, which I welcome.
94
