May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cause of the actual threat to peace, the
fact that war might begin. But I was
pleased.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, is there any chance
to have the PLO office in Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know.
Public Works Employment
and Economic Stimulus
Appropriations Bills
Remarks on Signing H.R. 11 and H.R. 4876
Into Law. May 13, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very pleased this
morning to be able to sign two very im-
portant pieces of legislation which I think
demonstrate, in a vivid way, the close co-
operation that has evolved between the
White House and the Congress and be-
tween the Federal Government and the
local and State government officials.
The Labor Department has estimated that
300,000 jobs will be provided with this
money in the construction industry alone,
and at least another 300,000 in related
industries concerned with construction.
A good part about it is that this pro-
gram will be administered at the local and
State levels of government, and also that
it is not a make-work type job opportu-
nity. The jobs will be in the private sec-
tor. I think perhaps the Congress has been
a little too strict on requiring that public
employees can't participate and perhaps a
little too much of an intrusion in the re-
quirements on local and State govern-
ments. But these will be private jobs, and
I think this is a very good and proper
thing to do.
pro-
The allocation of funding is on a basis
of the number of jobs that need to be
vided: the unemployment total figures, 65
percent, and 35 percent on a percentage
of unemployment, so that every State gets
at least $30 million; the maximum that
One of the most important needs that any State can get is $500 million.
we had when I became President was to
assure that we begin to reduce the unem-
ployment rate, which at that time was, I
believe, 8.1 percent, and to start our na-
tional economy toward a normal growth
in prosperity.
These two bills that have now been
passed by Congress are a major move in
the right direction. Our Secretary of Com-
merce, Juanita Kreps, has shown a deep
interest in this legislation, will administer
it well and, I think, has formed a close
interrelationship with the congressional
committees involved that will stand us in
good stead in the future.
House Resolution 11 is a public works
bill. It provides $4 billion in immediate
funding for State and local governments
to proceed with projects that will be very
beneficial to the people of our country.
Two percent of the money is set aside
for Indians and Alaskan natives, and 10
percent of the total funds have to be spent
through minority businesses. These are
very good aspects of this legislation.
And I would like to sign now House
Resolution 11, and then following that
sign another appropriation bill which will
make possible even further progress in eco-
nomic development.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 11
into law.]
I want to thank the Congress for mak-
ing it possible for me to do this.
I might point out that already we've
had a very good move toward the goals
that we established. The unemployment
rate has dropped by a full 1 percent in
this first few months—not because of me,
not because of the Congress, not because
870
