Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
and once you get to the production plants
like I've just described, then you really are
searching for, little bit more efficient ways
to perform the extraction of fresh water.
I'm going to leave here in just a few
minutes and go to the Fresno area to visit
some farmland to see how seriously the
water level has dropped because of your
long-standing drought, and to see what
prospects might be existing next year un-
less you get some rain in some parts of
California.
We will continue the research and de-
velopment program and desalinization
plants. But I think the easiest and the best
and most fruitful and inexpensive thing
to do about fresh water is to have a strong
conservation program and quit wasting it.
We now have seen, for instance, in
Marin County, north of San Francisco,
that when they really tried, they cut back
on the use of fresh water more than 50
percent. Los Angeles has now set a goal
to cut back on fresh water use by about
10 percent. The mayor told me this morn-
ing that he could very easily go to 25
percent. But I think rather than spend an
awful lot of money going to very expen-
sive desalinization plants, the first step
ought to be to go to very strong conser-
vation efforts, and not waste the fresh
water that we have.
Did you have a followup question,
Linus?
Q. Well, in other words, you're saying
that we're not going to go thirsty, but we
probably will lose some crops this
summer?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it'd be a very
difficult thing to plan on water derived
from desalinization plants to irrigate
crops. It's so extremely expensive and it
takes such a large amount of energy.
So, to make water for drinking pur-
poses in cases of extreme drought, desali-
nization is probably effective because it's
such a precious way to use water. But to
produce water from sea water to irrigate
crops, I don't believe that you or I will
ever see it in our lifetime economically
feasible. It'd just be entirely too expensive.
One more question, and then I have to
go to Fresno. Yes?
Q. My name is Doug Patton. I am an
industrial designer at Cal State, Long
Beach. My question is, in view of your out-
look and stance on human rights, and in
view of the fact that in the past the U.S.
has often supported South Africa in the
United Nations, can you tell me if we will
continue to support our interest in South
Africa by offering support in the U.N. or
not?
SOUTH AFRICA
THE PRESIDENT. We're trying as best
we can to make changes in South Africa.
We have just formed, under the leader-
ship of Andrew Young, who's our Am-
bassador to the U.N., a five-nation pro-
posal to Prime Minister Vorster from
South Africa, to try to get them to with-
draw the white domination of Namibia,
which was formerly a German colony of
southwest Africa.
Vice President Mondale has just fin-
ished a visit to Portugal and Spain. He's
going to Yugoslavia and then he is going
to come back to Vienna. Prime Minister
Vorster from South Africa is coming to
Vienna to meet him to talk about the shift
in South Africa away from the racially
discriminatory practices known as apar-
theid. We're doing the best we can to
bring about these changes.
There have been 25 or 30 nations in
the last couple of months that have let it
be known to us that they've taken good
steps toward preserving human rights. I
believe it's accurate to say that there's
hardly a government in the world right
now that's not trying to do a better job
on human rights, partially because we've
made such an issue of it.
913
