Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 27
tonium except for gram quantities for
research and analytical uses;
-avoid new commitments to export
significant quantities of highly en-
riched uranium (HEU) except when
the project is of exceptional merit and
the use of low enriched fuel or some
other less weapons usable material is
clearly shown to be technically in-
feasible;
-require direct Presidential approval
for any supply of HEU greater than
15 kilograms (the approximate
amount needed for a bomb);
-undertake efforts to identify projects
and facilities which might be con-
verted to the use of LEU instead of
HEU;
-take steps to minimize inventories of
weapons usable uranium abroad.
2. The bill defines the immediate nu-
clear export conditions which we can
reasonably expect other nations to meet
while we negotiate stricter agreements for
cooperation. These conditions include:
-A requirement for International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safe-
guards on all exported items and on
any other plutonium or enriched
uranium that might be used in the
exported facility or produced through
its use.
-A requirement that no U.S. export
be used for research or production of
any nuclear explosive device.
-A requirement that no U.S. export be
retransferred by a recipient nation to
any other nation without the prior
approval of the United States.
-A requirement that no fuel exported
from the United States be reproc-
essed without the prior approval of
the United States.
These criteria differ from proposals cur-
rently before Congress which include cri-
teria that could force an immediate
moratorium on U.S. nuclear exports. Such
a moratorium would seriously damage
U.S. relations with certain allies whose
cooperation is essential if we are to achieve
our non-proliferation objectives.
3. The bill defines additional nuclear
export conditions which will be required
in new agreements for cooperation. These
include:
-A requirement, in the case of non-
nuclear weapons states, that IAEA
safeguards cover all nuclear materials
and equipment regardless of whether
these have been supplied by the
United States. Fulfillment of this re-
quirement will be a condition of
continuing U.S. nuclear supply.
The President has also directed that
this requirement be viewed only as an
interim measure, and that the United
States' first preference, and continuing
objective, is universal adherence to the
Non-Proliferation Treaty.
-The stipulation that United States
cooperation under the agreement shall
cease if the recipient detonates a nuclear
device or materially violates IAEA safe-
guards or any guarantee it has given un-
der the agreement.
-A requirement for IAEA safeguards
on all U.S.-supplied material and equip-
ment for indefinite duration, whether or
not the Agreement for Cooperation re-
mains in force.
-The U.S. right of approval on re-
transfers extended to all special nuclear
material produced through the use of
U.S. equipment.
-The U.S. right of approval on re-
processing extended to all special nuclear
material produced through use of U.S.
equipment.
4. For the near future, the bill proposes
to tighten the conditions for U.S. nuclear
cooperation through the renegotiation of
existing agreements to meet the same
standards as those we will require for new
agreements (as specified in 3 above).
731
