Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
REDWOOD NATIONAL PARK
Congress created Redwood National
Park in 1968 to protect a magnificent
stand of the world's tallest trees. Subse-
quently, however, logging and roadbuild-
ing on adjacent private land have created
severe erosion problems in the Redwood
Creek Watershed. My Administration has
proposed to the Congress that 48,000
carefully chosen acres be added to the
Park, allowing us to protect existing park-
lands and to add to the Park additional
stands of redwoods. This proposal would
also provide for rehabilitation of the Red-
wood Creek Watershed.
Recognizing that further expansion of
the Park might adversely affect the econo-
mies of nearby communities, I have di-
rected the Secretaries of Commerce and
Labor to develop a joint program to
cushion the effects of temporary unem-
ployment in the Redwood National Park
area.
VI. THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
Environmental problems do not stop at
national boundaries. In the past decade
we and other nations have come to recog-
nize the urgency of international efforts to
protect our common environment.
As part of this process, I am directing
the Council on Environmental Quality
and the Department of State, working in
cooperation with the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, the National Science
Foundation, the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, and other
appropriate agencies, to make a one-year
study of the probable changes in the
world's population, natural resources, and
environment through the end of the cen-
tury. This study will serve as the founda-
tion of our longer-term planning. I am
also asking the Council on Environmen-
tal Quality, with the cooperation of the
Department of State, to ensure that we
achieve the best possible coordination of
the international environmental programs
within the Executive Branch.
WORLD POPULATION
Rapid population growth is a major
environmental problem of world dimen-
sions. World population increased from
three to four billion in the last 15 years,
substantially cancelling out expansion in
world food production and economic
growth of the same period.
Without controlling the growth of pop-
ulation, the prospects for enough food,
shelter, and other basic needs for all the
world's people are dim. Where existence
is already poor and precarious, efforts to
obtain the necessities of life often degrade
the environment for generations to come.
It is, of course, up to each nation to
determine its own policies, but we are pre-
pared to respond promptly and fully to
all requests for assistance in population
and health care programs. At my direc-
tion, the Department of State and the
Agency for International Development
stand ready to cooperate through inter-
national organizations, through private
voluntary organizations, or through direct
contacts with other governments.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
Whether to try to prevent or undo en-
vironmental damage is a decision each
country must make for itself. But I am
convinced that in the long run, develop-
ment programs that are environmentally
sound will yield the most economic bene-
fits. To encourage the adoption of such
programs, I have taken these steps:
(1) I have instructed the Secretary of
State, the Administrator of AID, and
other concerned federal agencies to en-
sure full consideration of the environ-
mental soundness of development projects
under review for possible assistance.
983
