Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 4
Conference on Food, Nutrition, and
Health.
She has received a National Award
from the American Cancer Society for her
cancer prevention work among Mexican
American women in Arizona, and an
award from the Mexican Chamber of
Commerce of Phoenix for her contribu-
tions to the total improvement of Mexi-
can Americans in Arizona. She received
an honorary doctorate in humane letters
from Amherst College in 1973.
Department of the Interior
Appointment of R. Keith Higginson as
Commissioner of Reclamation. April 4, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of R. Keith Higginson of
Boise, Idaho, to be Commissioner of
Reclamation. Higginson is director of the
Department of Water Resources of the
State of Idaho.
He was born in Boise on May 20, 1930,
and received a B.S. degree in civil engi-
neering from Utah State University in
1957.
From 1957 to 1965, Higginson was an
engineer on water rights in the State engi-
neer's office of the State of Utah.
He has been director of the Idaho de-
partment of water resources since 1965,
and also serves as a member of the EPA
Science Advisory Board, the Bear River
Compact Commission, the Columbia
Compact Commission, and the Pacific
Northwest River Basins Commission.
He is responsible for all State programs
of water resources and rights administra-
tion, dam safety, well construction, geo-
thermal resources, stream channel protec-
tion, water resources planning, project
construction, and data collection.
Special Assistant to the President
for Consumer Affairs
Appointment of Esther Peterson.
April 4, 1977
The President today announced the
appointment of Esther Peterson as Special
Assistant to the President for Consumer
Affairs. Ms. Peterson is currently vice
president of consumer programs and con-
sumer adviser to the president of Giant
Food Co. in Washington, D.C.
As Special Assistant to the President
for Consumer Affairs, she will serve as a
consumer spokesperson and advocate on
the President's personal staff and ad-
vise the President on consumer-related
matters.
She was born in Provo, Utah, on De-
cember 9, 1906. She received an A.B. de-
gree from Brigham Young University in
1927 and an M.A. from Teachers College,
Columbia University, in 1930.
She taught at Branch Agricultural Col-
lege in Cedar City, Utah, and at Winsor
School in Boston. She also taught at Bryn
Mawr Summer School for Women Work-
ers in Industry from 1932 to 1939.
Peterson was assistant director of edu-
cation of the Amalgamated Clothing
Workers of America from 1939 to 1944
and served as their legislative representa-
tive in Washington from 1945 to 1948.
She and her family lived overseas from
1948 to 1957, while her husband served as
labor attaché in Sweden and Belgium.
In 1957 Peterson became legislative
representative of the Industrial Union
Department of the AFL-CIO. She con-
tinued in this post until 1961, when she
was appointed Director of the Women's
Bureau in the Department of Labor by
President John F. Kennedy. In August of
that year, she became Assistant Secretary
565
