Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
me and with Cecil Andrus as we make
decisions for which you are directly
responsible.
I don't claim to know all the answers.
I have been on the job still not quite a
month. I've got a lot to learn. I want tc
do a good job, and I think the degree to
which I am successful will depend upon
you and your attitude about your oppor-
tunity for service to our country.
I am grateful to be President, but I am
no better than any one of you, and I feel
such an intense sense of partnership. I
need your advice and your counsel and
your criticisms, and I need for you always
to feel that by the avenue from you to
me is not one that is blocked by bureau-
cratic structure. It is time for change. I
want to be sure that our Government is
more economical and efficient, better or-
ganized, better administered, more com-
petent. At the same time, I want to make
sure that our Government is closer to the
I want to be sure that we elevate sub-
stantially the status of concern of Ameri-
can Indians. And I believe that we ought
to have the status in the bureaucracy in
our Nation at least at the Assistant Secre-
tary level. And I believe that this is a
change that can very well be made.
I want to be sure that in the future our
National Park System doesn't suffer any
more from a lack of maintenance and up-
keep and proper allocation of funds, and
also from a proper allocation of personnel
services. And we have been working very
closely, Cecil Andrus and I, with Ray
Marshall and others to make sure, as we
consummate the economic stimulus pack-
age, that additional work opportunities
might be granted within the National Park
System. We are just exploring the broad
reaches of Alaska, where the most beauti-
ful scenery on Earth exists. We want to
make sure that it is never destroyed, but
we also want to make sure that the Amer-
people and more sensitive to their needs; ican people have a chance to enjoy it.
that we can correct a sense of fear or de-
spair or alienation or disappointment or
prejudice or hatred, and substitute for
those characteristics the national inclina-
tion of the people of this country.
We have been through hard times in
the last number of years both economi-
cally and politically. Most of the mistakes
that have been made were not made by
you, and they were not made by the vast
majority of the American people. But we
who serve in Government, no matter if we
have been here a month or 40 years, no
matter if we are a brand new filing clerk
or President of the United States, we are,
to the people of our country, the Govern-
ment. And to the extent that we serve
them well, our people will be proud of
their own Nation as exemplified by the
Government. To the extent that we fail,
we create a very devastating chasm be-
tween people in a democracy and the gov-
ernment that should be of the people.
I think we will see in the next few weeks
a strip mining bill passed finally. We know
that we need to protect the mountainsides
of Appalachia and the West as we mine
for coal, but the hard-rock mining is also
a great problem. And I don't want to see
America's beauty destroyed in compliance
with the hope for additional profits from
those who in the past have not been ade-
quately sensitive to our needs.
I want to be sure also that this Depart-
ment, which has such a complete knowl-
edge, is intimately involved in the evolu-
tion of a national energy policy. We are
the only developed nation in the world
that doesn't have a long-range policy on
the utilization and preservation of energy
resources, and by April 20 we hope to
come out with a comprehensive proposal
for the first time. And obviously this, at
the present time, is the most important
agency of all in that respect.
198
