Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and with the leaders of Congress to come
up not too long afterwards with a com-
prehensive legislative package. So, wel-
fare reform is something that's important
to us.
The income tax structure must be re-
vised and made fair and simple. We need
to reduce the intrusion of government
into our lives when it's not necessary and
to eliminate the longstanding require-
ments on regulations, guidelines, bureau-
cratic decisions, unnecessary reports that
prevent an efficient functioning of our
economic system.
If there's one thing I am determined to
do in addition, it's to restore a well-de-
served reputation within the Democratic
Party for fiscal responsibility. For too long
we've been stigmatized with a reputation
of inadequate planning, irresponsible
spending, uncontrolled growth because of
a lack of commitment and an absence of
communication and consultation between
employees and employers, between pro-
ducers and consumers, and between the
private sector and government.
These matters must be addressed, and
it's a very difficult undertaking. And
that's why it's absolutely crucial to me to
have you leaders in the business and pro-
fessional world of our country to be con-
stant partners with me. We have a lot to
learn, both in the executive branch of
Government and within the Congress.
And I think the new resurgence of sup-
port and trust in the Democratic Party
gives you now a chance to let your own
voice be heard in a much more clear and
effective way.
We are trying to deal also with some of
the very crucial problems in foreign
affairs, working with the Soviet Union as
best we can to bring about a limit and
then a drastic reduction in the future in
dependence on atomic weapons. We are
trying to prevent the spread of explosive
capability in nuclear power to countries
where it doesn't presently exist.
We believe that atomic power is an
integral part of our energy picture in the
future to produce electricity. But we are
trying to make sure that this does not
degenerate into the capability for explo-
sives among nations that need the power
but don't need atomic bombs. These kinds
of things are important to us all.
There are many trouble spots around
the world—in the Far Pacific, in the
Middle East, in southern Africa. And we
are trying to address those in a very effec-
tive and, I hope, well-constructed way.
I've been criticized to some degree by
being too open in explaining to the public
the options that we have, the goals that
we've set for ourselves so that the Ameri-
can people might be part of the debate. I
feel much more sure of myself as I make
a decision concerning SALT negotia-
tions or non-proliferation or international
trade, with Bob Strauss' help, or a pos-
sible settlement in the Middle East-and
I am determined to do the best we can to
bring that about this year-or dealing
with the war-threatened region of south-
ern Africa, if the American people know
what we are trying to do.
And I believe that many political fig-
ures and I believe that many news media
figures underestimate the competence and
intelligence and the sound judgment of
the American people. And when we've
failed in the past number of years and
made serious mistakes in foreign policy,
as I have said many times during my own
campaign, it's been because the American
people have been excluded from the
process
and you lose that basis of sound
judgment that's very important to a rela-
tively isolated political figure in the White
House or in the Congress or in the State
Department. And I want the American
people to be part of the process from now
736
