Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
ten and me trying to change you. I would
hope that those who are expert in the field
would provide the answers to the difficult
questions that I am not prepared to an-
swer now.
Maybe one more question. Yes, sir?
FEDERAL-STATE RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, what are your views
about the role to be played by the States
in carrying out the functions of this De-
partment?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what
are my views about the role to be played
by the States in carrying out the functions
of this Department-I guess, in almost
every aspect of its work?
My own inclination is to shift as much
responsibility as possible to the States and
local governments, but to provide con-
formity and continuity and direction from
the Federal Government. Now, this is
something that can be done and on a
shared basis.
I am going to work very closely with all
the Governors of our Nation. Later on this
month, Ray Marshall and I will be meet-
ing with all 50 Governors, and we will seek
advice from the Governors about what
role they would like to play. If we consider
it to be feasible within the bounds of
equity and fairness and uniformity, we will
work to make sure they can carry out these
roles. But I would reserve the right to
make that decision as President, and of
course, we will have to work closely with
the Congress.
So, as a general rule, what the local and
State governments can do effectively, I
am prepared to let them do it. Ray Mar-
shall and I and the Congress will make
the ultimate decisions, but we will seek ad-
vice from the Governors as to how to pro-
ceed. This month will be our first meeting
with all 50 Governors, I think on the 28th
day of February.
Let me say in closing that I don't claim
to know all the answers. I have only been
on this job less than 3 weeks. I have got a
lot to learn. And I consider that you and
I, no matter if you have just been here 3
weeks or 30 years, are partners. You are
just as important for the proper function-
ing of our Government and the attitude of
our people toward our Nation's Govern-
ment as I am. And I hope that you would
feel that I am sincere in this statement.
I mean what I say. And if there is a
special problem
special problem that you have, I hope that
you will let those problems be felt. Ray
Marshall is a man in whom I have com-
plete confidence. I believe that the main
reason that I chose him above many other
people who were available for the job was
because of his intimate knowledge of the
special attitudes and problems of working
people of the Nation, both those who are
employed and those who are unemployed.
I would consider it a major test of his
ability, how well he is able to serve the
needs of those, like yourselves, who work
directly under him. And if he can't extract
from you an optimum amount of con-
tribution, compatible with your ability and
talent, then he and I both will have failed.
So, we are eager to hear from you, and
all the changes that might be in concept
form for the next few months will be de-
rived primarily from you. Be aggressive
about it. Be innovative about it. Preserve
what is right and fair and that works, and
I think you will find that working condi-
tions will be good and that you and I
both can do a good job, maybe make the
people of this country proud for a change.
Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:42 p.m. in the
auditorium at the Department of Labor.
109
