Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
of so much admiration among his class-
mates that there was not a competitive
feeling nor was there one of jealousy. He
was superb.
Later, he tried for a Rhodes Scholar-
ship. So did I. He was selected by the
committee; I was not. [Laughter] I might
say, the committee made the right
decision.
Not too long ago I was faced with the
responsibility of choosing a new Director
for a community that has been investi-
gated and perhaps damaged by revela-
tion of past mistakes; a community that
inherently is divided but which shares a
common responsibility and a common
purpose; a community that must face the
most difficult possible conflicts between
openness and frankness and public scru-
tiny inherent in the principles of a democ-
racy, with the mandatory requirements
for confidentiality in the collection of cru-
cial intelligence information in relation-
ship with our allies and friends through-
out the world.
I was faced with the responsibility of
choosing someone who could deal with
these complications. And when I decided
to ask Stan Turner to be the Director of
Central Intelligence, I did it with a sense
of relief, a sense of sure judgment, and a
sense of confidence.
I believe that in the coming months
there can be some basic and necessary
changes, most of which have been pointed
out to me by the highly professional men
and women who serve in the intelligence
community in the most enlightened and
proper and dedicated way. There must be
a closer relationship between the custo-
mers, like the President of the United
States and the Secretary of Defense and
the Secretary of State and the Congress,
who receive analyses of intelligence in-
formation on the one hand, and those
who search out the details in thousands
of places around the globe, to put to-
gether advice on which the very existence
of our country must depend.
So, I would like to see in the future the
establishment of priorities and tasks to be
described much more clearly by the cus-
tomers, those of us who must have accu-
rate information and the right kind of
information.
I will do all I can, working with past
Directors, who are here, and the Secre-
tary of Defense, who is here, and the At-
torney General, who is here, and other
leaders, who are here, to let the American
people have an accurate assessment and
the deepest possible commitment that
every action of the intelligence commu-
nity now and in the future will be legal
and proper.
I've just met with some of the leaders
of all of the seven or eight or nine agen-
cies that are involved in this collective
effort. And I've told them that as Presi-
dent I know that I am going to make
mistakes. I know that within the broad
and sprawling and sometimes confused
entity that must be an intelligence com-
munity that mistakes are going to be
made. But when they are made, when
any impropriety or illegality does occur,
I want to know about it immediately be-
cause a concealment of a mistake and its
subsequent revelation will be a devastat-
ing additional blow that is not necessary
to the esteem and integrity that all of you
so richly deserve.
I have got a lot to learn as a new Presi-
dent, and we must reassess constantly the
kind of information that is derived and
how it is presented to me and the proper
placement of priorities in the assignment
of personnel and financial effort in differ-
ent parts of the world.
There must be a constant and a clear
delineation of responsibility between the
351
