Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
economically strong might provide some
stimulus for the rest of the free world
economy.
There is an element of trade which is of
concern. The OPEC nations have a posi-
tive trade balance of about $40 billion.
All the other nations in the world who are
their trading partners have to have a defi-
cit of about $40 billion. To the extent that
the strong nations like ourselves, Japan,
Germany, and others, can absorb part of
that deficit, it takes that requirement away
from the much weaker nations who have
to share it with us.
So, to that extent, I am willing for our
country to experience some controllable
international trade deficits for a while.
And we have cut our own national budget
deficit down from about $65 billion to
$47 billion or $48 billion this year. Next
year it is going to go up some.
But I think that it is a matter of each
nation deciding on its own what is best for
its citizens but, at the same time, recogniz-
ing that when we are selfish and try to
have large trade surpluses and a very tight
restraint on the international economy,
that we make the weaker nations suffer
too much.
ECONOMIC SUMMIT MEETING
MR. SIEBERT. Mr. President, are you
carrying major proposals to London, and
what kind?
THE PRESIDENT. I think those specific
agenda items would best be reserved until
we get there. You are perfectly at liberty
to talk to the people in the offices of the
Secretary of State and the Secretary of the
Treasury. But as far as my own comments
as President, I think I would rather wait
until later to talk about that.
NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION
MR. EMERY. Can I bring you back to
energy? We are very struck by the fact
that at the same time as you can mention
an item like "unselfishness" on American
commitments to help allies with their pe-
troleum deficiencies in times of crisis,
through this conference in Paris, at the
same time energy always seems to be the
biggest source of discontent and discord
between us. Look at the results of the
Middle East war and the energy crisis
that followed.
Now, your own nuclear energy policy,
which, while many leaders give lip service
to, they seem to be in some concern over,
namely, your ban on plutonium and what
you intend to do in terms of international
policy.
So, my question really is, how can we
stay united and be so disunited assuming,
if I am correct, that Germany and France
go ahead with their nuclear deals?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you would
have to go back, to save time, and read
the minutes of my press conference when
I described our own reprocessing policy.
I made it clear that I was not trying to tell
Germany and France, Great Britain, Ja-
pan, what to do within their own coun-
tries. We have actually built and attempt-
ed to operate two reprocessing plants
unsuccessfully.
We are blessed with moderate quanti-
ties of uranium ore and large quantities
of coal and reasonable quantities of natu-
ral gas and oil. I don't believe that within
the next 20 years we will need to move to
commercial use of the breeder reactor,
which is the initiation of the plutonium
society. I cannot speak for other countries.
I am very much aware that the waste
products from our own light water reac-
tors, using enriched uranium, are being
held intact. They are not being destroyed
or wasted. If we should need in the future,
they will be there.
The third point is that I am deeply
concerned if nations who presently do not
have the capability of building nuclear ex-
779
