Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 6
I am Walter Cronkite, CBS News.
NOTE: The program began at 2 p.m. It was
videotaped for television broadcast at 5 p.m.
on the same day on the Public Broadcasting
Service.
Earthquake in Romania
Letter to President Nicolae Ceausescu
of Romania. March 5, 1977
Dear Mr. President:
I was distressed to learn of the exten-
sive damage and suffering caused by
gation and other aspects of the civil rights
movement. She was elected a Democratic
national committeewoman from Missis-
sippi in 1968.
She is a member of the executive com-
mittee of the American Civil Liberties
Union and is president of the Southern
Regional Council. She is on the steering
committee for the National Prison Proj-
ect and is a member of the Center for
Community Justice. She now resides in
Virginia.
yesterday's earthquake in Romania. My Children's Hospital National
family and I, and the American people,
share your nation's shock and sorrow.
The United States stands ready to extend
emergency assistance to ease the suffering
of those who were injured or made home-
less by this tragic event.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
Department of State
Nomination of Patricia M. Derian
To Be Coordinator for Human Rights
and Humanitarian Affairs. March 5, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Patricia M. Derian to
be Coordinator for Human Rights and
Humanitarian Affiairs in the Department
of State. Ms. Derian was a deputy direc-
tor of the Carter-Mondale campaign and
worked on the Carter-Mondale transition
team with the HEW policy planning
group.
She was born in New York and grew
up in Virginia. She is a 1952 graduate of
the University of Virginia School of
Nursing. During the 1960's Ms. Derian
worked in Mississippi on school desegre-
Medical Center
Remarks at the Dedication Ceremony.
March 6, 1977
I think it's very significant to point out
that several Presidents and several differ-
ent Congresses, that many private con-
tributors have been involved in the evo-
lution of this tremendous new health care
center. I'm proud of it.
It has been a subject of some criticism
because of its cost. But I think we have to
remember that this is the center of our
government, and that what does occur
here in 1977 and in the year 2000 can
very well set a standard of care and love
for children that will permeate the con-
sciousness of doctors and nurses and par-
ents, teachers and social workers through-
our country and, perhaps, even
throughout the world.
I grew up in a home in a rural area of
Georgia, but my mother was a registered
nurse. And I and the other children in
that country community had good health
care, not just from her but because there
was a heavy emphasis on the prevention
of disease, on inoculations, and on a con-
stant relationship with a large number of
medical doctors who lived there then.
327
