Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
Dr. Schlesinger give me guidance on
when-one of which, obviously, is the dif-
ferent rate structure for the sale of electric
power, to encourage homeowners and in-
dustrial users, as well, to use a minimum
amount of electric power to meet their
own needs, and also to use that power
when you don't have peak loads that do
cost the power companies extra money.
I think our biggest challenge is in the
conservation field. Perhaps Dr. Schles-
inger would like to comment on what we
can do in that area, and we'll move on
from there.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
MR. SCHLESINGER. Mr. President, on
gasoline at 39 cents a gallon but all at
once at 65 cents it's available." So, the
kind of information that has to emanate
from you has to be relayed to the public
so that the confidence that our citizenry
once had in the Chief Executive is
restored.
And I think that you can do it. I am
confident that you can do it. You've ex-
hibited that by your appearance in Clin-
ton last night, your appearance here to-
day. And I think if you continue to em-
phasize that in your public appearances,
the people will react to your leadership in
conserving energy.
But the reaction has to be because the
President says it's so, and we believe him,
not because the utility producers, Mr.
Mr. Kilpatrick's suggestion, indeed I Lloyd, or the oil and gas people say
think that the power companies that have
been investing in oil, in oil-fired plants,
probably have made a relatively short-
term investment, and I'm not sure it's a
wholly judicious one. We will be shifting,
as Mr. Lloyd suggests, to more and more
use of coal. By 1985, 1987, we should be
producing in this country 1 billion tons
or more if we are to meet our needs.
We will be looking at suggestions such
as the one that Mr. Kilpatrick has made
in terms of attempting to minimize the
impact on consumers of what are sub-
stantial shifts in the pattern of energy use.
MR. MCMANUS. Mr. President, before
you move away from conservation, I'd
like to emphasize the fact that I think
conservation is an important aspect of the
energy picture, but it is not by any stretch
of the imagination the total answer.
And in the conservation picture, I
think the Nation as a whole needs the
moral leadership of your office, and I'm
delighted that we're getting it, to answer
some of the critical comments that sur-
faced after the 1973 embargo. A lot of
the people in my community were ex-
pressing such things as, "I couldn't buy
we have a problem. Because in 1973 the
problem seemed to be answered by money.
And as the consumer advocate has just
told you, money is a scarce item to many,
many people in this Nation today, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank
you, Mr.
McManus.
I might add one point, and then I'd
like for Secretary Andrus to go into the
actual coal production possibilities.
There is no question that we're going
to have to save energy. There is no ques-
tion that we're going to have to shift
strongly toward increasing use of coal.
Those two things we know.
We had a meeting the other day with
most of the Cabinet members and their
families, as a matter of fact, and Dr.
Schlesinger gave us a historic picture of
the energy-use trends. And I pointed out
to the Cabinet that we now have above
a 70-percent favorable rating in the polls
for our job so far, but when we come out
with an energy policy on April 20, we'll
probably lose about 10 or 15 percent of
that.
But I'm willing to give up some of my
own personal popularity among the peo-
409
