Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
tection for low-income people from the
gradually increasing cost of energy, lies in
a reformed welfare system on which the
administration is at work.
-The remaining major problem is the
possibility that the Nation will experience
future supply disruptions, such as the
natural gas shortage last winter or another
oil embargo. Such events could cause
temporary, but sharp increases in the
cost of basic energy in some regions, or to
users of particular fuels. Such increases
are particularly harmful to low-income
people, who have little or no discretionary
income with which to meet energy price
rises. Present programs have deficiencies
in meeting these emergency needs. The
President has, therefore, directed the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
to complete work on a revised emergency
assistance program for prompt submission
to the Congress.
F. OIL AND NATURAL GAS
-Oil and natural gas account for
three-quarters of the Nation's energy
needs, yet constitute less than 8 percent of
current domestic energy reserves. These
fuels are priced domestically below their
marginal replacement costs; as a result,
the Nation uses them wastefully with little
regard to their true value.
-The Federal Government must pro-
vide for prices that provide adequate in-
centives for producers while preventing
industry from receiving windfall profits.
Price controls will protect consumers from
profiteering by producers, while taxes on
utility and industrial use of oil and gas
will encourage conservation and conver-
sion to coal. The residential sector is shel-
tered as the plan would keep natural gas
prices to residential users down and pro-
vide tax rebates for home oil use.
1. Oil pricing (legislative): The Presi-
dent is committed to the retention of do-
mestic oil price controls for the foresee-
able future to prevent windfall profits for
oil producers who would otherwise be able
to charge the OPEC-determined world
price of oil. The basic pricing mechanism
adopted by the Energy Policy and Con-
servation Act would be revised and ex-
tended to create a new long-range oil
pricing system which would:
-continue indefinitely the current
price ceilings of $5.25 and $11.28 per
barrel for previously discovered oil,
subject only to escalation at the gen-
eral rate of inflation;
-allow newly discovered oil to rise
over a 3-year period to the current
world price (adjusted for the rate of
inflation); thereafter, newly dis-
covered oil would continue to be
priced at the 1977 world price with
adjustments for any domestic in
creases in the general rate of infla-
tion;
-define newly discovered oil as oil
from a well drilled more than 22
miles from an existing onshore well
as of April 20, 1977, or more than
1,000 feet deeper than any well with-
in any 2½ mile radius. New oil off-
shore will be limited to oil from lands
leased after April 20, 1977;
—any price increases for any tier in ex-
cess of the increases in the general
rate of inflation recommended by the
executive branch would be subject to
congressional disapproval before be-
coming effective;
-incremental tertiary recovery from
old fields and stripper oil would be
free of price controls.
2. Oil taxes (legislative): All domestic
oil would become subject to a crude oil
equalization tax applied in three equal
stages beginning on January 1, 1978.
When fully phased in, the tax per barrel
would equal the difference between the
controlled domestic price and the world
680
