Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 3, 1977
Brunswick, Georgia
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at the
Brunswick Airport. May 26, 1977
REPORTER. What's the first thing you are
going to do now?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm going to put on
some blue jeans and some Keds and get
outdoors. We'll try to fish a little while.
Q. Do you suffer from claustrophobia?
THE PRESIDENT. On submarines? No,
just when I'm surrounded by news peo-
ple. [Laughter] Submarines don't bother
me.
Q. Is the Admiral¹ going to let the
press get on?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I left it
up to the Admiral and the commanding
officers. There is a great deal of top secret
material on a nuclear submarine. And
that was the problem, whether to try to
conceal it. But I would give a press brief-
ing when I get off.
I understand they have arranged for a
hovercraft and also for helicopters to fol-
low us along. We'll stay on the surface for
maybe 3 hours before we dive. So there
will be plenty of chance for photo oppor-
tunities. And then I'll have a press con-
ference when I get off the sub.
¹ Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, USN, Director,
Division of Naval Reactors, Energy Research
and Development Administration.
Q. Mr. President, did you have a
chance to talk to Congressman Ginn
about the shrimping situation here in
South Georgia?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope you don't
think that Bo Ginn would have been on
the plane with me for an hour and a half
without talking about the shrimp prob-
lem. [Laughter] I didn't have to take a
chance. He came up to our cabin immedi-
ately to talk to me about it. I had already
gotten a report from Joe Tanner on the
extremely disappointing test harvesting of
shrimp for this year. It's only 2 or 3 per-
cent of what it was last year. And I think
Bo Ginn met with the Governor's people
this morning to work out a proposal for
special assistance for the shrimp fisher-
men-I think more than 300 boats. And
I presume that when I get back up to
Washington Tuesday, it will be waiting
for me there. I am not yet involved in it,
but it has to go through the process of
being assessed. And I think the request
might be for loan and other assistance for
shrimp fishermen to tide them over this
year without any
any harvesting.
Q. Is it likely then, Mr. President, that
you are going to honor Governor Busbee's
request to, declare the coast of Georgia a
disaster area?
Joe D. Tanner, Georgia Commissioner of
Natural Resources.
1033
