May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
we are trying to implement a renewed
awareness of the need for human rights
in our dealing with all countries.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But has anything been
done, for instance, about human rights in
Iran since you came into office?
THE PRESIDENT. We feel that it has.
But that's something for the Iranian
Government to announce and to decide.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But privately you are
putting pressure on them?
THE PRESIDENT. Both privately and
publicly. I think there are very few lead-
ers in the world now who don't realize
that their attitude toward the basic ques-
tion of human rights is a crucial element
in our future relationships with them.
This applies not only in the Communist
countries. It also applies in totalitarian
governments in South America and other-
wise. It also applies among our closest
friends.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But just lastly on that
one point, if, for instance, with Russia
you say that your stand on human rights
stand on human rights
shouldn't affect the SALT talks-
-may not other
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
MR. DIMBLEBY.
countries in the world say, well, when it
actually comes down to practical matters
of negotiation, of foreign policy, of aid,
America doesn't mean it, it's simply what
the President wishes America to be say-
ing all the time rather than doing?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's not ac-
curate. As you may or may not have no-
ticed, I have a very hard time preventing
the American Congress from inserting
into the laws of our Nation a direct pro-
hibition against loans or foreign aid pro-
grams to countries that violate human
rights.
My own best approach has been to
treat these countries' violations in a ne-
gotiating way so that I can talk to a pres-
ident of a country or to the leader of a
country and say this is a very serious prob-
lem between us, we don't want to put pub-
lic pressure on you which would make it
embarrassing for you to release political
prisoners, for instance.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But you did with Rus-
sia, very public.
THE PRESIDENT. I have never predi-
cated our stand on SALT or our trade
policies with Russia on the basis of the at-
titude toward human rights. But I think
that in many countries around the world
there has been initiated a new awareness
of the importance of human rights, at
least in dealing with our own country.
DÉTENTE
MR. WEISS. Quite generally, Mr. Presi-
dent, what basic rules for the future state
of détente would you like to see estab-
lished between East and West?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, I
would like to see the Soviet Union join
with us in a demonstrable commitment to
put a limit on new atomic weapons, to re-
duce the number of weapons we presently
have authorized and also in place, and
eventually eliminate nuclear weapons al-
together. I would like to see a comprehen-
sive test ban where no testing of nuclear
weapons, either peaceful or for military
purposes, is carried out.
I would like to see a prior notice of all
test firings to alleviate tensions that exist
between our two countries. Also I would
like to see us both withdraw any unwar-
ranted influence in the private or internal
affairs of African countries where on oc-
casion disputes have been nourished by
outside influence.
I would like to see the Indian Ocean
demilitarized, and I would like to have
the Soviets agree with us to do this, work-
ing very closely with India, Australia, and
others. I would like to see increased trade
between our countries. I would like to see
the Soviet Union and us, when we get to
766
