Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 22
sitting on the Truman Balcony the other night with my good friend,
Charles Kirbo, who told me about a man who was arrested and taken
in to court for being drunk and for setting a bed on fire. When the judge
asked him how he pled, he said, “not guilty.” He said, "I was drunk but
the bed was on fire when I got in it." [Laughter]
I think most of the graduates can draw the parallel between that
statement and what you are approaching after this graduation exercise.
But there are two points to that, and I'll come to the other one in just a
few minutes.
In his 25 years as president of Notre Dame, Father Hesburgh has
spoken more consistently and more effectively in the support of the rights
of human beings than any other person I know. His interest in the Notre
Dame Center for Civil Rights has never wavered. And he played an
important role in broadening the scope of the center's work-and I visited
there last fall-to see this work include, now, all people in the world, as
shown by last month's conference here on human rights and American
foreign policy.
And that concern has been demonstrated again today in a vivid
fashion by the selection of Bishop Donal Lamont, Paul Cardinal Arns,
and Stephen Cardinal Kim to receive honorary degress. In their fight
for human freedoms in Rhodesia, Brazil, and South Korea, these three
religious leaders typify all that is best in their countries and in our church.
I'm honored to join you in recognizing their dedication, their personal
sacrifice, and their supreme courage.
Quite often, brave men like these are castigated and sometimes pun-
ished, sometimes even put to death, because they enter the realm where
human rights is a struggle. And sometimes they are blamed for the very
circumstance which they helped to dramatize, but it's been there for a
long time. And the flames which they seek to extinguish concern us all
and are increasingly visible around the world.
Last week, I spoke in California about the domestic agenda for our
Nation: to provide more efficiently for the needs of our people, to demon-
strate against the dark faith of our times—that our Government can be
both competent and more humane.
But I want to speak to you today about the strands that connect our
actions overseas with our essential character as a nation. I believe we can
have a foreign policy that is democratic, that is based on fundamental
values, and that uses power and influence, which we have, for humane
purposes. We can also have a foreign policy that the American people
both support and, for a change, know about and understand.
955
