Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
handle those cases by categories or by in-
dividual cases.
We have moved, I think, already to
help, as you said, loyal and patriotic vet-
erans like yourself. And I have appointed
a very fine young man to head up the
Veterans Administration now, Max Cle-
land, who is a veteran of the Vietnam
war. This is kind of a new generation of
leadership, and within the economic pack-
age that I presented to Congress, we have
a heavy emphasis on training and job
opportunities for veterans.
So, I hope in the future that we can
have a restoration in our country of ap-
preciation for veterans who did go to the
Vietnam war, who have not been thanked
or appreciated enough in the past, and a
much more sensitive Veterans Adminis-
tration toward the Vietnam veterans who
have not had as many benefits as veterans
of previous wars that were more popular.
But I don't have any apology to make
for what I have done, but you need not
be concerned about an extension of par-
dons on a blanket basis in the future
from me.
MR. FOUSE. Okay, sir. Thank you
very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, there
seems to be increasing talk of a bonus for
Vietnam veterans. Is that in your think-
ing at all?
THE PRESIDENT. No, sir.
MR. CRONKITE. The next call is from
Mrs. Richard Nicholson of Forth Worth,
Texas. Mr. President, Mrs. Nicholson.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
MRS. NICHOLSON. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate this opportunity to talk to you.
I feel that you are violating the States'
rights when you call into the different
States and lobby for the ERA. I was won-
dering, don't you think that this should be
left up to the individual State legislators
and let them decide without interference
from high political officers?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Well, I think
you probably have noticed that the final
decision is with the State legislatures, and
although I have made a few telephone
calls since I've been in office and have
talked to some personally and to some
Governors about the passage of ERA, I
haven't tried to interfere or put pressure
on them.
When I ran for President, I made it
clear that I was in favor of the equal rights
amendment passing, and still am in favor
of it and hope it does pass. But I respect
very well and very consistently the right of
individual State legislators to vote the way
they choose. But I think it's good to point
out to the legislators individually and to
the people of the country, as I am doing
at this moment, that we do need to give
women equal rights. They've been cheated
too long. They don't have equal pay for
equal jobs, and I think that this equal
rights amendment, which is very simple
and very clear, would be a good thing for
our country.
So, I don't have any way to make a leg-
islator vote against his or her wishes, don't
want any influence on them, but reserve
the right to express my opinion just like
you have a right to express yours.
MRS. NICHOLSON. Except that I don't
have the power to make or break someone
that you do.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have that
power either, Mrs. Nicholson.
MRS. NICHOLSON. Okay. Now, about
the ERA, nowhere does it mention any-
thing about women's rights. And there is
the equal pay opportunity which is already
a law that is being used. So how can the
ERA help in these two areas?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the equal
rights amendment just simply says that the
Congress nor any State are not permitted
300
