Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the quality of our lives, if we just elimi-
nate obvious waste.
So, that would be the first thrust and
then I think we'll have plenty of time to
try to see where there is a balance between
energy use and a quality of life.
MR. LLOYD. Don't misunderstand me.
I'm not talking about waste, of course.
THE PRESIDENT. Right. I understand.
We'll have one more comment, and then
we'll move on to Mr. Reichl. Yes, sir?
SOLAR ENERGY
MR. REICHL. Mr. President, on this
matter of solar again, I don't want to seem
like the spoilsport, but I heard what the
Mayor said about a 10-megawatt solar
space station-
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't comment on
that.
MR. REICHL. I think it is, however, im-
portant that you do comment, Mr. Presi-
dent. I think it would be lovely to be true.
It isn't. There isn't going to be any space
station sending down 10 megawatts in
10 years. And I think we should recog-
nize that the real contribution of solar en-
ergy is very important, will be largely in
the low-value heat that goes to space heat-
ing. And if by the year 2000, it will be 4 or
5 percent of our total energy, it would be
a magnificent achievement and no more
than that. I think it's important to recog-
nize it.
May I ask, did you have a chance to
make a comment on the subject of gas
from coal at any time during the meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. No, but if you'd like to
make a comment now.
COAL GASIFICATION
MR. REICHL. Very briefly, Mr. Presi-
dent, I believe it is one of the more over-
looked opportunities. We are certainly
running out of gas very rapidly. I think
while the first gas we must make from coal
is the one that we pull out of boilers to be
converted, I think that there is real merit
in going from gas to coal. The interesting
thing to me is that we had it 30 years ago,
we had a multimillion-ton-per-year gas-
from-coal industry in this country; it was
a total parallel to the electric business and
that's the way to look at it again. We were
able to build gas from coal plants then
without loan guarantees, without any-
thing. They were regulated, they were
financed like a power station. It is a little
hard to see why we couldn't have it again
with one added consideration. I think ex-
cellent technology is now in hand, ready
to go on this thing. While the very first
two or three plans may require loan guar-
antees, I think after that is started we will
have a very rapidly, very exciting growth
in that area.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President,
will you give me 10 seconds only?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
THE CONGRESS
SENATOR RANDOLPH. I am not political
when I say this: The Congress of the
United States has been a whipping boy.
Yet in the past 5 years we have passed
and we have enacted into law 71 energy
or energy-related legislative acts. We have
had five administrations, and I do not
name them politically. The trouble is that
we have not yet had an administration at
the White House level that has decided
that we must have action on the energy
issue.
Mr. President, we believe you mean to
act. I feel this very strongly.
THE PRESIDENT. I mean to act. I've got
some good people to help me act, includ-
ing yourself, Senator.
Yes, sir.
ENVIRONMENT
MR. LIght. We do have some oil re-
serves in West Virginia. But there are a
424
