May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment process more useful to decisionmak-
ers and the public; and to reduce paper-
work and the accumulation of extraneous
background data, in order to emphasize
the need to focus on real environmental
issues and alternatives. They will require
impact statements to be concise, clear, and
to the point, and supported by evidence
that agencies have made the necessary en-
vironmental analyses. The Council shall
include in its regulations procedures (1)
for the early preparation of environmental
impact statements, and (2) for the refer-
ral to the Council of conflicts between
agencies concerning the implementation
of the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969, as amended, and Section 309 of
the Clean Air Act, as amended, for the
Council's recommendation as to their
prompt resolution.".
SEC. 2. The following new subsection is
added to Section 2 (relating to responsibil-
ities of Federal agencies) of Executive
Order No. 11514, as amended:
"(g) In carrying out their responsibil-
ities under the Act and this Order, com-
ply with the regulations issued by the
Council except where such compliance
would be inconsistent with statutory
requirements.".
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:45 p.m., May 24, 1977]
Visit of Crown Prince Fahd
of Saudi Arabia
Toasts of the President and the Crown Prince
at a Dinner Honoring His Royal
Highness. May 24, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I've said several times
since I've been President of our country
that I don't believe there is any other
nation with whom we've had better
friendship and a deeper sense of coopera-
tion than we've found in Saudi Arabia.
There have been many times unpub-
lished when we saw a particular need or
a particular problem, either in our own
country or around the world, and as soon
as this need became known by the lead-
ers of that great country, the need has
been met in a quiet but very effective
and friendly way.
We've shared a friendship for many
years. In 1945, for instance, Franklin
Roosevelt met with the father of Crown
Prince Fahd near the Suez Canal and be-
gan a longstanding conversation and mu-
tual commitment toward peace that has
stood our nations in good stead since that
time.
Three years ago, Crown Prince Fahd
came to our country to resubmit his own
interest in us and to begin a new approach
to peace, particularly in the Middle East.
We have had today some very produc-
tive discussions with Crown Prince Fahd
and the other great leaders of Saudi
Arabia, about the Middle East. We told
them that our deep commitment was to
the security and peaceful existence of
Israel, and they understand this very
well. And we emphasized the importance
of a fair and permanent peace in the
Middle East.
In both these commitments, the Saudi
Arabians share our purpose. As we look
at this extremely valuable and important
crossroads of the whole world in this mod-
ern day, there is an increasing realization
that peace in that region means to a great
degree a possibility of peace throughout
the world.
We have seen in clear terms in months
gone by the importance of forming a
joint economic commission between the
United States and Saudi Arabia. The late
1006
