May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
don't know exactly how many come in
every year, but I would guess it's ap-
proaching a million. And the number
seems to be increasing every year.
Secondly, I think we do need to treat
with some understanding people who have
come in here perhaps 5 years ago, 10
years
ago, 15, 20, 25 years ago illegally, wel-
comed by American employers to come in
and take a job when they couldn't get
enough workers. And I don't think we
need to go into every home in the United
States and search that house to see who
has and who has not an ability to prove
that they are native-born Americans or
have come in legally. You just couldn't
do it, even if you wanted to.
So, there has to be some way to deal
with those that are already here. I think
the third thing that we need to do is to
make it difficult, if not illegal, for an em-
ployer to encourage the illegal workers
to come into this country and then not pay
them fair wages, and also not pay the
standard deductions for unemployment
compensation, workmen's compensation,
and social security. But it's a complicated
question. It's a very sensitive question. If
it wasn't, it would have been solved be-
fore. But my inclination is to try to do
what we can to stop the large flood of
immigrations coming in; secondly, to let
some of those who've been here for a
number of years have an opportunity to
become American citizens and make it
much more unattractive for employers to
encourage undocumented workers to
come in for employment.
Those three elements are going to be
part of any solution and, of course, I'll
present it to the Congress and do the best
I can to get the legislation passed.
Q. Mr. President, I'm sure it would
also I'm sure one thing also to take into
consideration is the effect on, mainly
mainly
those people, those foreign citizens who
live along the borderline, especially like
around here in southern California and
around Texas, those along the border, be-
cause not only will it take away more of
our social security pay but I'm sure it
would also mean more jobs would be
taken from us. I'm sure we would want
those who come over to work legally and
not, to put it bluntly, to get ripped off in
their pay. Let's consider those here first
who are unemployed. Let them get the
jobs first. Then maybe we can-
THE PRESIDENT. Jimmy, I think you
have to remember that the alternative to
taking action is to continue like we're do-
ing now. And we don't want to continue
as we are at the present time.
BLACKS AND EMPLOYMENT
Q. I am Burdell Moore. I am a member
of the board of directors of Watts Health
Foundation, and I am an all-around com-
munity worker, especially in health. And
I would like to know these jobs that you
are considering in HEW and SBA. And
I see that you and I would like to know
how many of these jobs are—will any
black person
be appointed to these jobs?
As you and I know, we are the only
group of people, especially here in Cali-
fornia, that didn't play tic-tac-toe during
your election. [Laughter] We gave all our
votes to you.
The President. Thank you. I can as-
sure you that there are no jobs that will be
offered for which black people will not be
considered, and I think we've established
now a very good acceptance at the top
levels of Government and I hope it'll go
down through all the levels of govern-
ment for a showing that black people can
serve well.
We've got, as you know, our Ambassa-
dor to the United Nations, we've got the
Director of HUD, which is in charge of
all housing and urban development pro-
902
