Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 17
(c) To implement the above standards,
a panel may adopt such additional cri-
teria or guidelines as it considers appro-
priate for the identification of potential
nominees and the selection of those best
qualified to serve as United States Cir-
cuit Judges.
SEC. 5. Ineligibility of Commission
Members. No person shall be considered
by a panel as a potential nominee while
serving as a Commission member or for a
period of one year after termination of
such service.
SEC. 6. Travel Expenses and Financ-
ing. (a) Members of the Commission
shall receive no compensation from the
Government of the United States for
their service as members of the Commis-
sion, but may be allowed travel expenses,
including per diem in lieu of subsistence,
as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703) for persons intermittently em-
ployed in the government service.
(b) All necessary expenses incurred in
connection with the work of the Commis-
sion shall be paid from the appropriation
for "Unanticipated Needs" in the Execu-
tive Office Appropriations Act, 1977, or
from such other funds as may be available.
(c) Expenditures authorized by this
Section may be made only after the Pres-
ident has notified a panel's Chairman that
he desires the panel's assistance in accord-
ance with Sec. 3, above, and before the
termination of appointments to the panel
in accordance with Sec. 7 below.
SEC. 7. Term of Membership. Unless
extended by the President, each appoint-
ment to a panel shall terminate thirty days
after submission of the panel's report to
the President. Within a reasonable time
after termination of an appointment, or
the creation of a vacancy for any other
reason, the President shall appoint a per-
son to fill such vacancy.
SEC. 8. Termination of Commission.
The Commission shall terminate on De-
cember 31, 1978, unless sooner extended
by the President.
The White House,
February 14, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:08 p.m., February 15, 1977]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was
released on February 17.
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Laurence N. Woodworth
To Be an Assistant Secretary.
February 17, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Laurence N. Woodworth to
be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
(Tax Policy).
Woodworth has been chief of staff of
the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue
Taxation since 1964.
He was born March 2, 1918, in Louden-
ville, Ohio. He received an A.B. degree
from Ohio Northern University in 1940
and an M.S. degree in government from
the University of Denver in 1942.
From 1942 to 1943, he was a tax analyst
on local government for the Civic Re-
search Institute in Kansas City, Mo. He
worked for the Tax Foundation in New
York City in 1943 and 1944, and in 1944
joined the staff of the Joint Committee on
Taxation in Washington, D.C., as an
economist.
In 1960 Woodworth received a Ph. D.
in economics and public administration
from New York University. In 1964 he
became chief of staff for the Joint Com-
mittee on Internal Revenue Taxation.
Woodworth is married to the former
Margaret Forrest Bretz. They have four
children and live in Cheverly, Md.
181
