Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
assess the present welfare system and to
propose improvements to it.
It's much worse than we hand antici-
pated. And although we've conducted
hundreds of meetings around the country,
and prepared documents and studies that
are quite voluminous-and Joe has a
briefcase full of them that he will exhibit
in a few minutes-we've found that the
complexity of the system demands a de-
tailed analysis through computer models
and working with Governors and with
congressional leaders as well.
I'd like to go over in a few minutes
some of the problems with the present sys-
tem, but I would like to point out that
the most important unanimous conclusion
is that the present welfare program should
be scrapped entirely and a totally new sys-
tem should be implemented.
This conclusion in no way is meant to
disparage the great value of the separate
and the individual programs enacted by
the Congress over the last 15 years. These
include, as you know, a food stamp pro-
gram for low-income persons, those who
work and those who cannot work; the
supplemental security income floor for our
aged and disabled; work incentives for
welfare families with children; increased
housing assistance; tax credits; unemploy-
ment insurance extensions; enlarged jobs
programs; and the indexing of social se-
curity payments to counter the biggest
threat or enemy of the poor, and that is
inflation.
This conclusion that we've drawn
today is to say that these many separate
programs, taken together, still do not con-
stitute a rational and coherent system
that is adequate and fair for all the poor.
They are still overly wasteful, capricious,
and subject to almost inevitable fraud.
They violate many desirable and neces-
sary principles.
We have established the following
goals: I've been over these with the con-
gressional leaders, with representatives of
the Department of HEW, with Labor, my
own economic advisers, OMB, Treasury,
to make sure that they are feasible and
also advisable. And they will be guidelines
for us in the next 3 months as we put
together the final legislative proposals.
First of all, the new system will be at
no higher initial cost than the present sys-
tems combined.
Second, under this system every family
with children and a member of the family
able to work will have access to a job.
Third, incentives will always encourage
full-time and part-time private sector
employment.
Fourth, public training and employ-
ment programs should be provided when
private employment is unavailable.
Fifth, a family should have more in-
come if it works than if it does not work.
Sixth, incentives should be designed to
keep families together. Now many of the
incentives, deliberately or not, encourage
families to be separated.
Seventh, earned income tax credits
should be continued to help the working
poor.
Eighth, a decent income should be
pro-
vided also for those who cannot work or
earn adequate incomes, with Federal
benefits, consolidated into a simple cash
payment, varying in amount only to ac-
commodate differences in the cost of liv-
ing from one community to another.
Ninth, the program should be simpler
and easier to administer.
Tenth, there should be incentives en-
couraging honesty and designed to elimi-
nate fraud. What this means is that the
accurate reporting of income and finan-
cial status will be naturally encouraged
among those who receive benefits.
Eleventh, the unpredictable and grow-
ing financial burden on local and State
governments should be reduced as rapidly
as Federal services or resources permit.
771
