Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
Mr. President, it's a delight to be in
your great Nation which has recently cele-
brated its Bicentennial and to express my
great pleasure at meeting with you, Mr.
President. I am looking forward to ex-
changing views aimed at achieving
stronger and deeper relations between our
two countries which have enjoyed for a
long time strong ties of friendship.
Among the foremost issues which are of
importance, which I will be discussing
with you, Mr. President, is the problem
of the Middle East. I would like, if I may,
to state things very frankly, to voice my
optimism at discussing this issue with you,
Mr. President.
This optimism stems from your own
views, the wise views that the issue of
Palestine is the core of the problem and
that it is necessary to create a homeland
for the Palestinian people in addition to
your urging all concerned to seize upon
this opportunity which we now have to
reach a settlement lest it get lost.
These attitudes on your part, Mr.
President, coupled with the tremendous
moral as well as material capabilities at
the disposal of the United States of
America, make us hope that this problem
which has brought many wars and suffer-
ings to humanity is now on its way to-
wards settlement.
At the same time, we share with you,
Mr. President, the belief that unless there
is a comprehensive and just solution to
this problem, it will remain a source of
great danger, not only to the area but to
the whole world.
Mr. President, we wish nothing more
for our area than peace and stability for
all concerned. We realize the problems of
wars and what wars bring trailing behind
them by way of calamities on innocent
peoples.
Mr. President, please accept my grati-
tude and my deep appreciation for this
warm reception. Thank you.
In conclusion, I would like to seize this
opportunity, Mr. President, to offer sin-
cere greetings to the peoples of the United
States of America, and also to turn to the
people of Saudi Arabia, seeing between
those two peoples the clasped hands of
friendship and amity.
The presence in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia of American citizens, a fact to
which you referred, Mr. President, is only
pleasurable to us. They are our cherished
guests and friends. In fact, they are al-
most in their own country.
In conclusion, thank you very much,
Mr. President.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House. Crown
Prince Fahd Bin Abd al-Aziz al Saud spoke in
Arabic, and his remarks were translated by an
interpreter.
United States Ambassador to
Saudi Arabia
Nomination of John C. West. May 24, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate John C. West, of Camden,
S.C., to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. West was
Governor of South Carolina from 1971 to
1975, and is currently a partner in the law
firm of West, Cooper, Bowen, Beard and
Smoot.
West was born August 27, 1922, in
Camden, S.C. He received a B.A. from
The Citadel in 1942 and an LL.B. from
the University of South Carolina in 1948.
He served in the U.S. Army from 1942 to
1946.
993
