Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
Some of our countries have adopted reasonably expansionist growth targets for
1977. The governments of these countries will keep their policies under review, and
commit themselves to adopt further policies, if needed to achieve their stated target
rates and to contribute to the adjustment of payments imbalances. Others are pursuing
stabilization policies designed to provide a basis for sustained growth wthout increas-
ing inflationary expectations. The governments of these countries will continue to
pursue those goals.
These two sets of policies are interrelated. Those of the first group of countries
should help to create an environment conducive to expansion in the others without
adding to inflation. Only if growth rates can be maintained in the first
group and
increased in the second, and inflation tackled successfully in both, can unemployment
be reduced.
We are particularly concerned about the problem of unemployment among
young people. Therefore we shall promote the training of young people in order
to build a skilled and flexible labor force so that they can be ready to take advantage
of the upturn in economic activity as it develops. All of our governments, individ-
ually or collectively, are taking appropriate measures to this end. We must learn
as much as possible from each other and agree to exchange experiences and ideas.
Success in managing our domestic economies will not only strengthen world
economic growth but also contribute to success in four other main economic fields
to which we now turn-balance of payments financing, trade, energy and North/
South relations. Progress in these fields will in turn contribute to world economic
recovery.
Balance of Payments Financing
For some years to come oil-importing nations, as a group, will be facing sub-
stantial payments deficits and importing capital from OPEC nations to finance them.
The deficit for the current year could run as high as $45 billion. Only through a
reduction in our dependence on imported oil and a rise in the capacity of oil-producing
nations to import can that deficit be reduced.
This deficit needs to be distributed among the oil-consuming nations in a pattern
compatible with their ability to attract capital on a continuing basis. The need for
adjustment to this pattern remains large, and it will take much international co-
operation, and determined action by surplus as well as deficit countries, if con-
tinuing progress is to be made. Strategies of adjustment in the deficit countries must
include emphasis on elimination of domestic sources of inflation and improvement
in international cost-price relationships. It is important that industrial countries in
relatively strong payments positions should ensure continued adequate expansion
of domestic demand, within prudent limits. Moreover these countries, as well as
other countries in strong payments positions, should promote increased flows of long-
term capital exports.
The International Monetary Fund must play a prominent role in balance of
payments financing and adjustment. We therefore strongly endorse the recent agree-
ment of the Interim Committee of the IMF to seek additional resources for that
organization and to link IMF lending to the adoption of appropriate stabilization
policies. These added resources will strengthen the ability of the IMF to encourage
821
