Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
I don't have any apology to make about
it. I made my decision clear before the
election. The first week I was in office,
I carried out my commitment. And I be-
lieve that the patriotism and support of
the American Government and its people,
in times of crisis in the future, will be met
by courageous people as they have been
in the past, regardless of what my decision
was on the pardon question.
ARMED FORCES RESERVES
Q. Mr. President, my question is sort of
related to this, but my question concerns
more the Guard and the Reserve and the
readiness of this country and its defense.
The statement has been made that we
are some 800,000 people short, within the
active force in the Reserves. My question,
sir, involves the reinstitution of the draft.
I'd like to know how you feel about this
position in light of the costliness of the
all-volunteer force and the fact that there
are incentives underway and studies un-
derway to determine other ways, incen-
tive-wise, of increasing the strength of the
Guard and the Reserve.
Do you see us eventually going back to
a draft for either the active force or the
Guard and the Reserve, or both?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a decision that
has not yet been made, whether to change
back to an active draft for our country.
At the present time, I have no intentions
of going back to a mandatory draft law.
We have a constant concern about the
weakness of recruitment, particularly for
the Reserve forces.
Secretary Brown and the Joint Chiefs
and others are now assessing the effective-
ness of present recruiting efforts and
whether or not we can meet the needs of
our Nation's defense.
As I've said many times during the
campaign, if it ever becomes obvious to
me and to the military leaders who serve
with me that we cannot adequately pro-
vide for the defense of our country with-
out a draft, I would not hesitate to recom-
mend such a change to the Congress to
call for a draft law. I think if it should
be considered in the future, my own in-
clination would be to make it much more
comprehensive in the future, not to per-
mit exceptions for those who are wealthy
or who are college students, to make it all-
inclusive and to make sure that it's fair.
But to recapitulate my answer, at the
present time, we are not contemplating
such a move. We are assessing the situa-
tion constantly. If it becomes necessary, I
would not hesitate to recommend it.
Let me close by saying this: I don't
claim to know all the answers about per-
sonnel matters nor about defense matters.
I'm eager to learn. And know that from
this group assembled here and those others
who work in this great Department
throughout the world, there is not only
a deep dedication to serve but also an
inclination to make our service more
effective.
And if I can just leave one thought with
you at the conclusion of my brief visit to
the Pentagon, it's that we are partners
together in restoring the legitimate and
deserved stature and esteem that ought
always to be recognized among those who
serve in the military. And also, it's im-
portant for us to constantly explore better
ways to ensure world peace.
I think that the character of our coun-
try has got to demonstrate in government,
as accurately as possible, the character of
our people. I think our people are dedi-
cated to the proposition of equality, of
liberty, of justice, of decency, of truth, of
respect for human beings' rights, and a
constant and unswerving commitment to
human courage.
And to me, the military has always
been almost completely pure in insisting
on those characteristics. I was deeply im-
267
