Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 4
United States Senate
Youth Program
Remarks of the President and Vice
President to Participants in the
Program. February 4, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. It looks like the camera
manufacturers have done a good job.
I just came from a meeting with a new
commission¹ that I have set up. For the
first time in the history of our Nation we
have 20 distinguished Americans who will
meet to give me and the Secretary of State
advice before a person is appointed to a
major diplomatic post.
As you know from having read the
news in the recent years, quite often our
own Nation has been embarrassed because
ambassadors and other very important
persons have been appointed not on the
basis of merit, but on the basis of a politi-
cal payoff. This will never again be done
in the next 4 years.
We have people on this commission:
Governor Reubin Askew from Florida is
the Chairman; we have former Secretary
of State Dean Rusk; former Ambassador
to the United Nations Bill Scranton; for-
Ambassador Averell Harriman;
Leonard Woodcock, who is the head of
UAW; and many others of this character.
They will assess in every instance all the
people in the United States who come to
their attention, and give me a recommen-
dation of the five best qualified persons
available for every appointment without
regard to whether they supported me or
someone else in the campaign, without re-
gard to whether they are Democrats or
Republicans, without regard to whether
they are from Los Angeles or Des Moines,
¹ Presidential Advisory Board on Ambassa-
dorial Appointments.
Iowa, or Boston, Massachusetts, but with-
out any regard except to merit.
And that is where I have been, and that
is why I am a little late. I have been giv-
ing this new group their instructions, their
charge. They will now move over to the
State Department and start assessing peo-
ple for appointments for those positions.
The reason I mention it to you is this:
You were chosen in the same way; in a
strictly competitive selection process to
serve in a very important post for just a
short period of time.
But as you work on Capitol Hill as a
young, eager, aggressive, competent per-
son, chosen on the basis of intelligence
and merit and interested in public affairs,
it puts a special responsibility on your
shoulders.
One is to have an actual input into the
governmental process. It doesn't do any
good for you to come in, just observe what
is there and leave without having made a
mark. But if you will come in, and in a
quiet way, learn what is there, talk to one
another, think about how it can be better,
make your recommendations as you leave,
and then take with you a knowledge of
how our Government works and how it
can be better, I hope this will be a spring-
board to bring you back later on as a
Member of Congress; as an Ambassador
to a foreign country; as a U.S. Senator;
perhaps as Governor; perhaps as Presi-
dent; perhaps as Secretary of State be-
cause you have been given a remarkable
opportunity, one that I didn't have when
I was a child, when I was a young man.
But you will be able to see now, at first
hand, the inner workings of our Govern-
ment. You will see some things you don't
like. I hope you will help me try to change
them and help the congressional leaders
who have been responsible for this pro-
gram to help change them. And you will
79
