Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 15, 1977
Dobbins Air Force Base, Georgia
Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters on Arrival. April 8, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, everybody. I'm
glad to be back home in Georgia. This is
the first time that I've had a chance to fly
on Air Force One down here. And we are
very grateful to spend Easter with my own
family and in this State which is always
my home.
This also gives me a chance to meet
again with Governor Busbee to talk about
some of the environmental questions that
have been addressed so well by him, and
some of the very interesting and exciting
announcements that will be made soon
about the Georgia coast which I love so
much.
I'd be glad to answer a few questions,
beginning with the local news media, if
you have any.
REPORTER. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
ECONOMIC STIMULATION PACKAGE
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. No, it won't have any
effect on it. Obviously, it makes it much
more important that we give a well-con-
sidered report to the Nation on what can
be done to control inflationary pressures.
This has been a worldwide problem.
And I think that part of the inflationary
index increase last week was caused by
the transient effect of the very severe win-
ter and the damage to food and the exces-
sive use of energy. But it's a constant prob-
lem, about 6-percent annual rate of infla-
tion.
The economic stimulus package can be
any ad-
implemented completely without
verse effect, in my opinion, on inflationary
pressures. We've got about only 80 percent
of our industrial capacity, factories and
so forth, being used. We still have over
7 percent of our people who are out of
work. And as a matter of fact, the amount
of money that was collected from Ameri-
can taxpayers last year has been excessive
compared to the expenditures this year as
Congress had contemplated.
We will lack about $8 billion spending
the money this year that Congress did ap-
propriate. We've had an overcollection of
about $3 billion from the American tax-
payers, more than we had anticipated.
And I think the best thing to do with this
extra money is to return it to the taxpayers
immediately and directly, rather than
having the Government spend it.
So, our economic stimulation package is
necessary. I hope it will hold together, and
the approaches to inflation are long-range
in nature. And the message that I deliver
599
