Apr. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to go ahead with it. We have been work-
ing on the analysis for a number of weeks.
Senator Humphrey, Cranston, and others
can speak for themselves.
I'd be glad to answer any questions that Many of these data have been made
you might have.
TAX REBATE
REPORTER. Mr. President, were there
political considerations involved in your
decision as well, specifically the problems
that you were running into in the Senate
in trying to get the rebate passed?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. There were po-
litical and economic decisions. The over-
whelming thing, though, was economic
I think that the Senate leaders to whom I
referred would agree with me that we
could have passed the economic stimulus
package in its entirety had we decided to
go ahead with it. But there is no doubt
that many of the leaders, who were en-
thusiastic along with me back in Decem-
ber when economic circumstances were
quite different, had lost their enthusiasm
for the rebate and the business tax stimu-
lus in light of recent unanticipated im-
provements in the economy.
But obviously it's a political decision as
well as an economic decision, and I think
it's a proper one. But it was a mutual de-
cision to go ahead with it back in Decem-
ber and to terminate it now.
Q. Just to follow on.
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. There are those who read this as
being a political defeat for you in that
you did propose the rebate, you're having
trouble getting it passed, so you pulled it
back.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've been ac-
cused of a lot of things. I don't believe any-
body has ever accused me of being afraid
of a political fight or of being too quick to
compromise. The decision was made by
me. I think among my own White House
advisers, they would all confirm that I was
the first one who felt that it was a mistake
public.
I did not back off because I feared a
political defeat. The bill will be kept alive
in the Senate Finance Committee; it's
already passed the House with an over-
whelming majority. And if the economic
stimulus appears to be necessary because
of changing circumstances in the next few
months, then my own effort would be to
go ahead and have the bill passed. But I
don't believe we need it. If I could unilat-
erally decide to initiate these two stimuli,
the $50 rebate and the business tax credits,
I would not do it.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Q. What changed in the economic pic-
ture since you came out here last Thurs-
day and told us that it was necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one is the pres-
ent rate of inflation. Over the last 3
months now we've had an average, on an
annual basis, of more than 10 percent in-
flation-the last month alone I think 14
percent.
The biggest overall pleasant surprise to
us has been in retail sales. We did have a
substantial surge in retail sales in Febru-
ary, compared to January. We discounted
that improvement because we thought it
was just a recovery from the very severe
winter. But in March, in an unanticipated
way, retail sales showed continued con-
sumer confidence. I think that was a single
major factor involved.
Let me get her. Then I will get you.
TAX REBATE
Q. Mr. President, about 2 days ago
Secretary Marshall said that we were fo-
cusing too much on business confidence
and not enough on consumer confidence,
and that if the $50 rebate were killed, and
620
