Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
My questions concern the next Director
of the FBI. I was wondering if you're con-
sidering anybody from California for that
post?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess we are.
[Laughter] What I've done in that case is
to bring together a selection committee
who will serve for about, I think, 45 more
days. They have now narrowed their
choices down to 50 people. I understand
they're going to interview 50 different
people who are applicants for the job of
FBI Director.
One of the people who serves on the
committee, by the way, is Clarence Kel-
ley, the present Director, to help choose
his successor. He'll be leaving later on
this year. And I don't know the names of
the people who are being considered.
They'll make a recommendation to me
of, I think, five names of the people in
the whole Nation who they think are best
qualified to head up the FBI, and from
those five names that they recommend, I
will choose, along with the Attorney Gen-
eral, the Director of the FBI. But I can't
tell you whether or not those people are
from California. I would guess, though,
because of the size of your State, and so
forth, that it's likely that one of them
would be from California.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
ILLEGAL ALIENS
THE PRESIDENT. Let me go to east Los
Angeles then I'll—
Q. Hello, Mr. President. My name is
Jimmy Lopez. I live in east L.A. I go to
East L.A. College. I also support myself
with photography. I first of all would like
to say it's good to know that we have a
President who's taking time out, as much
as he can, for the people, instead of just
playing politics.
I would like to go into now my topic,
which concerns illegal aliens. I am to
understand that you are considering am-
nesty to illegal aliens, which I am myself
against-mainly for—really for a number
of reasons, such as for those of us who
are born citizens, who are working here
now; we are paying social security. As I
can understand, we give amnesty to illegal
aliens. They would be eligible for benefits
such as social security, which means we
are going to take out a large cut of our
social security to support these people
coming from across the border, when I
believe our money should go to the people
who have priority, which are our born
citizens.
And also, the same money, I believe, is
going to the refugees who came over from
Vietnam.
Sir, it's great to know that we're help-
ing out people as much as we can from
overseas and next to our country, which
is fantastic. But I believe that we have
priority. We bring these people over and
try to help them out. How about us? They
can end up using more energy, for in-
stance, like we have a shortage of. They
can end up using more fuel that we have
a shortage of. And I think we should take
care of ourselves first, before we try to
help somebody else. We have to make sure
we can help ourselves out first.
So, sure, give amnesty to the aliens, but
let's help ourselves out first. That's what
I really believe. Let's support ourselves.
THE PRESIDENT. With the exception of
a few Indians, we're all immigrants.
[Laughter] This is one of the most difficult
questions with which I have to deal, and
within the next couple of weeks I'll make
a decision about what ought to be done
about the problem with the undocu-
mented workers, or aliens. It's a difficult
thing to say.
There are three basic elements. One is,
of course, to try to stop the very large
number who come into this country. We
901
