Mar. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This is a year when I believe the
chances are fairly good for progress.
We've been encouraged at some early
signs, but it's going to take a man with a
genuine desire for reduction of weapons—
which is what Paul Warnke wants-with
superb intellect, a knowledge of the his-
tory of the escalation in weaponry, a clear
concept of what the American people
want and will accept, and the ability to
represent our own Nation's security at all
times when he probes for better circum-
stances for world peace.
This is a hard thing, or a group of cri-
teria, to put together in one person, but
I believe it does exist in the heart and
mind of Paul Warnke. I'm very grateful
that he's been willing to accept this job.
It's been difficult for him already. The
tough cross-examination and the unwar-
ranted criticisms, I think, have been
weathered by him in good spirits.
And I want to pledge to him this after-
noon that I personally, as President, and
our Secretary of State, other officials in
our executive branch of Government, I
think the unanimous Members of the
Congress, and the American people all
wish him well.
Paul, I want to thank you again for
being willing to serve.
And now Judge Gesell will administer
the oath of office.
[At this point, Judge Gerhard A. Gesell, of the
United States District Court for the District
of Columbia, administered the oath of office.
Mr. Warnke spoke briefly, and the President
then concluded his remarks as follows:]
I would like to say before we adjourn
that Secretary Vance will be leaving in a
few days for the Soviet Union, and Paul
Warnke will accompany him there.
This week the National Security Coun-
cil, which has been working on the ques-
tion of SALT negotiations for a number
of weeks with me, will evolve a fairly final
position that Secretary Vance and Direc-
tor Warnke will take with them. I believe
the Soviet Union leaders attach a great
deal of significance to this trip, and I
think we have our own Nation's position
in good hands.
I want to thank the Members of Con-
gress who came to share in, with us, this
ceremony. And I think, Paul, this indi-
cates the strong support that you have, no
matter what the votes were in the past.
We're all behind you.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:35 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Public International
Organizations
Executive Order 11977. March 14, 1977
DESIGNATING CERTAIN PUBLIC INTERNA-
TIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ENTITLED To
ENJOY CERTAIN PRIVILEGES, EXEMP-
TIONS, AND IMMUNITIES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 1 of the International Organi-
zations Immunities Act (59 Stat. 669, 22
U.S.C. 288), Reorganization Plan No. 4
of 1965, and Section 301 of Title 3 of the
United States Code, and as President of
the United States of America, and having
found that the United States participates
in the following organizations, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The African Development
Fund, in which the United States partici-
pates pursuant to Section 202 of the Act
of May 31, 1976 (90 Stat. 593, 22 U.S.C.
290g) and the Agreement Establishing
the African Development Fund, is hereby
designated as a public international orga-
nization entitled to enjoy the privileges,
380
