Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
commercial betterment for the United
States. And a reorganization question:
Do you plan to reorganize those agencies
in the United States Government or unite
them, those agencies which are con-
cerned with the safety of America's con-
sumers, America's workers, and America's
highways?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, the per-
sonal aspect of Government reponsibili-
ties like safety would come above statisti-
cal achievement, and if there is a conflict,
the top priority would be human beings.
Secondly, the reorganization efforts will
not result in the discharge of any Federal
employees. We reorganized the entire
structure of Georgia's government. I
never fired a person. It is not fair to pro-
fessional employees to have your jobs
threatened because of a change in the
structure of the government in which you
have served.
Now we have an adequate attrition
rate. There may be an instance when
somebody would have their place of work
transferred. If so, it would be done with-
out any loss in your pay or seniority status.
If new skills were required, the extra train-
ing would be provided for you at Govern-
ment expense.
So, no one in the Federal Government
need ever fear that your jobs will be
threatened, nor your usefulness will be de-
creased because of reorganization.
What will happen, though, is when we
have 7 or 8 or 10 or 12 or 15 or 20 or 30
or sometimes 50 different agencies in Gov-
ernment responsible for exactly the same
function, those might be pulled together
to make an identifiable entity in the Fed-
eral Government which average American
citizens can approach and which can pro-
vide their services without waste or con-
flict.
I was talking at the last Cabinet meet-
ing yesterday morning, and Joe Califano
said that within his own Department there
are 13 different agencies created by Con-
gress responsible for the reduction of the
use of drugs-13. He is chairman of seven
of them. In addition to HEW, I think
there are seven other departments that
have drug treatment responsibilities, plus
the White House.
That means that none of those func-
tions can be carried out effectively. And if
those are brought together in HEW, I
think all the people that would like to cut
down on the drug addiction problem
would be more affected. The people would
obviously be served better. And I believe
that it won't disrupt the lives of employ-
ees in Government.
So, persons would come first, human
being would come first, and the change
in the structure of government would not
adversely affect your own professional ca-
reers under any circumstances. If it ever
does, you contact me directly. I mean that.
All my Cabinet officers have instructions
to that effect.
And the third thing is if change is made,
I would not try to change something and
face the Congress and try to justify it un-
less I was convinced in my own mind that
it would give us a chance to provide better
services and not disrupt services.
I think that I have answered as many
questions as you want to propose to me.
I would like to say this in closing: It has
been a great pleasure and an honor for me
to come over here. Your work is extremely
interesting to me. I have studied some-
thing about your Department when I was
trying to decide whom to select as your
top leaders.
I hope that you will have a chance to
relate directly to them. Many of you have
been here many years and Mrs. Kreps and
others need your help and your advice.
If you detect in her or others special
strength and special weaknesses, I hope
119
