Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 11
that it did detract from the effectiveness
of his past and future service.
But there is no incompatibility among
us. I would have no reason to mislead you
about that. We are completely compatible
in our hopes.
The other part of Africa that we are
quite concerned about that you did men-
tion is in the Horn of Africa with Somalia,
Afars, and Issas, Ethiopia, Sudan, and, to
some degree, Ethiopia on the southern
part of the Red Sea and, of course, the
Arab countries to the north. But we are
working very closely there with the Saudi
Arabians in particular, trying to cement
relationships with South Yemen, trying
to improve relationships with Somalia,
trying to understand the conflict within
Ethiopia concerning the Eritreans. That's
where the other potential troublespot is in
Africa.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir, go ahead.
I'll get you next.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Q. I am Emory Cunningham, publisher
of Progressive Farms in the southern half
of Birmingham. And I had a very enjoy-
able and helpful visit with you in your
home in Plains last fall. You pointed to
the fact that your mother's father, James
Gordy, wrote the letter to Georgia's Tom
Watson that led to legislation starting
rural free delivery in the United States.
And you said roughly that you thought
that the Postal Service should continue
to be largely a public service to all the
people. And I wonder, after 6 months as
Chief Executive during which the elec-
torate gives you very high marks, I might
add-from that observation point, what
is your view now on the Postal Service?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm still proud
of the fact that my grandfather
[laughter]-was the first one who advo-
cated rural free delivery of mail. He was
a postmaster in Richmond, Georgia, when
Tom Watson was a Congressman. Tom
Watson introduced the legislation which
was passed. And it was funded about 20,
25 years later.
I had a meeting this week, coinciden-
tally, with the Postmaster General, and
met last week with the new president of
the association representing all the post-
masters in our country-I think about
22,000 of them-John Dalton, who hap-
pens to be from Georgia, coincidentally.
I don't know how to respond to that
question. The Post Office is now com-
pletely independent of me. I don't have
any authority over the selection of the
Postmaster General and have some au-
thority, of course, in approving appropri-
ations made by the Congress for fulfilling
the requirements to meet the deficit. Al-
though the Post Office is right now in the
black, there's a prospective deficit of
about $200 million a month.
The options now are to increase rates
substantially and/or to do away with
Saturday deliveries. The Post Office, I
think, needs a substantial amount of im-
provement. And my own hope is that we
can refrain from substantial increases in
the postal rate. What we don't meet with
rate increases and reduction of services,
though, we'll have to make up in direct
appropriations of funds to meet the
deficit.
I would rather not try to speak for Mr.
Bailar and others, because they have a
Post Office Board who will make a recom-
mendation shortly. They met this month
and did not address this question. My
understanding from him is that next
month they will make recommendations
accordingly.
So, I'm disturbed about the Post Of-
fice, about its potential reduction in serv-
ice and increase in rates and its deficit.
But I don't have any way to answer your
1091
