Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
I think there was an eagerness on their
part to teach. I don't think there was any
feeling of superiority or inferiority. There
was no inclination to dominate. I think
everyone who participated would agree
with that.
So, I feel good abut the encounters that
we had, because they were all construc-
tive. There was not a negative result that
I can remember in the long series of inter-
relationships among the nations' leaders.
Q. Did the NATO meeting this morn-
ing produce any greater agreement to
work together that will help in the SALT
talks for instance? Will there be a thaw-
out in the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. I think these meetings
will be constructive, even toward the
SALT talks-not particularly the NATO
meeting, but that would be included.
For instance, General Secretary Brezh-
nev will be visiting France next month,
and I think for President Giscard
d'Estaing to know my position and to
know the good will that we have towards
the Soviets and to express that as a third
party, will be constructive. And I think
this next year, as we analyze in some
depth with specialists the basic compati-
bilities between the East and the West
and the basic reasons for differences be-
tween the East and West, this will pro-
vide, I think, some foundation on which
to correct those differences.
All of us want to have peace, and all
of us want to have a substantial progress
in reducing dependence upon the nuclear
weapons. All of us want to have progress
made on the mutual and balanced force
reductions with conventional arms. All of
us want to open up a sharing of aid to the
developing countries, and include the
Soviets and other Eastern countries in it.
So, I think there was a very construc-
tive development here toward the East-
West relationships in all the forms.
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. This will be the last
one.
Q. In the beginning there was some
talk that there was friction, or at least a
certain amount of uneasiness that existed
between you and Chancellor Schmidt.
Did you find that to be the case, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We have had dif-
ferences of opinion about several impor-
tant issues. They were just coincidental.
There was nothing there personal. But I
think that after our own private conver-
sations and in the general discussions,
we've reached, so far as I know, a resolu-
tion of all those differences.
I have a very good personal friendship
with Chancellor Schmidt. He represents
a nation that's vigorous and strong eco-
nomically, and I think that the only re-
maining difference that I can think of is
the sale of the nuclear reprocessing plant
by the Federal Republic of Germany to
Brazil. And we've initiated a study which
may or may not resolve that problem. But
even if it doesn't, I'm determined to see
very tight and stringent international
safeguards concerning nuclear wastes,
and if I am successful along with others in
that endeavor, then I think any reprocess-
ing plant anywhere in the world could
handle nuclear wastes without danger of
it developing into explosives.
So, I think there is nothing that's im-
portant that divides me and Helmut
Schmidt.
Thank you. I'm going to get ready.
Q. Are you going to France?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not accepted.
He invited me and I told him I'd try to
come. But I have not accepted for sure.
Q. They say you're coming.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 7 p.m. on his
return to Winfield House. Following his re-
marks, the President went to Heathrow Airport
for the return trip to the United States.
859
