Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
maintain peace and to reduce the arms race; second, to build a better and
a more cooperative international economic system; and third, to work
with potential adversaries as well as our close friends to advance the cause
of human rights.
In seeking these goals, I realize that the United States cannot solve the
problems of the world. We can sometimes help others resolve their differ-
ences, but we cannot do so by imposing our own particular solutions.
In the coming months, there is important work for all of us in
advancing international cooperation and economic progress in the cause
of peace.
Later this spring, the leaders of several industrial nations of Europe,
North America, and Japan will confer at a summit meeting in London
on a broad range of issues. We must promote the health of the industrial
economies. We must seek to restrain inflation and bring ways of managing
our own domestic economies for the benefit of the global economy.
We must move forward with multilateral trade negotiations in
Geneva.
The United States will support the efforts of our friends to strengthen
the democratic institutions in Europe, and particularly in Portugal and
Spain.
We will work closely with our European friends on the forthcoming
Review Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. We want
to make certain that the provisions of the Helsinki agreement are fully
implemented and that progress is made to further East-West cooperation.
In the Middle East we are doing our best to clarify areas of dis-
agreement, to surface underlying consensus, and to help to develop mu-
tually acceptable principles that can form a flexible framework for a
just and a permanent settlement.
In southern Africa, we will work to help attain majority rule through
peaceful means. We believe that such fundamental transformation can
be achieved, to the advantage of both the blacks and whites who live in
that region of the world. Anything less than that may bring a protracted
racial war, with devastating consequences to all.
This week the Government of the United States took action to bring
our country into full compliance with United Nations sanctions against
the illegal regime in Rhodesia. And I will sign that bill Friday in Wash-
ington.
We will put our relations with Latin America on a more constructive
footing, recognizing the global character of the region's problems.
446
