Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 22
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't feel he
has.
OIL COMPANY DIVESTITURE
Q. Mr. President, during the campaign
you said that you favored legislation that
would prohibit ownership of competing
types of energy. You mentioned oil and
gas or oil and coal?
When the energy package came out,
there was no mention of legislation. And
many who look at the situation believe
that you cannot accomplish horizontal
divestiture without legislation. How do
you think you can accomplish it based
upon the lack of success by the Justice
Department?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my position has
been that unless I was personally assured
that adequate competition existed under
existing antitrust laws and revelation of
financial information, that I would favor
horizontal divestiture and divestiture on a
vertical basis at the wholesale and retail
levels of oil distribution.
The proposal that I made to the Con-
gress the other night is, I think, a very
strong and beneficial move to require the
energy producers, the oil companies and
others, to report to the public their profit
and loss on each individual component of
energy production: extraction from the
ground, including exploration, refining,
and distributing, and also break apart
their domestic operations from their for-
eign operations.
I think when this information is ana-
lyzed, it will be almost instantly obvious
that unfair competitive procedures are in
effect within the energy-producing area,
and the antitrust laws can take care of it.
If I ever feel convinced that there is
still an absence of competition within the
energy field after this proposal is put into
effect, I would not hesitate to recommend
divestiture.
MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
Q. Mr. President, we are having re-
peated opportunities, which we enjoy, to
ask questions of you and the American
people to hear from you. But is there a
chance that there could be some overkill
here with the American people and es-
pecially with Congress in terms of getting
your program on energy through?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there may be
overkill in having too much access to the
press. [Laughter]
You know, attendance at the press con-
ferences is voluntary-[laughter-and
I promised during the campaign that I
would have these press conferences at
least twice a month. And my own incli-
nation, my commitment, is to continue
them.
It's a coincidence that this week we
have had such a heavy exposure, and it
has caused me some concern. But this is
my first and only speech to the joint ses-
sion of the Congress. I think Jody Powell
has suggested to the television networks,
for instance, that only one network cover
these press conferences. This is something
we have never asked for. The only time
I have ever requested television or net-
work coverage was for my speech to the
American people Monday night about
the energy problem.
But I can't disagree with you. There is
a danger of overexposure of me in my
presentation to the news media and to
the American people. But I think this is
an extraordinary week and I doubt that
it would be repeated in the future.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, speaking just for
myself, I like to have frequent press con-
ferences although they are sometimes a
little tiring.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. [Laughter]
701
