May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
So, over a period of the next 3 or 4
years, you're going to see California stand-
ards and the national standards be about
the same. We've got cars that are now
being sold, at least used in California,
where you have very good mileage and
also very clean exhausts.
As I said earlier, no matter who's in the
White House, no matter whether my en-
ergy package passes or not, in the future
we're going to see much more efficient
automobiles which we can produce and
which we need, and automobiles with ex-
hausts much cleaner, which we can pro-
duce and which we need.
ABORTION
Q. President Carter, my name is Mary
Jergens and I am a housewife from Irvine.
I'm going to ask you a question that I've
wanted to ask ever since you started run-
ning for President.
During the Presidential campaign you
said that you are opposed to abortion. But
in 1972, a book was written called
"Women in Need" which advocated abor-
tion on demand, and you wrote the fore-
word to it. Specifically, in the foreword
you wrote that women being denied abor-
tions were suffering from a plight, and you
pointed out that the book had suggestions
for making abortions more freely available
in the Nation.
I recently read a newspaper article in
which it was stated that Pat Bario of
your
Press Office would not comment
whether you've changed your position or
not since 1972. But obviously you must
have, because you told us, the people, that
you had. I'd like to know why, sir, because
it is terrifically important.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm glad you asked me
the question. It makes me feel like I'm
back in the campaign again. [Laughter]
The book to which you refer-and
that's just excerpts from the foreword,
where it's not the total thing; it's just care-
fully extracted phrases-was a book about
family planning. The book was written by
the medical doctor who was in charge of
Georgia's family planning program. The
primary emphasis of the family planning
program that we had was to make sure
that every child that was conceived was a
wanted child, and it was designed to help
parents who couldn't have children have
them, and to teach parents who didn't
want to have children how to avoid hav-
ing their children.
I am against abortion. I think abortion
is wrong and I'm doing everything I can
as President to hold down the need for
abortion. I don't think any woman and
her partner ever have intercourse in order
to create a child that's going to be de-
stroyed by abortion. It's quite often a mis-
take or because of ignorance. And to think
the best thing to do is prevent the con-
ception of the child ahead of time, and
this is something that I think needs to be
done with comprehensive programs.
Quite often, the people who are most
poor and illiterate and who have a more
unstable family life are the ones who have
a greater chance to have an illegitimate
child.
Joe Califano, who now heads up the
Department of HEW, feels the same way
I do. And we proposed that the Govern-
ment not help to finance abortions, for
instance, and that we have a comprehen-
sive program to try to prevent the un-
wanted pregnancies.
So, I am not in favor of abortions and
have never been in favor, and I think if
you read the whole book and read the
whole foreword that you would see that I
haven't changed my position.
Q. Sir, it said 3 million abortions a
year by 1980 even with good contracep-
tion, in the chapter on abortion. And I
know that didn't sound like what you said.
And I figured that you read the book be-
fore
you wrote the foreword, but perhaps
898
