Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
budget, about 3 weeks of hard work, we
were able to reduce the suggested expendi-
tures by almost $3 billion, I think about
$2.75 billion. This was done-and I think
Senator Stennis in his recent public state-
ments has confirmed that it has been
done without weakening our own de-
fense capability.
The substantial savings in defense
spending that will still leave us a muscle
will be in such things as the sanitization
of
weapons, long-range planning, a more
business-like allocation of defense con-
tracting, an assessment of the defense con-
tracts for construction and repair already
outstanding, a reassessment of priorities
of the evolution of new weapons which in
the future can become enormously expen-
sive, a longer assignment of military per-
sonnel to a base before they are trans-
ferred, some emphasis on the correction
of inequities and unfairnesses in the re-
tirement system.
These things obviously can't be done in
3 weeks, but they will be an ongoing effort
on my part. And I think the 1979 budget,
which will be my administration's first
budget, will show these improvements to
a substantial degree, Mr. Cormier.
Q. Will next year's defense budget
actually be lower than the one that you
just revised?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say yet.
CIA ACTIVITIES
Q. Mr. President, do you think it was
proper for the CIA to pay off King Hus-
sein and other foreign leaders, and what
steps are you taking to make yourself more
knowledgeable and more accountable for
what CIA does?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've adopted a
policy, which I am not going to leave, of
not commenting directly on any specific
CIA activity. But I can tell you that I
have begun a complete analysis, which
will be completed within the next week,
of all activities by the CIA. I've received
substantial reports already. I've reviewed
the more controversial revelations that
have been publicized in the last few days,
some quite erroneous, some with some de-
gree of accuracy. These same operations
have been reviewed by the Intelligence
Oversight Board, an independent board,
and also by my predecessor, President
Ford.
I have not found anything illegal or
improper. If in future assessments, which
will come quite early, I discover such an
impropriety or an illegality, I will not only
take immediate action to correct it but
also will let the American people know
about it.
I might say this: This is a very serious
problem of how in a democracy to have
adequate intelligence gathered, assessed,
and used to guarantee the security of our
country. It's not part of the American
nature to do things in secret. Obviously,
historically and still at this modern time,
there is a necessity to protect sources of
information from other nations.
Sometimes other governments cooper-
ate with us fully; sometimes they don't.
But I will try to be sure and so will Stan
Turner, who will be the next director of
the intelligence community. He will try
to be sure that everything we do is not
only proper and legal but also compatible
with the attitudes of the American people.
One other point I'd like to make is
this: It can be extremely damaging to our
relationship with other nations, to the
potential security of our country even in
peacetime, for these kinds of operations,
which are legitimate and proper, to be
revealed. It makes it hard for us to lay a
groundwork on which we might predicate
a successful meeting of a threat to us in
time of war if we don't have some degree
of secrecy.
I am quite concerned about the num-
ber of people now who have access to this
218
