Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
not only saved a tremendous amount of
energy and expense but we also derived
tremendous financial benefit, and so did
the rest of the world in getting cheaper
food.
Well, I know you are experimenting,
for instance, with minimum tillage for the
production of our crops. And this is the
kind of thing that can be done. I am in
the process of choosing a scientific adviser
for the President. The first six nomina-
tions I got were all physicists. I turned
them all down. I am going to choose an
earth scientist as my number one scientific
adviser. That will be another insurance to
my own interest that agricultural research
will not be ignored in the future.
FEDERAL TAX REFORM
Q. You have recently given advice
against living in sin. Don't you think the
present tax laws encourage this?
THE PRESIDENT. The question was
pointed out that recently I have given ad-
vice against living in sin. The point was
made that the present tax laws encourage
such-[laughter]-I started to say extra-
curricular activities, but I guess that is not
-and that is a fact. I don't want to pub-
licize it, and I hope you don't tell anybody
about it, but two people who do live to-
gether who are not married have an ad-
vantage when they pay their income tax.
We've put in, you might be interested
in knowing, a stimulus package that would
have given a $2,400 standard deduction
to married people. We discovered in the
last 2 or 3 days that this further exag-
gerates the advantage of not living to-
gether while married. So, we have
changed that proposal now and we are
giving a $2,100 standard deduction-or
$2,200 to single people, $3,000 to married
people, so that we won't aggravate that
encouragement not to be married.
I might say this: When we have a com-
plete revision of the income tax structure,
the study of which will be completed I
think by the end of September, that will be
one of the basic questions.
I would also like to remove the social
security regulations and others that en-
courage the breaking up of families. It is
not just a matter of living in sin. But it is
a matter of trying to analyze all the Gov-
ernment regulations and structures, and
laws and welfare and otherwise that tend
to force a father to leave a home and
break up with a family. Obviously, you
can't legislate morality of that nature. But
I think we can remove from that decision-
making process, a financial reward for the
destruction of families, either through wel-
fare payment, if a husband is not in a
home, which encourages the breaking up
of the family.
But I am familiar with the problem on
tax. It will be covered in the comprehen-
sive tax reform assessment that is under-
going a complete study this year. We will
be ready to recommend to the Congress a
complete tax reform package this fall. Our
present target date is the 4th or 5th of
October.
FEDERAL PAY RAISES
Q. How do you feel about comparable
pay raises for Federal employees com-
pared to those in the private sector? The
increase in Federal pay has not been keep-
ing up with outside jobs.
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, how
do I feel about comparable pay raises for
Federal employees compared to those in
the private sector. The further remark
was made that the increase in Federal pay
has not been keeping up with outside job
payments.
I would certainly favor the concept of
comparability. I am just a little reluctant
to admit at this point that in the past this
has not been done. I don't know about
that. I would certainly favor comparable
increases in salary.
171
