Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 21
Swearing-In Ceremony
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Under
Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator
of the Small Business Administration, the
Commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission, and a Member of
the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
April 21, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. This is another occasion
which brings to me a great sense of re-
sponsibility and pleasure, both for myself
as President and also for our country.
One of the most difficult assignments
that a newly elected President can have is
to choose people who are willing to serve
with him in leading our country, particu-
larly in those very difficult positions
where conflicts of interest come into play
and where sound judgment and absolute
integrity are mandatory.
This afternoon we have a swearing-in
ceremony for four people who have been
selected after a long and tedious screen-
ing process. I can assure you they are the
best ones available for the jobs in the
entire country. It's a credit to them, and
their service will be a credit to our
country.
I'd like to introduce to you, first of all,
Sidney Harman, who's come here as a
very successful entrepreneur himself. He
started out as a small businessman, but
his business grew very rapidly. I think he
now, in Harman Industries, has about
several thousand employees. But he's had
an innovative approach to management
and employee relationships. He even
established, I understand, a newspaper
that he and his company financed for
employees to criticize management. Is
that correct, Sidney?
MR. HARMAN. Yes, it is.
THE PRESIDENT. He is going to need
that tough skin in his new job as Under
Secretary of Commerce.
I particularly want to mention his
mother. Mrs. Harman has come here to-
day to be with her son and with me. And
I hope the group will welcome her. She
happens to be 95 years old. And I think
she exemplifies-is that correct?
MR. HARMAN. Just correct. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. I thought
that was wrong for a minute.
But we're so glad that you could come.
She looks so young and so vigorous, and
she reminds me a lot of my mother. And
this confidence that she has in her son is
well placed.
We also have with us this afternoon a
very good and a very close friend of mine.
Vernon Weaver and I happen to have
been classmates at the U.S. Naval Acad-
emy. We didn't know each other very
well then, but we've come to know each
other well since then. He's a man from
Arkansas who will head up the Small
Business Administration.
He brings to that very sensitive and
important job experience and background
which will stand him in good stead as he
helps newcomers to the business world to
establish their own place in their new
endeavors. And I think he also brings a
sensitivity to their needs that will stand
him in good stead.
When I began my own business, I
couldn't expand because of my ignorance
and lack of financial resources. I went to
the Small Business Administration and
got a loan to expand my peanut shelling
operation, to put in a cotton gin, and to
build an office and to put in some scales.
It was my biggest adventure, in an inde-
pendent way, of my life until that time.
I not only got a loan but I got a con-
tinuation in subsequent years of mature
counsel, because volunteer retired busi-
ness leaders would come down to Plains
and consult with me on how best to man-
age my own affairs.
691
