Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Specifically, I propose the following
legislative actions:
• New temporary authority to allow
the Economic Development Administra-
tion and the Farmers Home Administra-
tion to provide $150 million in grants and
$300 million in low-interest (5%) loans
to communities for emergency water sys-
tem improvements which can be com-
pleted quickly and which are essential to
protect public health and safety.
• Establishment of a new Small Busi-
ness Administration drought assistance
loan program to provide $50 million in
low-interest (5%) loans to small busi-
nesses in major drought designated areas.
• The establishment of a new Farmers
Home Administration drought assistance
loan pogram in which prospective losses
can be included. This program will pro-
vide $100 million in 5% loans to farmers
and ranchers in major drought designated
areas.
• New legislation to authorize the Sec-
retary of the Interior to provide $100 mil-
lion in low-interest (5%) loans to pur-
chasers of water. (Endorsement of the
water bank objectives of S-925).
Supplemental funds totalling $14
million for the Southwestern Power Ad-
ministration to ensure adequate energy
supplies.
Supplemental funds in the amount
of $30 million to the Bureau of Reclama-
tion to provide assistance to irrigators on
Federal Reclamation projects.
• Transfer to the Department of Agri-
culture from the Federal Disaster Assist-
ance Administration authority to admin-
ister and fund the Emergency Livestock
Feed Program.
Supplemental funds to the Agricul-
tural Stabilization and Conservation Serv-
ice in the amount of $100 million to pro-
vide for cost-sharing of emergency soil
conservation practices.
In addition, I have directed the follow-
ing administrative measures:
• The Secretaries of Agriculture and
Interior will make available additional
Federal lands for grazing and issue emer-
gency permits as appropriate.
• The Secretary of Agriculture will
take administrative steps to ensure that
trained fire-fighters and essential equip-
ment are available to meet the increased
danger of forest and wildfires.
When added to the supplemental ap-
propriation of $200 million for disaster
assistance, these new legislative proposals
will provide almost $1 billion in addi-
tional drought assistance and bring to al-
most $2 billion the assistance provided by
the Federal government.
I believe the legislative proposals and
administrative actions outlined above of-
fer the best possibility of providing im-
mediate assistance to meet the needs of
some of our fellow Americans in this pe-
riod of crisis. I urge immediate consid-
eration of the legislative proposals and
their timely adoption. If we are to be of
real help to the people afflicted, time is of
the essence.
The White House,
March 23, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
Press Office announced that the President had
signed H.J. Res. 269, which appropriates $200
million in supplemental 1977 budget authority
for disaster relief activities of the Federal Dis-
aster Assistance Administration, Department
of Housing and Urban Development.
As enacted, H.J. Res. 269 is Public Law
95-13, approved March 21.
488
