Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Herbst was appointed Commissioner
of Natural Resources for the State of
Minnesota in 1971.
He is the recipient of many awards, in-
cluding the "Best Conservation Educa-
tion Program in the Nation" from the
American Association for Conservation
Information, 1974.
Herbst and his wife, Evelyn, have three
children and reside in Bloomington,
Minn.
National Energy Policy
Announcement of Invitation to the Public
To Assist in the Formulation of a
Comprehensive Policy. March 2, 1977
The White House today announced it
was issuing a broad invitation to the pub-
lic to assist, through its comments, in the
formulation of a comprehensive national
energy policy by April 20.
James R. Schlesinger, Assistant to the
President on energy matters, said the in-
vitation was being extended in a letter to
some 450,000 citizens and through publi-
cation of a notice in the FEDERAL
REGISTER.
Some 300,000 of the letters were sent
to private citizens selected at random
from Bureau of Census lists and meant to
The mailing was undertaken to supple-
ment the reach of the notice in the
FEDERAL REGISTER. It consists of an an-
nouncement from Mr. Schlesinger and a
reprint of the FEDERAL REGISTER notice.
The effort is in keeping with President
Carter's commitment to involve the pub-
lic as much as possible in the affairs of
their Government.
Citizens are urged to return written
replies to P.O. Box 2778, Washington,
D.C. 20013, by March 21.
Among the issues on which citizens are
asked to comment are:
-the proper actions to achieve conser-
vation of energy resources;
-the proper scope and emphasis in
developing new or additional energy
resources;
-the approach for the proper protec-
tion of the environment;
-the appropriate role for Federal,
State, and local government;
-the most equitable approach to the
sharing of any burdens fairly within the
society, as well as other matters.
NOTE: The notice is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of March 2, 1977.
State and Local Officials
Involvement in Administration
represent a cross-section of the popu- Policies and Programs
lation.
Other letters went to: 6,000 members
of the League of Women Voters, environ-
mentalists, conservationists, and members
of other public interest groups; 4,500
State and local officials; almost 20,000
members of the academic community;
leaders of labor organizations; every
Member of Congress; some 115,000 rep-
resentatives of both small and large
businesses and industries, and 3,000 in-
dividuals from the news media.
Memorandum for the Heads of
Executive Departments and Agencies.
February 25, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Throughout the campaign and transi-
tion period, I made a firm commitment to
state and local officials that they would be
involved in the development of my Ad-
ministration's policy and budget priorities
274
