Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 24
prisons, those who have been kept from
free travel, those who have suffered be-
cause their families are divided, the action
that they took was a few words. But I
think now there's a general feeling around
the world that we each must make our
own nations free of legitimate criticism
from other countries and among our own
citizens.
This change is slow, but I think it exem-
plifies what the American people feel, and
I believe it's an achievement of which we
can be proud.
We are discussing without cessation a
reduction in strategic atomic weapons
with the Soviet Union. We are negotiating
today in Moscow to eliminate the testing
of atomic explosives. We are trying to
move toward demilitarization of the In-
dian Ocean and to lessen tensions which
might lead to war.
These kinds of efforts, I think, will be
successful if I can accurately represent
what you are and what you want our Na-
tion to do and to be. Because if I speak
after a policy is evolved in secrecy, I speak
with a single voice. But if you participate
in the debate and the discussion and then
I evolve a policy based on what you want,
I speak with the voice of 215 million
Americans.
And the last thing I want to say is this.
Senator Humphrey, Vice President Mon-
dale, many of the members of the Cabinet,
the Members of the Congress are working
closely with me in the hopes that not too
far in the future we might arrive at a
settlement in the Middle East that will
guarantee a permanent status of a free,
strong, secure, and peaceful Israel.
These are some of the purposes of our
party, in the White House and in the
Capitol, and they are purposes of yours.
None of them are easy. Many of the prob-
lems that we are now addressing have
been postponed for year after year, dec-
ade after decade, some even for genera-
tions. But I believe that the best way that
we can prevent a further deterioration in
the circumstances that do concern us is to
address them forcefully and with courage
and with mutual support.
We need your help, not just to raise
funds for our party but also to make sure
that the purposes of our Nation are real-
ized and that we who serve in public
office as Democrats and as Americans can
deserve your trust and that together we
might continue to be proud of our coun-
try, the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
Color Television Receiver
Imports
Proclamation 4511. June 24, 1977
IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDERLY MARKET-
ING AGREEMENT ON CERTAIN COLOR
TELEVISION RECEIVERS
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
1. On March 22, 1977, the United
States International Trade Commission
(USITC) reported to the President
(USITC Publication 808) the results of
its investigation under subsection (b) of
section 201 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C.
2251(b)) (the Trade Act). The USITC
determined that color television receivers
assembled or not assembled, finished or
not finished, provided for in item 685.20
of the Tariff Schedules of the United
States (TSUS) are being imported into
the United States in such increased quan-
tities as to be a substantial cause of serious
injury to the domestic industry produc-
ing articles like or directly competitive
1157
