Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
America. In maintaining and strengthen-
ing these ties, my administration will be
guided by certain principles. Simply
stated:
-We will continue to make the Alli-
ance the heart of our foreign policy.
-We will remain a reliable and faith-
ful ally.
-We will join with you to strengthen
the Alliance-politically, economi-
cally, and militarily.
-We will ask for and listen to the ad-
vice of our allies. And we will give
our views in return, candidly and as
friends.
This effort rests on a strong foundation.
The state of the Alliance is good. Its
strategy and doctrine are solid. We derive
added strength and new pride from the
fact that all 15 of our member countries
are now democracies. Our Alliance is a
pact for peace and a pact for freedom.
The Alliance is even stronger because
of solid progress toward Western Euro-
pean unification and the expanding role
of the European Community in world af-
fairs. The United States welcomes this
development and will work closely with
the Community.
Political
In the aftermath of World War II, the
political imperatives were clear: to build
the strength of the West and to deter
Soviet aggression. Since then, East-West
relations have become far more complex.
Managing them requires patience and
skill.
Our approach to East-West relations
must be guided both by a humane vision
and by a sense of history. Our humane
vision leads us to seek broad cooperation
with Communist states for the good of
mankind. Our sense of history teaches us
that we and the Soviet Union will con-
tinue to compete. Yet if we manage this
dual relationship properly, we can hope
that cooperation will eventually over-
shadow competition, leading to an in-
creasingly stable relationship between our
countries and the Soviet Union.
The United States is now discussing
with the Soviet Union ways to control
strategic arms. By involving the Soviet
Union in a continuing effort to reduce
and eventually to eliminate nuclear weap-
ons, we hope not only to minimize the
risks and costs of continuing arms com-
petition but also to promote broader co-
operation between our countries.
The Soviet Union has not yet accepted
our proposals. But it has made clear that
it wants an agreement. We will persevere
in seeking an early and a genuine end to
the arms race, through both a freeze on
modernization of strategic weapons and
substantial reductions in their number.
And as we pursue this goal, we will con-
tinue to consult with you fully-not only
to keep you informed but also to seek
your views.
I hope that our countries can also
reach agreement with the Soviet Union
in limiting and reducing conventional
forces. The United States strongly sup-
ports the efforts of the Alliance to gain
an acccord on mutual and balanced re-
duction of forces in Central Europe. That
agreement should be based on parity in
force levels through overall ceilings for
the forces of NATO and the Warsaw
Pact. The Soviet Union, by contrast, seeks
to preserve the present conventional im-
balance and to impose national force
ceilings. I hope that these obstacles can
be overcome. MBFR must be a means for
achieving mutual security, not for gain-
ing one-sided military advantage.
As we pursue arms control with the
Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact, we
should also try to draw the nations of
Eastern Europe into cooperative under-
takings. Our aim is not to turn this re-
gion against the Soviet Union, but to en-
849
