Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 26
no matter what we do, that downward
trend is going to continue. We're just run-
ning out of oil and natural gas.
Another point is I'm going to move as
aggressively as I can to force industrial
users away from natural gas toward more
plentiful supplies of fuel; I'd say primar-
ily coal for stationary heat generation.
Natural gas, as you know, in some
form-some factories, is used as a raw
material and also as the only available
heat source because of the need for clean-
burning characteristics and so forth. So,
I can't answer your question about that.
We had hopes that are not now going
to be realized that we could put into effect
the Government reorganization on estab-
lishing the department of energy before
it was confused with an energy policy.
But the Congress leaders, particularly the
Republican leaders, have said they want
to look at my energy policy before they'll
go along with the establishment of a new
department.
I think we can probably prevail in
both instances if our proposals are good
ones. And if I can convince the American
people back in your communities that
they're good, that's the best way to con-
vince the Congress that they're good.
Q. Will there be short-term as well as
long-term proposals in those policies?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We hope to ini-
tiate immediately a consciousness in
America of the need for conservation. We
hope to initiate changes in the law that
will force conservation. We need to shift
toward more plentiful supplies of energy
as rapidly as possible and all these mat-
ters I hope would have not only immedi-
ate but long-term effect.
I'm personally not in favor of a very
expensive, crash program to extract from
our own resources additional rates of pro-
duction of natural gas and oil. I think
probably one of the best investments we
can make is to keep oil and gas in the
ground and quit wasting what is
produced.
So, we're putting together now what
I'm sure you can see clearly is one of the
most complicated proposals that's ever
been devised in our country, because it
involves both incentives, patriotic moti-
vations, mandatory constraints, shifts of
vast sums of potential profit, or consumer
costs back and forth.
It involves every level of government.
There is not a single person in this Na-
tion that doesn't use energy as a crucial
element of necessities of life.
It involves the most unforeseeable
kinds of research and development,
short-term and long-term. So we're going
to do the best we can. And I'm sure that
when we come up with a policy which I
will reveal to the joint session of Con-
gress on April 20, it'll be modified in the
future. It's not going to be the final policy
that will never be changed. It'll obviously
be changed for the next hundred years.
But I think it's going to be a good one.
I've got the best man in the United
States to do it; that's Dr. James Schles-
inger. And I feel confident about him.
Q. Dr. Schlesinger told us this morning
that one of the toughest problems in the
new proposals, the new plan, will be the
regional political differences. Are you
planning to take a personal and strong
position in doing something about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. The only
thing I see that can be done is to put to-
gether the entire package, no single com-
ponent of which might be attractive to a
group, but if they see that in its entirety
it's fair and that the sacrifice that that
group might have to make is not out of
proportion to the sacrifice that other
people might have to make, in that way
I think we can sell it.
If I came up with any single part of a
comprehensive energy policy, even though
it might have every good merit, I couldn't
519
