Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 7
I think that every family who does live
in that dilapidated apartment dwelling
can breathe a little easier knowing that if
their children are sick that poverty or
despair will not prevent their child from
getting just as good medical treatment as
the little daughter of the President of the
United States.
That's what's good about a system of
government such as ours. We've got a
long way to go in the field of health care,
but this is a major step forward. And I'm
very proud of what has been done and
look forward with a great deal of deter-
mination to earn, as President, working
with all of you, the medal that has been
struck and presented to me and Rosalynn.
It will go in the White House museum
or in the Archives. And I hope it will be
a reminder in generations to come of the
concern that many of you have had long
before I was elected President at these
tiny but precious emblems of concern in
the greatest country on Earth—the chil-
dren that we care so much about.
welcome back to our country an old
friend of mine and a long-time friend of
the United States-Prime Minister Rabin
from Israel.
We've had two foreign visitors already.
This is a different kind of visit. This is
going to be a series of working sessions.
Because of the crucial nature of prob-
lems that face the Middle East and the
close historic ties between Israel and the
United States, we've decided to minimize
the amount of time spent in ceremony.
We will have a meeting tonight at a ban-
quet, but it will be a working banquet.
And I believe that this is the kind of
interrelationship that will demonstrate to
the world the seriousness with which we
address our problems in the Middle East,
our commitment to Israel, our long-
standing friendship, our sharing of demo-
cratic principles and human liberty, and
our constant search for peace.
As many of you may know, in the Six-
Day War in Israel a number of years ago,
the strategist and the tactician and the
Thank you again. I'm proud to be part commander was Prime Minister Rabin.
of this great ceremony.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in
the center court of the new hospital. Prior to
his remarks, the President and Mrs. Carter
were presented with a gold medallion, struck
in honor of the occasion by the governing
board of the hospital. The President accepted
Later, he was ambassador to our country.
And while I was Governor of Georgia,
he and his wife visited me in Atlanta. He
had political aspirations then, I imagine,
in the back of his mind. His success in
politics was much more rapid than I have
achieved. When I went to Israel not too
the medal on behalf of the American people, long ago, he came back from Africa to
who financed the Center through private dona-
tions and Federal grants and loans.
Visit of Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin of Israel
Remarks of the President and the Prime
Minister at the Welcoming Ceremony.
March 7, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to say first of
all that I am very deeply grateful to
meet with me and to explain to me in a
2- or 3-hour session in my hotel room
some of the inner workings and hidden
mechanism of the Israeli political struc-
ture. I didn't realize then how well he
understood them because shortly after-
wards he became the Prime Minister of
that great country. Later, I've now be-
come President of our country.
But I think this long-standing relation-
ship with him and a personal knowledge
of him and his deep commitment to peace
329
