Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 26
to a newspaper editor's and so forth it's
insignificant. [Laughter]
And I would guess that the winter that
we've just experienced would not come
along again in the next 100 years. In the
177 years that we've kept records, we've
never had a winter that severe.
So, I think that's an extraordinary case,
and I think we'll be much better pre-
pared for it next year than we were. But
I just can't guarantee that it still won't
be a problem. I might say that there are
so many things involved I can't go into
detail. But mandatory insulation of homes
and working through power companies to
help pay for rapid insulation of homes is a
very significant thing.
I'll just give you one quick example.
The TVA program which used to be a
very valuable demonstration project for
progress and innovation has become dor-
mant and just another power company in
my opinion in the last 15 years or so. We
expect to use the TVA again as a massive
demonstration project. They are contem-
plating now, for instance, peak load pay-
ments where they put a little red light in
everybody's kitchen. They have about
14,000 homes this way. That red light
comes on when peak load is high. And if
the housewife wants to wash-well, I guess
the husband wants to wash dishes-
[laughter]—or wash clothes when that red
light is on, it costs them a lot of extra
money because the rate is higher. And if
they'll use electricity when the red light is
not on, then it doesn't cost them as much.
Another thing that they're trying to do
is to pay for-TVA will pay for the blow-
ing of insulation in attics and so forth to
make sure that the house is more efficient.
And then they charge for the electricity at
the same monthly rate that existed last
year. And the cost of the insulation is paid
off by the difference between what elec-
tricity you used last year compared to
what you save this year.
I hope you follow me. But that's the
kind of thing that will be done. There are
a lot of little tricks that you can use, some
of them are voluntary, some of them are
mandatory.
Q. If you take a look at the magnitude
of the energy problem facing the United
States now and in the near future and
compare that with the-emerging the at-
tributes of your energy program, the so-
called sacrifices that are going to be made
—are you concerned that there is quite a
large gap between what's going to be
proposed and what needs to be done?
For example, there is very little indica-
tion of much assault on the sprawling
suburban lifestyle, on the commitment to
individual mobility. Are you going to try
to get at these kinds of factors?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. And how?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't answer
your question on how yet. For instance,
agriculture and transportation, that you've
just described, are two aspects of the en-
ergy-use cycle that are very, very wasteful.
And they will be part of the component
parts.
Obviously, we can't fill in every detail,
you know, in a brief period of time we've
had to work on it. I promised when I was
inaugurated that we'd have our report to
the public in 90 days-3 months.
I was inaugurated on the 20th of Jan-
uary. We'll have the report the 20th of
April. But we'll be continuing in the next
4 years to embellish upon and to imple-
ment the proposals that will be described
on the 20th of April.
But I don't know how to answer your
question better. We now waste as much
energy that we can save as the total
amount of oil imports that come into our
country.
And through business and government
and private homes, transportation, farm-
ing, we can save enormous quantities of
521
