Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
life, to that extent you will be isolated.
Chances are the changes will be made
anyway, and you will be removed from an
opportunity to contribute.
We are not going to change things just
for the sake of change. What I want to do
is to have an efficient, economical, pur-
poseful government within which every
employee, including the President, has a
chance to use our ability and talent to an
optimum degree, to serve others, not our-
selves. And I think that this will be an
exciting time.
I hope to establish, along with your
help, a continuing good relationship with
Congress. I don't consider Congress to be
my enemy. I consider them to be my part-
ner, because I represent every one of their
constituents and so do you.
This afternoon I have come over here
not to make a speech, maybe to talk 8 or
10 minutes, which I have already done,
and to try to answer your questions.
As you know, as I have said already, I
am new on the job. I don't plan to be
able to answer all the questions. I am here
to learn. But I want to demonstrate in a
natural way without any subterfuge that
I am part of the same government you
are.
I hope that on occasion-I haven't
talked to her about this-that Secretary
Kreps might repeat this kind of interrela-
tionship with you so that an hour or so,
every few weeks, you might have a chance
to stand in your place and ask a question
or to make a criticism or suggestion, to do
it either verbally, if you choose, or in
written form.
We will try to make sure that our budg-
eting process, using the zero-based budg-
eting technique, includes you in the de-
cisions that might go into the evolution of
next year's budget. It will give you a
chance to see what you are doing, how
you could do it better, and to make your
suggestions known to her, to the Office of
Management and Budget, and to me.
If anybody has a question now, I will
try to answer it. I will try to keep my an-
swers brief and cover as many questions as
I can. I think they have set up, by the
way, microphones in the aisles so that
your questions might be heard. So, you
do have a question, you might go to one
of the microphones and give it to me. Yes,
sir?
QUESTIONS
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
Q. Mr. President, my name is David
Larkin. I am sure I speak for all the em-
ployees of the Department in thanking
you for the opportunity to ask questions
of you. It certainly marks a welcome im-
provement in employer-employee rela-
tionships, and it should help us to be more
responsive to your leadership.
THE PRESIDENT. That is enough. That
is fine. Just stop right there.
No, I will give you a question, too.
[Laughter]
Q. Here is my question, Mr. President:
Have you had an opportunity to review
the Presidential Management Initiatives
program that President Ford started last
summer, and if you have, do you intend
to continue that or a similar management
improvement belt-tightening type of
pro-
gram regarding the internal workings of
the Government?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I am familiar
with the program as it was initiated by
President Ford. I think it is an excellent
idea. The management of the Govern-
ment by establishing specific goals will be
part of my own administration's policies.
In addition to that, the zero-based
budgeting technique is a very simple proc-
ess by which the fiscal year 1979 budget
will be prepared. It not only goes to the
management level but it goes to the sub-
management level deep within the struc-
112
