Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
next week to the American people will
outline some of the problems, a few of the
answers that we have, and emphasize the
cooperation that's going to be required.
ANDREW YOUNG
Q. Mr. President, do you have any res-
ervations or maybe second thoughts about
Ambassador Young's comments on Great
Britain?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think Andy has
explained to the British what he meant. I
think they've accepted his explanation
well. The British Government considers it
to be an end to the matter, and so do I.
BRUMBY ROCKERS
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think all of the
nations that were in such a dominant posi-
tion in the last number of generations have
obviously been guilty of racism. But I cer-
tainly wouldn't think the British are any
more guilty than we are. I think we've all
overcome that facet of our society in a
very constructive way, and I don't believe
that Great Britain deserves any special
criticism.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, do you think that the
resignation of Prime Minister Rabin may
throw off your timetable for the Geneva
talks and a settlement in the Middle East?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. Obvi-
ously, the Israeli Labor Party will now be
Q. Mr. President, have you received searching for a replacement candidate for
your Brumby rockers yet?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have. As a mat-
ter of fact, on my desk is a photograph of
the five Brumby rockers that I'm going to
endorse and send back to the rocking chair
manufacturing company when I get back
to Washington Sunday night.
The first time we used them was when
Cyrus Vance and Paul Warnke came to
make a report to me and to Dr. Brzezinski
and to Vice President Mondale. And the
five of us used the Georgia rockers for the
first time.
They are on the Truman balcony, and
I've really enjoyed them. They remind me
a lot of the Georgia mansion, where we
had a large back porch and some Georgia-
made rocking chairs on it. So, we are
proud of them. We've already used them,
and I'll be using them regularly from now
on.
GREAT BRITAIN AND RACISM
Q. Mr. President—[inaudible]—Am-
bassador Young's evaluation of the British
stance on racism?
Prime Minister Rabin in May. And I be-
lieve that the outcome of the election
might very well be affected; nobody can
anticipate how.
But there is a great realization among
the Israeli leaders that 1977 is an impor-
tant year. There is almost a unanimous
commitment, I think, among all the Mid-
eastern countries, that if we don't succeed
this year in some major step toward peace
that it will be a long time before we can
mount such a mammoth multinational
effort again.
So, it
be affected the chances for
peace-but no one can predict how. And
I believe the Israelis will push forward
with their own strong desire to have a
permanent and lasting peace with the
Arab neighbors, to have borders that they
can defend, and that the Palestinian ques-
tion be resolved. I don't think the identity
of one particular political figure, even the
Prime Minister, will affect that adversely.
may
Q. Mr. President, when you were meet-
ing with President Sadat and you were
talking about this Palestinian question,
did you get any impression that there is
600
