Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 11
It's too early to be discouraged, but I
think it's premature to be at ease. And
unless the American public can be aroused
to help me and others who believe that
this is extremely important, and that the
American public are willing to accept
some sacrifice if it's fair, I'm afraid that
we are not going to have an adequate pro-
gram when it's over.
But later on, I'll go more and more
public in my own expressions of concern
and congratulations. But I think the issue
is in doubt. And unless the American peo-
ple speak up,
the special interests are going
to prevail.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Q. Mr. President, going back to Mr.
Cunningham's question on the Post Office,
the members have asked me, as chairman,
to say to you that the Hanley-Wilson bill
that was introduced yesterday is one whose
provisions we can pretty generally support
and will.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. That's
good to know. I might point out that a
couple of weeks ago I directed my staff to
start concentrating on the Post Office
question. And we've not ignored it. It's
just a matter of time sequence. And Stu
Eizenstat and others, Bert Lance in the
OMB, are working now with me to try to
come up with a reasonable opinion of our
own.
I don't know the provisions of the bill
yet, but I'll learn. There's the tradeoff that
I described earlier between reduction in
deliveries, the Saturday deliveries, com-
pared to increases in postal rates for first
class and other rates, which I know is of
great interest to you, is one that I'll have
to address. And of course, I will have a
great deal of influence on what the Con-
gress ultimately decides.
Thank you. Yes, sir?
DOMESTIC POLICIES
Q. Mr. President, I wonder if I could
ask you a conceptual question in terms of
the way in which the last 8 months-3
months after the election, prior to the In-
auguration, 5 months since you've been
able to identify a strategy—and we heard
Charlie Schultze express it very well this
morning-in terms of reduction of unem-
ployment and inflation, balance the budget
by 1981, increase capital spending.
At the same time, as you said, I think at
the outset, particularly you've initiated
many objectives, much work
should've been done a long time ago.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
that
Q. You built a staff, you got a commit-
tee to work together to identify issues and
to identify options on those issues, alter-
natives, and to identify tradeoffs, not just
within a department but within multide-
partments. What gives you, and what you
give the public, any sense of confidence
that as you develop the ways in which you
hope to accomplish the strategy, which
you already have articulated, that it can
indeed be accomplished? I'm particu-
larly concerned about how the business
community perceives this entire process,
which is so very, very different and done
entirely in public from what would exist
within a corporation if one identified the
strategy, again, to look at the objectives
needed to accomplish it and to set up
some task forces, study groups, one didn't
have a Congress, didn't have the kinds of
pressures that you have.
And I just wonder how certain you are
that by the time you have stipulated you
want these things to happen, the ways in
which to do it, particularly working with
Congress, can be worked out? This is
not-
THE PRESIDENT. I know.
Well, there's no way that I can guaran-
tee that ahead of time. I think the track
record so far has been very favorable, al-
1093
