Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 11
and shall conduct investigations of those
persons to determine their qualifications.
SEC. 3. Report; Duration.
(a) The Committee shall submit to the
President and to the Attorney General,
within ninety days from the date of this
Order, a report listing the names of the
five persons whom the Committee con-
siders best qualified to serve as the Direc-
tor and setting forth such other informa-
tion as the President or the Attorney
General may require.
(b) The Committee shall terminate
thirty days after submission of its report,
unless its duration is extended by the
President. So long as the Committee re-
mains in existence, it shall conduct such
additional inquiries and submit such addi-
tional reports as may be requested by the
President or the Attorney General.
SEC. 4. Ineligibility of Committee
Members. No member of the Committee
shall be eligible to be considered as a
possible nominee for the position of Di-
rector.
SEC. 5. Cooperation by Executive Agen-
cies. The Committee is authorized to
request, through its Chairman, from any
Executive department or agency such in-
formation or assistance as the Committee
deems necessary to carry out its functions
under this Order. Each department or
agency shall, to the extent permitted by
law, furnish such information or assistance
to the Committee. The Committee also is
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703).
(b) The Attorney General shall furnish
to the Committee necessary staff, supplies,
facilities and other administrative services.
(c) All necessary expenses incurred in
connection with the work of the Commit-
tee, to the extent permitted by law, shall
be paid from funds available to the At-
torney General.
SEC. 7. Federal Advisory Committee Act
Functions. Notwithstanding the provisions
of
any other Executive order, the functions
of the President under the Federal Advis-
ory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I),
except that of reporting annually to the
Congress, which are applicable to the
Committee, shall be performed by the At-
torney General in accordance with guide-
lines and procedures established by the
Office of Management and Budget.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 11, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:36 p.m., February 11, 1977]
National Poison Prevention
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4486. February 11, 1977
authorized to request from any State By the President of the United States
agency such information and assistance as
the Committee deems necessary, and to
obtain such information and assistance
to the extent permitted by State law.
SEC. 6. Travel Expenses; Administra-
tive Support; Financing.
(a) Members of the Committee shall
serve without compensation. While en-
gaged in the work of the Committee,
members may receive travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
of America
A Proclamation
As parents and teachers, we encourage
our children to be curious and inquisitive.
But a child's curiosity can sometimes bring
tragedy.
tragedy. Most American homes contain
potential poisons-polishes, cleaners,
medicines, solvents, and pesticides. When
children can find these substances, they
naturally experiment with them.
145
