Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 8
affairs, as we have between SALT talks
and human rights.
One more question.
THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, what significance
should be placed on Ambassador Do-
brynin's visit to the State Department
[inaudible]-SALT talks? Does this indi-
cate any softening in your mind on the
part of the Russians?
THE PRESIDENT. It confirms my own
unwavering opinion that the Soviets want
a successful resolution of nuclear arms
control, the same as we do.
that would be in existence in 1985, if our
proposal was accepted.
If during this reanalysis we show that
there is any inequity there, we would be
very eager to change it. My own opinion
so far and I've done a good bit of work
on it, even since the Moscow talks-is
that our proposal was fair and was
equitable. And if the Soviets can give us
some explanation about which we were
not aware concerning their own capabili-
ties or plans, I would certainly take that
into consideration.
But I believe that Dobrynin's visit to
Vance is encouraging. I think if one reads
It's always inevitable that in a political Gromyko's entire text in his press confer-
campaign or a SALT negotiation or a
debate between myself and Congress, that
the degree of combat and dispute and dif-
ferences is the part that is emphasized.
It's the most newsworthy part, and it's
the part that's easier to understand.
There was a great deal of progress
made in the recent Moscow talks. As you
know, study committees were set up to
explore new ideas that had never been
put on the SALT negotiating table.
I believe that Mr. Dobrynin's conver-
sation with Mr. Vance—and, of course,
I've had a complete report on it—was
encouraging. There is about a month be-
tween now and when the SALT negotia-
tions will proceed in Geneva between Mr.
Gromyko and Secretary Vance.
And during that period of time, we'll
be reassessing some of the objections that
the Soviets have raised to see if there is
some alternative that would be equally
fair to both sides, and we are now making
projections of our own level of nuclear
armaments in the number of missiles, the
number of warheads, the throw weight
and the diversity of nuclear capability
ence, it was encouraging. And the private
messages that I have had from Mr.
Brezhnev have also been encouraging.
I am not discouraged. And I'm deter-
mined that we'll succeed in having not
only a ratification of the Vladivostok
agreements but substantive commitments
on both sides to actually reduce nuclear
weapons below what they have been in
the past.
Q. Have you heard from Brezhnev
lately, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think that I've
already said that was the last question.
Let me say in closing that I'm very
grateful to be home. Thank you for com-
ing out here.
There is a continual means by which I
can communicate with Mr. Brezhnev,
either through normal diplomatic sources
or otherwise. It's a routine sort of ex-
change, nothing dramatic or startling, no
new concepts that have been proposed,
but just an assurance that the Soviet
leadership is as determined as I am to
continue with the efforts.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
REPORTER. Happy Easter.
603
