Feb. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
from you, sir, and from your very charm-
ing wife.
I want to say that I am always a little
bit moved and perhaps even intimidated
when I am in the White House. It has
such history; it has such great memo-
ries of remarkable statesmen, American
leaders.
And it is particularly moving to be
here on George Washington's birthday.
I find some consolation in that, because I
was told an anecdote about George
Washington when he was retiring from
office. The Philadelphia Aurora-there
was then a paper called that name, I
don't know if it still exists-but it had
been rather unkind to President Wash-
ington during his term of office. And
when he retired, they had an editorial
saying that if ever there was a day for
great rejoicing, this was it. I feel, sir, that
an old politician like myself takes some
consolation in feeling that times never
change. [Laughter]
You don't have to seek solace in this
type of anecdote. But indeed, you added
to the sense of hospitality when you were
good enough to quote this finding of Dr.
Gallup, of which I knew nothing. And it
makes me feel that if ever I get in trouble
in Canada politically, maybe I'll come
down here. [Laughter] I can assure you
that if you are ever in trouble, which I
pray will never happen, you would be
very handily chosen to be the leader of
the Canadian people.
Your generous remarks are something
which are very much in keeping with the
friendship and the long history of co-
operation between our peoples. It began,
I think, around 1781, when the Articles
of Confederation proposed that Canada
be admitted, be invited to join the Con-
federation, just by applying. I believe
other colonies had to have the consent of
nine States in order to be admitted, but
Canada was to be admitted just on invi-
tation and acceptance. Well, whether it
is good or not that we didn't accept in
those days, is perhaps very hard to specu-
late upon except to say that if Canada
had accepted, I'm sure we wouldn't be
having such a fine dinner here tonight.
[Laughter]
Apart from that very short incident of
hostilities to which you alluded very
gently, we have since then, since the past
165 years, I guess it is, had very good
neighborhood relations, indeed. We've
cooperated in many, many ways. We've
built together some of the greatest of
men's enterprises. We've maintained de-
mocracy alive within our countries, and
we've cooperated in assisting wherever
we could around the world in helping
other nations in one way or another.
And I think it's fair to say that if in
those days, 150 years ago, we were the
hope of the new world, a large part of
the hope of the new world, I would think
that today, perhaps, in large part, we
represent the hope of the Third World.
This joins many of the discussions we had
this afternoon.
And I must say on behalf of the
Canadian Government and people that
we are more than delighted-we are ex-
cited with the generous approach that
your ideas convey as regards the world
order, which would be based on equality
and justice.
In our case, sir, we have done our part.
In terms of foreign aid, Canada is
amongst the top four or five nations of
assistance to the Third World, and in
terms of our proportion of our GNP.
Since the end of the Second World War,
we have admitted more refugees, politi-
cal refugees, to Canada than any other
212
