Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 24
Crown Prince Fahd spoke in Arabic, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Committee on Selection of
Federal Judicial Officers
Executive Order 11992. May 24, 1977
ESTABLISHING THE COMMITTEE ON SE-
LECTION OF FEDERAL JUDICIAL OFFICERS
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the provisions of the Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Com-
mittee. There is hereby established the
Committee on Selection of Federal Judi-
cial Officers, hereinafter referred to as the
Committee. The Committee shall consist
of a Chairman and six other members to
be appointed by the President.
SEC. 2. Functions. When requested by
the President, the Committee shall con-
duct inquiries to identify persons who may
be qualified to serve as Federal judicial
officers, other than United States Circuit
Judges or District Judges, and shall con-
duct investigations of those persons to de-
termine their qualifications.
SEC. 3. Procedures; Report. (a) When
notified by the President that he desires its
assistance in filling a Federal judicial va-
cancy, other than a United States Circuit
Court or District Court vacancy, the Com-
mittee shall conduct inquiries to identify
persons who may be qualified to serve in
the position and shall conduct further
inquiries to determine those persons'
qualifications.
(b) In conducting its inquiries the
Committee shall follow any procedures
established by the President in his letter
of notification or by the Attorney General
acting on behalf of the President.
(c) The Committee shall submit to the
President and to the Attorney General,
within 60 days from the date it is notified
by the President that he desires its assist-
ance, a report listing the names of no more
than five persons whom the Committee
considers well qualified to serve in the
position. In determining which persons
are well qualified the Committee shall
apply criteria established by the President
or by the Attorney General acting on be-
half of the President.
(d) The Committee shall conduct such
additional inquiries and submit such addi-
tional reports as may be requested by the
President.
(e) The Committee shall perform no
President to assist him in filling a vacancy.
function except when requested by the
SEC. 4. Ineligibility of Committee
Members. No member of the Committee
shall be eligible to be nominated to fill a
position as a Federal judicial officer with
respect to which the Committee's assist-
ance has been requested.
SEC. 5. Cooperation by Executive Agen-
cies. The Committee is authorized to re-
quest, through its Chairman, from any
Executive department or agency such in-
formation or assistance as the Committee
deems necessary to carry out its functions
under this Order. Each department or
agency shall, to the extent permitted by
law, furnish such information or assistance
to the Committee. The Committee also is
authorized to request from any State agen-
cy such information and assistance as the
Committee deems necessary, and to obtain
such information and assistance to the
extent permitted by State law.
SEC. 6. Travel Expenses; Administra-
tive Support; Financing. (a) Members of
the Committee shall serve without com-
1009
