Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
I think the preservation of the delinea-
tion among our people on an ethnic basis
is very, very precious. And I'm going to
try to preserve those differences.
Let me just say in closing this: I like
to answer questions. I enjoy it. I've spent
the last 2 years doing it. The main thing
is not for me to teach you but to learn
from you. And the kinds of questions that
you ask me, quite often I can't answer
well. I don't claim to know all the
answers. I'm new on the job. I've only
been there 3 weeks so far. [Laughter]
I need you to help me. We're all in it
together. I'm no better than any of you.
I recognize that I ought to be not "First
Boss" but "First Servant."
And if there is one department that
can be an extension of my deep and sin-
cere concern about American people-
those who are needy, those who've been
ignored, those who've sometimes been
despised and who felt the isolation of
helplessness and despair-it's you.
But I'm not going to leave you alone
to deal with those special needs. And I
hope that you won't leave me alone.
There have been times in the past when
this Department has not received an ade-
quate concern and support from the
support from the
White House. That will never be the case
while I'm there.
And I want you to be aggressive in
letting me have your suggestions and your
tough criticisms. I don't object to that,
because only in that way can I reexamine
my own mistaken positions and do a bet-
ter job for you.
I'm very grateful that you've let me
come and interrupt your workday.
[Laughter] I'll try not to let it happen
too often. But I've enjoyed it very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:49 a.m. in
the cafeteria at the Office of Education build-
ing of the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare. Prior to his remarks, he toured a
day care center at the Department.
Department of Agriculture
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 16, 1977
SECRETARY BERGLAND. Ladies and gentle-
men, thank you very much. I am new
here. My name is Bob Bergland. I have
an office up on the second floor. I hope
you will come to see me sometime.
It is my pleasure to introduce my farm
adviser, the gentleman who gives me
advice on most all agricultural matters,
except peanuts, ladies and gentlemen, the
President of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
The week before last, I went to the
Justice Department for the first time. Last
week, I went to the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development for the first
time. This morning, I went to the De-
partment of HEW for the first time. But
I have been to the Department of Agri-
culture a lot of times in the past. I am
glad to be back.
If I am not mistaken the last person
who was a full-time farmer was Thomas
Jefferson. At times, I think that we had a
comprehension within the White House
of the tremendous responsibilities that
are on the shoulders of the people who
work in the Department of Agriculture.
I searched the Nation over, and I chose
without any doubt or hesitation the best
person that I could find to be the Secre-
tary of Agriculture. And it's Bob Berg-
land. I think I am lucky and you are
lucky that he is going to be Secretary. I
know you found that out already.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I spent a lot of time in the last 2 or
3 weeks thinking about cruise missiles,
Backfire bombers, the B-1, nuclear car-
riers, the Mideast and potential conflict,
167
