Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
prepared to answer that question. But
that's the approach we wished to take.
On the nuclear test ban treaty, compre-
hensive test ban, that was discussed, and
it was agreed there would be additional
consultations on the matter. It was
touched on briefly, and there will be ad-
ditional consultations on it.
Q. Can you give us the reaction of any
of the leaders you talked to, to a total test
ban agreement?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I don't believe
I can disclose their point of view.
Q. Mr. Vice President, could you item-
ize, sir, the countries that would be in-
cluded? For instance, would India be in-
cluded, because India is getting heavy
water from
from Russia, making atomic
weapons?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I mentioned that
there were many, many aspects of nuclear
proliferation, in addition to those that
I've discussed, which really involve what
you might call the next generation of con-
cerns about nuclear proliferation; that
might involve, for example, as Chancellor
Schmidt has suggested, a new follow-on
treaty for the nuclear proliferation treaty.
It's a very complex, difficult matter that
involves consultation. We did not get into
all the possible ramifications.
Q. May I ask a followup question, be-
cause, you see, once they have the atomic
energy given to them, they can create-
like yogurt—all you need is a tablespoon
of yogurt and you can make more. They
make the atomic daughters, you see. So,
what do you do with those?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. It is very com-
plex, as your yogurt analogy points out.
[Laughter]
FOREIGN NUCLEAR SALES
Q. To follow on Herb's question, did
the Germans and the French agree to give
the administration this time that you asked
for before they take any specific actions to
carry out these contracts?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. We agreed to
have consultations, and that they would
occur immediately on an intensive basis,
and that there would be a chance for the
free exchange of ideas and alternatives
and options. But there has been no agree-
ment beyond that.
SECRETARY OF STATE VANCE
Q. One other question: Was the Secre-
tary of State at your meeting, or if not,
how do you plan to brief him and other
Cabinet members?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of
State was invited to the meeting this
morning, but he had testimony before the
Hill, and I will brief him thoroughly. He
had his representative-Mr. Cooper 2 was
there. But I will thoroughly, also, brief
him, as soon as he's through with his
testimony.
ASSESSMENT OF TRIP
Q. Mr. Vice President, did you have
any disappointments on this trip? I think
for example of the French-they didn't
agree to expanding the summit beyond
economic matters; the Germans really
didn't agree to reflate beyond the pack-
age. Were there any disappointments for
you?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. First of all, in
both instances, it was not quite as the
question described it. We had a very good
talk with President Giscard about the
summit, about the issues that should be
there. They indicated in private what
they've said publicly about the economic
summit. And I'm sure that we can work
out an arrangement that includes the ap-
propriate items on the agenda, and it is
really not a matter of great, serious sub-
2 Richard N. Cooper, Under Secretary of
State for Economic Affairs.
62
