Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
to each individual country to develop its
own internal policies and specifics.
SECRETARY VANCE. The idea is that
there should be a common fund which
would be related to commodity agree- Q. But how is that any different from
ments which have been negotiated.
any previous goals, either common or in-
Q. A common fund of how much, Mr. dividually? Does it mean higher inflation
Secretary?
and less growth?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. None of the
details have been worked out and are
stated in the communique. The important
decision that was taken here is repre-
sented by the agreement of all the heads
of government there. On the notion that
there shall be a common fund for stabili-
zation of commodities, with buffer stocks,
that the type of fund, how and where and
what amounts, how it will function, that's
something to be discussed and negotiated
in the future. But there is an acceptance
of the notion of a common fund idea.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Q. Mr. Blumenthal, I think it's lovely
that you
have agreed that you would pro-
mote economic growth and yet curb in-
flation simultaneously, but what specifi-
cally have you decided to do that would
help you achieve that rather magnificent
goal?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. I think the
significant thing about that statement is
that the heads of government have agreed
that having stated certain growth targets
in some cases and certain stabilization
targets in other cases, that they under-
take a pledge, as Prime Minister Callag-
han said, to do whatever is necessary to
meet those targets. And they have also
agreed that the meeting of those targets
cannot, should not, be at the expense of
inflation; that therefore, as each of them
takes the necessary steps to meet the
growth targets, it is understood by all of
the others that they will not do so at the
expense of inflation, and that they will
fight against inflation; that these two
things are closely related together and
must be watched together. It's clearly left
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. I think as far
as summit meetings are concerned, there
is a difference in the sense that previously
there were some general goals. But here
there are not only targets, but there is a
commitment to do what is necessary to
meet these targets.
PRESIDENT'S INITIATIVES AT
SUMMIT CONFERENCE
Q. Mr. Secretary, President Carter said
he bringing new initiatives to the sum-
mit conference. Could you be more spe-
cific as to what those initiatives were and
the final results of them?
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes. There were a
number of new initiatives. One of them is
the study that I referred to a moment ago,
which concerns an evaluation of the in-
ternational fuel cycle. Secondly, were
proposals relating to the special action
fund. We reached general agreement that
there should be a special action fund to
take care of some of the developing coun-
tries in the greatest need and that each
would contribute his adequate share to
that particular fund.
The whole issue of irregular practices
which Mike referred to a moment ago is
another one of the new initiatives that
was brought forward. Those are some
examples.
Q. Just to follow up on that, Mr. Secre-
tary, this special action fund to which you
refer, is that mentioned in the appendix,
and what exactly is it?
SECRETARY VANCE. It is not in those
terms mentioned. It is something which
will come up at the meetings which will
be held in Paris at the end of this month,
the North-South meetings which are
831
