May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I'll ask the director of the Social Security
Administration in Washington to look
into your particular case. Okay?
Q. I thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. You're certainly wel-
come.
Yes, ma'am?
MAINTENANCE OF URBAN AREAS
Q. My name is Lillian Abelson, and I
come from the city of Santa Monica. We
were blessed to have Arbor Day and
blessed by Governor Brown on Sunday,
and now to come here, be with you is
just a thrill of a lifetime.
My question is this: I am interested in
the visual environment of our city. It's a
small city and like you said, you'd rather
have the city officials take care of town.
things. But my question is this: How can
we encourage the out-of-town landlords
to take pride in upgrading their business
neighborhoods?
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Well, I
think if all of the residents who occupy
the apartments and homes would contact
the landlords, that might help. I think if
your city officials were approached by
those same residents, and if unsightly oc-
currences were pointed out, that would be
helpful.
I think if any law is violated about an
improper maintenance of property, that
would certainly be worthy of the atten-
tion of a lawyer or the judicial system.
I don't know how to answer your ques-
tion, not knowing the circumstances, but
I believe that most landlords, if brought
face-to-face, either with their tenants or
with the city officials, or with the law, de-
pending on the degree of their violation
of propriety and duty, I think you would
get their attention. But I don't know how
to answer your question better than that.
Q. Mr. President, may I just add
something?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. What about the graffiti? I know
we're working on these spray cans.
They're going to be outlawed at a future
date. Could there be some kind of a-like
a fund put aside in the city or somewhere
where the residents or business people can
go and buy a couple of gallons of paint to
clean up the walls that have been
sprayed-on their neighborhoods or
homes?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that would be
a good idea.
Q. Great. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. East Los Angeles?
MASS TRANSPORTATION
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Rick Arroyo. I live in east L.A.
I work for the Southern California Rapid
Transit District. I'd like to know your
ideas on mass transit, when we've got so
many cars polluting our city and plus the
fact that the fares are a little outrageous
for the people that are living on fixed
incomes.
THE PRESIDENT. It's inevitable in the
future that we're going to have more effi-
cient cars, as I've already mentioned; cars
with cleaner exhausts, which I've already
mentioned; more people riding per car
than we've got now and a strong shift
toward rapid transit.
In a city like Los Angeles, where people
are spread out so much, I think you prob-
ably have about the same number of peo-
ple per square mile as Atlanta, say 800,
you don't really need the highly expensive
subway and rail system as much as some
communities do.
In New York City, for instance, or
Manhattan, they have over 20,000 people
per square mile, and they need to go
underground because of the density of
population. But I would guess that in the
future there'll be a lot greater attention
paid by the Federal Government and its
908
