Apr. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
the future. But I'll let Mr. Blumenthal
speak for himself on the question you
raised.
Q. Do you still think our unemployment
rate can go down below 7 percent without
this stimulus?
THE PRESIDENT. I beleve that it can in-
deed go down below 7 percent without
the stimulus, yes.
Q. This year?
THE PRESIDENT. The stimulus that
we're talking about, the $50 tax rebate,
was not designed specifically for job op-
portunities. It was designed to improve
consumer confidence and to stimulate the
economy over the long run. We just have
found that we don't need it. When we
thought back in December that we could
get the $50 checks in the mail in April-
and that was our hope and expectation-
there was a real apparent need for it.
Now, even if there was a need, apparently
May or June is the earliest that we could
possibly get the checks in the mail if every-
body was for it. We don't think there is a
need any more. So, the circumstances
have simply changed.
Q. Mr. President, many Americans
were looking forward to the tax rebate.
Where exactly will the $10 billion go? Can
you explain definitively?
THE PRESIDENT. My commitment and
my hope is that the amount of money that
was going to be spent on the tax rebate
will be used to reduce the 1977 deficit.
I'll take one more question.
Q. Mr. President, now that you won't
have this probably bruising battle over
getting the rebate passed by the Senate,
do you expect you will fare better in the
upcoming battle over the energy package?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sure there are go-
ing to be plenty of bruising battles to go
around.
Q. Was this a factor in your decision?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it wasn't a factor,
as far as a bruising battle was concerned.
It was a factor in that very dedicated and,
I think, self-described liberal Senators like
Senator Humphrey told me last night that
when he got down to Florida a couple of
days ago that this preyed on his mind, and
he felt that it was very, very wrong. He
had already decided, he said, to come
back up here early Sunday to get Senator
Long and to get Majority Leader Byrd
and come to me and ask me to withdraw
the tax rebate, not because we couldn't
get the votes but simply because it's not
needed.
There is no way to separate economics
from politics, of course, because politi-
cians quite often make the economic deci-
sions and analyze the economic data. But
the essence of it is that I think we could
have forced it through the Senate with
perhaps a brutal battle, as you described.
Everybody that I've talked to agrees with
that. I just don't think it's necessary, and
it's a joint decision between me and the
Congress.
Let me close by turning over the pro-
gram to Mike Blumenthal, the Secretary
of the Treasury, to Charlie Schultze, the
Chairman of my Economics Advisers, and
to Bert Lance, who is Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Anti-Inflation Program
Statement Outlining Administration
Actions. April 15, 1977
I. SUMMARY
Today, I am announcing a series of
measures aimed at controlling and reduc-
ing inflation. This program embraces the
following elements:
622
