Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
two noncontiguous utilities across a third
utility's system).
8. Taxes on oil and natural gas: The
oil and natural gas pricing and tax policy
discussed in Part F will achieve substan-
tial savings in natural gas and petroleum
consumption. The oil and gas consump-
tion taxes are directed primarily at indus-
trial and utility use, and will encourage
investments by industry to use these
scarce fuels more efficiently.
B. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
-To carry out the President's energy
plan and to protect the energy consum-
ing public generally, the Government
needs more detailed and reliable infor-
mation on oil and gas reserves, on oil
company operations, and on local energy
supplies and demand.
-Accordingly, a three-part energy in-
formation program will be proposed.
They represent the beginning of imple-
mentation of a National Energy Infor-
mation System which will, when fully de-
veloped, provide a comprehensive and
authoritative source of energy informa-
tion.
1. Petroleum Production and Reserves
Information System (administrative/bud-
get): The proposed department of en-
ergy, upon its creation, would take over
the audit and verification roles now per-
formed by the American Gas Association
and the American Petroleum Institute.
These industry associations and their
member companies would be required to
open their reserve estimation process to
Federal officials, who would supervise the
collection and preparation of reserve data.
Information collected and submitted
through this system would be randomly
audited at the company level. Existing
law regarding the protection of confiden-
tial, proprietary information would not be
changed. This system will consolidate the
reserves information gathering activities
of Government agencies, where possible,
and will eliminate redundant reporting
which now occurs among the various
agencies.
2. Petroleum Company Financial Data
System (administrative/budget): This
system would require all large companies,
and a sample of small firms, engaged in
crude oil or natural gas production to sub-
mit detailed financial information to the
Federal Government. Companies would
have to conform, ultimately, to a uniform
system of accounts and to report capital
expenditures and operating results by geo-
graphic region and type of fuel. They
would be required to submit information
relating to functional areas, including re-
fining, production, marketing, and pipe-
lines, and information relating to foreign
as well as domestic operations. This com-
prehensive reporting system would enable
the Government to assess the performance
of individual firms and the industry, as a
whole, providing accountability of vertical
operations of the integrated companies.
Existing law regarding the protection of
information
confidential, proprietary
would not be changed.
3. Emergency Management Informa-
tion System (administrative/budget):
This system would provide Government
with the information on local energy sup-
plies and demand needed to respond to an
oil embargo, a natural gas shortage, or
other energy emergency. Examples of po-
tential future shortages include possible
electrical power shortages in the West this
coming summer and natural gas shortages
in future winters. State energy offices, as-
sisted by the Federal Government, would
collect and maintain the data.
C. INDUSTRY COMPETITON
-Promotion and maintenance of com-
petition is a critical aspect of public
678
