Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The amount of reports that come into
the Federal agencies is another thing that
I think we can correct. Also to have the
top-level Cabinet officers work in har-
mony so that if a small business person
wants to get an answer to a question, they
can figure out where to go for an an-
swer to send people who administer
programs out into the country to get in
touch with small business people would
help a lot.
One of the most aggravating programs,
and I think a good program is the OSHA
program. But it's despised by many busi-
ness people because of the way it has been
administered in the past. I met yesterday
with the Director of the OSHA program.
And I made sure that that Director under-
stood that hearings were to be conducted
all over the country, so that business lead-
ers could come-primarily the small busi-
ness people and say this is what we don't
like about the program, and this is what
we need for it to do to be changed.
Another thing is that when we have
new labor programs to stimulate the
economy, to provide training, that the
small business person can work with those
programs to get temporary employees at
first and to grow.
Another thing that we can do is to
have the Commerce Department help
open up foreign trade opportunities for
small business people. It's very easy for
a large corporation like General Motors
or Ford or IBM and so forth, to send out
helpers all over the world to sell their
products. But quite often the small busi-
ness has not had an opportunity for those
foreign trade opportunities. Here, the
Commerce Department can help a great
deal.
And I think the last thing I would
like to say, just try to keep my answer
brief, is to have access to the center of
Government-and I am approachable.
I've told the leaders of the small business
enterprises around the country that when
we put together policies for the Small
Business Administration and others, that
their advice will be sought before we come
forward with new Government programs
or policies. So I think letting the small
business person have a role to play in gov-
ernment and a voice in government de-
cisions is another thing. I could go on and
on about it because this is a subject about
which I know the most. But those are
some of the things that have not been
done in the past, but are now going to be
done.
Q. In my nervousness, Mr. President, I
forgot to introduce myself.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'd like to know.
Q. My name is William T. McGrail,
and I live at 5 DeLejeune Avenue, in the
great town of Clinton. Thank you, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
One thing I would like to remind
all of you on is this: When you
ask a question, for instance, about the
problems of small business, I know that
you probably know more about the sub-
ject than I do, particularly the one that
asked the question that has a problem.
And we would like very much, as a follow-
up, if you have specific ideas on how we
might have a better health program, or
better education for young people, or bet-
ter training programs for those who are
unemployed, or a better welfare system,
or better help for small business, that you
write me a letter and put Clinton, Massa-
chusetts, in a big circle on the front of the
letter, and I'll tell my staff to bring those
letters directly to me.
We get so many letters that I can't read
them all. But, as a result of this town.
meeting, I would like to have your fol-
lowup letters. I particularly want you to
give me your advice. Don't just say that-
you need not say that you were glad to
have me here and what a good job I did
398
