May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
A7E AIRCRAFT
Q. In your defense budget, you recom-
mended deleting all the funds for the
A7E light attack aircraft. The House has
restored funds for 6 A7E's and the Senate
has restored funds, or their committees
have restored funds, for 12 A7E's. What's
your reaction to that?
THE PRESIDENT. The A7, in my opin-
ion, ought not to be built any longer, ex-
cept to meet present contractual agree-
ments. It's a plane that's obsolescent at
best. There is no need in my opinion for
a continued purchase of this plane. This
is a matter for me and the Congress to
decide mutually, of course, in the ultimate
case.
But my recommendation not to order
new A7's was based on the fact we have
superior airplanes now to replace it. And
as far as our return on very scarce military
dollars invested, it was not the best in-
vestment to make.
Q. Mr. President, following on that
question, if I could for a minute, my
impression was that the replacements for
the A7E's wouldn't be off the line for
several years and that right now the Navy
is minus about 36 A7's.
How do you feel about waiting that
long for the replacement model?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I went into this
very carefully and thoroughly with the
Defense Department officials and with
those who represent the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, before my own rec-
ommendation was made to the Congress.
I think I made the right decision, the
right recommendation. And I don't be-
lieve that our defense capability will be
damaged by not going ahead in acquiring
this plane, which is becoming too obso-
lescent to be the best investment.
WHITE HOUSE STAFF SALARIES
Q. Mr. President, given your concern
about inflation and for economy in Gov-
ernment, how do you justify pay raises
up to $11,000 for some of your senior staff
aides after they've been on the job only
2 months?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had a sub-
stantial increase in my salary the first day
I went into office. [Laughter] I think I
earn it. These men and women on my
staff are not overpaid. I don't think the
Congress is overpaid nor do I think that
the District Judges and the judiciary are
overpaid. My staff members did not have
their salaries raised to the same level even
as the Members of Congress and the judi-
ciary, which was their choice, not mine.
Their increase in salary, I think, was one
that was justified, and I don't have any
apology to make for it. They work ex-
traordinarily long hours, as do some of
you,
and I think the people of our country
are getting a good return on their salary
investment in my staff.
FOREIGN ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, about a month ago
you got recommendations on your desk
for a new weapons sales policy for over-
seas, and Secretary Vance has explained
that to some members of the Senate For-
eign Relations Committee. Did you ex-
plain that policy to the other leaders in
London that you met with, and will Israel
get any kind of special treatment? Will
there be a class of countries that get spe-
cial treatment?
THE PRESIDENT. I did explain it to the
other leaders in London-to some of the
other leaders, not all of them, because I
met with so many. And the second answer
is that Israel will get special treatment.
We have a certain small group of nations
who, because of longstanding historical
commitments of Presidents, Congress, and
866
