Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
Morris was Assistant Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States from 1970 to
1975, responsible for internal manage-
ment programs of the 5,000 member staff
of the General Accounting Office. He also
supervised audits and investigations of
the management operations of all Federal
agencies.
From November 1975 to February
1976, he was assistant secretary for ad-
ministrative services in the Florida De-
partment of Health and Rehabilitative
Services, and assisted in the reorganiza-
tion of the 30,000 member department.
In 1976 he joined the staff of the Brook-
ings Institution.
Department of Transportation
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 24, 1977
SECRETARY ADAMS. Mr. President, as you
can see, the Department of Transporta-
tion loves you.
It is my very great pleasure today to
introduce to you the man who leads all
of us in this Nation, who I think has done
a marvelous thing in coming to the var-
ious departments, letting all of us know
that he cares, seeing to it that the things
that we do he knows about- and, believe
me, he considers them important. He asks
all of the time, "What are you doing and
how well are you doing it?"
To the members of the Department of
Transportation, I present to you the Pres-
ident of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
First of all, let me say how grateful I
am that you've let me come over to be
with you and that you've been nice
enough to leave your jobs to assemble here
for a few minutes. I feel good about leav-
ing my job at the White House to come
over and be with you, too.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Your new Secretary, Brock Adams, has
done a remarkable job already. He's one
of the few Cabinet mempers I have had
who, in every one of his decisions, has
made a lot of people angry. I think he
occupies, also, the honored position of be-
ing the first Cabinet officer who caused
the White House to be picketed—with his
I-66 decision.
One thing I would like to say is this:
Your Department is the center of the
largest expenditure of our gross national
product of any other. Twenty percent of
our GNP goes for transportation. And
this means that in many different ways
you, individually, the agency within
which you work, the Department as a
whole, touches American people's lives.
We have a need for a comprehensive
approach to the challenges that come
from transportation decisions. Energy, en-
vironment, the care for our precious
ocean resources, safety, the movement of
people your decisions impact on every
person's life. And I want to be sure that
Brock Adams, who has my total confi-
dence, is able to bring together among all
of you an approach that is in itself co-
hesive and understandable, where there
are no sacred fiefdoms within the Trans-
portation Department.
It's very difficult for individual mem-
bers of a large department like your own,
110,000 employees, to see how your con-
tribution is significant. And I want to be
sure that in every instance, when possible,
that the Secretary of Transportation lets
all of you know what is going on in other
parts of this tremendous and very impor-
tant organization.
I think you can do a better job if you
work in waterways or rail or airlines or
surface transportation, rapid transit, high-
231
