Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
(9) Panel for the Seventh Circuit;
(10) Panel for the Eighth Circuit;
(11) Panel for the Southern Ninth
Circuit, for the States of Arizona, Cali-
fornia, and Nevada;
(12) Panel for the Northern Ninth Cir-
cuit, for the States of Alaska, Hawaii,
Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washing-
ton, and the Territory of Guam; and
(13) Panel for the Tenth Circuit.
A panel shall be designated as, e.g.,
the "United States Circuit Judge Nomi-
nating Panel for The First Circuit."
SEC. 2. Membership. (a) The mem-
bership of the Commission shall consist
of the combined memberships of the
panels. The President may appoint a
member of the Commission as its Chair-
man, with such duties as the President
may assign.
(b) A panel shall be composed of a
Chairman and other members appointed
by the President. No panel shall have
more than eleven members including the
Chairman.
(c) Each panel shall include members
of both sexes, members of minority
groups, and approximately equal num-
bers of lawyers and nonlawyers. Except
as provided in subsection (d), the mem-
bership of each panel shall include at
least one resident of each of the States
within the geographic area of the panel,
but additional members may be appointed
from any territory or State within that
area.
(d) All members of the panel for the
District of Columbia Circuit shall be per-
sons residing within the District of Co-
lumbia or within twenty miles of its
boundaries.
SEC. 3. Functions of Panels. A panel
shall begin functioning when the Presi-
dent notifies its Chairman that he desires
the panel's assistance in aid of his con-
stitutional responsibility and discretion to
select a nominee to fill a vacancy on a
United States Court of Appeals. Upon
such notification, the panel shall:
(a) Give public notice of the vacancy
within the relevant geographic area, in-
viting suggestions as to potential nomi-
nees;
(b) Conduct inquiries to identify po-
tential nominees;
(c) Conduct inquiries to identify those
persons among the potential nominees
who are well-qualified to serve as a
United States Circuit Judge; and
(d) Report in confidence to the Presi-
dent, within sixty days after the notifica-
tion of the vacancy, the results of its
activities, including its recommendations
as to the five persons whom the panel
considers best qualified to fill the vacancy.
SEC. 4. Standards for Selection of Pro-
posed Nominees. (a) Before transmitting
to the President the names of the five
persons it deems best qualified to fill an
existing vacancy, a panel shall have deter-
mined:
(1) That those persons are members
in good standing of at least one state bar,
or the District of Columbia bar, and
members in good standing of any other
bars of which they may be members;
(2) That they possess, and have repu-
tations for, integrity and good character;
(3) That they are of sound health;
(4) That they possess, and have dem-
onstrated, outstanding legal ability and
commitment to equal justice under law;
(5) That their demeanor, character,
and personality indicate that they would
exhibit judicial temperament if appointed
to the position of United States Circuit
Judge.
(b) In selecting persons whose names
will be transmitted to the President, a
panel shall consider whether the train-
ing, experience, or expertise of certain of
the well-qualified individuals would help
to meet a perceived need of the court of
appeals on which the vacancy exists.
180
