May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I'm one of you, and you're part of me,
and that realization gives me a quiet con-
fidence that I can serve in such a way as
not to embarrass you.
I do need your continued friendship
and support, your open criticisms when I
make mistakes, and your constant prayers
that the judgments that I make will be
compatible with our highest commitments
and our highest faith and our highest
belief.
Thank you very much.
NOTE:
The exchange began at 12:20 p.m.
in the Rose Garden at the White House.
Use of Private Consultation
Services by the Federal
Government
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. May 12, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
In a continuing search for ways to im-
prove the efficiency and effectiveness of
the executive branch, I have become
aware of a need for improved manage-
ment of the excessively large volume of
consulting and expert services used by the
Federal Government. A recent survey by
a Senate subcommittee of the use of per-
sonal and non-personal consultant and
expert services identified more than
30,000 contract arrangements and 10,777
individual appointments. Additionally,
there are such services provided by grant
arrangements and through advisory com-
mittee memberships.
There has been, and continues to be,
evidence that some consulting services,
including experts and advisors, are being
used excessively, unnecessarily, and im-
properly.
This must be corrected without delay.
Some areas of concern include:
-Use of consultants to perform work
of a policymaking or managerial nature
which should be retained directly by
agency officials.
-Repeated appointments or contract
extensions which raise questions whether
the work is better suited to other more
appropriate arrangements.
-Use of consultants to provide studies
and analyses which have no useful impact
on agency operations, either because the
subject itself is non-essential or because
there are no disciplined agency proce-
dures to (a) check priorities and (b) in-
sure follow-up on the results.
-Use of consultant arrangements as a
device to bypass or undermine personnel
ceilings, pay limitations, or competitive
employment procedures.
"Revolving door" abuses whereby
former Government employees may be
improperly favored for individual or con-
tracted consulting arrangements.
-Intra-agency duplication of consult-
ant efforts, especially in large, multi-
agency departments such as Defense and
Health, Education and Welfare, because
there is no central coordination of con-
sulting efforts or dissemination of results.
-Conflicts of interest between consult-
ants' advice and their other outside finan-
cial interests and affiliations.
In order to improve the use of con-
sultants, I want you to:
1. Review all data that is available or
can be readily assembled to describe:
-The principal purposes for which
consulting services are being used;
-The types of consulting arrange-
ments being used (Civil Service Commis-
sion appointment, contract, grant, advi-
sory committee membership, other); and
-The number of such arrangements in
effect and the total dollars involved.
878
