Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Despite our advances, millions of
Americans fail to take advantage of the
sophisticated vision care services available
to them. Many older Americans accept
poor vision as part of growing old. Mil-
lions of middle-aged Americans regard
admitting a need for vision care as ad-
mitting to a loss of youth. Young people
often foolishly believe their good vision
will remain without care. Children are
sometimes assumed to have no vision
problems because they can read an eye
chart when in fact they may be unable to
see the printed page.
To remind all Americans of the im-
portance of good vision and of ways to
protect it, the Congress, by joint resolu-
tion approved December 30, 1963 (77
Stat. 629, 36 U.S.C. 169a), has requested
the President to proclaim the first week
in March of each year as Save Your Vi-
sion Week.
Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 16, 1977
SECRETARY CALIFANO. It's a great priv-
ilege for me to stand here today.
A President's mind must deal with
many, many problems-nuclear disarma-
ment, economic problems. And this Presi-
dent's mind does—brilliantly.
But this President's heart, his heart
from the moment I met with him in New
Hampshire, in August, until our meetings
yesterday I know one thing: His heart
will always be at HEW, with what you're
doing and trying to do.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
It's a great pleasure and honor for me
to be over here with you, because you and
your predecessors have helped to a great
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER, degree to shape my own life.
Now,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
March 6, 1977 as Save Your Vision Week.
I urge all Americans to mark this observ-
ance by learning how to take care of their
eyes and availing themselves of profes-
sional eye care services. I call upon the
vision care professions, the communica-
tions media, educators, and all public and
private organizations which support sight
conservation and vision research to join
in activities to improve and protect the
vision of all Americans.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
February, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:55 p.m., February 16, 1977]
I've had a chance, the last 2 years, to
travel around our Nation, perhaps more
than any other person in history in a 2-
year period, to talk some, but to listen a
lot. And I've seen the tremendous impact
that can be derived from this Department
on our people's lives, because of your own
professional competence, your experience,
your intelligence and, above all, your
compassion and your love for other peo-
ple. To me, the success or failure of my
own administration depends upon you
and others who work in the health and
education and welfare and other related
fields.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The human relationship with God,
with our fellow human beings, and with
our institutions, is the basis on which a
democracy is founded. We believe in in-
dividuality and, as one of my favorite
158
