Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Fiscal Year 1978 Budget Revisions
Remarks on Signing the Message
to the Congress. February 22, 1977
We have actually had about 3 weeks
to work on this budget modification. I
think it's a good improvement on the
previous budget. We will prepare the
1979 fiscal year budget in a much more
organic way, beginning early in the spring
with detailed meetings between myself
and the members of the OMB staff and
the individual Cabinet officers and other
agency leaders.
Then, later on in the spring, perhaps
early summer, they will be given an over-
all budget figure within which they will
have to prepare their departments' pro-
posals. And then later on in the fall, we
will decide the exact figures to attach to
each individual item in the budget.
The whole process will use the zero-
base budgeting technique, where you put
every item on an equal basis whether it's
been in effect 50 years or whether it's a
new proposal for next year, so that the
priorities can be determined on an annual
basis.
This is quite a radical departure from
previous budget procedures, where the
Congress and the OMB primarily con-
cern themselves only with the assessment
of new proposals. But this will mean that
we'll have a complete reexamination an-
nually of every proposal, no matter how
long it's been in existence.
It also permits the personnel deep with-
in each department to have a role to play
in the evolution of the budget proposals.
So these two elements are quite radical
departures. I think we'll have a much
more carefully considered budget next
year than we've had in the past.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:33 a.m. at the
ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
Fiscal Year 1978 Budget Revisions
Message to the Congress Transmitting
the Revisions. February 22, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I am presenting today proposed changes
in the 1978 budget.
Although I have not been able to ana-
lyze this budget in depth, these proposals
do differ significantly from those of the
previous administration.
Proposals have been rejected that would
have needlessly added to the burden on
the elderly and those who depend upon
medicare, medicaid, and food programs.
I have withdrawn proposals that would
have placed further financial strain on
State and local governments.
Changes are included that will help
us move more quickly to meet our com-
mitments in such vital areas as the envi-
ronment, education, and housing; and I
am introducing measures that will help
us control unacceptable inflation in med-
ical costs.
The planned increase in defense spend-
ing, has been reduced while our real mil-
itary strength is enhanced.
Revisions have been made that reflect
new priorities for water resources develop-
ment and also for energy, placing greater
emphasis on conservation, development of
nonnuclear power sources, and expand-
ing our petroleum storage program. Later
in the spring, work with the Congress will
be completed on a comprehensive, long-
range national energy policy.
This budget includes the economic
stimulus package, which will reduce un-
employment and promote steady, bal-
anced economic growth. The package,
which has been slightly changed since it
was first presented to the Congress last
month, provides for $15.7 billion in tax
reductions and increase outlays in 1977
and $15.9 billion in 1978. It includes a $50
214
