Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
received a comprehensive report on Rosa-
lynn's visit with the foreign ministers and
with the heads of state. Of the seven coun-
tries in the Carribbean, Central and South
America that she has visited along with
Mrs. Vance and others this past 2 weeks,
all the reports have been good.
Her goals, as laid out very carefully and
over a long period of time by the State De-
partment and the White House, have all
been carried out, I think, almost with per-
fection. Although she had scheduled in
many instances just 45 minutes or an hour
with the Presidents or Prime Ministers of
our friends in the south, most of her con-
versations with them extended from 3 or
4 or 5, sometimes as many as 7 hours.
The substance of those discussions are
matters that are of mutual interest to all
of us, and Rosalynn has reported already
and will report further on areas of closer
cooperation and equality of approach to
both the opportunities and problems that
have always bound us close together.
This has been a trip, I think, of great
significance to our country and to the peo-
ple whom she has visited. The trip had
great significance to me, and I'm very glad
that she has returned home safely and with
success.
The leaders of those countries probably
realize that it means a lot more for me to
send Rosalynn to their country than for
me to send anyone else. It's much more
difficult and a much greater sacrifice for
me to have her gone than the Vice Presi-
dent, even, or the Secretary of State.
[Laughter]
We're glad to have her home with the
renewed knowledge and commitment that
our friends in Central and South America
are very dear to us. And I believe that the
problems that did exist between ourselves
and a few of the countries that she visited
have, to a great degree, been resolved, and
the agenda that she has laid out in close
consultation with the leaders of those na-
tions are already being addressed.
I'm thankful that she went and I'm
thankful for the results of her trip and,
also, thankful that they are home safely.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at
4:25 p.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
Black Press Day, 1977
Proclamation 4507. June 10, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Nation's first black newspaper was
founded in 1827. In the 150 years since,
the black press has come to serve more
than 25,000,000 Americans, and has been
a major factor in their advancement.
The black press has had to overcome
great obstacles to achieve the respect it
commands today as a voice for individual
freedom, dignity, and equality.
That it has done so, while remaining
faithful to the standards of professional
journalism, is a tribute to the dedication,
responsibility and zeal of its members.
As we go forward with our efforts to
make equality of opportunity a reality for
all Americans, we will continue to depend
on the black press to provide us with
guidance, insight and wisdom.
I
urge every American to support the
continuing efforts of the black press to
help assure that America achieves its full
potential.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Friday, June 17, 1977,
as Black Press Day. I urge all Americans
to reflect upon the contributions of the
black press to the realization of the prin-
1099
