Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
judges, for civil servants, for Members of
Congress. I believe the American people
would accept it much better.
I think this is one change that ought to
go
into effect. If we can vote for it, fine, or
let it go into effect without a vote, that
suits me fine; but not have the change go
into effect until after the next general
election has taken place.
Let me say this in closing: I didn't
come here to teach you; I come here to
reassess the relationship that ought to
exist between us. We are partners. And I
think the greatest thing that I need in the
next few months is advice and counsel and
instruction and information and tough
criticism. Every one of you in this room is
a leader in your own community and in
your own profession. And I want there to
be formed between me and you, using the
Democratic National Committee struc-
ture as an avenue, or direct, sometimes,
even bypassing the Democratic National
Committee structure. But I need this very
much, and I believe that we can bring
to our country a very good quality of
leadership to the extent that I can tap the
reservoir of experience and intelligence
and commitment that you have within
you.
We've got an outstanding chairman of
the Democratic Party to replace another
outstanding chairman. Bob Strauss did an
extraordinary job, and Ken Curtis, I be-
lieve, is going to equal that outstanding
leadership.
And I am very grateful to Jess Hay,
who I think exemplifies the finest aspects
of business leadership, who also sees a
proper relationship between professions
and government. And I will try to use
both these men and many of you on a
constant basis to help me make the right
decisions for the greatest country on
Earth.
Thank you very much for letting me
interrupt your breakfast.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:01 a.m. in
the John Hay Room at the Hay Adams Hotel
to members of the Executive Finance Commit-
tee of the DNC.
Administrator of Veterans Affairs
Nomination of Max Cleland.
February 18, 1977
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Max Cleland to be
Administrator of Veterans Affairs. Cle-
land is a former Georgia State Senator
and currently a staff member of the U.S.
Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
Cleland was born in Atlanta on August
24, 1942, and grew up in Lithonia, Ga.
He graduated from Stetson University in
Deland, Fla., in 1964 and won a scholar-
ship to Emory University, where he re-
ceived an M.A. in American history.
In the fall of 1965, Cleland went on ac-
tive duty with the United States Army as
a communications officer in the Signal
Corps. He qualified in 1966 as a para-
trooper and became aide-de-camp to the
Commanding General of the U.S. Army
Signal Center and School at Fort Mon-
mouth, N.J.
In 1967 he volunteered for duty in
Vietnam and for 11 months served with
the First Air Cavalry Division. He was
promoted to captain in April 1968, and
shortly thereafter was wounded in a gre-
nade explosion. He received the Bronze
and Silver Stars for his Vietnam service.
After 18 months in military and vet-
erans hospitals, Cleland returned to
Lithonia, Ga., and was elected to the
Georgia Senate in 1970. He was the au-
thor of the first legislation making public
buildings in the State accessible to the
192
