Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 12
confidence in our Government, both in its
integrity and also in its ability and
competence.
There had been a loss of confidence
that the White House and Congress could
work together, or that the people could
have access to the decisionmaking proc-
ess, absent secrecy. So, a major commit-
ment of mine, long before this Caddell
memorandum was written, was to try to
restore the confidence of the people in me.
Obviously, one of those means is by
frequent news conferences. Another one
is by access to me in the Oval Office. An-
other one is the travel around our country
on occasion to meet with people. And I
think that this is the "style" part. I think
that the walk down Pennsylvania Ave-
nue, about which Mr. Caddell was not
informed, was a good indication that I
trust Washington. I didn't feel endan-
gered, that I wanted the people to know
I was one of them. I don't see anything
wrong with this. I think, to the extent
that I can have a good relationship with
the people, it makes it easier for me to
be a good President.
So, the confidence of the people in the
Government is a crucial element of lead-
ership. And the openness with which
hope that I am conducting my adminis-
tration means that we don't try to cover
up mistakes. And if we do make mistakes,
we want them to be known. So, I think
that this is a good combination of style
on the one hand, which is not artificial,
and substance on the other hand, which
will bear good results.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
DOMESTIC POLICY
Q. To follow up the Frank Cormier
question and your answer, you talked
about providing jobs. Why aren't you able
to please George Meany? What's the
problem there?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't know.
That question can best be answered by
Mr. Meany. I think it would be good for
special interest groups of all kinds-labor,
business, environment, and others—to co-
operate and to express a partnership in
things that are accomplished for the good,
instead of concentrating on the negative
things that fail to measure up to their own
very high expectations.
I think the package of proposals that
we put forward are unexcelled, even go-
ing back to the early days of Lyndon
Johnson. And as I say, I'll make a good
summary of these proposals, which I
think will be realized, at a speech later on
this month. Mr. Meany feels that my
level of minimum wage is too low. He
feels that the $4 billion public works pro-
posal that Congress has already approved
is too little. He feels that I should have
put tight constraints against the impor-
tation of color television sets, sugar, shoes.
I think I've worked out a good balance
on those proposals.
So, the fact that he doesn't approve of
everything I do doesn't mean we have any
personal disruption of our communication
and mutual respect.
Q. Are you also saying to Mr. Cormier
that you see no danger of losing the
liberals?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's always
that danger. I think one of the character-
istics of some liberals is that they are very
difficult to please. [Laughter] And when
some of the groups make a list of things
that they want, if they get 95 percent of
what they want they can only remember
the other 5 percent. [Laughter]
And this is something which I don't
particularly deplore but which I do rec-
ognize. There's been no disruption of my
relationship with any of these groups. And
I think my record has been and will be
able to bear their scrutiny.
865
