Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 25
commitments that I made to the Amer-
ican people during the 2 years of the cam-
paign. As Tip has pointed out often, in
the first 100 or 120 years of my-days-
[laughter of my administration, the
Congress has responded well. You've au-
thorized reorganization. You've made
major strides forward in restimulating
our economy. Our unemployment rate has
already dropped one full percentage
point. The GNP is now growing. I think
we have a sense of confidence among con-
sumers and business in the economic fu-
ture of our country. We still have a long
way to go. We have to bring order out of
chaos and some of the longstanding
needs, to evolve a comprehensive and ef-
fective energy policy. And the people of
the country expect us to do it.
It's a difficult proposition. As I've told
many small groups, I can understand why
previous Presidents were reluctant to en-
gage themselves in trying to put forward
such a proposal. We are now trying to
restore credibility and integrity to the
social security system. A failure to do this
would disillusion many people in our
country. There are not any easy answers
to this problem.
Later this year we'll have welfare re-
form to study, and I hope to pass, at least
early next year. And we'll have tax reform
to face.
These kinds of long-range needs and
longstanding needs affect us all together.
We'll face the voters next year in Novem-
ber of 1978. And the best campaign that
could possibly be devised has already be-
gun; to go to the American people with a
simple message: These were the problems
that we faced last year and this year. This
is the action that we have taken.
I doubt if anyone has ever campaigned
in more places or more days or made more
speeches, listened to more questions, than
I did when I ran for President. And there
is a yearning among the people in this
country to see some harmony, some coop-
eration, some partnership, some mutual
commitment, some mutual trust, and ab-
sence of division among the leaders of our
Government. And I think the more we
consult with one another and the more
we respect one another, the closer we'll
come to achieving that long-time frus-
trated hope of the American people.
The Democrats have suffered on occa-
sion in the past, quite often because we've
not had an easy opportunity for working
people to get registered to vote. I had
Wendell Ford's job in 1974. And after I
won the nomination last summer, I
worked with the Democratic National
Committee, and the major part of our ef-
fort, our expenditure of funds, was de-
voted not to getting registered voters to
vote for Democrats but to get unregistered
citizens a chance to qualify to vote. This
is what we need.
I come from the South, and I have seen
the long, slow struggle of black people to
overcome the artificial obstacles that are
created by those who are powerful against
those who are bound up in a laboring job
40 hours a week and can't find a registra-
tion office open and can't register to meet
the deadlines and the technicalities and
the redtape that keeps people from exer-
cising their American citizenship.
And a good voter registration law
which makes it easy will not only help us
Democrats, it will help the whole country.
And I hope we can work it out together
this year.
Another thing that bothers voters is a
sense that some of the regulatory agencies
don't protect the consumers. And I'm
very determined that we should not have
an increase in the bureaucracy in govern-
ment. But I would like to see a simple
agency effected to protect consumer
rights.
1015
