Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977.
May 22
We will cooperate more closely with the newly influential countries
in Latin America, Africa, and Asia. We need their friendship and coop-
eration in a common effort as the structure of world power changes.
More than 100 years ago, Abraham Lincoln said that our Nation
could not exist half slave and half free. We know a peaceful world cannot
long exist one-third rich and two-thirds hungry.
Most nations share our faith that, in the long run, expanded and
equitable trade will best help the developing countries to help them-
selves. But the immediate problems of hunger, disease, illiteracy, and re-
pression are here now.
The Western democracies, the OPEC nations, and the developed
Communist countries can cooperate through existing international insti-
tutions in providing more effective aid. This is an excellent alternative
to war.
We have a special need for cooperation and consultation with other
nations in this hemisphere-to the north and to the south. We do not
need another slogan. Although these are our close friends and neighbors,
our links with them are the same links of equality that we forge for the
rest of the world. We will be dealing with them as part of a new, world-
wide mosaic of global, regional, and bilateral relations.
It's important that we make progress toward normalizing relations
with the People's Republic of China. We see the American and Chinese
relationship as a central element of our global policy and China as a key
force for global peace. We wish to cooperate closely with the creative
Chinese people on the problems that confront all mankind. And we hope
to find a formula which can bridge some of the difficulties that still
separate us.
Finally, let me say that we are committed to a peaceful resolution
of the crisis in southern Africa. The time has come for the principle of
majority rule to be the basis for political order, recognizing that in a
democratic system the rights of the minority must also be protected.
To be peaceful, change must come promptly. The United States
is determined to work together with our European allies and with the
concerned African States to shape a congenial international framework
for the rapid and progressive transformation of southern African society
and to help protect it from unwarranted outside interference.
Let me conclude by summarizing: Our policy is based on an histori-
cal vision of America's role. Our policy is derived from a larger view of
global change. Our policy is rooted in our moral values, which never
961
