Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
a way I speak for you. And if I do a good
job, it brings an increased, enhanced ap-
preciation for what you do, and when you
fail, then I also take the consequences of
that failure.
So, in a very practical way, we are part-
ners in making sure that our Government
is worthy of respect and trust and appre-
ciation. And I know that you have always
done your part-sometimes 3 or 4 weeks,
like myself, sometimes 48 years, like Dr.
Taylor. And we have such a wonderful
opportunity to serve.
I doubt that any other person in the Na-
tion has traveled more than I have the last
2 or 3 years or met with more people or
made more talks or answered more ques-
tions or learned more about our country.
move as much as I could the trappings
and pomp and ceremony that has in the
past followed Presidents. I don't want
"Ruffles and Flourishes" played when I
walk into a group like this. I am just one
of you. In a democratic government, we
ought to always remember that we are
nobody's boss; we are servants. And to the
extent that we can keep that conscious-
ness in our minds, we can be better serv-
ants. We get enough appreciation if we
do a good job. We need not bring it to
ourselves with artificialities.
The last point I want to make is this:
I have got a lot to learn. We are going to
have an aggressive and dynamic adminis-
tration. There will be a constant stream
of comprehensive suggestions going to the
There is an excitement, there is a hope, Congress which, in my opinion, are long
there is a confidence that exists-that I
hope that I will never betray-that exists
among the people of our country.
You have got a direct responsibility for
trade, the interrelationship with other na-
tions, and I see the importance of this De-
partment so great that for the first time,
I believe, in the National Security Coun-
cil meetings, Secretary Kreps has been
there to work with me and the Secretary
of State and the Secretary of Defense and
the CIA Director and say what should our
Nation do to enhance its strength, in a
legitimate way, and to arouse the appre-
ciation and trust of other nations, which is
the best basis for long-time peace.
It is not just the building of military
strength, it is a building of our relation-
ship with other nations so that we can
share responsibilities in a peaceful means
and not be distrustful of one another.
Competition is good. We can hold our
own. Americans are competitors. We are
confident of ourselves, but confidence
need not be translated into arrogance.
And arrogance is something that is a
temptation for us all. I have tried to re-
overdue: a complete reform of the wel-
fare system; for the first time a compre-
hensive policy on energy; a tangible ad-
dressing of the problems of equity in our
tax laws, trade laws; interrelationships
with our friends around the world and
our potential adversaries around the
world. And you are part of that process.
We are going to analyze the structure
of government, and when needed, we are
going to reorganize the structure of gov-
ernment. We will never get off in a corner
or in a closet or in the Oval Office with
me and your own leaders and devise a
change that would effect your own lives
without your having an opportunity to
originate the ideas for those changes.
If something is there for the last 30 or
40 years, and can be improved, I would
like for you to take the initiative to rec-
ommend the improvement, and to the ex-
tent that you aggressively and enthusiasti-
cally involve yourselves in searching for
better ways to do things, you can be part
of the process of change.
If you withdraw into a corner or into
your own closet and say I am not going to
participate, they are trying to shape my
111
