Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
nist way. So, what is your opinion on that, ing to be stricter and stricter in the fu-
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Our Govern-
ment has already expressed its opinion,
Mr. Lau. The previous administration
authorized the Concorde to come into our
country for a 16-month trial period, and
a couple of weeks ago I made a statement
that I agreed with that decision and
thought the Concorde ought to be given
a chance to fulfill its trial itself. As you
know, under the Federal law I have au-
thority over Dulles Airport.
MR. LAU. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. And so did President
Ford. We're permitting the test flights to
come into Dulles, and we're very care-
fully monitoring environmental conse-
quences of the SST flights, including pri-
marily noise.
The Kennedy Airport in New York is
not under my control at all. I have noth-
ing to do with it, no authority over it.
The New York Port Authority has that
decision to make, and I understand on
March the 10th they are going to make
a decision whether the Concorde can
come in for test flights or not. I don't
know what their decision will be.
I talked to President Giscard from
France yesterday about the Concorde,
and I also talked to Governor Hugh
Carey to let Governor Carey know, as
President Giscard had asked me to, that
the French people consider this a very
important issue. My own statement to
President Giscard is that we are not con-
cerned about the SST flights because of
commercial competition. About 6 years
ago our own Congress decided not to go
into the SST-building business.
MR. LAU. Yes, I remember.
THE PRESIDENT. And the whole prob-
lem in our country is noise and environ-
mental quality maintenance. Now, I
might say one other thing. I think that
the noise standards in our country are go-
ture, and not more and more lenient,
and the same noise standards ought to
apply to an airplane, whether it's a Con-
corde or a Lockheed or an airplane of
some other kind, or any sort of Ameri-
can commercial plane.
So, I think we can establish strict en-
vironmental laws. I think they ought to
apply to the SST flying, of course, at sub-
sonic speeds, and our own commercial
planes the same. But it is the environ-
mental question that will exclude the
Concorde, if it is excluded, and not any
sort of animosity toward the French peo-
ple. Nor is it any commercial competi-
tion between us and France on SST
flights.
MR. LAU. Okay, Thank you, Mr.
President.
MR. CRONKITE. The next call. Thank
you, Mr. Lau.
Our next call is from Mrs. Ruby
Hewitt of San Bernardino, California.
Mrs. Hewitt?
MRS. HEWITT. Yes, good afternoon,
President Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, Mrs.
Hewitt.
MRS. HEWITT. Thank you for giving
this time to the American people to speak
with you. It is indeed a privilege which
we appreciate.
The President. Thank you, maʼam.
PRESIDENT.
CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES
MRS. HEWITT. My question is why
veterans and civil service retirees are
given two cost of living a year but only
cost of living to social security
retirees?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I didn't
realize that there was that difference,
Mrs. Hewitt. That's the kind of question
that I'm afraid I'll have to get an answer
to, if there is an answer, and call you back
about it Monday. I doubt if I will have
322
