Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
—that we had ensured respect for the law and equal treatment under
the law, for the weak and the powerful, for the rich and the poor;
and
—that we had enabled our people to be proud of their own Govern-
ment once again.
I would hope that the nations of the world might say that we had
built a lasting peace, based not on weapons of war but on international
policies which reflect our own most precious values.
These are not just my goals—and they will not be my accomplish-
ments—but the affirmation of our Nation's continuing moral strength
and our belief in an undiminished, ever-expanding American dream.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 12:05 p.m. from a platform erected at the East Front
of the Capitol. Immediately before the address, Chief Justice of the United States
Warren E. Burger administered the oath of office.
United States Foreign Policy
Remarks to People of Other Nations on
Assuming Office. January 20, 1977
and are beginning to work on another,
we have, I believe, acquired a more ma-
ture perspective on the problems of the
world. It is a perspective which recog-
nizes the fact that we alone do not have
I have chosen the occasion of my in-
auguration as President to speak not only all the answers to the world's problems.
to my own countrymen-which is tradi-
tional—but also to you, citizens of the
world who did not participate in our elec-
tion but who will nevertheless be affected
by my decisions.
I also believe that as friends you are
entitled to know how the power and in-
fluence of the United States will be exer-
cised by its new Government.
I want to assure you that the relations
of the United States with the other coun-
tries and peoples of the world will be
guided during my own administration by
our desire to shape a world order that is
more responsive to human aspirations.
The United States will meet its obligation
to help create a stable, just, and peaceful
world order.
We will not seek to dominate nor dic-
tate to others. As we Americans have con-
cluded one chapter in our Nation's history
The United States alone cannot lift
from the world the terrifying specter of
nuclear destruction. We can and will
work with others to do so.
The United States alone cannot guar-
antee the basic right of every human be-
ing to be free of poverty and hunger and
disease and political repression. We can
and will cooperate with others in combat-
ing these enemies of mankind.
The United States alone cannot ensure
an equitable development of the world
resources or the proper safeguarding of
the world's environment. But we can and
will join with others in this work.
The United States can and will take
the lead in such efforts.
In these endeavors we need your help,
and we offer ours. We need your experi-
ence; we need your wisdom.
4
