Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
I hope to get around the country every
now and then, to travel. We are making
good progress, I think, in foreign matters.
We don't have any magic answers. It's
going to be laborious and tedious and re-
quire a great deal of tenacity to solve
some of the problems that have been on
us so long. And when I go out of office,
there will still be a lot left for the next
President.
But in summary, I appreciate the con-
fidence that the American people have
placed in me and feel confident that I've
got a good staff and a good Cabinet to
work with me and hope that you will
keep an inquisitive eye on us and a criti-
cal one when we make mistakes, but give
us the credit when we have those infre-
quent successes of which we are proud.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. in the
Roosevelt Room at the White House.
The transcript of the question-and-answer
session was released March 5.
"Ask President Carter"
Remarks During a Telephone Call-in
Program on the CBS Radio Network.
March 5, 1977
WALTER CRONKITE. Good day. President
Carter and I are in the so-called Oval
Office of the White House. We are in a
couple of wing-backed chairs in front of
a coffee table and in front of the fire-
place. Across from us is the desk at which
the President spends much of his day
working; over to our left the large doors
opening out into the beautiful Rose Gar-
den of the White House, on a very nice
spring-like day here in Washington.
This is a unique occasion, in the sense
that it marks a new approach to com-
munication between the President and the
people of the United States. It is indeed
historic-unique, historic-and we must
also say an experiment since the Presi-
dent has never taken part before in this
sort of a broadcast.
Now, here's the way we want it to work,
we hope it works. We will receive phone
calls from all over the country. We expect
people to ask questions on many, many
subjects, of course. There will be no cen-
sorship at all, no pre-screening in that
sense. However, you should know that it
is not going to be easy, of course, to get
through, because there have to be just a
limited number of lines coming to us here
at the White House.
My advice is if you get a busy signal
you do like you do when you get a busy
signal any time. You just hang up and try
again. When you do get through, we will
verify your call by name and hometown.
And then I'll introduce you to the Presi-
dent and you may talk directly with him.
Please remember that we want to give
just as many of you callers as possible an
opportunity to ask President Carter your
questions. Therefore, I'm going to be just
a little bit ruthless here in cutting off any
long-winded statements from our callers.
We do want to hear from you. The Presi-
dent wants your opinions and so forth,
but don't make a speech, will you? In
other words, get to your question right
away. Ask it just as clearly and directly
as possible, and just as in Presidential news
conferences, you will have an opportunity
for a followup question if you think that
it's necessary.
Mr. President, we are very pleased that
you've accepted our CBS News invitation
and are giving us this time to let the Na-
tion "Ask President Carter."
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Walter.
I'm glad to have a chance to let people
have direct access to me, and in the proc-
ess of answering 50 to 100 questions this
afternoon in an unrehearsed way, not
291
