Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 18
Q. Sir, do you support ground water
regulation by the government for the first
time?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the
ground water regulation is going to have
to come. It ought to be done, though, by
organizations of farmers themselves. One
of the questions that we were just dis-
cussing with the two farmers a few min-
utes ago is who is going to decide, when
water does get scarce, which kinds of
crops get water and which ones have to
do without.
The first crops to go without water
would probably be permanent pasture
and rangeland, and then different kinds
of trees would come in an order of priority
for the quantity of food they produce and
the value of the food.
occur, then I think you would have to bal-
ance two things: one is the maintenance
of support and income of the farm fami-
lies themselves; and secondly, and this
would apply to the larger farms, the pro-
duction of food for the Nation. And of
course the first priority, I think, would be
for the smaller farmers whose families'
livelihood is dependent upon getting ade-
quate Federal aid. When the question of
adequate food supplies builds up as a
major necessity, then I think the larger
allocation for the larger farmers might
come into play. But that would be a sec-
ond priority.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5 p.m. at the
farm of Charles and Genie Kryder. Prior to
his remarks, the President toured the farm ac-
companied by Chuck Kryder, Manuel Silva,
and Morris A. Martin, Jr., of the Soil Conser-
vation Service, Department of Agriculture.
Following his remarks, the President went to
Fresno Airport for the return trip to Washing-
ton, D.C.
I don't think that the Federal Govern-
ment could ever get involved in it. I don't
think the State general assembly or the
Governor could decide. I think that the
farmers in each region like this valley,
through a committee, ought to set up
ahead of time the rules for determining
who gets water and how much, and then
let the conservation measures be an in- Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
tegral part of that process and let the de-
cision be made by, perhaps, the Federal
administrators who control the water res-
ervoirs about how much water goes to
that region. But the allocation of water
among farmers and among crops ought to
be decided by farmer committees in the
communities involved.
One more question.
Q. Mr. President, do you see the possi-
bility that
you might increase the limit of
2,500 per farm under the emergency
drought relief?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's a pos-
sibility. I don't know how to answer that
question yet. My first hope, of course, is
that the rains will come and the drought
will be alleviated. And if that should not
Remarks of the President, Attorney General
Bell, and Several Members of Congress on
Proposed Legislation. May 18, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. One of the most difficult
tasks in a free society like our own is the
correlation between adequate intelligence
to guarantee our Nation's security on the
one hand, and the preservation of basic
human rights on the other—a freedom
from unnecessary governmental intru-
sion, a freedom from the abuse of power
by those who are charged with major re-
sponsibilities and who have major capa-
bilities brought about by their office-
and this has been a question in foreign
intelligence that has escaped a solution
for a long time in our country.
921
