Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
insure that initial development decisions
are wise.
A more realistic interest rate must be
used in calculating the costs and benefits
of projects. Many of the projects I re-
viewed were authorized at such low rates
that even though we are building them
today, we are pretending that the cost of
capital is still the same as it was many
years ago. In times of a tight budget, we
must be realistic about what it is actually
costing the taxpayers of the Nation to
build these projects.
We must be more realistic in initial
cost estimates for projects to avoid the
enormous cost overruns typical of so many
water projects. Some projects are ending
up costing many times what they were
estimated to cost when the Congress
originally authorized them.
We must scrutinize the beneficiaries of
the projects to make sure that the gen-
eral public is benefiting from projects,
not merely narrow or special interests.
One project I reviewed would have bene-
fited only two companies; another would
have spent over $1 million per landowner
benefited with little repayment. Yet such
projects are typically described as provid-
ing broad public benefits or helping family
farmers.
Demonstrated need for projects must
precede authorization and funding. Too
often, exaggerated "benefits" and ques-
tionable claims of recreation value, fish
and wildlife enhancement, or area rede-
velopment have been used to justify other-
wise marginal projects. All too often,
valuable river recreation and fish and
wildlife habitat have been destroyed in
the name of "enhancement."
Alternatives, especially nonstructural or
small-scale solutions to specific problems
such as floods, should always be investi-
gated as substitutes for expensive and
damaging projects which often do not
provide effective solutions anyway. Inter-
agency cooperation and encouragement
of local solutions to local problems need
to be an integral part of every water proj-
ect analysis.
Through each aspect of analysis, envi-
ronmental values must be a primary con-
cern to insure that irreplaceable natural
resources are protected from needless deg-
radation or destruction.
2. Dam safety
I am taking action to upgrade our Fed-
eral dam safety and inspection program,
and I will work with the Congress to de-
velop legislation to insure that every State
has an adequate dam safety program. The
recent Teton Dam tragedy indicates the
importance of this problem, and several
of the projects examined during the re-
view raised significant safety questions.
This is a critical consideration for both
existing and proposed dams.
3. Cost sharing for Federal water
projects
The beneficiaries of Federal water
projects do not bear a fair share of the
enormous capital and operating costs. An
example of this problem is that the users
of the Nation's waterways pay nothing for
their construction or maintenance. Today
I am recommending continuation of some
waterway projects, but I will work with
the Congress to develop a system to recoup
the costs from the beneficiaries. It is essen-
tial as a test of economic demand for
existing and future facilities and in assur-
ing a balanced transportation system that
the beneficiaries of waterway projects pay
their fair share of both construction and
operating costs. I will also be recommend-
ing comprehensive reforms in other cost-
sharing formulas. This action is essential
to genuine water program reforms.
4. Water conservation
In the arid West and across the entire
Nation, we must begin to recognize that
water is not free-it is a precious resource.
652
