Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ter, which doesn't mean more powerful
and autocratic, but more filled with love
and understanding and compassion and
humaneness and humility.
But in the last week, my wife and I
and Vice President Mondale and Joan
have shaken hands with literally thou-
sands of people-Members of Congress
and the diplomatic corps, and people
who worked with us in the campaign,
and distinguished visitors from around-
the last receiving line we met was of the
military officers of our country, from the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
down through a very large representative
group of enlisted persons.
And afterwards, one of the news people
who had their cameras focused on us all
the time said, "Have you noticed any
difference among the receiving line
groups?" And I said, "Yes, I have, a very
strange difference. My wife and I both
noticed it. A tremendous and startling
proportion of the military people, when
they passed by me, said, 'God be with
you. We remember you in our prayers'—
much more from the military, the symbol
of our Nation's strength, than from any
other group, all fine people.”
So, a search for peace, I believe, can
only be successful if we recognize the
commonality of the aspirations of human
beings throughout the world and if we
remember that
cumulative humility
ought never to be equated to dominant
national pride.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:09 a.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Representative James C. Wright, Jr.,
of Texas.
The breakfast was sponsored by the United
States Senate and House prayer breakfast
groups.
Secretary of Labor
Remarks at the Swearing In of
F. Ray Marshall. January 27, 1977
The Chief Justice and I are getting to
be old friends. We've done our Cabinet
ceremonies in sequence, which has given
me a very fine opportunity to participate
on several occasions instead of just one.
As I said to the last group here, Ray,
you have a very good judgment about
publicity, wanting to be the only one, by
yourself rather than as a group. [Laugh-
ter]
Ray has achieved a notable position
for being the last Cabinet member to be
confirmed. And I think, as Griffin Bell
did yesterday in symbolizing his own
administration by opening the steel doors,
you can use a Bible verse that "The last
shall be first." That's typical of what the
Labor Department has to do.
I was quite interested in the attitude
and competence and general thrust of
the leader of the Labor Department.
One of the major responsibilities that I
shall have as President, that the whole
Nation has as a government, is to put
our people back to work. I wanted some-
one who not only was a theoretician or
a distinguished economist-which Ray
Marshall is certainly capable of exhibit-
ing-but I also wanted somebody who
knows in practical terms the impact of
unemployment on an individual human
being or an individual family in our
country.
Ray Marshall is the kind of person
who knows about displaced persons. He
is someone who knows at first hand about
the minority groups. He is someone who
knows at first hand about those who
come into our country as undocumented
workers, their problems and the prob-
lems that they create. He is someone
who walks the streets and who visits con-
26
