Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
National Farm Safety Week, 1977
Proclamation 4494. March 28, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Many of the men and women who
founded our nation were farmers, and
farmers were a major factor in turning
this land from a wilderness to a great and
productive nation. As we enter our third
century, the majority of our people no
longer live on farms, but each farmer and
farm worker has a more vital role than
ever before in our common welfare. Not
only our own people in cities and towns,
but millions of others around the world,
depend on the food and fiber produced on
America's farms.
Every year hundreds of thousands of
farm and ranch residents suffer unneces-
sary injury, and sometimes disability and
death, from accidents on the farm. The
dollar loss is great, but the cost in human
suffering is even greater. We have already
done much to make agriculture safer, but
we can do more. With a new awareness of
the importance of farm safety we can in-
sure that the equipment and chemicals
used on the farm are safe for both farmer
and consumer.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week of July 25
through July 31, 1977, as National Farm
Safety Week. I urge all who live and work
on the nation's farms and ranches to com-
mit themselves to safe conduct in all ac-
tivities. Further, I urge all who work with
and serve agricultural producers to assist
and support them in this effort in every
possible way.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set
hand this twenty-eighth day of March,
my
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-seven, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two
hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:07 p.m., March 28, 1977]
National Commission on the
Observance of International
Women's Year, 1975
Executive Order 11979. March 28, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accord with Section 2 of the Act approved
December 23, 1975, to direct the National
Commission on the Observance of Inter-
national Women's Year, 1975, to organize
and convene a National Women's Confer-
ence, and for other purposes (Public Law
94-167, 89 Stat. 1003), and in order to
increase the number of members on the
Commission, it is hereby ordered that Sec-
tion 1(b) of Executive Order No. 11832,
as amended by Executive Order No.
11889, is amended to read as follows:
"(b) The Commission shall consist of
not more than 45 members to be ap-
pointed by the President from among citi-
zens in private life, except that not more
than 10 members may be officials of State
or local governments. The President shall
designate the presiding officer, who may
designate from among the members of the
524
