Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to those ideals, along with you, in the
months to come.
Finally, I'd like to say that we are go-
ing to do some things that we hope that
you will share with us. When I was Gov-
ernor of Georgia, we had a sister state in
Brazil named Pernambuco. Recife is the
capital. And Rosalynn and I went down
to visit Brazil, I think, the first year I was
in office. We formed a lot of friendships.
And when we got back, we organized
just on our own, with the help of other
people in Georgia, of course, an exchange
of citizens. We chartered a plane. I think
it cost $200 per person, about, and we
loaded about 200 people on either a 707
or a plane of that size and flew down to
Brazil. I didn't go. Rosalynn did. And
those 200 people, Georgians, unloaded in
Recife, and 200 Brazilians got on the plane
and came back to Georgia.
None of them ever stayed in a hotel or
motel. They all stayed in each other's
homes. And the 200 Georgians had made
arrangements while they were gone for
200 of their neighbors to take in the Bra-
zilians. And the same thing had happened
in Brazil.
It was a tremendous exhibition of the
yearning of people in another country
who spoke Portuguese-none of the Geor-
gians spoke Portuguese-to learn about
us and for us to learn about them. So
we're going to try to do this on a nation-
wide basis and ask those of you who are
interested, either the Governors or their
spouses, to be thinking about it, and later
on you'll get a letter concerning it. And
perhaps your own State this first year
would like to just take one airplane, and
we've asked the State Department to give
us advice. And we would like to have
somebody go, maybe a couple of hundred
folks go from, say, Idaho, to perhaps
Morocco, and let 200 Moroccans come
back.
There won't be any public funds in-
volved at the State or Federal level. We're
going to try to join in and raise enough
money in private places to finance these
trips.
But I want to see the ties of our own
country with other foreign countries-
large and small, powerful and weak, very
friendly and not so friendly-strength-
ened. I think it will be an exciting thing.
Perhaps the first time, you might get
some fairly affluent people to go who
could not only pay their $300 or $400 or
whatever it is these days but could also
help pay the price of a Moroccan to come
back to one of the homes.
We're going to try to work it out in
detail. But we will hope that we can get
you to help us with it. You can either
wait till you get a letter or you can volun-
teer. We're going to try maybe a few
trips this first year. But eventually, we'd
like to have it be kind of a massive ex-
change of people going back and forth
from the United States of America and
for the other countries around the world.
And I particularly want to keep it re-
moved from Government. The only thing
that we'll provide is mine and Rosalynn's
personal involvement in our spare time
and, perhaps, yours and the help from
the State Department in giving us advice
on where to go. And we'll try to provide a
little school for the ones who volunteer to
go, about the country to which the visit
will be made.
So, if you're interested in doing it, you
can contact Rosalynn directly, or we'll be
writing you a letter soon. There is a
volunteer in Georgia, a young man who
happens to be a Presbyterian minister,
who was a missionary in Brazil. He was
the one who had the idea for our first
exchange. And he's going to just volun-
teer to kind of coordinate the whole
effort.
270
