Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 3
chairman of the Government Organiza-
tion and Efficiency Committee, he was an
architect in Florida's executive branch
reorganization in 1969.
Pettigrew served as Speaker of the
Florida House from 1970 to 1972. He was
elected to the Florida State Senate in
1972, where he served as chairman of the
Criminal Justice Committee. He resigned
in 1974 to run for the U.S. Senate.
He was born on June 10, 1930, in
Charleston, W. Va., moving to Florida
that same year. He received his B.A.
(1953) and J.D. (1957) from the Uni-
versity of Florida. From 1953 to 1955, he
was an officer in the U.S. Air Force, serv-
ing in Korea and Japan.
Federal Personnel Manual
Memorandum to the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission. June 2, 1977
To Chairman Campbell
It has been brought to my attention
that Chapter 410, subchapter 8, para-
graph 4 of the Federal Personnel Manual,
entitled "Nonparticipation in Segregated
Meetings or Conferences," addresses only
discrimination based on race.
It is this Administration's policy that
Federal officials should not participate in
private conferences or meetings held in
facilities which discriminate on the basis
of sex, religion, or national origin, as well
as race. Accordingly I request that you
take whatever action is appropriate to
amend the above cited provision to reflect
this policy.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Alan Campbell, Chairman,
Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C.
20415]
NOTE: The memorandum was not issued in
the form of a White House press release.
United States Circuit Judge
Nominating Panel for
the Third Circuit
Appointment of the Members of the
Panel. June 2, 1977
The President today announced the
membership of the United States Circuit
Judge Nominating Panel for the Third
Circuit.
The panel will submit five names to
the President from which he will select a
nominee to fill the vacancy created by the
retirement of Francis L. Van Dusen from
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit. The President has asked that
the candidates recommended be from
Pennsylvania.
The members of the panel are:
JOHN J. MCLEAN, JR., attorney, Pittsburgh,
Pa., chairman;
MADGE BENOVITZ, president, Pennsylvania
League of Women Voters, Kingston, Pa.;
LYNN M. HASKIN, president, Women in Com-
munication, Landsdowne, Pa.;
BERNARD HELLRING, attorney, Newark, N.J.;
BETTY HOGAN, consultant, A. Phillip Randolph
Institute, Camden, N.J.;
LEON KATZ, attorney, Philadelphia, Pa.;
BARBARA MATHER, attorney, Philadelphia, Pa.;
ARLEN MEKLER, attorney, Wilmington, Del.;
MARY SULLIVAN, director, Haug Die Casting
Corp., Jenkintown, Pa.;
STANLEY VAN NESS, director, New Jersey Pub-
lic Defender, Trenton, N.J.;
T. GIRARD WHARTON, attorney, Somerville,
N.J.
Community Services
Administration
Nomination of William W. Allison To Be
Deputy Director. June 3, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate William W. Allison, of At-
lanta, Ga., to be Deputy Director of the
Community Services Administration. Alli-
1053
