Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I want to express my thanks to the
Members of Congress for the great work
they did. In the entire process there were
only 22 votes, I think, against the bill.
The Senate voted unanimously both times
for their own version of the bill and
for the modifications that the House
attached.
I'm very deeply grateful to the chair-
men of the two committees and to all
those who did help. I take this responsi-
bility-working with Bert Lance and the
Cabinet officers, the staffs of the congres-
sional committees—with a great deal of
determination and also with a sober reali-
zation of the difficulties involved.
This will be an open process where the
American people can be aware of the
progress that is being made. And we'll
involve the private sector of our national
life, the civil servants who are eager to see
their own jobs made more meaningful,
and I believe that the Nation will benefit.
So again, let me thank you, Jack
Brooks, and you, Abe Ribicoff, and all the
others who have helped us so much as I
sign this bill, which I think will be good
for the American people.
[At this point, the President signed the bill into
law.]
Immediately thereafter, Bert Lance
and others will give a briefing to the press
in more detail.
I might say one other thing: that al-
though I only recognized the chairmen
of the committees who happen to be
Democrats-and I'm thankful for that-
it was a bipartisan effort. And I believe
that the overwhelming support is indica-
tive of the way the American people feel
about this process.
And I, of course, want to express my
thanks to Charles Percy and to Frank
Horton and the Republicans, as well,
throughout the Congress, for their good
help in this effort.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, S. 626 is Public Law 95-17,
approved April 6.
Reorganization Act of 1977
Statement on Signing S. 626 Into
Law. April 6, 1977
Today, I am signing legislation which
will permit us to submit reorganization
plans to the Congress over the next 3
years. The reorganizations proposed in
the plans will go into effect unless disap-
proved by Congress within 60 days.
As I have stated on many occasions, my
administration is determined to reorga-
nize and streamline the executive branch
of our Government. This is one of the
ways in which I plan to fulfill my com-
mitment to the American people to make
government more responsive, efficient,
and open. Reorganization authority pro-
vides one time-tested and efficient way to
bring about these needed improvements.
Although the bill before me extends
the reorganization authority for 3 years
instead of the 4-year period I requested
of Congress, it does provide some flexi-
bility that has not been available to other
Presidents. For the first time in the his-
tory of the authority, we can amend a
reorganization plan while it is before Con-
gress. Previously, a sound plan could have
been rejected because no one could make
minor but critical changes. In addition,
the Congress has removed the limitation
which previously permitted a President to
submit only one plan every 30 days. This
means that we can move more rapidly in
presenting our reorganization proposals.
572
