Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
course, fairness or equity, which is a primary consideration in all our
proposals.
We prefer to reach those goals through voluntary cooperation with a
minimum of coercion. In many cases, we propose financial incentives
which will encourage people to save energy and will harness the power of
our free economy to meet our needs.
But I must say to you that voluntary compliance will not be enough—
the problem is too large and the time is too short. In a few cases, penalties
and restrictions to reduce waste are essential.
Our first goal is conservation. It's the cheapest, most practical way to
meet our energy needs and to reduce our growing dependence on foreign
supplies of oil. With proper planning, economic growth, enhanced job
opportunities, and a higher quality of life can result even while we elimi-
nate the waste of energy.
The two areas where we waste most of our energy are transportation
and our heating and cooling systems.
Transportation consumes 26 percent of all our energy—and as much
as half of that is waste. In Europe, the average automobile weighs 2,700
pounds; in our country, 4,100 pounds.
Now, the Congress has already taken fuel efficiency steps and set
standards which will require new automobiles to have an average ef-
ficiency or mileage per gallon of 27.5 by 1985, instead of the 18 among
new cars today. The entire fleet of cars is only 14 miles per gallon at this
time.
To insure that this existing congressional mandate is met, I am pro-
posing first of all a graduated excise tax on new gas guzzlers that do not
meet Federal mileage standards. This gas [tax] will start low and then rise
each year until 1985. In 1978, for instance, a tax of $180 will be levied on
a car getting only 15 miles per gallon, and for an 11-mile-per-gallon car
the tax will be 450. That's at the beginning. By 1985, the taxes on these
wasteful new cars with the same low mileage, 15 miles per gallon or 11
miles per gallon, will have risen to $1,600 and $2,500.
All the money collected by this tax on wasteful automobiles will be
returned to consumers through rebates on automobiles that are more ef-
ficient than the mileage standards. We expect both better efficiency and
also more automobile production and sales under this proposal. We will
insure that American automobile workers and their families do not bear
an unfair share of the burden. And of course, we will also work with our
foreign trading partners to see that they are treated fairly.
665
