May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
HOSPITAL COSTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Mike
Robbins. I have two quick things I'd like
you to respond to. I'm wearing two hats
today. Number one, I represent the Cali-
fornia political network, many of who are
here today. Raise your hands. You all
there-members of the network.
Okay, we banded together during your
campaign to assure your victory in the
black community. I'm sure that you know
that we were very successful. What we
would like for you to also be aware of,
at the present time, there are no provi-
sions for any input from our organization,
and many of those throughout the coun-
try into your administration, in terms of
policies and employment opportunities.
And we'd like for you to consider-
THE PRESIDENT. Just one person in the
United States that's talking to me right
now, and that's you. [Laughter and
applause]
Q. Very good.
THE PRESIDENT. So you've got a direct
input right this minute. [Laughter]
Q. Also, I'd like to let you know that
I'm representing the Health Systems
Agency for Los Angeles County. We're
very much concerned with the fact that
your cost containment bill, also public bill
93-641, which established the HSA's-
we have a unique situation in Los An-
geles County inasmuch as 85 percent of
the hospitals in Los Angeles County are
under the 4,000 admissions per year.
I'd like for you to take a look at that
because we have a particular situation
there. Also, we need to have the individ-
ual HSA's have more authority and the
time for evaluating the needs for certif-
icate of needs. Presently we can only re-
view and comment. And we'd like to have
a little more time.
Thank you very much, sir, and wel-
come to California.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I think
you probably know that one of the major
things that we've got to do is to control
the rapidly increasing prices charged by
hospitals for treatment. We have now
reached the point where the cost of hos-
years. Since
pital care is doubling every 5
1950 the hospital costs have gone up more
than a thousand percent. So we're not try-
ing to work any hardship on treatment
centers. But we just want to put kind of a
lid on how much the prices of hospital care
go up every year. But that comment's very
good for me. It'll be a lot of help.
Let me go to Orange County now.
WATER SHORTAGES
Q. Hello. My name is Linus Rawls. I'm
17 years old. I live in Orange City in
Orange County. I work at Hunter's Books
here in Bassin Square.
California is headed for a serious
drought. I'm wondering if we could get a
Federal grant for the research and de-
velopment of a water treatment plant to
change sea water into drinkable and
usable water. CBS "60 Minutes" last week
had a program on an Arab country that
was doing just this. And I'm wondering
why we can't do that also.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. We've
had, as you know, research projects for
desalinization plants, Linus. But so far,
at least, we've had enough plentiful fresh
water so that it's much cheaper than the
very expensive water derived from sea
water.
In Israel, in Saudi Arabia, in Iran, as
you pointed out, where energy is fairly
plentiful to provide the heat that's re-
quired, and where water is extremely
scarce, it is economically feasible to de-
salinate or take salt out of water to make
it drinkable.
I think in the future this will be the
case in our own country. The basic re-
search and development has been done,
912
