Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 25
ship that has existed between Jordan and
the United States has been a great stabiliz-
ing force in the Middle East. In spite of
the disharmonies that have existed there
now for 29 years, there never has been a
threat to the close cooperation and com-
munication and friendship between Jor-
dan and our country. And we are very
delighted to have tonight the leader of
that country come to see us.
We had a very fruitful discussion today
about past history-which I have just
described briefly-and the future. We
recognize the difficulty of resolving the
historical animosities that have existed in
the Middle Eastern region. But I think
there is almost a unanimous belief among
the leaders with whom I've discussed this
subject that 1977 can be a propitious
year for major strides toward permanent
peace.
We are blessed with a deep awareness
of the devastation of previous wars. There
is a widespread sense of waste and frus-
tration in spending so much of a country's
resources on weapons, when economic
progress and better health care and edu-
cation needs cry out to be met. And when
Secretary Vance visited all the leaders in
the Middle Eastern region, a unanimous
statement was, "We wish that we could
stop spending so much on the weapons of
war."
I think there is also a sense of hope in
the character of the leaders this year. We
are blessed with a sense of moderation
and an inclination toward peace.
And I think the last thing I'd like to
mention is that all of us feel that because
of these circumstances that an extraordi-
nary effort is worthwhile during 1977.
And unless we make some substantive
progress toward resolving the historical
differences, it may be a long time in the
future before we can mount such an effort
again.
By the end of May, I will have met with
all the leaders of the countries involved
and will have listened to their thoughts,
their hopes, and their dreams and their
plans for peace.
I think there is a general sense that the
countries there trust our Nation, at least
more than any other nation is trusted. And
it puts a tremendous responsibility on me
and the Vice President, the Secretary of
State, and others not to betray that trust,
to be fair and open and honest in our own
discussions with the leaders who have
honored us by coming to our Nation to
visit.
I don't know whether or not we will be
successful this year. That's a very difficult
thing to predict. But I believe that one of
the great potential benefits that we can
observe and use is the
observe and use is the courage and sound
judgment and experience and the senior-
ity and a sensitivity and, I think I can say
accurately, the unselfishness of King Hus-
sein of Jordan.
He's a natural leader. He's quiet-
spoken, but firm. He's honest and cou-
rageous. He's our friend, and he's a good
adviser and instructor for me, a new Presi-
dent, as I join with many of you around
this table in searching for some opportuni-
ties to resolve differences that have di-
vided peace-loving people too long.
So, I'd like to propose a toast now to a
courageous King, to the people of Jordan,
to King Hussein. Welcome to our country,
sir.
KING HUSSEIN. Mr. President, my dear
friends:
It's a privilege and an honor for me to
be here, to have this wonderful opportu-
nity to meet with you, sir, and to meet
with friends once again, to bring you the
sincerest wishes of the people of Jordan
for every success not only in leading the
people of this great Nation but in ful-
filling the aspirations and hopes of so
many throughout the world.
721
