Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
THE PRESIDENT. The goals that we
have set for our own energy consumption
between now and 1985 are very stringent
and the legislative proposals that I have
submitted to the Congress are adequate
to meet those goals.
MR. DIMBLEBY. If you get them
through Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. It we get them
through Congress.
MR. Dimbleby. Do you think you will
get them through Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. One of the
goals, for instance, is to reduce substan-
tially the amount of oil that we anticipate
importing in 1985. Our present projec-
tions, with no actions, show that we will
import about 16 million barrels of oil per
day. With the program implemented,
we'll cut that 16 million down to less than
6 million barrels per day.
We actually anticipate lowering our
gasoline consumption in this country 10
percent below the present level of con-
sumption, and to build up this benefit
primarily by conservation induced by tax
incentives and also without very serious
damage to our own economy.
For instance, we feel that the inflation
rate will be affected less than one-half of
1 percent over the period between now
and 1985, and in addition, we feel that
there is practically a nondetectable ad-
verse impact on the rate of economic
growth.
We have a much better opportunity to
do this than most of the countries with
whom we'll be meeting in London because
we waste so much more.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But isn't there a sense
in which it's fair to say that some of these
things don't appear to have been thought
right through? I mean two things we have
talked about now, both the economy,
where you drop back a third of the
growth you were going to give, and then
the energy policy, where already the 5
cents, which seems quite a small figure,
that you are trying to raise, we heard
yesterday—they are saying it's not going
to get through Congress. Do you think
you, yourself, as President, are moving
too fast on too many fronts and haven't
actually worked out the mechanics of how
you are going to get the things done?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's difficult to
move too fast on too many fronts and also
to have a program that's not adequate
because it's so timid. Those to me seem to
be inherently incompatible.
MR. DIMBLEBY. Well, too fast in lan-
guage, I meant, and not clear enough in
policy.
THE PRESIDENT. Our goal, for instance,
in automobile economy-we now have an
average gasoline consumption in our
country, in all our automobiles put to-
gether, of only 14 miles per gallon, be--
cause the American economy has been
built around very large, very heavy auto-
mobiles. By 1982 we project that the aver-
age gasoline economy of new automobiles
will be 272 miles per gallon, almost twice
the present fleet level.
This is a dramatic change in purchas-
ing habits of the American people con-
cerning automobiles. So, the changes are
quite profound. We consider them to be
adequate, and we consider them to be
capable of phasing in so that they don't
disrupt our economy as we make these
basic changes. And those factors are very
difficult to accommodate, but I think that
we have put together a package that will
do that.
NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION
MR. WEISS. Can we turn to nuclear
matters and proliferation, nonprolifera-
tion, Mr. President?
MR. DE LA TAILLE. Yes, Mr. President,
I would like to ask you some questions
about that. Your new nuclear program
763
