June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
have some protection for small commu-
nities that now receive commercial air-
line service.
In the last 16 years, for instance, more
than 200 communities have lost their air-
line service, and this is a trend in the
wrong direction. The legislation now be-
fore the Senate will guarantee that for the
next 10 years airline service to these small
communities will be protected, continued,
with a subsidy cost that will be a reduc-
tion instead of an increase. This is one of
the goals.
Another one is to provide more flexi-
bility to accommodate changing markets
so that airlines might enter more freely
new markets and so that we might have,
in addition to that, perhaps more compe-
tition with new airlines themselves.
Since 1950, although we have had 80
applications for new charters, none have
been approved. I think the recent decision
by the CAB, which was a very good move
in the right direction to provide some
lower airline use costs across the Atlantic,
is a step in the right direction.
There is a tremendous potential market
among Americans for airline service use
that hasn't yet been tapped. I believe that
more competition, lower rates, higher use
of airplanes, more entry into new mar-
kets, better protection for small commu-
nities all tie together in a very worthwhile
pursuit.
There is always a fear of change, and I
know that when there is a privilege that
is now extant, that a chance of losing that
privileged position is one that causes
legitimate concern.
I am personally hopeful that we might
reduce government regulation as an over-
all concept, and if that reduction can be
concluded with a reinvigoration of the
airline industry and a better service to
consumers and the communities that need
it, all those goals will be very well worth
the effort.
This afternoon I am here to learn and
to let the American people share in the
learning process. There is revised legisla-
tion now in the Senate which I think
substantially overcomes the legitimate
concerns expressed about the original
legislation.
After a 3-year process, great progress
has been made. I would like to conclude
my part in the program by congratulating
Senator Cannon and Senator Kennedy,
Congressman Glenn Anderson, and Con-
gressman Elliott Levitas, who is here this
afternoon, Senator Magnuson, and others
who have labored very long and hard to
prepare the Congress to address this con-
troversial and important issue.
Senator Cannon, I would like to turn
the lectern over to you now. I know there
will be a chance for several people to ex-
press their opinions. But I am very grate-
ful for the good work you have done so
far. I understand the committee hearings
will continue very shortly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:13 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office
Building.
Prior to the briefing, the President met with
Brock Adams, Secretary of Transportation,
Alfred E. Kahn, Chairman of the Civil Aero-
nautics Board, and a group of Senators and
Representatives to discuss the legislation. Par-
ticipants in that meeting then attended the
briefing.
Disaster Relief Act
Amendments
Statement on Signing H.R. 6197 Into
Law. June 21, 1977
I have approved enrolled bill H.R.
6197, Disaster Relief Act amendments,
though I have done so with some reser-
vation. I strongly approve the extension of
the basic Disaster Relief Act. However,
the provisions which expand the Army
1134
