Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 18, 1977
Swearing-In Ceremony
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Chairman
of the Council on Environmental Quality,
the Deputy Director of ACTION, and
the Administrator and Deputy Administrator
of the Environmental Protection
Agency. March 11, 1977
I apologize for being late. This is not
my normal custom, but I have been work-
ing the last 15 or 20 minutes on the
Rhodesian question, and something came
up at the last minute.
This is an afternoon ceremony that's
very significant to us. I think that my own
background in environmental questions
and in matters that relate to the quality
of life has been one of intimate and deep
concern. And when I was elected Presi-
dent, my major purpose in dealing with
Federal Government agencies that relate
to energy or to environment, to the qual-
ity of life in every way, was one of ap-
pointing people in whom I had complete
confidence and, also, who had the confi-
dence of those intensely committed en-
vironmentalists and conservationists in
our country.
At the same time, of course, in order
for us to be effective, there must be a
working relationship that cannot create
insuperable barriers between those who
are interested in development of jobs on
the one hand, those who want to protect
the quality of the outdoors, the purity of
life on the other. I think that we've been
successful so far, without abridging any-
one's deep commitment and integrity in
past statements and beliefs on the one
hand, and adequate progress on the other.
And I'm very proud this afternoon to
have a chance to introduce these men
and women who will be serving in such
important positions.
Charles Warren is a man whom I first
met when I was in Plains being briefed
on the major questions concerning energy.
He's a person who has been very effective
in California, in the legislature, in devis-
ing and drafting and implementing
major and very innovative decisions con-
cerning the energy question, environmen-
tal questions, protection of the coastal
regions, not only from a present-day point
of view but as they would impact on the
lives of people in years to come.
He's a very successful man there. And
I think at some considerable sacrifice to
himself, financially, but because of his
interest in this subject, he's agreed to
come and serve with us. And he'll be the
Chairman of those who will advise me
on matters that relate to environmental
quality.
I'm very glad that you've come to be
with us. And I express my appreciation
to you and look forward to working
closely with you.
375
