June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
has lost a devoted jurist, and the legal
profession has lost a tireless and percep-
tive advocate of judicial reform.
Tom Clark's public career spanned
exactly half a century. He will be remem-
bered for his participation in Supreme
Court decisions that helped shape the
attitudes and outlook of our times. In re-
tirement, he traveled widely and spoke
eloquently of the need to make the Fed-
eral judiciary more responsive and effi-
cient. His candor and his good will are
certain to be missed. I extend my sincerest
sympathy to his wife and family.
NOTE: Tom C. Clark served as an Associate
Justice from 1949 to 1967.
The Honorable Tom C. Clark
Executive Order 11996. June 14, 1977
As a mark of respect to the memory of
the Honorable Tom C. Clark, former As-
sociate Justice of the Supreme Court of
the United States, it is hereby ordered,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of
Proclamation 3044 of March 1, 1954, as
amended, that until interment, the flag of
the United States shall be flown at half-
staff on all buildings, grounds and naval
vessels of the Federal Government in the
District of Columbia and throughout the
United States and its Territories and pos-
sessions. I also direct that the flag shall be
flown at half-staff for the same length of
time at all United States embassies, lega-
tions, consular offices, and other facilities
abroad, including all military facilities
and naval vessels and stations.
The White House,
June 14, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:58 p.m., June 14, 1977]
Skytrain Service
Statement on Approval of the Skytrain
Application. June 14, 1977
I strongly endorse and have approved
the decision of the Civil Aeronautics
Board permitting Laker Airways to pro-
vide low-fare "Skytrain" service for 1 year
between New York and London.
The Skytrain service will offer substan-
tial new benefits to consumers. The fare
from London to New York will be
$101.48, and $135 from New York to
London.
I believe that low-cost air service should
also be available to passengers traveling
within the United States. I therefore re-
affirm my strong commitment to legisla-
tion currently before Congress to guaran-
tee that proposals to offer low-fare service
in domestic markets receive prompt and
favorable attention by the CAB.
Federal Audiovisual Activities
Announcement of an Office of Management
and Budget Memorandum Proposing
Improved Management. June 14, 1977
The Office of Management and Budget
today sent to the heads of executive de-
partments and agencies a proposal for
improving the management of Federal
audiovisual activities.
Proposed new policies contained in the
memo are designed to bring about more
effective use of facilities and materials
throughout the Government in the audio-
visual area.
This matter has concerned the Presi-
dent, and he asked that proposals be
developed for more effective practices.
Today's move is the first management
step to ensure that all interested parties
in the private sector as well as in the Fed-
1112
