Apr. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I call upon the clergy, educators, the
communications media, the courts, the
legal profession, and all interested indi-
viduals and organizations to mark this
twentieth annual nationwide observance
of Law Day, U.S.A. with programs and
ceremonies as befits our Nation's devotion
to the principle of equal justice for all.
To that end, I call upon all public offi-
cials to display the flag of the United
States on all government buildings on
that day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twelfth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-seven, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and first.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:55 p.m., April 12, 1977]
ACTION Review Project
Remarks to Participants in the
Project. April 12, 1977
One of the agencies in Government, as
all of you know, which provides the
closest and most personal link between
the average citizen of our country and
their own Government is the ACTION
Agency.
We've been excited and inspired in the
past when Hubert Humphrey and Presi-
dent Kennedy and others initiated the
basic concept of a massive volunteer effort
in our Government, both domestically
and in overseas operations, for the Peace
Corps and with the programs that we
conduct here in our own country, VISTA
and others.
We want to be sure that at the begin-
ning of this new administration, under
the leadership of Sam Brown and Mary
King,ยน that we reassess the most effective
way to use this tremendous untapped re-
source of American citizens of very young
age and very old age, highly educated,
and those who have little education at all,
who want to work with us among people
who need their direct and personal help
and advice, counsel, and support.
It's very important to make sure that
this be done in an effective way. There is
no incompatibility between effective or-
ganization, maximum use of financial
and human resources on the one hand,
kind of business-like management, and on
the other, understanding and compassion
and a real derivation of benefit from
those who volunteer to help us.
I'm very grateful to all of you who are
experts in management and all of those
who've volunteered to help us in an
advisory way to make sure that we re-
invigorate the entire ACTION program,
and, particularly, in the domestic scene.
It means a lot to us. I think it can serve
as perhaps no other program can to tap
the tremendous interest that presently is
growing, I believe, among the people of
our Government, of our country, in their
own Government.
And I think that because of the diver-
sity of the programs-I think there are
probably a dozen or so where you have
different avenues to come into the Gov-
ernment and work on a voluntary basis-
that we need to have some clear concept
of a better way to manage this exciting
program.
So, I want to let you know two things:
one, of my personal and direct interest in
it. I pledge to you that I'll do the best I
can to carry out the recommendations that
you make to the leaders of this agency;
Director and Deputy Director of ACTION.
608
