Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And, I'd like to mention five of what I
call the today technologies for your con-
sideration for a high priority usage and
funding.
One is magneto hydrodynamics that
the University of Tennessee Space Insti-
tute has reached, to the point where they
have the only coal-fired MHD facility in
the United States.
This is a method for lowering electric
costs, which these gasification proposals
do not do by increasing the efficiency of
the burning of coal while removing high
sulfur and ash from the coal used. I've
seen it done. The MHD work at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee Space Institute needs
a shot in the arm and the cooperation
of a major utility. I think there's one at
this table that has taken a careful look at
that and it may be amenable to this.
The second thing is the Conoco scrub-
ber, as I call it. It's a second generation
scrubber that does not produce toxic
sludge. It has been tested, as I under-
stand it, in the Ediston station in Phila-
delphia. It is guaranteed by Conoco to
work, and yet, the utilities—I see the
Conoco man shaking his head. We've had
testimony before the West Virginia Legis-
lature. Yet major utilities will not take
this type of scrubber and use it, even
though Conoco has said that they will
guarantee that it is a working technology.
I think this needs to be looked into.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Mr. Kilpatrick,
let me interrupt right there and say these
things are being looked into. You are cor-
rect that in the bill we have large amounts
of money that the Senator and others
have placed there out of this same con-
cern. We will be looking into that. And
it will be more developmental approaches,
designed to do what, I think, is necessary
and has been said here today—extract
that coal here in the eastern part of the
United States in a fashion that's eco-
nomically efficient to the operator so it
•
can be made available to the utilities and
others at a price that does not run that
fuel bill up on the consumer. So we're
aware of that, and what we need to do is
get that bill passed.
MR. KILPATRICK. Well, let me mention
these three other points here, because I
haven't heard those either.
THE PRESIDENT. Just mention them.
MR. KILPATRICK. Okay. Super coal
cleaning, that is super coal washing and
crushing to reduce high- and low-sulfur
coal. It's being done in Pennsylvania by
General Public Utilities. The second is the
use of methane gas, a real push, to use
methane gas from coal seams to replace
natural gas. It's done by Eastern Associ-
ated in the Clarksburg, West Virginia
area.
The third is something Secretary
Adams is on top of, apparently. That is a
big push to make electric cars, which pre-
sumably could use coal-fired electricity,
at least as America's second vehicle with-
in the future.
THE PRESIDENT. Those are good points.
There are a lot of other specific ones like
the flue gas boilers that I think you also
have an experimental installation here in
West Virginia, do you not?
MR. REICHL. May I make a comment
on this-
THE PRESIDENT. You certainly may,
Mr. Reichl.
MR. REICHL. I'm a little closer to this
area, maybe, than some of you, and I
think this is a good opportunity to raise a
concern about our trend to look for tech-
nical fixes. I'm sorry to say I cannot
agree with Mr. Kilpatrick. I think that
MHD is a good example of how not to
spend your research dollars. That is not
the thing that anyone living in this room
is likely to see commercially used. But on
technical grounds, there are indeed some
research opportunities that have been
overlooked. And I am a little embarrassed
414
