Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 27, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Publishers, Editors, and
Broadcasters. May 20, 1977
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN POLICY
THE PRESIDENT. I see a few old friends
around the room. Right now, as you know,
we have a great number of domestic and
foreign efforts or projects underway. We
today are watching the Senate vote on
strip mining legislation. We have made
good progress already in establishing a
new Department of Energy. We have sub-
mitted a drastic reform which is long over-
due of the social security system. We are
evolving now a presentation to make on
welfare reform of a basic nature, prior to
the summer work period of the Congress
which will begin in August.
Later on this year, we will propose to
the Congress a comprehensive reform of
the income tax structure. We have, I
think, made tremendous progress, with
the Congress almost in complete harmony,
on the economic package, primarily to put
American people back to work with a
heavy emphasis on youth employment.
We've now had approved over a million
summer jobs for young people. I think
the Congress will very rapidly approve
roughly 270,000 CETA jobs, training, and
job placement for young people, plus
another 35,000 jobs in our forests and
national parks, another 30,000 jobs for
young people in our urban areas.
And, of course, I signed into law last
week the new tax reform measure which
greatly simplifies the entire tax structure
and also reduces taxes to be paid by about
$4 billion. In addition, of course, we have
in prospect a great number of other mat-
ters that are of equal importance. I won't
go into them because I don't know what
you have an interest in.
On foreign policy right now, I've spent
a good bit of my time this morning com-
phone and by cable as he negotiates with
municating with Cyrus Vance on the tele-
Foreign Minister Gromyko on SALT talks
and other matters. Our own Vice Presi-
dent is in detailed discussions with Prime
Minister Vorster from the Union of South
Africa. He will leave there and go to meet
with Marshall Tito. He has already visited
on this trip Portugal and Spain, new
democracies in Europe.
We are very encouraged to realize that
as far as NATO is concerned, for the first
time in history all the members of NATO
are now democracies, which I think is a
good move in the right direction.
We are quite concerned about the prob-
lems in southern Africa. We are now
assessing in a quiet way, in a very subdued
way, the possible consequences of the elec-
945
