Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
interests than the current Executive Or-
der. Each official's report will include
information on:
-income, whether earned or from
investments;
-gifts, including travel, lodging, food
and entertainment;
-assets, liabilities and financial trans-
actions;
-positions held in business and pro-
fessional organizations;
-agreements for future employment.
The vast majority of government offi-
cials, of course, have always followed
strict ethical standards. I respect their
efforts and integrity, and I have carefully
considered the new obligations that this
legislation will place on them. The pro-
visions of the Act would strike a careful
balance between the rights of these indi-
viduals to their privacy and the right of
the American people to know that their
public officials are free from conflicts of
interest.
Second, the Ethics in Government Act
would strengthen existing restrictions on
the revolving door between government
and private industry. All too often offi-
cials have come into government for a
short time and then left to accept a job
in private industry, where one of their pri-
mary responsibilities is to handle contacts
with the former employer. To restrict this
kind of arrangement I propose:
1. An extension of the current prohibi-
tion on appearances before an
agency of former employment on
matters that were under the official's
responsibility:
-by extending the period of the
prohibition from one year to two;
and
-by including informal as well as
formal contacts.
2. A new and broader ban on formal or
informal contact on other matters
with agencies of former employ-
ment, for a period of one year after
the end of government service.
These rules also reflect a balance. They
do not place unfair restrictions on the
jobs former government officials may
choose, but they will prevent the misuse
of influence acquired through public
service.
Third, this Act would establish a new
Office of Government Ethics in the Civil
Service Commission. Under the existing
Executive Order, guidelines have often
been unclear, and enforcement has been
ineffective in some agencies. An effective
oversight office is essential if strict ethical
requirements are to be enforced through-
out the government.
Because I believe these responsibilities
are so important, I am asking that the
Office be headed by a Director who is a
Presidential appointee, confirmed by the
Senate. I want to designate an individual
who is clearly accountable to me, to the
Chairman of the Civil Service Commis-
sion and to the Congress for the super-
vision of ethical standards in the Execu-
tive Branch. The Director and his new
Office would:
-issue general guidelines to agencies
on what constitutes a conflict of in-
terest, and how those conflicts can
be resolved;
-make recommendations to me on
any changes needed in laws and
regulations governing conflicts of
interest;
-monitor compliance by agencies and
individuals with established require-
ments; and
-increase understanding throughout
the government and on the part of
the American people of the ethical
standards of conduct required of
Executive Branch employees.
This new Office will ensure vigilant
enforcement of the standards that are
787
