Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and take some of the things out of the
Federal courts.
Another thing we need to do is to move
toward appointing Federal judges on the
basis of merit and ability instead of a
cheap political pay-off. Now, in your
own State, for instance, Senator Kennedy
and Senator Brooke have already moved
to set up a selection commission that
would choose the best people, to present
the names to me, for selection for Federal
judges. And I believe that Chief Justice
Burger, who is now head of the Supreme
Court, feels the same way that you just
expressed. I think that we can make a lot
of progress on this.
I would like to get the courts out of
our business, and I would like to let the
American people stay out of court as
much as possible, too.
Q. Thank you for coming to Clinton,
Mr. President.
HIGHWAY PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Edward
Pecziekowitz. I live on the street that-
[inaudible]-made famous-Park Street.
We have seen Route 495 torn up for 2
years, with millions spent on what looks
like a beauty treatment. Now we read in
the papers that this same road is in poor
condition for travel and the surface has to
be repaired. During the repair of this
road, maybe you could help to have a
connector built to Clinton.
THE PRESIDENT. I won't promise you,
but I won't forget your suggestion,
either.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the
things that might help with matters of
this kind is, I've asked all of my Cabinet
officers to come out and do the same thing
that I am doing tonight. And as you
probably noticed, Brock Adams, who is
the Secretary of Transportation, spent a
good bit of time in Massachusetts earlier
this month meeting with people and dis-
cussing at first hand the kinds of ques-
tions you raise. Tomorrow, I think all day
in Boston [Charleston], we will be talking
about the energy question so that when
we do put together the energy policy, the
people of Massachusetts will have had a
good voice in it. So, I think in the future
we can have a better decision made on
transportation matters. And I'm not
familiar enough to answer your specific
request. Pecziekowitz, is that right?
Q. Yes, sir, right.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
PUBLIC TRUST IN GOVERNMENT
Q. Mr. President, my name is Father
Gerard Patrick Walsh. I am stationed
here at St. John's in Clinton. And as an
Irishman, I must say to you first of all,
Céad Mile Failte, a hundred thousand
welcomes.
I am a little bit nervous, so I'll try to
get the question out.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, so
[Laughter]
am I.
Q. In the aftermath of Watergate scan-
dals and other related scandals in our
Government and throughout our Govern-
ment, I was wondering what you could
do as the President now, what we could
do as a nation of people, to restore the
moral fiber of our country, to restore the
basic faith of our people-you as the
President and the Presidency that you
hold, in the Government as a whole.
It seems that so many of us have heard
so many promises through the years from
politicians, but really we kind of get dis-
mayed at times and wonder what really
can be done and what will be done.
THE PRESIDENT. Father, that's a ques-
tion that I tried to answer during the
campaign. And to summarize, the only
way that I know that we can restore the
396
