Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 29
ecutive committee of the United Way of
America, the latter being the largest private
funder of community mental health serv-
ices.
CHARLES V. WILLIE, 49, is professor of educa-
tion and urban studies at the Graduate
School of Education at Harvard. A former
research sociologist with the New York State
Mental Health Commission, he has written
on community mental health problems and
is active in the development of black col-
leges as institutions in our society. He is a
member of the technical advisory board of
the Maurice Falk Medical Fund and a con-
sultant to the Center for Minority Mental
Health Programs of the National Institute of
Mental Health.
Interagency Committee for the
Purchase of United States
Savings Bonds
Executive Order 11981. March 29, 1977
ESTABLISHING THE INTERAGENCY COM-
MITTEE FOR THE PURCHASE OF UNITED
STATES SAVINGS BONDS
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby estab-
lished the Interagency Committee for the
Purchase of United States Savings Bonds
(hereinafter referred to as the Commit-
tee). The Committee shall consist of a
Chairman, who is to be appointed by the
President for a term of two years, and
the heads of Federal agencies. Each mem-
ber of the Committee is responsible for
the success of the Payroll Savings Program
in his agency.
(b) Members of the Committee may
designate an alternate, who shall serve as
a member of the Committee whenever the
regular member is unable to attend any
meeting of the Committee. The alternate
member may be authorized to act for the
regular member in all appropriate mat-
ters relating to the Committee. In the
case of an executive or military depart-
ment, a Deputy Secretary or an Under
Secretary may be designated as an alter-
nate member. In the case of any other
Federal agency, the alternate member
shall be designated from among the offi-
cials thereof of appropriate rank.
(c) The Chairman will designate the
Federal Payroll Savings Officer of the
Savings Bonds Division, Department of
the Treasury, to act as his liaison officer
with members of the Committee.
SEC. 2. The Committee shall perform
the following functions and duties:
(a) Formulating and presenting to the
Federal agencies a plan of organization
and sales promotion whereby the Payroll
Savings Plan and Military Bond Allot-
ment Plan, hereinafter referred to as the
Plans, will be made available to all uni-
formed and civilian personnel of the gov-
ernment for the purchase of Savings
Bonds, and whereby all such personnel will
be urged to participate.
(b) Assisting the Federal agencies in
installing the Plans and in solving any
special problems that may develop in con-
nection therewith.
(c) Acting as a clearinghouse for Fed-
eral agencies in compiling and disseminat-
ing such statistics and information with re-
spect to the implementation and sales pro-
motion of the Plans as may be appropriate.
(d) Recommending to the Federal
agencies any methods for improvements
in the program adopted pursuant to the
Plans.
(e) The Committee will meet, and will
be available to meet with the President, at
least once each calendar year and at such
other times as may be necessary to carry
out its responsibilities.
531
