Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 30
We have found in northern California,
in Marin County, for instance, that
they've cut back water consumption 65
percent this year. I doubt that it's worked
any hardship on the people who live there,
but that's just an indication of what can
be done as water supplies appear to be
inadequate. It may be that consumption
is excessive.
I don't know enough about the details
of the Utah question to answer any
better
than that.
FOREIGN IMPORTS
Q. Mr. President, the House informal
committee on textiles has in the past few
days passed a resolution asking that not
only should the multifiber agreement be
renewed when it runs out at the end of
December, but that in negotiating in Ge-
neva later this summer, that some thought
be given to reducing the amount of im-
ports that will be required because the
textile import situation is getting so bad.
What would be yours and Mr. Strauss'
reaction to that request to make the im-
port quotas even stiffer, especially in view
of your reluctance to do very much on the
shoe situation and leave that on an open
market?
THE PRESIDENT. I hate to comment on
that in detail. The present multifiber
agreement, as you know, authorizes in
most instances, a 6-percent annual in-
crease in exports from other supplying
countries to us. It also has a provision in
it that concerns me somewhat, and that is,
if they don't export that much in 1 year,
they can make up the following year their
6 percent plus what they carry over from
the previous year.
Some of the shoe manufacturers want
to cut down the 6 percent to 3 percent, or
equate it with the growth in shoe con-
sumption in our country-I mean, textile
consumption in our country. I don't know
yet what our position will be.
Chairman Strauss, now Ambassador
Strauss, has been over in Europe to talk
in a preliminary fashion to some of the
people there. Last fall when I was cam-
paigning, the request of the textile indus-
try was that we simply renew the multi-
fiber agreement in its present form. Now
their position has changed to demand a
reduction.
Obviously, this is a multinational agree-
ment and we do have a strong voice in
the negotiations, but we don't have any
veto power over it. My general inclina-
tion, though, is to not erect trade barriers.
I think in many instances, we've been suc-
cessful on a bilateral basis in getting vol-
untary agreements on constraint. We've
done this in the case of textiles on occa-
sion. We are now trying to do this in the
case of Taiwan and South Korea on shoe
exports, and we're doing the same thing
at this time on color television sets from
Japan.
So, I think, in general, I've outlined
the problem. I don't know exactly what
level we will assume as a negotiating po-
sition on the increase per year that can
be permitted. I have some ideas, but I'm
reluctant to make a public statement on
them any further than I have.
ECONOMIC SUMMIT CONFERENCE
Q. Mr. President, can you give us
your views on the upcoming summit in
Europe?
THE PRESIDENT. And what was your
question?
Q. It had to do with jobs.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Well, I'm for
more jobs and I hope to be successful at
the summit. [Laughter]
I'm spending a lot of time preparing for
this summit. This will be my first trip
755
