Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. ing to increase our capacity to use coal in
Doug?
this country.
MR. COSTLE. Mr. President, I think
I've relearned here today what I knew
when I left the State of Connecticut, hav-
ing been commissioner of environmental
protection there. And that is, EPA in
Washington is in many ways quite out of
touch with what's going on outside of
Washington.
I'm grateful for the leadership that you
have given to the whole cause of energy.
And I wish you well in the passage of the
energy reorganization bill.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Mr. McManus?
MR. MCMANUs. Mr. President, thanks
again for coming to West Virginia. I ap-
THE PRESIDENT. That makes our meet- preciate the opportunity to be on the
ing worthwhile.
MR. COSTLE. I intend to do something
about that.
panel.
And I would only say that by virtue of
this meeting and similar meetings which
The President. Thank you very much. I'm sure you'll have in Washington and
Carole Ferrell?
Ms. FERRELL. I think the future eco-
nomic situation of the country is going to
be determined by our energy policies. And
in your new Federal energy agency, I
would like to see blacks and women from
policymaking positions being hired on
down, so that we can have the input into
what's going on.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Jack Lloyd?
MR. LLOYD. Mr. President, we have dis-
cussed a matter that I think is the most
critical matter facing this country today. I
want to tell you my company and the elec-
trical utility industry will recognize that
responsibility in trying to meet the coun-
try's energy needs, and we'll cooperate
with you and your Cabinet in any way or
matter to get this done.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you for that.
Ed Smith?
MR. SMITH. I just hope all my buddies
will buckle down and will mine more coal.
The President. Thank you. That's a
good hope.
GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER. Mr. Presi-
dent, my hope would be that we could
find ways to increase the productivity of
mines and miners through all those vari-
ous ways that we will have to if we're go-
maybe elsewhere, that Dr. Schlesinger will
be able to expend his personal energies in
a way that will be beneficial to solving the
total energy package by maximizing the
use of coal, as has been indicated here
today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Arnold Miller?
MR. MILLER. Mr. President, thank you
for getting us started, because I think
we're going in the right direction now.
We're talking, and that's the greatest thing
to get over sometimes, is to get people to-
gether with divergent views and talk.
And while I remained silent for the most
part of today, I learned more by listening.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I learned a lot
by listening. Thank you.
Ed Light?
MR. LIGHT. Mr. President, I'd like to
stress here, if you don't act in a matter of
a few weeks to change the previous ad-
ministration's policy on wilderness pro-
tection on their Forest Service land in the
Cranberry back country, mining will be
imminent and this valuable, unique, natu-
ral resource will be lost. You have to act
within a matter of a few weeks to stop
the U.S. Forest Service from carrying out
the previous administration's policy or
that area is gone.
442
