Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 22
ening of that organization. In this connec-
tion, the President expressed his belief that
Japan is fully qualified to become a per-
manent member of the Security Council
of the United Nations, and stated Ameri-
can support for that objective. The Prime
Minister expressed his appreciation for the
President's statement.
The President and the Prime Minister
reaffirmed that the use of nuclear energy
for peaceful purposes should not lead to
nuclear proliferation. In this connection,
the President expressed his determination
to develop United States policies which
would support a more effective non-pro-
liferation regime. The Prime Minister
stated that for Japan, a party to the Non-
Proliferation Treaty and a highly indus-
trialized state heavily dependent on im-
ported energy resources, it is essential to
progress toward implementation of its
program for the development and utiliza-
tion of nucelar energy. The President
agreed to give full consideration to Ja-
pan's position regarding its energy needs
in connection with the formulation of a
new nuclear policy by the United States.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed on the necessity for close coopera-
tion between the United States and Japan
in developing a workable policy which
will meet Japan's concerns and contribute
to a more effective non-proliferation re-
gime.
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed matters concerning bilateral
trade, fisheries, and civil aviation. They
agreed on the importance of continued
close consultation and cooperation be-
tween the two Governments to attain mu-
tually acceptable and equitable solutions
to problems pending between the United
States and Japan.
The Prime Minister conveyed an invi-
tation from the Government of Japan to
President and Mrs. Carter to visit Japan.
The President accepted this invitation
with deep appreciation and stated that he
looked forward to visiting Japan at a mu-
tually convenient time.
Election Reform
Message to the Congress. March 22, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit to the Congress my
recommendations for reforms in our Na-
tion's election system.
The Vice President and I have devel-
oped these proposals in order to meet our
commitment to the American people to
work toward an electoral process which is
open to the participation of all our citi-
zens, which meets high ethical standards,
and which operates in an efficient and re-
sponsive manner. I know that you in the
Congress share these goals, and I applaud
your efforts which are already underway
to achieve them.
Voter Registration
My first proposal, and the one on which
I am proposing a specific bill to the Con-
gress, is designed to open up our system of
voter registration.
The basis of our democratic system is
the right of every eligible citizen to vote.
In the 200 years of its history, this Nation
has greatly expanded the opportunity to
vote to wider and wider groups of citizens.
Despite this progress, we have in recent
years witnessed a disturbing trend toward
lower and lower levels of voting by our
citizens. I am deeply concerned that our
country ranks behind at least twenty other
democracies in its level of voter partici-
pation.
Our country's disappointing record
cannot be remedied by any one solution
or any single piece of legislation. But,
millions of Americans are prevented or
discouraged from voting in every election
481
