Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 18
One of the things I have already di-
rected the future OSHA administrator to
do is to have hearings around our country
to let employers and employees come and
express their dissatisfaction and their
recommendations for improvement in the
administration of this worthwhile pro-
gram.
This would also, obviously, apply to
Federal employees as well. If we can get
a spirit of enthusiasm and cooperation on
the part of the employers instead of a
feeling of obstinacy and animosity on
their parts, I believe that it will take much
fewer administrators and much less regu-
lation promulgation to accomplish the
same ends.
So, I hope to accomplish your goals,
provide better protection for Federal and
other employees with lesser amount of ill-
advised pressure because of the detailed
administration of this program. I believe
that this is a good hope and Joe Califano
and the future administrator both agree
with me.
I have also met with groups of business
people. And I think that their receptivity
to the OSHA concepts will be a major fac-
tor in its enforcement in the future. And
I believe that the same aspects of support
that in the past have sometimes been miss-
ing from Federal employers, from the Sec-
retary level on down, would greatly
minimize the need for pressure.
So, what I am saying is that with the
existing program, which is good, better
cooperation from employers and employ-
ees can make the administration easier,
more effective for a given level of cost
and personnel focusing.
FEDERAL TAX REBATE
Q. Mr. President, can you please tell
me how the figure $50 was decided upon
for the tax rebate, and when can we ex-
pect to receive the check?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Well, I under-
stand that if you make more than $25,000
you are not going to get the $50 refund, so
you might miss out on it. I will explain it
very quickly to you.
We tried to assess first of all whether or
not we needed to stimulate our economy.
And the almost unanimous decision by
economists and myself was yes. Because
we are in a state of stagnation at this time,
we have a very high level of unemploy-
ment, about 8 percent, the last quarter we
only had a 3 percent increase in our gross
national product on an annual basis, and
we've had inflation hanging at 5 percent
or more for a number of years. So in order
to get our economy off dead center and
moving again in a healthy way, we de-
cided that we need some economic stimu-
lation.
The second decision was how much.
We decided that a $30 billion stimulation
package was about right. We very care-
fully wanted it to be consistent and pre-
dictable. So, we decided about $15 billion
in 1977 fiscal year, and the 1978 fiscal
year would be better, instead of concen-
trating it all in one year. Next, we tried to
figure out how, with the inertia of pro-
grams and the difficulty of getting them
built
up rapidly, we could give that much
stimulation this year.
The only feasible way that I know is a
direct tax rebate. And the amount that
we decided on was about $12 billion, I
think $11.7 billion. When that amount of
money is divided among those who pay
taxes and who receive AFDC payments,
who are veterans who have been deprived
in the past, it works out to about $50 per
person.
Most people get the $50 per person or
some will get less if their incomes are very
high. It depends on when the Congress
passes the law as to when you will get the
check. If the Congress should pass the law
201
