Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
vent the proper expenditure of your lives
in public service.
I'm the one responsible for the complex-
ity of the Federal bureaucratic structure.
And when there is not a clear delineation
of authority and a clear assignment of re-
sponsibility, when there is overlap be-
tween your own job and others in the
Government whom you never see, this
makes your life less meaningful and your
ability to serve less effective.
So, I have the greatest possible admira-
tion for those of you who have been will-
ing to give your own lives in civilian or
military service for the defense of our
country. And I'll try to do everything I
can in the next 4 years to make sure that
you are able, within the Federal Govern-
ment structure, to make your careers more
effective.
I also have on many occasions and will,
even with increased frequency in the fu-
ture, point out this fact to the American
people. I appreciate what you do, and I
want to make that clear to everyone.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll take a couple
more questions, and then I'll have to go.
SELECTIVE SERVICE PARDONS
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President.
When you granted amnesty to those in-
dividuals in the Vietnam era, how can
you justify, in the event of another major
conflict, that individuals would join, ad-
here to draft policies, or remain in the
active military service? Also, sir, how can
you expect members already in the mili-
tary to remain in service in that event with
the cutback in military benefits and edu-
cation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I know that my
own position on granting a pardon to the
violators of the Selective Service laws dur-
ing the Vietnam conflict was not a popu-
lar decision for many Americans to ac-
cept. But I don't believe that the patriot-
ism of American service men and women,
now or in the future, is predicated on
whether or not the pardon was granted.
And I believe that we can count on the
full support of Americans in time of trial
or time of danger to defend our country.
My own son went to Vietnam. He served
there voluntarily and came back home. I
served in two wars. And I believe that in
the future, we can count on American
citizens to serve their country without any
doubt.
I have also a historical perspective
about this question. I come from the
South. I know at the end of the War Be-
tween the States, there was a sense of
forgiveness for those who had been not
loyal to our country in the past, and this
same thing occurred after other wars as
well.
I also felt that those who had left our
country during the Vietnam war and had
been living overseas for 10, 12, 15 years,
had been punished enough. It was a mat-
ter of judgment. I made my judgment
clear during the campaign. I never misled
anyone. I made the major announcement
of my plan to grant this pardon at an
American Legion convention in Seattle,
perhaps one of the most antagonistic audi-
ences that I could have chosen. But I
didn't want to mislead anyone about it,
and I was elected either because of it or
in spite of it.
Now, the other consideration for those
who have been guilty of military offenses
will be handled completely within the
Department of Defense. The Attorney
General, the Secretary of Defense, and
their representatives are trying to deal
with other violators of military regulations
and laws on an individual case basis. This
was another part of my commitment to
the American people during the cam-
paign.
266
