Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
I'm not here as an individual really. I
have been most active for the years I've
retired, and even some before, with senior
citizens' activities as well as all the things
that have been discussed here. I have
been very much involved with the Clean
Air Act and all of the environmental
problems which have beset us.
But I have been chosen by a group of
senior citizens, if we could get to the con-
ference here, to speak somewhat for
them.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to hear you,
but we need to be very brief, if you don't
mind.
Q. Yes, sir, I am going to right now,
Mr. President.
We meet in a very comfortable, urban,
metropolitan area today. West Virginia is,
in fact, a rural State. And I would assure
you all here that if we get up into the
creeks and the hollows and see the people
whose roots are deep in the Appalachian
Mountains, being displaced and impac-
ted in other ways by industrial activity
and particularly coal mining, I think
will want to consider the sociological as-
pect of this problem as well as the eco-
nomic and environmental; not diminish
those, but to emphasize the sociological
aspect.
you
I think that Senator Randolph had
started to steal my thunder. I did want to
suggest that something be considered or
some response to be made for housing
and other amenities that will be required
as the employment increases in the coal
mines.
And I might say that even though it
may seem to some an unpopular position
to take, I would say quite frankly and
candidly that I honestly do not believe
that West Virginians want their moun-
tains topless.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
I'd like to add one other point here.
There is no one in the Senate who helps
and cooperates with me more than your
senior Senator, and majority leader, Sen-
ator Byrd, has worked very closely with
me, too. I have promised the American
people to have a balanced budget by fiscal
year 1981, and I'm going to do the best
I can to keep that promise.
I see some signs around about stopping
various dams and so forth. I have asked
the Senate and the House to reexamine
the need for construction of projects that
were approved 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 years
ago, when interest rates were down
around 2% percent interest and when
there was no consideration given about
safety, the construction of dams on earth-
quake fault zones, and when there was
very little or even knowledge of the word
"environmental quality" or "ecology."
And I think that we can have railroads
repaired and highways built and housing
programs provided and the budget bal-
anced and a healthy economy only if we
don't waste money in building projects
that are no longer needed.
And this is going to be a major struggle
between me and the Congress, and I hate
as a brand new Democratic President to
have an argument with the Congress.
But I'm determined to let the Ameri-
can people know about this particular
consideration.
I believe that we've got to-and the
whole country has got to go into the proc-
ess of reexamining past considerations
that were accepted just as a routine mat-
ter, and say, have we made a mistake;
have we started down the wrong road;
have we had an improper priority estab-
lished by the expenditure of scarce finan-
cial and human resources?
And I think that I would use this op-
portunity very briefly, since the subject
has come up two or three times today,
just to say that I am very determined to
435
