Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
We welcome the action taken by Governments to reduce counter-productive com-
petition in officially supported export credits and propose that substantial further
efforts be made this year to improve and extend the present consensus in this area.
We consider that irregular practices and improper conduct should be eliminated
from international trade, banking and commerce, and we welcome the work being
done toward international agreements prohibiting illicit payments.
Energy
We welcome the measures taken by a number of Governments to increase energy
conservation. The increase in demand for energy and oil imports continues at a rate
which places excessive pressure on the world's depleting hydrocarbon resources. We
agree therefore on the need to do everything possible to strengthen our efforts still
further.
We are committed to national and joint efforts to limit energy demand and to in-
crease and diversify supplies. There will need to be greater exchanges of technology
and joint research and development aimed at more efficient energy use, improved re-
covery and use of coal and other conventional resources, and the development of new
energy sources.
Increasing reliance will have to be placed on nuclear energy to satisfy growing
energy requirements and to help diversify sources of energy. This should be done with
the utmost precaution with respect to the generation and dissemination of material
that can be used for nuclear weapons. Our objective is to meet the world's energy needs
and to make peaceful use of nuclear energy widely available, while avoiding the danger
of the spread of nuclear weapons. We are also agreed that, in order to be effective, non-
proliferation policies should as far as possible be acceptable to both industrialized and
developing countries alike. To this end, we are undertaking a preliminary analysis to be
completed within two months of the best means of advancing these objectives, includ-
ing the study of terms of reference for international fuel cycle evaluation.
The oil-importing developing countries have special problems both in securing
and in paying for the energy supplies needed to sustain their economic development
programs. They require additional help in expanding their domestic energy production
and to this end we hope the World Bank, as its resources grow, will give special
emphasis to projects that serve this purpose.
We intend to do our utmost to ensure, during this transitional period, that the
energy market functions harmoniously, in particular through strict conservation meas-
ures and the development of all our energy resources. We hope very much that the
oil-producing countries will take these efforts into account and will make their con-
tribution as well.
We believe that these activities are essential to enable all countries to have
continuing energy supplies now and for the future at reasonable prices consistent with
sustained non-inflationary economic growth, and we intend through all useful chan-
nels to concert our policies in continued consultation and cooperation with each other
and with other countries.
North/South Relations
The world economy can only grow on a sustained and equitable basis if develop-
ing countries share in that growth. Progress has been made. The industrial countries
823
