May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
He comes here as one who knows our
country, who represents King Khalid, and
the son of our long-time friend, his former
father, for the first time in many, many
years. There was a close relationship built
between our own country and Saudi
Arabia in 1945 when Former King Ibn
Saud met with Franklin Delano Roosevelt
on one of our ships.
At that time, there was a meeting of the
minds and a recognition of the common
goals that bound our countries together.
Under King Faisal, this friendship was
strengthened, and now these great leaders
have shown again and again that we share
a common purpose, that we share a heri-
tage that is completely compatible.
Three years ago, Crown Prince Fahd
came here to continue this peaceful pur-
suit. We know that this is an important
period of a search for peace, and our visits
today and tomorrow will be designed to
accommodate that search in the face of
tremendous challenge, but at the same
time tremendous opportunities.
We have great trade with each other.
We export more than $32 billion worth
of American-produced goods to Saudi
Arabia, and, of course, we purchase vast
quantities of oil from his rich nation.
There are more than 30,000 Americans
who live in Saudi Arabia and, as a matter
of fact, that is more Americans than live
in my own home county of Sumter
County.
But this growing friendship and interre-
lationship has provided us with a sense
of assurance that the basis for our friend-
ship is sound.
I might say that we share some com-
mitments. We share a common belief in
a free enterprise system. We share a spe-
cial friendship built over a long period of
time, and our countries are the centers
for deep religious convictions. This, I
think, adds a degree of stability and mo-
rality to the purposes that our govern-
ments espouse.
For all these reasons, I am very grateful
to see the leaders of Saudi Arabia and
their people playing an increasingly sig-
nificant role not only in the economic af-
fairs of the world but the political affairs
of the world.
I'm grateful that we have this strong
tie of commonality, of historical purpose,
and a realization that the future requires
good leadership.
Prince Fahd, we welcome you to our
country, and I look forward to fruitful
discussions with you on how we can work
together to ensure peace in your own
troubled region of the world, and to bring
new hope and new vision to all people
who look to us for leadership.
Thank you for coming. We are grateful
to have you here.
THE CROWN PRINCE. Mr. President,
the friendly American people:
I have come from the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia to convey to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and to the people of America, the
warm geetings of His Majesty King Kha-
lid Ibn Abdulaziz and the best wishes of
the Saudi people.
It is a great pleasure to find myself in
the United States once again, in this great
country, in pursuit of what is good eco-
nomically, socially for both of our coun-
tries, but furthermore for the good of hu-
manity at large.
I consider myself a true friend of the
United States of America, of the people
of the United States of America, because
I have for a long time cherished the
friendly ties that bound me to this great
people. And I am particularly happy that
I stand here today amongst you surround-
ed by the evidence of that auspicious oc-
casion, namely, the election of President
Carter as President of the United States
of America.
992
