May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
something that has to be worked out still
between the Israelis and their neighbors.
We do not intend to put forward a de-
scription of what the exact borders should
be. It is not our role to play. We will ex-
plore possibilities for common agreement
and reserve the right to make our opinions
known. But we have no control over any-
one in the Middle East and do not want
any control over anyone in the Middle
East. But those three basic principles-
permanent peace, secure borders, and res-
olution of the Palestinian question-all
have been and still are integral parts of
any peace settlement.
MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
Q. Mr. President, the Coalition of
Northeastern Governors and the Coali-
tion of Northeast-Midwest Congressmen
have both written you letters urging more
consideration for military installations, in
the Northeast, primarily.
I wondered if those letters had come
to your attention, if you had any reaction
to them, and also whether it is logical and
justifiable to have more military construc-
tion
for the coming fiscal year al-
money
lotted to the State of Georgia than to all
16 of the coalition States combined?
THE PRESIDENT. I have heard from
Members of Congress and from local
Chambers of Commerce and others in
almost every part of the country about the
location, expansion or reduction of mili-
tary installations.
This has been done and is being done
and will be done strictly on the basis of
national security requirements, when
there is a very close call to be made.
A major factor is also the economic
impact, and some decisions on environ-
mental impact is also a factor. I think that
if you would look at every one of the de-
cisions that has been made so far by the
Defense Department, you would find it
has been made on the basis of merit and
not on the basis of politics.
Obviously, we have to take into consid-
eration the adverse impact on employ-
ment and the degree of investment of a
community's future in a military installa-
tion. But I have never had any inclination
during the campaign to promise that we
would keep a specific base open or close
one. I have no inclination to do that now.
Each decision will be made on its merits.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on the
Middle East, Mr. President, could you
give us more of your thinking on the dis-
position of places like the Golan Heights,
which you talked about during the cam-
paign, the question of Jerusalem, and
other areas like that? And can you say
how your proposal for minor alterations
differs from the 1969 American plan call-
ing for substantial alterations?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I can't respond to
those specific things. I think it would be
inappropriate for me to try to draw a line
on a map in the Golan Heights, the West
Bank of Jerusalem, or the Sinai Penin-
sula. That is something that would have
to be negotiated between the parties
involved.
But I think also that it was obvious that
the United States didn't advance the
cause of the settlement when the so-called
Rogers plan was put forward without ade-
quate prior consultation with the differ-
ent nations who were concerned with the
Middle Eastern question.
I think it is better just to talk in terms
of what our country has had as its long-
time policy. But as far as an exact defini-
tion of the borders, I don't have the capa-
bility nor the inclination to go into that.
MAJOR GENERAL SINGLAUB
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to go back
to General Singlaub and your transfer of
1020
