Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 7
prayers are answered, those divisions of the administration, my colleagues from
might be eliminated.
We recognize that the responsibilities
fall on the participants, themselves, in the
negotiations that I hope might take place
later on this year. And we will offer our
good offices, if they are requested, in try-
ing to reach some understanding and pro-
vide some common ground on which
peace might come in a permanent
fashion.
We understand very clearly in our own
country-strong and powerful and se-
cure that security is important and is
the essence of what Israel can expect
from us and from the rest of the world-
a recognition of their existence now and
in the future.
I have a lot to learn as a new President.
And I'll spend as much time as I can on
this brief visit of Prime Minister Rabin,
learning from him about the special
yearnings in Israel for recognition and
for peace in the future, and learning
about the strengths and capabilities and
needs of that great country.
I think it was about 29 years ago that
Israel became a nation. And my under-
standing is that 12 minutes later, Presi-
dent Truman recognized Israel, and that
recognition and that friendship has never
wavered. And as long as I have any influ-
ence on our Government, and as long as
these other gentlemen from our Govern-
ment have any influence, that recognition
and that strength and that friendship and
that sense of mutual purpose will never
waver.
I'd like to propose a toast to the brave
and courageous leader of a brave and
courageous country-our friend, the
people of Israel-Prime Minister Rabin.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
distinguished Members of the Senate and
the House of Representatives, members
Israel:
I would like to thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent, very much for your kind words, for
your kind invitation, for the time that
you have spent with me and the attention
that you have paid for the problems that
we have brought to you as the President
of the United States, as the leader of the
great democratic country of the world.
You mentioned our first meeting. I
think it was in 1971. I don't know if you
remember, but I remember what you did
say then to me. You said that we started
from a different beginning, and we
reached in the opposite direction. You
mentioned that I started by studying agri-
culture and became a soldier, and you
started at the Academy, the Naval Acad-
emy, and became a farmer. [Laughter]
Then, I didn't know that I would be a
Prime Minister. I don't know if you
knew that you would become President.
[Laughter]
The second meeting, of course, was
3½ years ago, the middle of '73. I was a
newcomer then to politics. Only then,
decided to enter politics. Before I left
Israel, somebody asked me if I would go
to meet President Carter to learn how to
succeed quickly in the elections as a new-
comer to politics. [Laughter]
But beyond all this, Mr. President, we
in Israel appreciate, appreciate very
much your understanding and the under-
standing of the United States towards
Israel, towards what we represent, to-
wards what we aspire to achieve. And I
believe there is something unique in the
relations between our two countries.
Sometimes I feel almost ashamed to
mention the two countries together—over
220 million, the biggest, the largest, the
strongest country on Earth, and a tiny,
small Israel of 3½ million. But I believe
that there are certain values, certain be-
335
