Feb. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mr. President, I thank you very much
for this kind invitation and also for the
warm welcome you just extended to us.
We are deeply grateful to you for hav-
ing invited us so soon after taking over
your office as President. And I consider
this a good omen for the future coopera-
tion between the United States of Amer-
ica and the United Nations. After all, the
United States was the birthplace of the
United Nations, and it is the host country
of our great organization. And, if I may,
it is also one of the strongest supporters
of the United Nations.
So, I am indeed very happy to be here
in Washington for this official visit which
will give me an excellent opportunity to
exchange views with you, Mr. President,
and with the Secretary of State and mem-
bers of the Cabinet.
At a time when the world is faced with
many old problems, but also with many
new ones like human environment, like
energy, population explosion, and the re-
lationship between the industrialized
world and the developing countries, we
need the support of all nations and es-
pecially the strong ones.
So, I am most grateful to you, Mr.
President, for the great interest you have
shown right from the beginning in all of
these problems. And I am confident that
you will give us the support we need in
order to solve these many problems.
Before concluding, I wish to extend to
you personally, Mr. President, to Mrs.
Carter, to your family, as well as to the
people of the United States of America,
my very best wishes for a happy and
prosperous future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:17 a.m. on
the North Portico at the White House.
Department of Defense
Nomination of John M. Sullivan To Be an
Assistant Secretary. February 25, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate John M. Sullivan to be
an Assistant Secretary of Defense (Man-
power and Reserve Affairs). Sullivan is
the owner of Haug Die Casting Co., in
Kenilworth, N.J., and founder of John
M. Sullivan Co., in Jenkintown, Pa.
Sullivan was born in Brooklyn, N.Y.,
on December 18, 1924. He graduated
from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1946
(class of 1947).
From 1946 to 1949, Sullivan served as
a radar officer on the U.S.S. Providence.
In 1949 he took flight training in Pensa-
cola, Fla., and in 1950 became a naval
aviator. He served on the U.S.S. Midway,
specializing in tactics of close air support.
After leaving the Navy in 1954, Sulli-
van was a sales engineer for the Dolan
Corp., and a manufacturer's agent. In
1961 he founded the John M. Sullivan
Co., which markets industrial compo-
nents.
Sullivan was coordinator of the Carter
Presidential Campaign for the Pennsyl-
vania primary in 1976. He and his wife
were Carter delegates at the Democratic
National Convention.
He is married to the former Mary
Maxine Williamson. They have six chil-
dren and reside in Jenkintown, Pa.
Department of Defense
Nomination of Gerald P. Dinneen To Be an
Assistant Secretary. February 25, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Gerald P. Dinneen to
be Assistant Secretary of Defense. Din-
246
