Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
complying with election laws-for exam-
ple, filing the many necessary financial re-
ports. We should prohibit the private rais-
ing of funds for this purpose.
We could also simplify the reporting of
contributions and expenditures by direct-
ing the Federal Election Commission to
establish common reporting and account-
ing systems to be used by all candidates.
Finally, we must clarify the law as it ap-
plies to the financial aspects of the acie-
gate selection process. Contributions to
delegates, or candidates for delegate,
should be charged against a Presidential
candidate only when such delegates are
pledged to the specific candidate. Also, a
delegate's expenses for attending a con-
ventions should not be considered as con-
tributions or expenditures for the candi-
date he or she supports.
Direct Popular Election of the President
My fourth recommendation is that the
Congress adopt a Constitutional amend-
ment to provide for direct popular elec-
tion of the President.
Such an amendment, which would
abolish the Electoral College, will ensure
that the candidate chosen by the voters
actually becomes President. Under the
Electoral College, it is always possible that
the winner of the popular vote will not be
elected. This has already happened in
three elections, 1824, 1876, and 1888. In
the last election, the result could have
been changed by a small shift of votes in
Ohio and Hawaii, despite a popular vote
difference of 1.7 million.
I do not recommend a Constitutional
amendment lightly. I think the amend-
ment process must be reserved for an issue
of overriding governmental significance.
But the method by which we elect our
President is such an issue.
I will not be proposing a specific direct
election amendment. I prefer to allow the
Congress to proceed with its work without
the interruption of a new proposal.
Political Rights of Federal Employees
My fifth and final recommendation
concerns the political rights of federal em-
ployees.
Over 2.8 million federal employees, in-
cluding postal workers and workers for
the District of Columbia, are now denied
electoral process. Unlike other Americans,
a full opportunity to participate in the
they cannot run as a partisan candidate
for any public office, cannot hold party
office, and cannot even do volunteer work
in a partisan political campaign.
I favor revising the Hatch Act to free
those federal employees not in sensitive
positions from these restrictions. There
should be exceptions for those employees
who must retain both the appearance and
the substance of impartiality. For employ-
ees in such sensitive positions who are not
subject to Senate confirmation, restric-
tions on political activity are necessary.
Acting on standards prescribed by Con-
gress, the Civil Service Commission should
determine which positions should be
treated as sensitive in all relevant govern-
ment agencies.
Under such a Hatch Act revision, the
vast majority of federal employees would
be able to participate in federal, state and
local elections and other political func-
tions. But, federal employees have a spe-
cial obligation not to abuse their public
service responsibility. I favor strong pen-
alties for any federal employee who at-
tempts to influence or coerce another
federal employee into political activity, or
who engages in political activity while on
the job. I also favor maximum reliance on
484
