Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the im-
portant reasons to have the strip mining
bill passed, which I favor, is to have some
uniformity around the country. Because
when a State like West Virginia does a
good job of enforcement and the neigh-
boring States or the Western States don't
do a good job of the protection of the to-
pography, then it puts you at a substantial
disadvantage.
And I'd like to hear Secretary Andrus
respond to the request that when a State
is doing a good job that the Federal Gov-
ernment let the State do that rather than
coming in to put in its own inspection
system. Do you have an opinion on that,
Cecil?
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Yes, Mr. Presi-
dent. Governor, this was discussed before
all the hearings on the bill. We have taken
the position-the reason the President
was smiling-pretty much at his insist-
ence, that you do not superimpose one
bureaucracy on top of another, and that
if in fact the State is doing the job, that
they should be the controlling authority.
We concur with that.
Let me just remind you, Governor, that
next Tuesday the House will start mark-
ing up H.R. 2 and will take under con-
sideration your recommendation and
others with reference to mountaintop re-
moval. But let me also remind you that
there is a variance provision in there that
the Secretary would have the right to ap-
prove a plan if it was engineered and if it
were designed to do that job.
Chairman Udall and myself looked at
some that looked good. We looked at a lot
that didn't look good. So, the variance
there would have to meet the test of a
proven plan. I know that you've expressed
to me that you want it to meet the re-
quirements.
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to let Judy
Stephenson, who is an expert on moun-
taintops, to respond.
MS. STEPHENSON. We also support
Federal strip mine bills because we know
they will bring the other States—Vir-
ginia has horrible stripping-I don't
know how else to say it. I've seen it in
southern Virginia, and it's awful com-
pared to what we are doing here in this
State. It would bring uniformity. I see
southern West Virginia as becoming very
uniformly flat on top.
One of the promises has been with
mountaintop removal that we are going
to do something with this land. So far
I've seen very little done with the bald
mountaintops in southern West Virginia,
particularly McDowell County. Though
I think maybe mountaintop removal is
sounder than other types of strip mining,
I personally feel that there is no reason to
strip mine when there is 130 years, ap-
proximately, of deep, mineable coal in
this country, in the East and the West. If
we can deep mine, which would provide
about three times the number of jobs as
strip mining will, if we can deep mine
that coal, I think we ought to deep mine
it before we strip it, because the environ-
mental consequences and the economic
consequences ultimately, I think, are
greater than if we deep mine the coal.
COAL
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Jones?
MR. JONES. Mr. President, Secretary
Andrus mentioned coal production. I
think that's really the key to this confer-
ence, is what we can do to improve coal
production.
One of the things that must be done, of
course, is to increase productivity and to
increase the number of new mines going
in and to increase the output of the mines
that are already in, where the capital in-
vestment has already been made. We feel
very strongly, and I think Dr. Schlesinger
and Secretary Andrus and Dr. O'Leary
416
