Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 8
NUCLEAR ARMS REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, just to follow up a bit
on Stan's [Stanley W. Cloud, Time maga-
zine] question, could you tell us, sir,
do you believe that there should be a
rough parity between the nuclear forces
of the Soviet Union and the United
States? Do you think we ought to, in the
arms negotiations, strive for superior
force, or do you believe that as long as
we have the ability to inflict horrendous
damage on them that it really doesn't
matter which side has the most bombs?
THE PRESIDENT. At the present time,
my judgment is that we have superior
nuclear capability. The Soviet Union has
more throw weight, larger missiles, larger
warheads; we have more missiles, a much
higher degree of accuracy, and also, we
have three different mechanisms which
are each independently adequate to de-
liver atomic weapons-airplanes, subma-
rines, and intercontinental ballistic mis-
siles. I think that we are roughly equiva-
lent, even though I think we are superior,
in that either the Soviet Union or we
could destroy a major part of the other
nation if a major attack was made with
losses in the neighborhood of 50 to 100
million people if a large exchange was
initiated.
We have the capability, as do the So-
viets, to detect the launching of opposing
missiles, and then I, as President, and the
leaders in Russia would have to be faced
with the question of how much of a re-
taliatory attack to make. But in the ex-
change, tens of millions of people would
be killed. And the threat of this kind of
holocaust is what makes it important that
we do keep an adequate deterrent capa-
bility. And it also is crucial for all of us
to remember that it is necessary to have
drastic reduction in dependence on atomic
weapons.
Almost every major speech that I have
made since I have been involved in na-
tional politics, I expressed-committed,
first, to stabilize the the situation; second,
to have demonstrable reductions in de-
pendence upon atomic weapons and set as
our committed long-range goal complete
elimination of nuclear weapons from the
Earth.
I had a meeting this morning with a
representative of the People's Republic of
China, and he told me very clearly that
the goal of the Chinese Government was
to reduce dependence on nuclear weapons
to zero.
If we and the Soviet Union can demon-
strate an ability to stop the present growth
and then to have substantial reductions,
I believe, then, we can go to the French,
British, the Chinese, and others and say,
"Would you join us in stopping testing
and in moving in clearly monitorable
ways to reduce dependence on atomic
weapons?"
SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, to follow that up, a
little bit earlier, sir, if I understood you
correctly, you said that you thought that
each of the two countries, ourselves and
the Soviets, might have to take some ini-
tiatives. Now, I am trying to translate that
into some of the problems that we face. Is
the United States today prepared to take
the initiative perhaps in restraining the
development of the cruise missile in order
to get something going in the SALT talks?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to
single out one particular weapon which
is still in the development stage, but I will
give you a couple of examples that are
symbolic in nature, not too profound. One
is that I've suggested to the Soviet Union
that they let us know and that we let them
know before we launch any kind of inter-
continental ballistic missile in a test phase.
95
