Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
pressed, also, when we had a reception
my first day or two in the White House
for representatives of the military
enlisted leaders, up through the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of
Defense.
We met with many groups in those first
2 days-politicians in and out of office,
diplomatic officials, and others and I
was deeply impressed, as the military rep-
resentatives came by, at the unbelievable
number who said, "Mr. President, I'm
praying for you," or, "God be with you,"
or some other demonstration of a deep
religious commitment.
Well, I just want to be sure that as
President, as a human being with weak-
nesses and acknowledged inabilities, that
I can do a good job. I'll do the best I can
not ever to disappoint you.
And I know that, based on your past
record and your constant commitment,
you will never disappoint me or the Amer-
ican people as we try to exemplify the
finest aspects of the greatest nation on
Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:03 a.m. in
the Inner Court at the Pentagon.
National Governors' Conference
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring Governors
Attending the Conference's Winter
Session. March 1, 1977
I guess the time has come for me to
say a word. I notice that everybody got
quiet when the lights came on. [Laughter]
Well, for all of you distinguished visi-
tors from around the country who are
visiting Washington, we Washington
insiders want to give you a hearty wel-
come. [Laughter]
After serving as Governor for 4 years
and having been entertained all over the
Nation, obviously by many of you, I want
to let you see how it is to rough it here
in the White House. [Laughter]
We've had a good time so far, and I
think it's meant an awful lot to us to have
been able to serve as the first family of
Georgia. It made it easy for us to
understand executive management and
problems.
I've come through the crisis of not any
longer being in office, so far, fairly well.
When I got through being Governor, I
didn't know what to do. I could see the
end of my term coming, and I didn't par-
ticularly want to go back to the peanut
farm-[laughter]—and I talked to Jody
Powell. And he said, "Why don't we
maybe go into the newspaper business?"
I said, “Well, the only house I've got is in
Plains." And he said, "Well, we'll just
start a newspaper in Plains." I said, "No-
body lives there but 680 people." He said,
"How about the tourists?" I said, "Look,
Jody, if there is one thing I am absolutely
positive of, above all other things in my
life, there will never be a tourist in Plains,
Georgia." [Laughter]
And then I talked to Rosalynn and she
said, "Well, why don't you take up a
hobby of some kind." And I couldn't
think of anything. So one afternoon, I
talked to Hamilton Jordan. I said, "Ham-
ilton, what kind of hobby would you
recommend that we take up after I
go out
of office as Governor?" So he had a sug-
gestion to make, and so here I am.
[Laughter]
I've noticed a lot of similarities about
being a Governor and being President.
And in some ways, there are advantages
in both offices. I know that as Governor,
whenever anything bad occurred in the
State there was no way that I could ever
figure out to avoid responsibility for it. It
is impossible to shovel it off onto a Cabi-
net officer or the legislature. The Gov-
ernor is always it. He's always accessible.
268
