May 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
we've laid the groundwork for a very suc-
cessful conference tomorrow.
Q. Why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there seemed to
be very few differences among us. We are
determined to address some extremely
controversial issues like nonproliferation,
the control of the sale of conventional
weapons, and how to deal with the less-
developed countries, and to discuss a com-
mon viewpoint on international monetary
and financial questions.
But I could see a great confidence
among the leaders about the future of the
democratic society, but a very common
assessment of need to cooperate with one
another and to make sure that this con-
ference is not just to produce a com-
munique but to follow up substantively
after the conference is concluded to carry
out the agreements that were reached. But
it was very good.
Q. Mr. President, is there anything spe-
cific that you're going to ask your fellow
leaders to do, or consider?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. What?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll tell you later.
[Laughter]
Q. Do you think the European Com-
munity and all the industrialized nations
are really looking for an international
leader now? Is the United States in the
position with you as a new President?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't think so. I
think the essence of this meeting is that no
one assumes a dominant position, but that
we share a common approach to questions
that concern us all. Different ones have
subjects for emphasis.
I've discussed with the British, for in-
stance, the problem of unemployment,
particularly among young people. And
the Japanese are quite eager to have the
nonproliferation question resolved with-
out discrimination against nations who
are dependent upon supplies from us.
The Germans are quite eager to par-
ticipate, along with the other developed
nations, in providing some sort of stabiliz-
ing fund for the less-developed countries
on their basic commodities.
So, each country brings to the discus-
sion a special interest. But I think it would
be inaccurate to insinuate that any one
leader would be the dominant person.
Q. What's your specialty?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're quite con-
cerned about human rights, nonprolifera-
tion questions, and the control of the sale
or reduction of the sale of conventional-
nuclear weapons, and we want to join
with our friends from Japan and the Eu-
ropean Community in working out a rea-
sonable approach to stabilizing the world
economy.
We're very eager to join with the Brit-
ish on the unemployment question. But
I think that this is a means by which we
can spend 2 full days both getting ac-
quainted with one another and, I hope,
addressing questions in a courageous and
substantive fashion. But I was impressed
with the extremely great experience that
the other leaders have in economics,
which I don't have.
The Prime Minister of Great Britain
has been a finance minister. The Prime
Minister of Japan has been a finance
minister. The President of France has
been a finance minister. And of course,
the Chancellor of Germany has been a
finance minister.
Q. You're not going to get an inferior-
ity complex?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I do on eco-
nomics. I'm here to learn a lot about
it. But our country is so strong economic-
ally that I think that this does give my
voice an adequate weight, even though I
don't understand the questions as well as
some of the others.
We'll see you tomorrow. I think I'd
better go.
814
