Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 8
a way to get the Palestinians to Geneva
as part of some delegation? And if so, can
you give us some of your thinking on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
President Sadat earlier had been the Arab
leader that was courageous enough to
espouse the idea that the Palestinians
might be part of the Jordanian delegation.
Whether or not that will evolve, I don't
have any way to anticipate.
But I have good hope that we can re-
solve the question of Palestinian partici-
pation in some fashion or another. At this
point, which is quite early in the year's
efforts, I believe that it's primarily a re-
sponsibility of the Arab countries and the
Palestinians. And for me to spell out what
I think is a most likely prospect, I think
would be counterproductive at this point.
Q. Mr. President, do you think they
should be represented?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, one
of the three crucial decisions to be made
in the Middle East concerns the Palestin-
ian people. And there will have to be a
spokesman for their viewpoint during the
conference itself. Whether that would be
done by a surrogate or by them directly
is something that hasn't been evolved.
The other two questions, obviously, are
the definition of permanent peace and the
assurance of it, and the border delinea-
tions. But I certainly think that in some
fashion that the Palestinian people must
be represented.
Q. Mr. President, President Sadat used
the word entity when he came to Wash-
ington, instead of Palestinian nation or
Palestinian state.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Did you get any impression from
him that he is moving toward, or more
willing now to accept a Jordanian-Pales-
tinian nation, that is, a homeland that
would be under the control of Jordan?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a question I
wouldn't want to answer for President
Sadat. I'll let him make his own state-
ments publicly, and I don't intend to re-
peat what he tells me privately.
But I think that it's obvious that that's
one avenue of success. It's one that I have
espoused even during the campaign
months; that perhaps some confederation
or some relationship between the Pales-
tinians and Jordan might be advisable.
As you know, there are approximately
a million Palestinians who are part of the
Jordanian society now, in very high po-
sitions in the government, and I think this
is a natural possibility. Whether or not it
will be the ultimate decision, I can't say.
Q. Can I go back to something you
said earlier on another subject? That was
the subject of the total $11 billion in
under-spending and over-tax collection.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
ECONOMIC STIMULATION PACKAGE
Q. Wouldn't it be just as arguable that
you should take that $11 billion and do
less government borrowing; in other
words, reduce the pressures on the credit
market? Aren't you likely to get the kind
of business investment then that would
do the same thing for the economy you're
talking about with the rebate?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
would be a preferable approach, no.
We put together a stimulation package
with tax reductions for business, which
have fairly well been approved, even ex-
program,
panded; with a public works
which has been adopted and even ex-
panded; with public service jobs, which
has been adopted by the Congress or even
expanded.
And the only thing that's now lacking,
as far as immediate prospect of success is
concerned, is some benefit for the aver-
age working family who is employed and
the low-income families who don't have
employment.
601
