Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Another is to discuss how we might
contribute, mutually, toward nonprolif-
eration of nuclear weapon capability.
Nations do need a way to produce atomic
power for electricity, but we hope that
the Soviets will join with us and our allies
and friends in cutting down the capabil-
ity of nations to use spent nuclear fuels to
develop explosives.
Another item that we agreed to discuss
at the Soviets' request was the termina-
tion in the capability of waging radiologi-
cal or chemical warfare.
And the eighth study group that we
agreed to establish is to study the means
by which we could mutually agree on
forgoing major efforts in civil defense.
We feel that the Soviets have done a great
deal on civil defense capability. We've
done a less amount, but we would like for
both of us to agree not to expend large
sums of money on this effort.
So, the sum total of the discussions has
been to lay out a firm proposal, which the
Soviets have not yet responded to, on
drastic reductions in nuclear capability in
the future-these discussions will con-
tinue early in May-and to set up study
groups to continue with the analysis of
the other eight items that I described to
you.
I'd be glad to answer just a few
questions.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, pardon me if I don't
stand, but I will block the camera there.
Do you still believe that the Soviets in
no way linked your human rights crusade
with arms control negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't certify to you
that there is no linkage in the Soviets'
minds between the human rights effort
and the SALT limitations. We have no
evidence that this was the case.
Secretary Vance thought it was quite
significant, for instance, that when Gen-
eral Secretary Brezhnev presented a pre-
pared statement on the human rights issue
that it was done in a different meeting en-
tirely from the meeting in which the
SALT negotiations occurred.
So, our assessment is that there was no
linkage, but I can't certify that there is no
linkage in the Soviets' minds.
Q. Mr. President, you've said that the
Soviets contend that Secretary Kissinger
and your predecessors had promised that
we would not deploy, I believe, the cruise
missile.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Just where and how do they con-
tend that this promise was given, and
have you checked with them to see if in
fact it was?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Both President
Ford and Secretary Kissinger have main-
tained publicly, and to me privately, that
there was never any agreement on the
part of the United States to contain or
to prohibit the deployment or develop-
ment of cruise missiles.
The language that was used in the
early Vladivostok agreement, which, as
you know, has not yet been ratified, was a
prohibition against air-launched missiles.
Secretary Kissinger's position has
been-and he is much better able to speak
than I am to speak for him that that
meant ballistic missiles, which was a sub-
ject of the Vladivostok talks.
Two and a half years ago or so, when
these talks took place, the cruise missile
capability was not well understood and
there was no detailed discussion at all of
the cruise missile. The Soviets claim that
when they did discuss air-launched mis-
siles that they were talking about cruise
missiles. Secretary Kissinger said that he
was not talking about cruise missiles.
Q. Sir, the point, just to follow, they
are not contending that there was any
secret understanding or discussion or any-
thing?
540
