Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
have to go up even faster under the new
energy policy.
I would guess that we would also put
into effect some FHA or, perhaps, other
housing program requirements on insula-
tion standards. And we might very well,
either through reward or through tax
measures or through legislation, rapidly
phase out the use of natural gas as a heat
source in stationary powerplants when
coal or oil can be an adequate substitute.
Those are some of the kinds of things
that we would do in a mandatory way
and, of course, any of them can be im-
posed effectively only to the extent that
the Congress and the American people
think that they are fair. And I would say
that that's my ultimate responsibility, to
assure that they are equitable and fair.
So the answer is yes about mandatory
conservation.
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, most of us in the
West find it difficult to understand why
the decisions concerning water projects
was made before consultation with State
and regional officials, and the fact that
only now are the States invited to come
in and justify those projects. This suggests
that perhaps the decision has already
been made, and that this justification is
really only [inaudible]-would you care
to comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be glad to. The
ultimate decision won't be made by me.
The ultimate decision will be made by
the Congress. And my own judgment is
that none of those projects are worthy and
that none of them ought to be completed
or continued.
My staff and I identified, after a fairly
laborious analysis, 35 projects that I
35 projects that I
thought ought to be canceled. I met with
the leaders of the Office of Management
and Budget, the Interior Department,
and the Corps of Engineers to discuss
those 35 projects. We felt that the 19 that
were deleted should not be built.
I'm not trying to speak for the other
agencies involved, but what I also decided
was to go ahead and cut them out of the
budget, since I had a deadline on the
budget submission to Congress; to express
my commitment very clearly that, unless
I changed my mind, I would personally
oppose them. And I will continue to take
my case to the American people, if neces-
sary, to stop what I consider to be a gross
waste of the American taxpayers' money
in some instances.
If, during this 60-day assessment period,
it is shown me that the benefit/cost ratios
are favorable, that there are no serious
environmental consequences of construc-
tion, and that the construction will result
in a safe storage of water, then I will
change my mind.
But I wouldn't want to create the im-
pression in you that it was a decision that
was lightly made. I did not underestimate
the political consequences of it. I feel like
I have a responsibility as a President to
terminate projects, even though they may
have been favorably considered 25 or 20
years ago, and the circumstance is now
changed. I think I have a responsibility
as President to do that.
I might say two other things: One is
that I don't hold the Congress nor the
Corps of Engineers nor the Interior De-
partment reclamation agency at fault.
Many of these projects were favorable
when there was no consideration for en-
vironmental quality, when we didn't have
concern about earthquake fault zones,
and when the interest rate on borrowed
money was 23% percent, and when com-
mittee chairmen in the Congress, very
powerful, quite often would just put their
name on the list and slowly have a project
come up to the top, even though it was
not advisable. Those times have changed.
287
