Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
that you will not be critical of me or her
or of others. If she has a weakness-and I
don't know that she does-I hope that
she will try to supplement that weakness,
or even among your own peer groups
within the Department, the same thing.
We need to constantly strive to have a
better working relationship, to supple-
ment one another's abilities and not to
have divisions that might tear us apart one
from another.
We have a chance, I think, because of
the hopeful attitude that exists among
the
American people, not brought about by
me, but brought about in the aftermath
of tragedy, to move forward now with a
new kind of opportunity. I will do the best
I can. I am going to make some mistakes.
I hope you will forgive me. You are going
to make some mistakes, and we will be in
it together.
But you have been very nice to let me
come over. I hope to come back again. If
I can ever help any of you, let Juanita
know or either let me know directly, and
I will do the best I can to be a good Presi-
dent.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:30 p.m. in the
auditorium at the Department of Commerce.
American Textile Manufacturers
Institute
Remarks to Members of the Institute.
February 9, 1977
I've just come back from a tour of the
Labor Department and the Commerce
Department.
Since the Labor Department was found-
ed over 70 years ago, they've never seen a
President over there. And I think it's very
good for me to have a close and personal
relationship with the very fine public em-
ployees that work here in Washington and
around the country.
Over half the employees of the Labor
Department work out in the different
communities around the Nation-about
8,000 and about 6,000 work here in
Washington. But the attitudes of people
in Government service are mirrored al-
most instantly in the attitudes of people
throughout the country toward Govern-
ment.
I have got an awful lot to learn. As you
know, I've only been here on the job less
than 3 weeks. I've got an excellent Cab-
inet, and I believe that we've already en-
gendered among the members of the Cab-
inet a new inclination to cooperate with
one another.
As Governor, I had a hard time deriv-
ing any sort of a comprehensive answer to
questions that I faced among Commerce,
with the EDA programs, with Labor, with
HUD, with HEW. They all gave me a
different answer. And I think the reason
was that they were trying to repair, in At-
lanta and in Dallas and in Minneap-
olis, the damage that had been done in
Washington because the Cabinet Secre-
taries didn't work closely together.
You are business leaders. You manage
your own companies with efficiency and
effectiveness. I think you require, through
your own leadership and strength, coop-
eration at the top levels of your own com-
panies, and I hope to do the same thing in
Government.
Perhaps for the first time, we now have
a very effective and substantive Cabinet
meeting every week, where I bring to-
gether all the members of the Cabinet.
And we have 2, or sometimes 3 hours,
no-holds-barred discussion among those
leaders about matters that affect our Na-
tion for that particular coming week.
I think it's very helpful to have the Agri-
culture Department and the Commerce
Department and the Labor Department,
120
