Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in the countries involved. And I think I've
described as best I can my own position.
FEDERAL HOUSING AID
Q. Mr. President, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, if I
read Secretary Harris correctly, seems to
be moving towards a policy that would
promote racial integration of the suburbs,
namely, through the withholding of water
and sewer and community development
grants in communities that lack a positive
commitment to low- and moderate-in-
come housing. What are your views on
this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this was a sub-
ject that was well discussed during the
campaign, as you remember. I think that
the 1975 Housing Act, I believe it was
1975, clearly describes a requirement that
communities that request Federal help in
establishing housing have to put forward
a positive proposal to ensure a mixture of
housing in the entire community without
regard to race, and without regard to the
economic level of the families involved.
This does not mean that every individ-
ual city block or suburban block has to
have all different kinds of housing in it.
It does mean that the overall package, as
proposed to the Federal Government, has
to provide for a wide distribution of hous-
ing opportunities for those in minority
groups or those who have a low income.
And I believe that Secretary Harris'
statement is compatible with that law re-
quirement.
DISCLOSURE OF INTELLIGENCE
INFORMATION
Q. Mr. President, last week in an inter-
view you expressed concern about the dis-
closure of confidential and classified in-
formation. Admiral Turner, your choice
to head the CIA, has said, I believe in
testimony, that he would favor criminal
penalities for disclosure by Government
officials of that type of information, but
Vice President Mondale said he's opposed
to it.
I wonder, sir, if you'd tell us where you
stand on that issue and what, other than
restricting access to classified information,
you intend to do about this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my own interest
would be to minimize the use of any crim-
inal penalties for disclosure of informa-
tion. There are other penalties that can be
used without criminal charges, and I think
that Vice President Mondale drew that
distinction.
I don't know yet what procedure we
will follow. My own hope would be that
we could prevent the disclosure of intelli-
gence information that might be damag-
ing to our national security, rather than
trying to control that problem by the im-
position of legal criminal penalties.
Q. Could you elaborate on how you
might prevent that, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think, first of
all, is a tighter control over the number of
people who have access to material that's
highly sensitive, that might damage the
relationship between our own country and
our friends and allies. We've already ini-
tiated steps to that degree and we'll be
pursuing it.
As you know, Admiral Turner has
only recently been confirmed. He's just
now getting his presence felt in the de-
fense communities. I'll be going out to
the CIA headquarters this afternoon to
see the oath of office administered to him.
But we'll make sure that the public
knows what new policies we impose. But
the one that's easiest to describe, and also
very difficult to do, is to make sure that
we don't have too many people knowing
about matters that they don't need to
know and, also, that we can protect the
legitimate confidentiality of agreements
between ourselves and our allies.
344
