Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Convention on Pollution
From Ships
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. March 22, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate, the International
Convention for the Prevention of Pollu-
tion from Ships, done at London on No-
vember 2, 1973, together with Annexes I
and II thereof, and two related Protocols.
The report of the Department of State is
enclosed for the information of the
Senate.
The Convention is one of the most im-
portant maritime environmental protec-
tion measures ever completed. It deals
comprehensively with operational dis-
charges from vessels, establishes strict con-
trols over oil discharges, and imposes reg-
ulations for discharges of other pollutants.
It also creates standards for the construc-
tion and design of ships which will carry
these hazardous cargoes.
I feel that entry into force of this Con-
vention will be an important step in con-
trolling and preventing pollution from
vessel discharges. I recommend that the
Senate give early consideration to the
Convention and give its advice and con-
sent to ratification.
The White House,
March 22, 1977.
Armed Forces Day
JIMMY CARTER
Proclamation 4492. March 22, 1977
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Since the founding of the Republic, the
Armed Forces of the United States have
served the nation in peace and war with
honor and distinction. Those who wear
the uniforms of the Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marine Corps and Coast Guard
have carved out respect for their patriotic
service.
It is appropriate that we set aside one
day each year to pay tribute to these men
and women throughout the world.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States and Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of
the United States, continuing the prece-
dent of my six immediate predecessors in
this Office, do hereby proclaim the third
Saturday of each May as Armed Forces
Day.
I direct the Secretary of Defense on be-
half of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force,
and the Marine Corps, and the Secretary
of Transportation on behalf of the Coast
Guard, to plan for appropriate observ-
ances each year, with the Secretary of De-
fense responsible for soliciting the partici-
pation and cooperation of civil authorities
and private citizens.
I invite the Governors of the States, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and other
areas subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States, to provide for the observ-
ance of Armed Forces Day within their
jurisdiction each year in an appropriate
manner designed to increase public un-
derstanding and appreciation of the
Armed Forces of the United States.
I also invite national and local veterans,
civic and other organizations to join in the
observance of Armed Forces Day each
year.
I call upon my fellow Americans not
only to display the flag of the United
States at their homes on Armed Forces
Day, but also to learn about our System
of defense, and about the men and women
who sustain it, by attending and partici-
pating in the local observances of the day.
476
