Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
you believe that American influence is
sufficient just holding the ring and getting
things together, or do you think actually
in the end a Middle East solution will
only be possible when America decides to
use every kind of pressure both on Israel
and on the Arab countries to come to a
conference?
THE PRESIDENT. It is hard to antici-
pate what is going to happen in the
Middle East. What we are trying to do is
to consult extensively and privately with
the leaders of the nations involved di-
rectly. By the end of May, I will have had
long and extended conversations with
every one of those nations' leaders.
This has been preceded by visits to
those countries by our own Secretary of
State. After these meetings are concluded,
we will decide, based on the conversations
we have had, what are the possible com-
mon ground for agreement and what are
the remaining disharmonies among the
nations concerned.
Then we'll go back to those countries,
Secretary of State Vance will make that
trip, and we'll put together what we think
is a consensus among the nations involved.
And I think we'll either go public with it
or that we'll try to put together that as a
basic agenda for a meeting in Geneva, if
it takes place.
I would not hesitate if I saw clearly a
fair and equitable solution to use the full
strength of our own country and its per-
suasive powers to bring those nations to
agreement. I recognize, though, that we
cannot impose our will on others, and un-
less the countries involved agree, there is
no way for us to make progress.
The last point I would like to make is
this: Not because of any special quality
of our own has this occurred, but I be-
lieve it is accurate to say that at this point
we have a group of moderate leaders in
the Middle East, all of whom have an in-
clination to trust our Government to be
fair. And if I should ever do anything as
President to cause the Arab leaders to
think that I was unfair to them and their
interests, then the hope for peace would
be reduced substantially. And the same
thing applies to Israel.
So, we are in effect in the position of a
communicator between the parties in-
volved or among them, and also we are in
the position of one who can influence
countries to modify their positions slightly
to accommodate other nations' interests.
I think it's a very important position in
which I find myself. I take the responsi-
bility very, very heavily.
FOREIGN INTERVENTION
MR. WEISS. Mr. President, I would
like to ask you quite generally, how do
you assess the mood of the American Na-
tion to intervene abroad, if necessary? I
think there is little doubt that the Ameri-
can people would not hesitate to support
military action if one of its major allies
would be in danger. The public reaction
was very cool when the Ford administra-
tion considered, for a moment, action in
Angola. How do you assess the mood?
THE PRESIDENT. We have deep com-
mitments to Japan, to the NATO coun-
tries as an equal partner for mutual de-
fense. These commitments are supported
overwhelmingly by the American people.
There is no doubt that those commit-
ments would be honored.
The intrusion of American military
forces into the internal affairs of other
nations is highly unlikely and would not
be supported by the American people or
by me. The only exception would be if I
felt that our own Nation's security was
directly threatened.
We could not have supported an Amer-
ican military offensive in Angola. The
people of the country nor the Congress
would have supported it even if President
Ford had decided to go ahead with it.
769
