Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 23
kind of information. And I've been work-
ing very closely with the congressional
leaders, yesterday and today, to try to
reduce the overall number of people who
have access to the sources of information.
But within the bounds that I've de-
scribed-propriety, legality, and the
American attitude towards secrecy-I will
do the best I can not ever to make a mis-
take. And I am also assuming on a con-
tinuing basis a direct personal responsibil-
ity for the operation of all the intelligence
agencies in our Government to make sure
that they are meeting these standards.
Q. Mr. President, if there has been
erroneous information, wouldn't it be-
hoove you to correct the record?
THE PRESIDENT. In some ways we are
correcting the record, but if I began to
either dispute or confirm every individual
story that's written, whether correct or
erroneous, on every matter relating to the
CIA, then these matters which are nec-
essarily secret would no longer be secret.
So, I am not going to comment on in-
dividual items that relate to intelligence.
WAGE AND PRICE INCREASES
Q. Mr. President, George Meany says
he won't go along with your idea of pre-
notification on wage and price increases.
My question really is, how hard are you
going to press Mr. Meany to go along, and
do you have anything else in mind that
you could use in the way of government
involving itself to try to control inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've announced
earlier my firm commitment not to have
mandatory wage and price laws or au-
thority, not to have standby wage and
price authority.
I've not made any proposal to Mr.
Meany or any other labor leader nor to
any representative of industry or manu-
facturing. But I will retain the option in
the future of assessing what we need to do
to control inflation.
I've emphasized always the word "vol-
untary," and to the extent that I can
arrive at a common understanding with
industry and labor leaders, that a certain
amount of cooperation and information
can be exchanged before a major proposal
is made, I think that's a legitimate pursuit
of mine. I can't force it. It's got to be
voluntary. And that's as far as I can go
with my answer.
Q. Mr. President, a question directly
about the wage and price guidelines,
which might be voluntary. How is that
for an idea?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think rigid
guidelines are a mistake. If we said that,
for instance, that no price increase or no
wage increase could exceed 6 percent, this
would be too restrictive. It would be con-
trary to my own philosophy of govern-
ment. And I think that, because of the
diversity of our society—and the fact that
it is a free enterprise system-we've got
to have some flexibility.
But I'd prefer to deal with these prob-
lems that arise on increasing prices on an
individual basis. And I also prefer, of
course, to work harmoniously with labor
and inanagement. But whether I will be
successful, I don't know. I am just going
to have to do my best.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. In your letter to Mr. Sakharov, you
said that the United States would use its
good offices to seek the release of pris-
oners of conscience. And you said that
you wanted to continue to shape a world
responsible to human aspirations.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. As you know, there are human
rights problems in many other countries.
And some of them, like Iran or the
Philippines, we support with arms or we
support with American aid. These are
countries where many people believe we
have more leverage than we might have
219
