Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I thank you, Mr. President, for the op-
portunity you gave me today to speak to
you frankly and to hear your views on
many of the problems that beset the part
of the world from which I come.
I can only say that despite the feeling
that I have had which has caused me to
be cautious in regard to the possibilities
of real, genuine progress toward a solu-
tion to the Middle East problems, I have,
as a result of meeting you, sir, and our
friends today, felt more encouraged and
more hopeful than I have for a very long
time.
To me, sir, humility is one of the most
important qualities in this world and in
life and one of the greatest signs of great-
ness. Your humility, your genuine interests
in problems of others, your courage and
your vision, your desire to know the truth
are all most encouraging to me and to
those who have come with me from
Jordan.
I am sure this feeling is shared by others
who have had the privilege of meeting
you, and I am sure that many others will
share with us these feelings.
Twenty-five years have been short and
long at the same time. Whatever remains,
God willing, I will dedicate to one and
one objective only: to do all I can that
the future generations enjoy a better life
than that which they would have had to
live.
My greatest hope and dream is to feel
that in some way I may, in what remains
of life, contribute towards a just, a last-
ing peace, one which would enable all the
people in our area to divert their energies
and resources to build and attain a
brigher future with stability that is their
right. I pledge to you, sir, that I will do
all that I can to work very closely with
you towards that end.
Our faith in you is great, our pride and
our friendship, and the pride in the fact
that the same ideals are upheld by us, the
same objectives are dear to us, and we
share the same hopes for a better future.
I wish you every success. I will pray for
you. And you can rest assured of our
genuine desire to do all we can for us to
arrive at our common objectives.
I thank you for your courtesy and your
kindness and the warmth of your feelings.
I treasure our friendship.
Gentlemen, I'd like you to join me in
drinking a toast to the President of the
United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Visit of King Hussein I
of Jordan
Remarks to Reporters Following King
Hussein's Departure. April 26, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. How do you like the
weather?
REPORTER. It's a beautiful day.
THE PRESIDENT. If it stays this pretty
long enough, I might change my mind
and run for reelection. [Laughter] I am
beginning to like it around here.
Q. How did it go, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Just fine. It was one
of the most productive and enjoyable
visits we have had.
Q. Mr. President, could you clarify a
point? On the participation of the Pales-
tinians and the possible participation in a
Jordanian delegation, do you mean PLO
representatives or Palestinians who are
not part of the PLO?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's too early to
start spelling out specifics about that. The
one thing I might add, on which all the
leaders seem to agree, is that the more
agreement that we can reach before going
to Geneva, the less argument there is go-
ing to be about the form of the Palestinian
representation.
722
