Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 26
for an orderly transition, leaving the
ground troops of the Republic of Korea
strong enough to defend themselves and
leaving our own commitment to them
sure.
I might say that this has been brought
about by two things—our complete confi-
dence in the Republic of Korea and its
ability and a complete awareness on the
part of the rest of the world that our own
commitment is firm.
PENDING LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, to follow up your
opening statement, does that mean that
you are putting Congress on notice that if
they pass the appropriations bill with the
water projects and with the impact aid,
and if they pass the higher farm price
supports, that you will veto those
measures?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would rather
wait until I see the final form of those bills.
As you know, some of these measures have
gone through appropriations committees;
some have not. I don't think any of them
yet have been approached in final form,
but in the conference committees, on the
floor votes, I will get a clearer picture of
what Congress' intention might be. But I
certainly reserve the right to veto bills if
I think they are excessive.
I would rather not say definitely that I
will veto a bill until I see what form it
might take in its final completed form.
Q. To follow up that just on another
prerogative that you have, if it gets to the
point that a bill is vetoed and overridden,
would you consider using the procedures
that you have to rescind appropriations
that have been voted, which, of course,
have to be voted on by Congress, but
would you use all of those prerogatives
also if necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I would certainly
have to reserve the right to use any proper
and legal prerogatives to pursue my posi-
tion. I can't win on everything I advocate.
Obviously it's a two-way proposition. I
might add again, as I said in the very
first sentence, that the Congress and I
have had a very good, cooperative rela-
tionship so far. But if these differences do
evolve, I will have to reserve my own
prerogatives as President to say no by veto,
to rescind, if necessary, but I hope that it
will not come to that.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, on March 9, you
talked about the idea of Israel withdraw-
ing to her '67 borders, with only minor
adjustments. Is that still your position,
and is there any way that Israel could
retain the West Bank of the Jordan and
make that fit in the definition of "minor
adjustments”?
THE PRESIDENT. That is still my posi-
tion, although I might add again that the
United States, including myself as Presi-
dent-we do not have a Middle Eastern
settlement plan, but the basic premises
have been spelled out very clearly.
In the United Nations resolutions that
have been passed, coming from the Se-
curity Council, voted on and supported
by our Government-and these have been
binding policies of the Government—they
do include the right of the Palestinians to
have a homeland, to be compensated for
losses that they have suffered. They do
include the withdrawal of Israel from oc-
cupied territories from the 1967 war, and
they do include an end of belligerency
and a reestablishment of permanent and
secure borders.
All these things have been spelled out
in writing in those United Nations posi-
tions which we have endorsed-every ad-
ministration since they were passed.
I would certainly assume that with-
drawal from West Bank territories, either
partially or in their entirety, would be a
part of an ultimate settlement, but that is
1019
