Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 3
and programs. I pledged that such consul-
tation would occur at the earliest possible
stages in order to make it significant and
fruitful.
That kind of state and local involve-
ment is critical to the ultimate success of
this Administration because:
• State and local sectors constitute the
delivery mechanisms for most of the
actual services the federal govern-
ment provides;
• State and local concerns, as well as
their expertise, should be considered
as programs are being developed in
order to ensure the practicality and
effectiveness of the programs;
• Such early participation by state and
local officials in our planning process
will help ensure broad-based support
for the proposals that are eventually
developed.
• It will ensure that priorities devel-
oped at the federal level will work in
conjunction with, and not at cross
purposes to, priorities at the state and
local level.
In order to assure that these objectives
are met, please include in any major pol-
icy, budget or reorganization proposal
which has significant state and local im-
pact, a brief description of how you ful-
filled this commitment on my behalf. It is
not necessary to hold large and time-con-
suming public hearings, or to establish
large task forces to accomplish this goal.
Selecting state and local officials expert in
a particular issue and asking for their
assistance in developing a program will
often serve our purpose.
The most important part of this consult-
ative process is that it be genuine and
timely.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was made
available by the White House Press Office on
March 3. It was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
Department of Housing and
Urban Development
Nomination of Jay Janis To Be
Under Secretary. March 3, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Jay Janis to be Under Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment. Janis is senior vice president of
Management and Business Affairs at the
University of Massachusetts.
He was born December 22, 1932, in Los
Angeles, Calif., and received a B.A. degree
from Yale University in 1954.
Janis was a builder for the Janis Con-
struction Co. from 1956 to 1964. From
1964 to 1966, he was a special assistant to
the Under Secretary of Commerce.
Janis was executive assistant to the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment from 1966 to 1969. From 1969 to
1975, he was a coprincipal in MGIC-
Janis Properties, Inc., a building and com-
munity development company in Florida.
In 1976 he became a vice president at the
University of Massachusetts.
Janis was chairman of Florida Governor
Reubin Askew's Housing Goals Council
from 1973 to 1975. In 1972-73 he was
chairman of the NAHB Land Use Policy
Committee. In 1974-75 Janis served as
president of the board of trustees of the
Florida International University Founda-
tion. He was chairman of the Dade Coun-
ty Community Relations Board in 1972.
Janis is married to the former Juel
Mendelsohn. They have two children and
reside in Coral Gables, Fla.
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Bette B. Anderson To Be an
Under Secretary. March 3, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Bette B. Anderson to be an
275
