Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
the future of gas that's produced and sold
within a State, compared to the gas that's
produced within a State and shipped
across State lines.
Now we have an extremely high price
being charged in States that produce nat-
ural gas, particularly like Texas and Lou-
isiana where the price of gas is over $2
at the wellhead. In addition to that, we
have a great scarcity of gas being shipped
across State lines. So, I think that to make
all of them being under the same degree
of regulation and to let the price of new
discovered natural gas go up at the same
level with oil, is a good approach.
On the double taxation of dividends,
I'll have my first meeting this week on a
comprehensive tax reform package. One
of the hopes that we still have and will
maintain is to remove the double taxa-
tion of dividends.
looking for that light job and I haven't
been able to come up with it yet.
And at the same time, if we must have
this referee, why can't we have a jury
along with the referee rather than just
one guy sitting at the end of the table
ripping off the people in the social secu-
rity department?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope we'll
have less rip-off under my own adminis-
tration than we have had in the past.
The question that you've asked me is
one that I cannot answer as President.
But I'd like to have your-if you'll let
me know what your name and address is,
by writing me at the White House. And
just point out that you asked me this
question. I'll try to look into your particu-
lar case, or at least have the director of
the Social Security office do it.
We now have a social security system
Q. Thank you. We appreciate your that is rapidly going broke because we've
being here.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir. South Los
Angeles. Go ahead.
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
Q. Mr. President, I am Jule Blake from
Wilmington, California. My question to-
day is, how much more rip-off must the
people that pay social security will be able
to realize in your administration due to
the fact, I, with 79 quarters into social
security and I've been disabled since
1969. I cannot get a dime. I have a
daughter that's 14 years old. She can't get
a dime. I have gone to five medical spe-
cialists and all said that I'm permanently
unfit for duty to perform any type of
work.
But at the same time we have a guy
that heads the social security department
known as the referee to some people, but
to me he's just another rip-off artist be-
cause the doctor says no work, and you
go
before him and he said, well, go find
something light to do. And I've been
paid out more benefits than we're taking
in. And in the last week I've submitted to
the Congress a proposal that will make
the social security system be sound once
again and take in enough so that we can
have a reserve supply, and you can de-
pend on it the rest of your life.
I presume that the difference in your
own case is that the social security ad-
ministrator or referee, as you call him—I
think he's referred to also as a rip-off
artist [laughter]—doesn't agree that you
have a disability adequate to draw pay-
ments; is that correct?
Q. Well, that's his opinion, but the five
doctors, including the medical authorities
at the Government hospital, the Govern-
ment doctors that found me permanently
unfit in 1969, and it's their medical record
that shows that I'm permanently unfit.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I can
handle it here on the television. If you'll
contact me at the White House, either
call and say that you were on this pro-
gram and give me your name and address;
907
