Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ary than the absence of a policy, which
we've experienced in the last number of
years.
overcome that impasse. And more gener-
ally, you've been meeting with a lot of
leaders. Do you feel that in meeting with
Mr. Donaldson [Sam Donaldson, ABC foreign leaders you can help change their
News].
perception of what is actually in their na-
tional interests?
Q. Perhaps I didn't make myself clear.
I'm really asking whether you believe that
Americans will voluntarily hold down
their wages and prices, corporations and
businesses. You seem to have nothing in
your program that would make it manda-
tory for them to hold it down or even to
jawbone them to hold it down. I was com-
paring that to what would appear to be a
mandatory approach on energy.
THE PRESIDENT. My belief is that we
will make a major stride forward in induc-
ing business and labor voluntarily to work
with us in Government in holding down
the inflationary pressures. When there is
an unpredictable Government policy or
when there is a chronic inflation rate-6,
62 percent which we presently experi-
ence-when prices or wage increases are
considered, there is always an inclination
to go beyond the predictable inflationary
pressure.
I believe the best approach to it is on a
voluntary basis. But in the case of energy,
in many instances mandatory Government
regulations are necessary. I think there is
a good and legitimate resason to distin-
guish between the two.
Ms. Berger [Marilyn Berger, NBC
News].
SALT TALKS; MEETINGS WITH FOREIGN
LEADERS
Q. Mr. President, another question on
strategic arms limitations. At least on the
public record, which is growing daily,
there seems to be a total impasse between
the United States and the Soviet Union on
the solution to the problem.
Now, do you believe that a meeting be-
tween you and Mr. Brezhnev could help
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't ever expect
to change a foreign leader's opinion if he
thought it was contrary to his own na-
tional interests, no. I have found, though,
in my meetings with a number of foreign
leaders, already, to be very helpful to me
in understanding their particular perspec-
tive in trying to find some common ground
on which agreements can be reached.
The Middle East is one of the more
notable examples of this. And by the end
of May, I intend to have met with all the
foreign leaders who will be involved in the
Middle Eastern settlement, which we
hope to see make progress this year.
I don't consider the SALT talks at this
point to have reached an impasse. There
are continual discussions going on through
normal diplomatic channels. I think that
when we reconvene the Secretary-of-
State-level discussions in Geneva in just
a few weeks, we will have made some
basic progress. The 8 or 10 discussion
groups that were agreed to jointly by Mr.
Brezhnev and Mr. Vance will be put into
effect within the next 2 or 3 weeks, and
a wide range of discussion of strategic
arms limitations, the comprehensive test
ban, commitment not to destroy one an-
other's satellite observation posts, demili-
tarization of the Indian Ocean, and so
forth, are going to proceed, I hope, with a
moderate degree of hope for success. No
one can guarantee success, but I'll be do-
ing the best I can, and I'm sure Mr.
Brezhnev will also, to find that common
ground that will leave our national inter-
est and the Soviet's national interest
intact.
634
