Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
their expectation that the conference, in
a spirit of cooperation and solidarity,
would serve as a forum for a construc-
tive and creative exchange of views on
problems confronting the world economy.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the current international situa-
tion, and reaffirmed their recognition that
the maintenance of a durable peace in the
Asian-Pacific region is necessary for world
peace and security.
They agreed that the close cooperative
relationship between the United States
and Japan, joined by bonds of friendship
and trust, is indispensable to a stable in-
ternational political structure in the
Asian-Pacific region. They noted that the
Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Secu-
rity between the United States and Japan
has greatly contributed to the mainte-
nance of peace and security in the Far
East, and expressed their conviction that
the firm maintenance of the Treaty serves
the long-term interests of both countries.
The President reaffirmed that the
United States as a Pacific nation, main-
tains a strong interest in the Asian-Pacific
region, and will continue to play an active
and constructive role there. He added that
the United States will honor its security
commitments and intends to retain a bal-
anced and flexible military presence in the
Western Pacific. The Prime Minister wel-
comed this affirmation by the United
States and expressed his intention that Ja-
pan would further contribute to the sta-
bility and development of that region in
various fields, including economic devel-
opment.
Noting the activities of the Association
of Southeast Asian Nations, the President
and the Prime Minister valued highly
the efforts of its member countries to
strengthen their self-reliance and the re-
silience of the region. They also reaffirmed
that the two countries are prepared to con-
tinue cooperation and assistance in sup-
port of the efforts of the ASEAN countries
toward regional cohesion and develop-
ment.
Taking note of the situation in Indo-
china, they expressed the view that the
peaceful and stable development of this
area would be desirable for the future of
Southeast Asia as a whole.
The President and the Prime Minister
noted the continuing importance of the
maintenance of peace and stability on the
Korean Peninsula for the security of Ja-
pan and East Asia as a whole. They
agreed on the desirability of continued ef-
forts to reduce tension on the Korean Pe-
ninsula and strongly hoped for an early
resumption of the dialogue between the
South and the North. In connection with
the intended withdrawal of United States
ground forces in the Republic of Korea,
the President stated that the United
States, after consultation with the Repub-
lic of Korea and also with Japan, would
proceed in ways which would not endan-
ger the peace on the Peninsula. He af-
firmed that the United States remains
committed to the defense of the Republic
of Korea.
The President and the Prime Minister
emphasized that, as a first step toward the
most urgent task of nuclear disarmament,
nuclear testing in all environments should
be banned promptly. With respect to the
international transfer of conventional
weapons, they emphasized that measures
to restrain such transfer should be consid-
ered by the international community as a
matter of priority. In connection with the
prevention of nuclear proliferation, the
President welcomed the ratification by Ja-
pan last year of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
The President and the Prime Minister,
recognizing the important role the United
Nations is playing in the contemporary
world, agreed that Japan and the United
States should cooperate for the strength-
480
