Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
only guarantee the security of our coun-
try but we do a great deal of analysis for
crop conditions, topographical mapping
to see how far it is between certain places,
highway planning. And this is a good
way, too, by the way, from either a high-
flying airplane or space to analyze waste
of energy to see where we are not insu-
lating adequately, and so forth.
So, for all those reasons, even things
that are very common, like growing crops
or mining or building highways or cutting
down on heat losses, we are already using
space vehicles for those purposes.
MR. CRONKITE. The next telephone
call is from Ms. Susan Allen of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, Mr. President.
MS. ALLEN. Yes. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Susan.
PRESIDENTIAL RETREATS; SOLAR HEAT
Ms. ALLEN. Okay. My question is,
when you're President, do you ever get
overwhelmed with your duties and just
feel like getting away from it all, and if
so, do you have a place to go, you know,
when you get away from your duties?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, yes, I do, Susan.
I felt the same way when I was Gover-
nor, and I felt the same way when I was
a candidate, and I felt the same way on
occasion when I was a farmer or when I
was in the submarine program.
I might say that I've enjoyed this first
6 weeks of being President. I have a very
good staff to help me, and the working
conditions are good. My house is close to
my office. And I've got a good Cabinet.
So far, the American people have been
very supportive. I think most people in
the country want me to do a good job.
And that helps me a lot.
I do have a place to get away. We have
been down to Georgia on one occasion
since I've been in the White House. And
while down there, my wife and I were
able to go out in the woods and in the
fields. I like to hunt arrowheads. And
she and I walked for hours in the open
fields looking for arrowheads, just as a
hobby. We have a chance to hold hands
and talk to each other about things, all
alone.
MS. ALLEN. Yeah.
THE PRESIDENT. And we have been to
Camp David once. It's a beautiful place
in the Catoctin Mountains, about an hour
and a half away from here by automo-
bile. It's a camp that President Roosevelt
used when he was President. And it's
available to Presidents and some of the
Cabinet members as well. We have been
there on one occasion. So, we have a
chance to get away.
And I might add in closing that the
White House living quarters on the sec-
ond and third floors, where I and my
family live, is quite private. We've en-
joyed living there very much.
MS. ALLEN. Yeah. Are you in favor of
solar heating?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am. I think
this is an area where we need to expand
our research and development programs,
and I think that in years to come you're
going to see, in my administration and
from Presidents who come after me, a
very heavy emphasis on the use of solar
power.
MS. ALLEN. Yeah. We have a solar
house.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, do you? How's it
work?
Ms. ALLEN. It's worked pretty good
so far, but Buffalo and all those places
got a lot of snow. So, we don't really have
a chance to really check it out in a really
big blizzard, but it's been working really
good.
304
