May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Exotic Organisms
Executive Order 11987. May 24, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
furtherance of the purposes and policies
of the Lacey Act (18 U.S.C. 42) and the
National Environmental Policy Act of
1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
seq.), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. As used in this Order:
(a) "United States" means all of the
several States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
American Samoa, the Virgin Islands,
Guam, and the Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands.
(b) "Introduction" means the release,
escape, or establishment of an exotic spe-
cies into a natural ecosystem.
(c) "Exotic species" means all species
of plants and animals not naturally oc-
curring, either presently or historically, in
any ecosystem of the United States.
(d) "Native species" means all species
of plants and animals naturally occurring,
either presently or historically, in any eco-
system of the United States.
SEC. 2. (a) Executive agencies shall, to
the extent permitted by law, restrict the
introduction of exotic species into the na-
tural ecosystems on lands and waters
which they own, lease, or hold for pur-
poses of administration; and, shall encour-
(c) Executive agencies shall, to the ex-
tent permitted by law, restrict the use of
Federal funds, programs, or authorities
used to export native species for the pur-
pose of introducing such species into eco-
systems outside the United States where
they do not naturally occur.
(d) This Order does not apply to the
introduction of any exotic species, or the
export of any native species, if the Secre-
tary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the
Interior finds that such introduction or
exportation will not have an adverse
effect on natural ecosystems.
SEC. 3. The Secretary of the Interior,
in consultation with the Secretary of
Agriculture and the heads of other appro-
priate agencies, shall develop and imple-
ment, by rule or regulation, a system to
standardize and simplify the require-
ments, procedures and other activities
appropriate for implementing the provi-
sions of this Order. The Secretary of the
Interior shall ensure that such rules or
regulations are in accord with the per-
formance by other agencies of those func-
tions vested by law, including this Order,
in such agencies.
The White House,
May 24, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:41 p.m., May 24, 1977]
Executive Order 11988. May 24, 1977
age the States, local governments, and Floodplain Management
private citizens to prevent the introduc-
tion of exotic species into natural eco-
systems of the United States.
(b) Executive agencies, to the extent
they have been authorized by statute to
restrict the importation of exotic species,
shall restrict the introduction of exotic
species into any natural ecosystem of the
United States.
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
furtherance of the National Environmen-
tal Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), the National Flood
998
