Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
All of us must learn to waste less energy. Simply by keeping our ther-
mostats, for instance, at 65 degrees in the daytime and 55 degrees at night
we could save half the current shortage of natural gas.
There is no way that I, or anyone else in the Government, can solve
our energy problems if you are not willing to help. I know that we can
meet this energy challenge if the burden is borne fairly among all our
people—and if we realize that in order to solve our energy problems we
need not sacrifice the quality of our lives.
The Congress has made great progress toward responsible strip-min-
ing legislation, so that we can produce more energy without unnecessary
destruction of our beautiful lands. My administration will support these
efforts this year. We will also ask Congress for its help with legislation
which will reduce the risk of future oil tanker spills and help deal with
those that do occur.
I also stated during my campaign that our administration would do
everything possible to restore a healthy American economy.
Our Nation was built on the principle of work and not welfare; pro-
ductivity and not stagnation. But I took office a couple of weeks ago in
the middle of the worst economic slowdown of the last 40 years. More
than 72 million people who want to work cannot find it according to the
latest statistics. Because of high unemployment and idle factories the
average American family like yours has been losing $1,800 a year in
income, and many billions of dollars have been added to the Federal
deficit.
Also, inflation hurts us all. In every part of the country, whether we
have a job or whether we are looking for a job, we must race just to keep
up with the constant rise in prices. Inflation has hit us hardest, not in
luxuries, but in the essentials-food, energy, health, housing. You see it
every time you go shopping.
I understand that unemployment and inflation are very real, and
have done great harm to many American families. Nothing makes it
harder to provide decent health, housing, and education for our people,
protect our environment, or to realize our goal of a balanced budget, than
a stagnant economy.
As soon as I was elected, the leaders of the Congress and my own ad-
visers began to work with me to develop a proposal for economic recovery.
We were guided by the principle that everyone who is able to work ought
to work; that our economic strength is based on a healthy, productive,
private business sector; that we must provide the greatest help to those
71
