May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
peace; what does it mean to the Israelis; what does it mean to their Arab
neighbors; secondly, the relationship between security and borders-
how can the dispute over border delineations be established and settled
with a feeling of security on both sides; and the issue of the Palestinian
homeland.
The historic friendship that the United States has with Israel is not
dependent on domestic politics in either nation; it's derived from our
common respect for human freedom and from a common search for per-
manent peace.
We will continue to promote a settlement which all of us need. Our
own policy will not be affected by changes in leadership in any of the
countries in the Middle East. Therefore, we expect Israel and her neigh-
bors to continue to be bound by United Nations Resolutions 242 and 338,
which they have previously accepted.
This may be the most propitious time for a genuine settlement since
the beginning of the Arab-Israeli conflict almost 30 years ago. To let this
opportunity pass could mean disaster not only for the Middle East but,
perhaps, for the international political and economic order as well.
And fifth, we are attempting, even at the risk of some friction with
our friends, to reduce the danger of nuclear proliferation and the world-
wide spread of conventional weapons.
At the recent summit, we set in motion an international effort to
determine the best ways of harnessing nuclear energy for peaceful use
while reducing the risks that its products will be diverted to the making
of explosives.
We've already completed a comprehensive review of our own policy
on arms transfers. Competition in arms sales is inimical to peace and
destructive of the economic development of the poorer countries.
We will, as a matter of national policy now in our country, seek to
reduce the annual dollar volume of arms sales, to restrict the transfer of
advanced weapons, and to reduce the extent of our coproduction ar-
rangements about weapons with foreign states. And just as important,
we are trying to get other nations, both free and otherwise, to join us in
this effort.
But all of this that I've described is just the beginning. It's a begin-
ning aimed towards a clear goal: to create a wider framework of interna-
tional cooperation suited to the new and rapidly changing historical
circumstances.
960
