May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Our fourth major goal, I want to men-
tion briefly, is our welfare system and our
tax system. In both of these cases, tin-
kering is not going to be enough. They
must be thoroughly redesigned. Our pres-
ent welfare system robs the taxpayers who
support it, discourages the people who ad-
minister it, and sometimes degrades the
people who really do need help. It's an
extraordinarily complex and difficult
problem, even more so than I had
expected.
Two weeks ago I outlined the princi-
ples that must underlie the reform of the
system, and we will have legislative pro-
posals ready by the end of this summer.
We've already begun to move in this di-
rection by simplifying the food stamp pro-
gram-eliminating the purchase require-
ment and reforming the eligibility rules.
As for our tax system, it, too, must be
reformed through and through. Our tax
system was once relatively simple, fair,
and progressive. It isn't any more, because
it's been changed so much over the
years-often for the benefit of those who
are rich enough to hire their own lobby-
ists in Washington. The process of rede-
sign is well underway, and we intend to
submit legislation to the Congress for a
fair and simple income tax system this
year.
Our fifth major concern is the health
of our people. On the airplane coming
here from Washington early this morning,
I had a chance to talk at length with Con-
gressman Jim Corman about the future
of our national health program. Good
health for every American is one of my
primary concerns, and I know it's one of
yours. Again, it's a complicated question.
If it weren't complicated, the problem
would have been solved many years ago.
We must deal with the cause of illness.
This means promoting a cleaner environ-
ment and safer and healthier work places.
And we will be submitting these proposals
in about a week. It means helping our
children avoid preventable diseases-as
was the case when I was a child and, per-
haps, when many of you were young—
some 5½ million children will be immu-
nized over the next 30 months.
Also, under our proposed Child Health
Assessment Program now before the Con-
gress, 10 million young children will be
screened annually by 1982. This is five
times more than are presently examined
at this time to see what childhood dis-
eases might be prevented as they approach
adulthood as students.
In order to make medical care avail-
able in inner cities and rural areas, we
proposed legislation already that will
make nurse practitioners and physicians'
assistants available to help fill the gap.
And finally, I'm committed to the phas-
ing-in of a workable national health in-
surance system. [Applause] It's certainly
not difficult to guess which union has
made national health insurance a na-
tional issue. Beginning many months ago,
Leonard Woodcock has given me an edu-
cation about the need and the possible
ways for meeting it. He's a member of the
advisory committee that will help design
the whole system and will hold its first
meeting later on this week. And we are
aiming to submit legislative proposals
early next year.
We must move immediately to start
bringing health care costs under control.
If we don't—and I want you to listen
carefully to this-if we don't bring the
health care costs, particularly hospitals,
under control, no matter what kind of
health system we have in our country, the
cost will double every 5 years. Now, we
can't afford that. We can't afford that.
Hospital costs now take 40 cents of every
health dollar, and they've gone up an in-
credible 1,000 percent since 1950.
I proposed hospital cost containment
legislation that would put the brakes on
892
