Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 17
ularly on the search for world-wide peace,
economic betterment and respect for the
rights of man. They reaffirmed that the
principles governing relations between the
United States and Mexico were non-in-
terference in internal affairs, respect for
the sovereign rights of each nation and the
recognition of the particular nature of
the relationship of neighboring countries.
The two Presidents considered carefully
a number of important subjects including
economic and monetary questions, invest-
ment, trade, immigration, narcotics, smug-
gling, and some illicit activities, agricul-
tural exchanges, energy, nonproliferation
of nuclear arms, Mexico's desire for in-
creased and improved access to interna-
tional financial institutions and capital
markets and the need to seek a better bal-
ance in trade between the two countries.
They also agreed that it would be of mu-
tual benefit to both countries to contribute
to Mexico's development through an in-
crease in the flow of trade between Mexi-
co and the United States, and to stimulate
tourism in both directions.
President Carter was impressed by the
determination and ability of the Mexican
Government to deal with these problems
and offered his cooperation in seeking
solutions.
President Carter and President López
Portillo agreed that the Secretary of For-
eign Relations of Mexico and the Secre-
tary of State of the United States should
maintain close and frequent personal con-
tacts to assure high-level coordination on
actions that might affect both countries.
They also agreed that other high officials
in both countries should have direct access
to each other to discuss pertinent issues
when necessary and that mechanisms
would be established to study these issues
in detail.
The state visit of President López Por-
tillo and the open and friendly discussions
between the Presidents of Mexico and the
United States served to underscore and
reaffirm the close and friendly relation-
ship between the two countries.
United States Circuit Judge
Nominating Commission
Executive Order 11972. February 14, 1977
ESTABLISHING THE UNITED STATES CIR-
CUIT JUDGE NOMINATING COMMISSION
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, it
is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Com-
mission. There is hereby established the
United States Circuit Judge Nominating
Commission (hereinafter referred to as
the "Commission"). The Commission
shall be composed of thirteen panels, each
of which shall, upon the request of the
President, recommend for nomination as
circuit judges persons whose character,
experience, ability, and commitment to
equal justice under law, fully qualify
them to serve in the Federal judiciary.
Except as indicated below, each panel
shall serve a geographic area set forth in
28 U.S.C. 41. The panels shall be as
follows:
(1) Panel for the District of Columbia
Circuit;
(2) Panel for the First Circuit;
(3) Panel for the Second Circuit;
(4) Panel for the Third Circuit;
(5) Panel for the Fourth Circuit;
(6) Panel for the Eastern Fifth Circuit,
for the States of Alabama, Florida, Geor-
gia and Mississippi;
(7) Panel for the Western Fifth Cir-
cuit, for the States of Louisiana and
Texas, and the Canal Zone;
(8) Panel for the Sixth Circuit;
179
