Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
tries so that we might better judge what
contribution the United States might
make toward encouraging progress in the
long-festering Cyprus dispute; to identify
ways in which the United States could
improve its bilateral relationships with
Greece and Turkey; and to gain a better
insight into the sources of the tensions
that exist between these two NATO allies.
In his visits to Ankara and Athens, Mr.
Clifford held detailed discussions on a
range of bilateral issues, as well as the
subject of Cyprus. These talks were useful
in creating a better understanding of the
problems which have complicated our re-
lations with Greece and Turkey. I was
pleased to hear from Mr. Clifford that
the leaders in Ankara and Athens sup-
port a serious attempt to negotiate a fair
settlement of the Cyprus problem in 1977.
On Cyprus, Mr. Clifford had lengthy
meetings with Archbishop Makarios and
with the Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr.
Rauf Denktash. These talks were frank
and forthright. Both leaders recognized
that what would be needed to move the
Vienna talks forward were specific discus-
sions of the two central issues of the Cy-
prus problem: future territorial arrange-
ments and the division of responsibility
between the central and regional govern-
ments. Mr. Clifford found a new willing-
ness to face the difficult decisions which
both sides must now make if a settlement
is to be reached.
One indication of that willingness is
the negotiations between the Turkish and
Greek Cypriot representatives which took
place in Vienna from March 31 through
April 7. These meetings-the first such
intercommunal negotiations in more than
a year were chaired for the first several
days by U.N. Secretary General Wald-
heim and following his scheduled depar-
ture on April 4, the concluding sessions
were held under the chairmanship of the
Secretary General's Special Representa-
tive for Cyprus, Ambassador Perez de
Cuellar.
We had not expected any dramatic
breakthroughs at these meetings; and
none occurred. The two sides are still far
apart in their views. But the meetings did
move forward the process of probing and
clarification of each side's position by the
other. Most important, in my view, is the
fact that for the first time since 1974 con-
crete, detailed proposals were put forward
by each side covering the two central is-
sues. And finally the momentum achieved
in these meetings has been preserved by
the agreement of both sides to meet again
in Nicosia about the middle of May to
prepare for another round in Vienna and
thus continue the process toward a peace-
ful Cyprus solution.
In my first report I promised that the
United States will do all that it can to
help achieve a negotiated settlement for
Cyprus. I believe that the United States
should continue to take a part in support-
ing the negotiating process revitalized by
Secretary General Waldheim last month
in Vienna. I believe that it is essential that
we continue to work with the parties to
encourage and insure a sustained and se-
rious negotiating process and equally im-
portant that we work with our Greek and
Turkish allies to strengthen the ties of
friendship and cooperation between our
countries. Working in close liaison with
the Congress, we will devote whatever ef-
forts may be required to bring about a
truly just and lasting peace in the eastern
Mediterranean.
The White House,
April 15, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
639
