Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 27
struction sites in workclothes and with
brogans on his feet.
He is someone who goes into a com-
munity ahead of time and tries to discern
the sometimes limited employment capa-
bilities of those who are without work
and then in a very prescient way match
that person with a future job potential.
He is someone who understands the
proper interrelationship which ought to
exist, and which does not now exist, be-
tween the graduates or potential gradu-
ates of colleges and high schools and
vocational training programs, and jobs
that wait to be filled, who can bridge the
gap between the educational process in
all its phases and the employment oppor-
tunities that confront our Nation.
He is someone who understands the
problems of the young and the problems
of the old. And he is also someone who
has a special knowledge of the needs of
the veterans of the recent war.
At noon today, the Secretary of Labor,
Ray Marshall, will give the press a brief-
ing on some special considerations that
are important to us in the economic stim-
ulation package which will address the
unmet needs of the Vietnamese war
veterans.
And I think that because of all these
indications, that I've made in a fumbling
way, of his own sensitivity and the hu-
mane commitment that he has to making
the Department of Labor effective in its
most noble purposes, he measures up in
every respect in a superb degree.
I'm very proud that Ray Marshall has
agreed to be Secretary of Labor. He's a
man who will earn, I'm sure, the ad-
miration and appreciation of our coun-
try.
At this time, I would like to welcome
again, to participate in these important
ceremonies, the Chief Justice of the
United States, the Honorable Warren
Burger.
Thank you very much, Mr. Chief Jus-
tice.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. Following
his remarks, Chief Justice of the United States
Warren E. Burger administered the oath of
office.
West Chester, Pennsylvania,
Students
Question-and-Answer Session With
Students From Stetson Junior High
School. January 27, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, everybody. How
many of you would like to be President
someday? Raise your hands. Anybody?
Okay, very good, very good. Well, when
I was your age, I never had thought
about it. At that time, I was planning to
be a Naval officer all my life.
I know that this is an exciting time for
you to come to our Nation's Capital, par-
ticularly less than a week after the In-
auguration ceremonies. And I'm very
grateful you have chosen to come to the
White House to see me. This is the first
group, by the way, that I've had to come
to visit with me since I've been President.
And I'm very glad it turned out to be you
from a junior high school-Stetson, is
that correct?
Have any of you ever heard of Jamie
Wyeth? Well, he's one of my good friends,
and his father and his grandfather, as you
know, have done a great deal of painting
very near where you live.
This is a home that belongs to you as it
does to me. I and my family, my three
sons, their wives, will be here a great deal.
Two of my sons and their wives will be
living here. We expect another grand-
child to be born here in the first week in
March. And my little girl, Amy, is 9 years
27
