Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
in their deals with the Pakistanis and Bra-
zilians for those nuclear facilities that
there are adequate safeguards-if that's
so-what's the problem?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. The position that
the administration has taken is that these
facilities possess the capacity to produce
weapons-grade materials. And to the ex-
tent possible, and hopefully, to the fullest
possible extent we can prohibit the trans-
fer of this technology—which greatly
complicates the problem of control-and
that it was our hope that alternatives
could be found to deal with the nuclear
power needs of these nations, which we
accept, which does not include the risk
of facilities that can produce weapons-
grade material; and that we were willing
to consider ways in which secure supplies
of low grade nuclear fuel could be made
available for plants; that we were willing
to consider ways in which these alterna-
tives could not conceivably involve com-
mercial advantage as a result of with-
drawing the availability of such nuclear
technology; and that we also understood
the great complexity of this issue, both
from a technical standpoint and from a
political standpoint; and that what was
really needed at this point and what we
were asking for was that the new admin-
istration be given time to consult very
closely with them and with the other na-
tions about the total picture and what
might be done to diminish, reduce, if not
eliminate the risks that flow from facili-
ties from which weapons-grade material
can be produced.
That's the status of our position, and
that's what these consultations will in-
volve.
ECONOMIC SUMMIT MEETING; NUCLEAR
TEST BAN
Q. Two questions, two unrelated
ques-
tions, if I may. You seemed to be saying
earlier that it was the hope of the United
States to expand the summit meeting to
some extent, beyond economic questions.
Can you elaborate on that for us to give
us whatever additional you can on that
hope by the United States?
My second question, which is unrelated,
is whether or not you discussed with the
various leaders President Carter's pro-
posal for a total test ban, nuclear testing
ban. If so, what kind of reaction you got
and, particularly, if you can tell me what
kind of reaction you got from them, if any,
on this aspect of it; that is, the Chinese,
how the Chinese, how China might fit
into that or what their reaction is? Did
they tell you anything about what they
thought China's reaction would be on it?
So, I've got two unrelated questions
here.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. On the first
question of the summit, it is our hope that
we simply call it the summit, and that
all the matters would be on the table that
were of mutual concern, whether they
were economic or not. We anticipate that
economics will be a central concern and
obviously, it was
obviously, it was a central concern
throughout our trip and must be consid-
ered as such.
Such issues as nuclear proliferation,
North-South dialog, energy matters, and
a whole range of other concerns that are
not strictly economic but by definition eco-
nomics, we would hope could freely be
included on the agenda on the agreement
of the other parties. That's essentially our
approach.
We have asked the other nations for
their suggestions. We want to be forth-
coming and cooperative, and I think that
we will be able to work out an agenda that
is mutually satisfactory for all.
Q. If I might ask, that would be then
an agenda that is considerably broader
than Rambouillet and Puerto Rico?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I will have to
stand corrected on that. I guess I'm not
61
