Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 21
is to grow peanuts as a child. [Laughter] immigrants, highly heterogeneous, search-
We have in Plains now, as you probably ing for a way to accommodate one an-
know, in my first cousin's antique store other, quite often speaking even different
and in the depot on the corner, we have a languages. Our Nation has been blessed
lot of peanuts that are sold as souvenirs— with abundant natural resources, plenty
little, small, beautiful peanuts that are of energy; theirs is dependent on energy
bronzed and have silver and gold on them. imports to an extraordinarily high degree.
I'm sure most of them came from Japan.
[Laughter]
Prime Minister Fukuda is a great
leader. He was in the Department of Fi-
nance in 1929. He knows the Japanese
Government and the Japanese people
from firsthand experience. He's been hon-
ored by his own citizens with the highest
office than can be acquired by an elected
official. And he's a man who's set a stand-
ard in international diplomacy, a search
for
peace, proper economic management,
a knowledge of internal and external poli-
tics, that's an example for us all.
His basic foreign policy philosophy can
be expressed, as he has said; that's the
"duck" diplomacy-everything is very
calm on top, but paddling like mad un-
derneath. [Laughter]
This has been very successful for Japan.
And I think you all know, as I said in my
welcoming remarks, that Japan has now
become one of the foremost nations of the
world-an intimate friend of ours and
destined for even more greatness in the
future. I hope that in the United Nations,
which will be strengthened in the years to
come, that Japan might join us as per-
manent members of the Security Council.
We would like to have you with us be-
cause you and your great country deserve
this honor.
There are some differences between our
Nation and that of Japan. Theirs is very
ancient; ours is quite new. Theirs is a rela-
tively homogeneous society where people
can communicate almost without speak-
ing, because they understand each other
and they think alike. Ours is a nation of
But there are more things that are simi-
lar and of much more significance. Japan
is a nation that believes in democracy, in
the right of individual people to hear the
truth, to have open debate; a country
where people can express themselves with-
out constraint, with a free press; a country
that since the Second World War has
been completely dedicated to peace, has
renounced the ability with their enormous
economic strength to seek for military pre-
eminence. They've renounced the use of
atomic power for anything other than
peaceful means. And these are the kinds
of commitments in Japan which bind us
to them.
It's a nation that, like our own, has seen
the advantages of the free enterprise sys-
tem. It's a nation that has a great past
heritage and a great future in the Pacific
region. And we consider ourselves the
other side of the Pacific influence, all de-
signed for the furtherance of peaceful lives
for those who live around this great body
of water.
The last point I'd like to make is this:
We have tied ourselves together in the
most close and intimate possible position.
In more ways
than I can describe in a brief
presentation, we are truly partners in the
finest sense of the word.
We have pledged to the Japanese lead-
ers here, that whatever our future goals
might be, our future posture in the Pa-
cific-in fact, throughout the world—that
we will let them know what our plans are;
we will consult with them and never again
bypass the tremendous, sound judgment of
473
