Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
I propose one other step to insure proper balance in our plan. We
need more accurate information about the supplies of energy and about
the companies which produce energy.
If we are asking sacrifices of ourselves, we need facts that we can
count on. We need an independent information system that will give us
reliable data about energy reserves and production, emergency capabil-
ities, and financial data from the energy producers.
I happen to believe in competition, and we don't have enough of it
right now.
During this time of increasing scarcity, competition among energy
producers and distributors must simply be guaranteed. I recommend that
individual accounting be required from energy companies for production,
refining, distribution, and marketing-separately for domestic and for-
eign operations. Strict enforcement of the antitrust laws based on this data
may prevent the need for divestiture.
Profiteering through tax shelters should be prevented, and independ-
ent drillers should have the same intangible tax credits as the major cor-
porations.
The energy industry should not reap large, unearned profits. In-
creasing prices on existing inventories of oil should not result in windfall
gains but should be captured for the people of our country.
Now, we must make it clear from now on to everyone that our
people, through their Government, will now be setting the energy policy
for our country.
The new Department of Energy, which the Congress is already con-
sidering, should be established without delay. Continued fragmentation
of Government authority and responsibility of our energy program for
this Nation is both dangerous and unnecessary.
Two nights ago, I said that this difficult effort which I have outlined
would be the moral equivalent of war. If successful, this effort will pro-
tect our jobs, it will protect our environment, it will protect our national
independence, it will protect our standard of living, it will also protect
our future.
Our energy policy will be innovative, but it will be fair and predict-
able. It will not be easy; it will demand the best of us-our vision, our
dedication, our courage, and our sense of common purpose.
This is a carefully balanced program, depending for its fairness on
all its major component parts. It will be a test of our basic political
strength and ability.
671
