Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 30
we won't be caught by surprise when ad-
ditional crises evolve in the future.
NATURAL GAS DEREGULATION
Q. Mr. President, some Members of
Congress were saying on Friday they want
to add to your emergency legislation a de-
regulation of natural gas provision, unless
you can give assurances that in the longer
range energy package you would propose
such a deregulation. Can you give those
assurances?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my intention
has always been, as expressed many times
during my own political campaign, that
natural gas should be deregulated for a
limited period of time on a test basis-I
would say for a 4-year period of time-
leaving existing contracts in effect for the
price of gasoline and the delivery quan-
tity over the period of the contract.
Some of those contracts exist even be-
yond the year 2000, but I think that it is
time for us to deregulate natural gas with
those basic constraints on the deregula-
tion. But that would have to come as
part of an overall comprehensive energy
policy. And designed in that would have
to be some prohibition against excessive
or windfall profits from energy com-
panies at the expense of the consumer.
FOREIGN TRADE
Now, I don't know what percentage of
your own production is exported, but I
would guess a percentage on a commu-
nity-wide basis around the Pittsburgh
area would be very, very high. We had
last year almost a $6 billion trade deficit
under the previous administration, which
is not good for us. In other words, we
imported $6 billion more products than
we sold, and I hope to do something
about that this year.
There are a few very crucial items that
have been highly publicized in the past,
like shoes and specialty steels and color
televisions. And as Vice President Mon-
dale has talked to Chancellor Schmidt,
in Germany, and today and tomorrow
with the Prime Minister of Japan, Mr.
Fukuda-he is talking to them about the
possibility of import constraints.
I hate to impose tariffs, and I hate to
do anything that would cause the overall
increase in the cost of consumer products.
There are times when we have to con-
tinue imports to let our consumers have a
break on a nationwide basis and provide
for some emergency help for workers that
are laid off. But this is a very compli-
cated subject, and I am completely
aware of it. I spent 2 years going in and
out of factories and plants and talking
to people-and listening to people, most-
ly during the campaign, and the han-
Q. What are you doing about foreign dling of import competition is something
competition? [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that.
The point was about foreign competition,
and this is a matter that, of course, is with
me constantly. I think you've all noticed
that one of the first things that I did on
becoming President was to send Vice
President Mondale on a trip around the
world to meet with our friends and allies,
who also happen to be the countries that
quite often are intentionally in compe-
tition with us on crucial products.
that is ever present on my mind.
4-DAY WORKWEEK
Q. Mr. President, are you seriously
contemplating or suggesting any change
in the private industry workweek and
hours and in the Federal Government,
as well?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like very
much for private industrial leaders, on an
individual plant basis, and mayors and
Governors on a community or State basis,
to consider the shifting to a 4-day work-
43
