Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
real-better soldiers-real good soldiers.
I wondered how much difficult a prob-
lem it would be if the Army, throughout
the whole Army, the United States Army,
that we could have a program like that es-
tablished in every infantry division.
MR. CRONKITE. Do you understand
what the program is, Mr. President? Be-
cause I am afraid I don't.
THE PRESIDENT. No. Would you tell
me briefly, Sergeant Cash, what the
gram is again?
pro-
SERGEANT CASH. It is tae kwon do.
That's the Korean martial art. It is like
you have karate in Japan-
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I see. I under-
stand.
SERGEANT CASH.
-which, which we
train personnel which come in the division
as a-
THE PRESIDENT. I understand now.
Well, I think it's probably a good program
to have, Sergeant Cash. When I went
through my own Navy training, I had the
equivalent of karate training as part of my
own preparation for military service.
I might say that I broke my right collar
bone in the process, but I recovered from
it.
I think that the most severe kind of
physical training for combat soldiers is
probably beneficial. It obviously ought to
be done without abuse and without dam-
age to the person, but I think that to be
in top physical shape and to know how to
deal with personal hand-to-hand combat
is a good thing. I hope I've understood
you question properly.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you very much,
Sergeant Cash.
Let's go to the next telephone call, from
Walter Lipman of Spring Valley, New
York.
MR. LIPMAN. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
DRUGS
MR. LIPMAN. I am rather amazed at
being able to get hold of you.
This question is something that a bunch
of friends of mine and I bandied back and
forth and swore would never get on the
air, but anyhow, Mr. President, it seems,
well, at least to me and my friends, that
the term "drug addict" is more a function
of one's social station than anything else.
Many famous people, such as Sigmund
Freud and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who
wrote Sherlock Holmes, and Dr. William
Halsted, who was one of the founders of
the Johns Hopkins Medical School, were
quite heavy users of drugs such as cocaine
and morphine, yet they were considered
leaders of society in their day.
Now, in this light, doesn't the prosecu-
tion of drug users and their habits by the
Drug Enforcement Administration seem
capricious, arbitrary, and rather unjust?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it doesn't, Walter,
not to me. I established a drug treatment
program in Georgia while I was in office
there as Governor. In July of 1972, I be-
lieve it was, we had 11 deaths in the At-
lanta area from heroin overdose, primarily
among young people. We put in a drug
treatment program and kind of opened
the whole question up to public awareness
in October, and the following 12 months
we had zero heroin deaths.
I've been in our treatment centers
throughout the State of Georgia. In fact,
my sons have worked in those treatment
centers. I've seen literally hundreds of
young people's lives almost completely
destroyed by addiction to heroin, in
particular.
I think that a question like morphine
would be a different one altogether. Mor-
phine is a drug that's, as you know, ad-
ministered legally-or as a previous caller
said, a medication that is administered
legally.
320
