Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
of the other four or five interpolations.
When the President reads a speech, in my
experience, he doesn't read it. He just
goes down it and, indeed, I think
you can
probably get the actual text as it was de-
livered, tomorrow.
But I don't think there was a single
paragraph that came out exactly as it was
in the speech. The President looks at the
paragraph and then says what the para-
graph says. And I think that was just part
of this general process. I think his think-
ing hasn't changed from the time he pre-
pared the speech, and the thinking is
reflected in the speech and in the addi-
tional sentence.
Q. You don't think he felt it needed
strengthening because there was some-
thing about civil rights in the original?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. I wouldn't pre-
tend to read the minds-the President's
mind, but I don't have any reason to be-
lieve that, no. As I say, I think it was
simply the general process that he fol-
lowed on a number of pages. When he
sees a paragraph, he throws in more than
is in the actual text of the speech.
EAST-WEST RELATIONS
Q. Mr. Owen, he also was not totally
clear in the text. Can you expand on what
the study of East-West relations would do
and what the scope is? Could you just
give us a few words about that?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. Sure. I think it
would look at three questions. First, what
is the present stage of the Soviet Union,
Eastern Europe, et cetera; second, what
are the future trends, both in the Soviet
Union and in Eastern Europe and in
East-West relations; and third, what are
the implications of those future trends for
the role of the Alliance in respect of East-
West relations?
Q. Isn't NATO, as a matter of course,
studying its relationship with the East?
Why would you need a special study?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. Because-and I
think this was a view which was held not
only by the President but by the other
heads of government who spoke about
this issue that the issue is so important
and there is a sufficient need for compre-
hensive review so that it is worthwhile
having a study which will differ from
previous studies in at least three respects:
One, more extensive and in greater depth;
two, involving not only the people in the
permanent capitals but special experts
drawn in; and third, looking at the policy
issues involved, not merely, trying to make
an estimate of what is happening and
what is going to happen but deducing
policy conclusions from that. In all these
respects, it's different from the regular
studies which, as you rightly point out,
are going on or at least have been going
on.
SPAIN
Q. Excuse me. Mr. Vance is going to
Spain tomorrow, and today you have been
discussing NATO as a whole. Did the
Spanish entry in NATO issue come up
at all?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. No, it did not.
Q. What is the position now before Mr.
Vance is going to Spain, of the United
States about the application of Spain with
NATO?
AMBASSADOR OWEN. The question was
first, did it come up, and second, what's
the U.S. position. The answer to the first
is, it did not come up. The second, I think
it is presumptious for us to take a position
until the Spanish Government has taken
a position. I think the question of whether
people want to join NATO is primarily a
question for the country concerned.
U.S. FUNDING
Q. Is there anything new in Carter say-
ing he will ask for additional funds for
U.S. conventional forces?
855
