Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
so far. He's the major adviser in our coun-
try on the important subject of energy.
We also have on his left, one of my very
close personal friends of whom I'm ex-
tremely proud, and that's your new Gov-
ernor, Jay Rockefeller.
The panel member to whom I'm most
grateful I share a lot with him—he's not
a politician, he's not a speechmaker, and
he kind of hates those categories, but he's
a working man who brings to the panel a
practical knowledge of what it means to
be a coal miner. And Ed Smith, I'm very
grateful that you were willing to serve
with us this afternoon. Ed Smith has
worked in the deep mines of West Vir-
ginia for 40 years. And I thank you for
taking the day off to come and be with
us.
The next person is Jack Lloyd, the vice
president of the Appalachian Power Com-
pany, a major distributor of electric power
in West Virginia.
Carole Ferrell, who's administrative of-
ficer of the West Virginia Human Rights
Commission.
The next one is Doug Costle. He's
newly sworn in as the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency.
This is a very difficult job, and Doug
Costle brings a practical approach to the
administration of the laws in our country
which require that we have our environ-
ment, our quality of life protected.
The next person is Dr. Allen Hamner,
who's a professor of chemistry at West
Virginia Wesleyan College. He's a re-
search associate to the West Virginia Coal
Research Bureau. His major study in col-
lege-he's one of the foremost Nation's
experts on the subject of coal. We're very
proud to have you, professor.
The next one is Eric Reichl, president
of the Conoco Coal Development Com-
pany, whose subsidiary, Consolidated
Coal Company, or Consol, is a major
West Virginia coal producer. We're glad
to have you with us, Mr. Reichl.
And the last one I'd like to introduce
before I turn the program over to Dr.
Schlesinger is Norman Kilpatrick, with
the Surface Mining Research Laboratory
[Library] at West Virginia; he's the direc-
tor of the Federal/State program for the
mayor of Charleston. We are grateful to
have you with us.
PANEL DISCUSSION
WEST VIRGINIA
I'd like to ask now Jay Rockefeller to
make a brief statement, following which
Dr. Schlesinger will take charge of the
program. Jay?
GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER. Thank you,
Mr. President. We're very grateful that
you're in West Virginia.
West Virginia has some gas and we
have some oil, but we're essentially a coal-
mining State, as you know. We're the sec-
ond largest producer in the Nation. If the
Nation lived off of the coal reserves which
are recoverable in West Virginia, and if
we lived off those reserves alone, the Na-
tion could survive for 50 to 100 years. On
the other hand, the policy of energy has
been going in the opposite direction, away
from coal. We regret that and, therefore,
we think that coal should be a centerpiece
for our national energy problem. But
speaking from the West Virginia point of
view, as we go into that policy, if we do go
into that policy, we've got some problems
to solve and problems to face first.
One of them is environmental. There
has never been a happy relationship be-
tween either deep mining, the surface
mining of coal, and the protection of the
environment in a pure manner. We are
trying to face up to some of those prob-
lems, Mr. President. We have not been
able to do that entirely to our satisfaction.
404
