May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
agency that takes care of all our property
and has, I think, about a $4 billion budg-
et. They bring to our Government a back-
ground of superb knowledge and
experience.
On the other hand, we have two people
being sworn in who will deal in the most
direct way with human beings. And I'm
very proud to have this chance to reaffirm
my old friendships with some of them and
to introduce the others to the American
people.
The first person that I'd like to intro-
duce, on my right, is a friend whom I've
known for several years. Jay Solomon and
his wife, Rosalynn, their children, are
very close to me. They've demonstrated
in many ways their commitment to a finer
America.
Jay Solomon is a very successful busi-
nessman. He's familiar in his own region
of the country, Chattanooga, Tennessee,
with public housing and how to care for
it, how to make it be used more effec-
tively. His background in business is in
housing development, construction, with
major undertakings and enterprises far
beyond anything I've ever been associated
with in my own business career. And at a
tremendous financial sacrifice to him, he's
been willing to come and help us in the
Government to bring order and good
planning at a vast range of functions of a
General Services agency.
Graciela comes here from New Jer-
sey-I mean from New Mexico-excuse
me. She's been a friend and has worked
very closely with Jerry Apodaca, the Gov-
ernor of New Mexico, who's also a good
friend of mine at least he was a good
friend before I took Graciela away from
New Mexico.
The function that she will perform is
extremely important. When the Congress
established the Community Services Ad-
ministration, it was with the idea of being
kind of a knife edge of dealing with hu-
man beings in a nonbureaucratic way. We
have a large number of major agencies—
HEW is the most notable one-which
can, in a structured fashion, deal with
people's needs. But the Community Serv-
ices Administration can be innovative, di-
rect, can involve poor people in the
evolution of programs that help them and
their neighbors. And Graciela Olivarez is
such a person. She's extraordinary. She
comes from a very poor family. She's the
first woman who ever graduated from the
law school at Notre Dame. She's been a
professor. And she has the most deep sense
of personal concern about the less fortu-
nate members of the American society.
And I'm very grateful that she is willing
to come to be with us, also.
Leonel Castillo comes to us from
Houston, Texas. He's a man who has the
highest possible reputation. He's a public
administrator, and I think I can tell you
that he's going to take on one of the most
difficult jobs in Government. Sometimes
I think the Oval Office is a hot spot, but
I think his own responsibilities at this par-
ticular time might be even worse.
He'll be in charge of naturalization
and immigration, and he's the kind of
person, I think, that can bring a proper
sensitivity to the special challenge which
too long has remained unresolved-how
to welcome those who legally and prop-
erly should come to our society, come
into our great country; how to deal with
those who have in the past come into our
country illegally, but who perform well
here; and how to establish and maintain
a friendly, constant working relationship
with our friends and neighbors who want
to have a good, close contact with their
own loved ones in this country and who
want to come here to provide good serv-
ices for our country.
872
