May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
increased among other leaders who have
attended these meetings.
We have some countries that are tempo-
rarily inconvenienced economically, but
there's an innate strength in the people
who live in freedom that, I think, will tide
us through very well.
We have enormous natural resources in
our country-and many others—that give
us a base on which to correct the problems
and to deal with challenges. I think as far
as the NATO meeting was concerned,
most of the nations were relieved to know
that the reluctance on the part of the
United States 3 or 4 years ago to partici-
pate fully in NATO is now past, that we
are a full partner, that our financial com-
mitment to conventional forces in NATO
are stronger than they were before. And I
think that if they will carry out the sug-
gestions that I made this morning-and
they were adopted unanimously—to do an
analysis of NATO for the 1980's, to do a
complete analysis of the relationship be-
tween the Western democratic societies
and the Eastern Communist societies, and
also to share the benefits of NATO as far
as the purchase of equipment and so forth
is concerned these, of course, will be
made back in Washington next year for
the next NATO summit meeting.
So, I think in every way my meetings
here in England have been productive.
This was supplemented by a brief trip to
Geneva, where I met with President Asad
from Syria. I believe we-I feel better
about the prospect for some progress in the
Middle East than I ever have before.
King Hussein and President Sadat and
President Asad have all been very con-
structive in their conversations with me,
and I look forward to meeting the new
leader of Israel after the elections are held
in a few days.
I'll be meeting with Prince Fahd in
Washington later on this month.
So, it's been a good trip, but I'm ready
to go home.
Q. Mr. President, what kind of experi-
ence was this for you personally?
THE PRESIDENT. It was one of learning.
I've got a new appreciation for the
strength and influence of the United
States as observed from the viewpoint of
other nations. And this is a sobering thing,
but also a very gratifying thing. I think
there's a much greater depth of friendship
toward our Nation than I had anticipated,
and I think that my own presence here,
and the fact that the United States has
now come through the ordeal of Water-
gate and Vietnam, adds a renewed confi-
dence to the people in Western Europe.
So, it's been a gratifying thing for me,
and I believe the personal friendships that
I've formed with the leaders of more than
a dozen nations will stand our country in
good stead in the months ahead, as we
have slight differences between us.
I think it'll be easy to have a quick com-
munication to resolve those differences,
rather than to have it deteriorate into a
serious circumstance.
So, I think it's been a good trip for me
personally.
Q. Do you expect further moderation
on the part of the Arab countries, based
upon your conversations with President
Asad yesterday?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been very en-
couraged by the moderate attitude of the
Arab leaders.
Q. Mr. President, how do you assess
your own performance? When you came
over here, you had some reservations
about your ability to compete with these
former finance ministers.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I didn't find the
competition to be there. There was a ready
acceptance of me. And I have a good abil-
ity to listen when I'm in a learning situa-
tion.
858
