Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
in the economy tries to recoup prior in-
creases in costs or prices, but in so doing
helps keep inflation going. If everyone
could exercise restraint, the momentum
would slow down and we could move
towards real price stability. But who can
afford to show such restraint individually
without assurances that others will do the
same? Our difficulties occur precisely
because there exists no process for mutual
cooperation on a voluntary basis.
ESTABLISHING A FRAMEWORK FOR
COOPERATION
Making progress in dealing with this
problem has to be a long-term task. It re-
quires continuous, persistent, and patient
effort. A set of anti-inflation policies must
be developed which will create jobs, stabi-
lize prices, and promote general economic
development with fairness and equity for
all.
If this battle against inflation is to suc-
ceed, I am, above all, convinced that it
requires a close collaboration between
business, labor, and the Government. This
collaborative effort should consist of work-
ing together to advise Government on its
objectives for our economy, for job crea-
tion, and inflation reduction, to help work
out approaches to achieve these objec-
tives and to monitor the results on a con-
tinuing basis. Most importantly, this joint
effort must be voluntary and cooperative
and not be based on coercive or self-
defeating controls.
have discussed this problem with rep-
resentatives of labor and business and
have received their assurances of complete
cooperation in the development of a joint
anti-inflation effort.
Accordingly, I have asked the president
of the AFL-CIO and the chairman of
the General Electric Company to help to
coordinate this new cooperation between
labor, management, and the Government.
Within the Government, I have asked the
Chairman of the Economic Policy Group,
in collaboration with my other economic
advisers, to work with these gentlemen
and other representatives of business and
labor in developing the more detailed ar-
rangements for implementing this part of
my anti-inflation program.
I expect this work to begin immediately.
While the collaborative effort ought to be
a permanent one, I hope that some con-
crete approaches for private sector coop-
eration in reducing inflation can be devel-
oped within the next several months. I
shall personally be kept informed and
meet with labor and business representa-
tives from time to time as the need arises.
There are no magic solutions in the
battle against inflation. It can be won only
by hard, day-to-day, unglamorous, and
often politically unpopular efforts, and by
the voluntary cooperation and restraint of
the American people. I pledge myself to
the most vigilant effort. The American
people deserve no less.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
APRIL 15, 1977
INFLATION
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. I have a brief opening statement,
and then I'd be glad to answer questions.
More and more in the last few months,
it's become obvious that inflationary pres-
sures are building up. In the first 3 months
of this year, the average Consumer Price
Index increased to the annual rate in
excess of 9 percent; the Wholesale Price
Index increased during that period of
time in excess of 10 percent, and we've
seen a very encouraging increase in con-
629
