Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I know that all of you will maintain this
commitment with me.
I am very grateful, too, that we have
achieved so quickly and so completely a
harmonious relationship among the Cabi-
net officers who serve with me-State,
Defense, Treasury, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, Commerce, and others.
I can tell you in the most accurate way
that there is no disharmony. We have
open, frank discussions. Sometimes we
have tough, sharp debate in the Cabinet
meetings that take place every week. But
there is no remnant after those Cabinet
meetings are over of animosity or divi-
sions or lack of an easy communication
among those who are responsible, along
with you, for the evolution of our atti-
tude toward foreign countries or domes-
tic affairs.
I am very grateful, too, that Cy Vance
has been able to start an evolutionary
process of depending in a heavier and
heavier way on the superb intelligence
and training and background and experi-
ence and sound judgment of professional
Foreign Service officers and those who
support them.
I don't want to ever see a concentration
of complete authority within one person,
because when that is done, there is a
great neglect of that reservoir of talent
and ability that exists among all of you
and those who work with you in foreign
countries.
I am determined that every single
selection that I ever make, working with
Secretary of State Vance and others, is
on the basis of merit and nothing else.
And I want to root out once and for all
the cheap political appointments that
sometimes in the past have been an em-
barrassment to our own country and
sometimes an insult to the nations to
whom we send diplomatic officials to rep-
resent us. I want this sense of profes-
sionalism and soundness and cohesiveness
in a common purpose to be an integral
part of this crucial Department of our
Nation.
As I said earlier, I have a lot to learn
and we are now probing to see what the
differences are which exist between our-
selves and other countries and even
among other countries. And we will add
our good services in those areas of the
world where we are called upon to do it.
We can't impose our will on the dispu-
tive nations in the Middle East, but we
can search among them as a catalyst for
grounds for agreement, particularly those
that are expressed quietly and confiden-
tially to us. And when we see fit, without
timidity or without constraint, we will
use our influence to bring together dis-
parate ideas in nations which in the past
have not been able to agree.
We will do the same thing in the
Cyprus and the Turkey-Greek relation-
ships, and in southern Africa, with our
bilateral relationships with Panama, and
other parts of the world who look to us
for leadership. This, I think, is a proper
role for our country to play.
As I said many times during the cam-
paign, for over 2 years, I want everything
that we do in dealing with other nations
to be compatible with the hopes and the
dreams and the attitude and the morality
and the respect for individuality of each
human being to be mirrored in our for-
eign policy.
I think in many times past, and par-
ticularly in recent years, there has been a
vacuum in international affairs. For some
nation which can exemplify with constant
reassessment of our own position, those
basic commitments that ought not ever to
change.
I want to be sure that when Cy Vance
speaks or when I speak that it's the abso-
lute truth. I want over a period of time
other nations to know that if our country
makes a commitment, it will be honored.
236
