Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 29, 1977
John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts
Remarks at the Dedication of the Center's
African Room. April 24, 1977
Ambassador Ahoua, Ambassador Young,
Ambassador Thayer, Mr. Stevens, and
distinguished guests, who have come here
this afternoon to commemorate a great
stride forward in mutual understanding
and comprehension of peoples who have
been bound together in history, sometimes
in a very unfortunate way, but with an
increasing awareness of the importance of
our better friendship, communication, and
understanding:
I know that all of you have in mind this
afternoon what President John Ken-
nedy contributed in our own country with
his sensitivity and idealism about the in-
dividual rights of human beings in the
struggle upward for equality in the United
States. He was a shining light of dedica-
tion and high ideals. And as I have trav-
eled around the world in different places,
I've been amazed at first and increasingly
gratified to know the great esteem with
which John Kennedy is held in the hearts
of people in many countries on Earth.
This afternoon we are opening up a
room where tens of thousands of people
will come to see and to experience the
multifaceted character of the nations that
comprise the great continent of Africa. I
know that all of you sense the growing im-
portance of the people who live in Africa
as they have taken their place since the
Second World War in an increasing way
in the councils of world political affairs,
economic growth, and a sense of quiet but
sure strength and confidence.
As the President of the United States
now, I have become increasingly aware
of the threat to world peace if we don't
acquire a sure comprehension of the hopes
and the dreams, the frustrations and con-
cerns of the people who live in Africa. And
I believe that it is very important this
afternoon for use to comprehend the sig-
nificance of this growing awareness.
I have had a lot of good teachers in the
last 3 months since I have been President,
in learning about Africa. I am always in-
terested in what Andy Young is going to
say [laughter]-to me, one of his best
students. And I think Andy has brought
for our country as Ambassador to the
United Nations a very sure sense of many
of the compatibilities between the upward
movement of human beings who have
previously been deprived in their growing
status in our own country's society and all
its facets, and the sure struggle upward
for recognition and appreciation that ex-
ists among the people of Africa today.
Both movements are worthy, both
movements are gratifying, both move-
709
