Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
aid programs, and also by local govern-
ments, and demands from commuters to
use rapid transit.
My own guess is that the first step
ought to be, though, toward a bus system,
probably rubber-tired bus, maybe later
even propelled by electricity for the time
being, propelled by gasoline or diesel oil—
and I would guess it'll be a long time in
the future, if ever, before Los Angeles will
have to make a major move toward any
sort of rail transportation system.
I would guess that as the prices of
energy go up in the future, no matter
what the administration might think,
there's going to be a shift in the directions
that I have outlined to you. So, I'm
strongly in favor of increasing the rapid
transit systems, but in a city like Los An-
geles, I would say that surface transporta-
tion probably without rail would be the
first major move.
Q. What would you do to better the
system here in L.A.—not necessarily here
in L.A., but throughout the Nation? Get
a better system for the people? Maybe
they'd want to leave their cars home and
take a bus to work.
THE PRESIDENT. I know. I don't know.
When I was Governor of Georgia, when
I was in the legislature, we set up the At-
lanta Metropolitan Rapid Transit System,
and we put a limit on the fares of only 10
cents. Obviously, when you have the lower
fares, more people use the buses, you get
more cars off the road. But this meant that
we had to supplement the expenses be-
cause 10 cents doesn't pay the total operat-
ing costs.
So, the people voluntarily voted for a
1-cent sales tax, all of which went to
support the rapid transit system. I believe
that it's accurate to say that those who had
their own automobiles were very glad to
pay a 1-cent tax to cut down on the
traffic during working hours, and to see
more people shift to the rapid transit
system.
So, there's such a wide range of kinds of
communities that it's almost impossible to
say what would work in Atlanta would
also work in Los Angeles, and vice versa.
But I think there's going to be a major
thrust of both Federal and State and local
governments toward a more rapid transit
system, each one of which will have to be
designed specifically for the community
involved.
COAL
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
about the possibility of coal being used to
fire some of our power generators here in
southern California, and how far away the
possibility of that just might be. We're
currently buying most of our natural gas
from Texas now and we do have some
natural gas underground here that we
could get out, but it wouldn't last a long
time. How far away do you see that as
being and do you think we should be en-
couraged to start extracting the natural
gases and low-sulfur fuel that we have
here now?
THE PRESIDENT. California has a
unique energy problem, or opportunity.
In the first place, you've got an extraor-
dinarily small portion of your energy from
coal. In my own home State, Georgia,
85 percent of all the electricity is produced
by coal. In California, practically none of
it. I would guess that over 90 percent of
your own energy needs in this State come
from oil and natural gas, but maybe 4 or 5
percent coming from hydroelectric power
dams.
I doubt that in the southern part of
California, where you have a very serious
air pollution problem, that there would
be any early prospect of shifting to coal be-
cause there's no doubt that coal creates
more air pollution than the oil and natural
gas do.
909
