Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Same to
you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m.
Calhoun, Georgia
Informal Remarks With Reporters at the
First Baptist Church. April 10, 1977
REPORTER. Has it been a happy Easter for
you?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we've enjoyed it;
feel at home.
Q. Did you hear about the Russian
trawler being seized?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
receive authoritative briefings as soon as
possible on those major laws and policies
which affect the way in which they do
their jobs. Illustratively, they need to
know about budgetary and civil service
laws, our policies on ethics and conflict-
of-interest, the privacy and freedom of
information acts, and similar statutes.
They also need to be thoroughly ac-
quainted with our policies in working
with Congress and the media.
I have asked the U.S. Civil Service
Commission, the Office of Management
and Budget and the Presidential Person-
nel Office to develop a series of briefings
for this purpose. You will soon be receiv-
Q. Was that under your orders, Mr. ing from the Chairman of the Civil Serv-
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we released sev-
eral of them, and we just had to draw the
line somewhere. We informed the Soviet
Embassy this past week that we coudn't
continue to release them, that we had to
enforce the law.
Reporter. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. out-
side the church where he attended Easter Sun-
day services.
Earlier in the day, the U.S. Coast Guard
cutter Decisive had seized the Soviet fishing
vessel Taras Shevchenko for an alleged viola-
tion of the Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act of 1976.
Briefings for Administration
Executives
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. April 11, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I am concerned that Presidential ap-
pointees and other key policy executives
ice Commission a schedule of briefing
meetings together with a request that you
designate those individuals you wish to
participate in each session. I have asked
that these meetings be scheduled outside
the regular working day so that it will be
possible to have the full participation of
your associates in this program. There is,
in
my judgment, nothing more important
to successful government operations than
having a well-informed leadership.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was
made available by the White House Press Of-
fice. It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
On the same day, the White House Press
Office issued an announcement concerning the
memorandum which stated that briefers will
include Cabinet members and other Govern-
ment leaders. The sessions will cover topics
such as operations of the Cabinet and White
House staff, the Federal budgetary process, and
Government reorganization. The briefings will
begin on April 22. There will be six sessions,
each scheduled for Friday afternoon and eve-
ning and all day Saturday. They will be held
in the White House Family Theater.
604
