Feb. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ment with our friends inspired by your
leadership. The Inaugural address and
the Inaugural was covered completely
and fully throughout the world. They
were inspired by your words and inspired
by the hope and the opportunity that your
leadership affords to our Nation and to
the world.
Under your instructions, we were able
to begin the consultations necessary for
the summit conference and the crucial
preparatory work necessary to assure the
success of the summit meeting. We were
able to hold very important talks leading
to further cooperation and economic
stimulation to deal with the twin prob-
lems of unemployment and inflation that
plague so many nations of the world.
I stressed your concern that we move
forward in the multilateral trade talks,
that we have discussions immediately
which we hope will halt the spread of
nuclear proliferation and slow down the
sale of conventional arms around the
world.
I brought your message to NATO of
our firm commitment to that alliance and
of our intention to work closely and co-
operatively with NATO.
It was my great privilege to go to Ber-
lin as your representative and reaffirm the
support which you bring and the Ameri-
can people bring for the continuation of
a free and secure Berlin. And that was
received very, very warmly by the people
of that great city.
In visiting all of the leaders of govern-
ment and Pope Paul, I expressed your
strong interest in the humanitarian issues
and the issues of human rights. And His
Holiness particularly asked me to tell you
that he appreciated the strong religious
underpinnings expressed in your Inau-
gural message and strongly endorsed your
plea for control of nuclear armaments.
In all of these talks, I came away con-
vinced that our relationships with our
friends are on the firmest possible, most
hopeful basis. And I come back optimistic
and hopeful. I look forward to my full
report to
report to you tomorrow.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I am
proud of you.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:40 p.m. at
Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
Vice President Mondale's
Trip to Europe and Japan
February 2, 1977
News Conference of the Vice President.
ALBERT EISELE [Press Secretary to the
Vice President]. The Vice President will
have a brief opening statement. I would
ask that the subject matter of this press
conference be limited to the trip, and it
will run approximately half an hour.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I've just com-
pleted a meeting with the President,
which lasted about an hour and a half,
at which I briefed him on the various
visits and stops on my trip to Western
Europe and to Japan.
I believe the trip is a success because it
began a process that we consider crucial
to the Carter administration: namely, the
closest possible cooperative consultations
and partnerships with our traditional
friends and allies. And I'm convinced
that that process has begun, and on the
best possible basis.
We've established beyond doubt our
desire to have such a relationship, and
we have begun a series of important con-
sultations on matters which concern us,
such as developing a consensus on what
will be involved at the summit. We've set
in motion a process of intensified consul-
tations, which will enable our nations to
deal with greater effectiveness and to deal
successfully with matters bearing on the
58
