Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 27
lished an excellent record in declassifying
and opening papers that are important to
an understanding of recent American his-
tory. Thus, the Kennedy Library is al-
ready an active archival institution.
When the permanent library is built on
Columbia Point at the University of Mas-
sachusetts in Boston Harbor, the public
will be able to view historical exhibits
from the Kennedy years in the museum
section while researchers are at work in
the research rooms.
This new library will be the sixth in the
Presidential library system—all built with
private funds. These combined research
centers and museums have became assets
to the communities in which they are lo-
cated and have served to stimulate inter-
est in our Nation's history.
Construction of the Kennedy Library
has been long delayed. I am delighted
that with my signing of this resolution, it
is now becoming a reality.
NOTE:
As enacted, H.J. Res. 424 is Public
Law 95-34, approved May 26.
International Labor Organization
Statement by the President. May 27, 1977
The question of U.S. relations with the
ILO remains a matter of high priority
and will remain under continuing review
by a Cabinet-level committee where, we
hope, the AFL-CIO and the Chamber of
Commerce will continue to play active
roles.
Because of dissatisfaction in the U.S.
Government and among labor and indus-
try leaders with a number of unfortunate
trends in the ILO, the United States sub-
mitted a letter on November 5, 1975, giv-
ing the required 2-year notice of intent to
withdraw from the organization. In that
letter, it was stated:
"The U.S. does not desire to leave the
ILO. The U.S. does not expect to do so.
But we do intend to make every possible
effort to promote the conditions which
will facilitate our continued participation.
If this should prove impossible, we are in
fact prepared to depart."
Those views are no less valid today.
They will guide our actions and our ulti-
mate decision in the critical months
ahead.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the is-
sue are not included.
May 21
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-Acting Secretary of State Warren M.
Christopher, Under Secretary of
State for Political Affairs Philip C.
Habib, Secretary of Defense Harold
Brown, Gen. George S. Brown,
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Richard Holbrooke, Assistant Secre-
tary of State for East Asian and Pa-
cific Affairs, and Dr. Brzezinski. The
purpose of the meeting was to give
final instructions to Mr. Habib and
General Brown, who were going to
South Korea on Tuesday, May 24,
for serious consultations with the Re-
public of Korea;
1029
