Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sity of Chicago, and in 1962 he returned
to Michigan State as a professor of agri-
cultural economics and as chairman of
the department in 1969-70.
From 1970 to 1972, Hathaway served
as director of the Center for Rural Man-
power and Public Affairs. He was a pro-
gram adviser in agriculture for the Ford
Foundation's Asia and Pacific Program
from 1972 until 1975, when he became
director of the International Food Policy
Research Institute.
Hathaway is the author of "Govern-
ment and Agriculture" (1963), "Prob-
lems of Progress in the Agricultural Econ-
omy" (coauthor) (1964), and "The
People of Rural America" (1976). He
was a member of the National Manpower
Advisory Commission in 1970, the Presi-
dent's Scientific Advisory Commission in
1966-67, and the Council of Economic
Advisers from 1961 to 1963.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MARCH 24, 1977
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY; SECRETARY
OF STATE'S VISIT TO THE SOVIET UNION
THE PRESIDENT. I have a brief opening
statement to make about the function of
the Presidency and about the Secretary
of State's upcoming visit to the Soviet
Union.
I think one of the most impressive ob-
servations that I have understood so far
about the Presidency and what it stands
for is the need to derive its strength di-
rectly from the people. There have been
some expressions of concern about my
bringing on these news conferences and
in other ways, issues that affect foreign
policy directly to the people of our
country.
I think it is very important that the
strength of the Presidency itself be recog-
nized as deriving from the people of this
Nation, and I think it is good for us, even
in very complex matters when the out-
come of negotiations might still be in
doubt, to let the Members of Congress
and the people of this country know what
is going on and some of the options to be
pursued, some of the consequences of suc-
cess, some of the consequences of failure.
I think in many areas of the world now
we are trying to invest a great deal of time
and attention and the good offices of our
country to bring about a resolution of dif-
ferences and to prevent potential conflict.
Tomorrow, the Secretary of State will
depart for the Soviet Union. We have
spent weeks in detailed study about the
agenda that has been prepared. This
agenda is one that's been derived by the
Soviet Union and by our own country.
I would say the central focal point will be
arms limitations and actual reductions for
a change.
I have had long discussions with the
Joint Chiefs of Staff and with other
members of my own Cabinet to derive our
potential proposals, which Cy Vance will
put forward to Mr. Brezhnev and the
Russian leaders.
We will be talking about the limitation
on arms sales. We are now the number
one exporter or salesman of arms of all
kinds. We have been working with our
own allies to cut down this traffic, and we
hope to get the Soviet Union to agree with
us on constraint.
We'll be dealing with mutual and bal-
anced force reductions in the NATO area
and, on this trip, Cy Vance will make a
report on the attitude of the Soviet Union
leaders concerning the European theater.
We'll be trying to control the testing
of nuclear devices, both weapons and
peaceful nuclear devices, and we would
496
