Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
I propose now that the price limit for all new gas sold anywhere in
this country be set at the price of the equivalent energy value of domestic
crude oil, beginning next year, 1978. This proposal will apply both to new
gas and to expiring intrastate contracts. It would not affect existing con-
tracts that presently are in effect.
We must be sure that oil and natural gas are not wasted by industries
that could use coal. Our third strategy will be, therefore, conversion from
scarce fuels to coal wherever possible.
Although coal now provides only 18 percent of our total energy needs,
it makes up 90 percent of our energy reserves. Its production and use do
create environmental difficulties, but I believe that we can cope with
them through strict strip mining and clean air standards.
To increase the use of coal by 400 million tons or about 65 percent—
we now use about 600 million tons—in industry and utilities by 1985, I
propose a sliding scale tax, starting in 1979, on large industrial users of
oil and natural gas. Fertilizer manufacturers, crop dryers, and so forth,
which must use gas, would be exempt from the tax. Utilities would not
be subject to the tax until 1983, because it will simply take them longer
to convert to coal.
I will also submit proposals for expanded research and development
in coal. We need to find better ways to mine it safely and to burn it cleanly
and to use it to produce other clean energy sources like liquified and gasi-
fied coal. We have already spent billions of dollars on research and devel-
opment on nuclear power, but very little on coal. Investments here can
pay rich dividends.
Even with this conversion effort, we still face a gap between the
energy we need and the energy that we can produce or import. Therefore,
as a last resort, we must continue to use increasing amounts of nuclear
energy.
We now have 63 nuclear powerplants producing about 3 percent
of our total energy, and we also have about 70 more nuclear powerplants
which are licensed for construction. Domestic uranium supplies can sup-
port this number of plants, judged by the most conservative estimate, for
another 75 years at least. Effective conservation efforts can minimize the
shift toward nuclear power. There is no need to enter the plutonium age
by licensing or building a fast breeder reactor such as the proposed dem-
onstration plant at Clinch River. We must, however, increase our capacity
to produce enriched uranium fuels for light water, nuclear powerplants,
669
