Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 21
employment opportunities have been
changed drastically this last 3 months as
compared to what they were before. This
means that more of all Federal programs,
not just a few of them, will be channeled
into the deteriorating and needy urban
downtown areas, whereas in the past they
were channeled, I think, too much, to the
sunbelt area and to the suburbs where the
need was least.
We have, in addition to that, given spe-
cial consideration in our energy programs
and will in our welfare programs to those
special needs in the urban areas wherever
they might exist in our country.
We are now evolving a comprehensive
transportation policy that the Secretary
of Transportation, Brock Adams will
conclude this year, that will take into
consideration those special needs on rapid
transit and so forth.
So, we have, I think, made progress
already in some of these areas. In others,
we are just evolving policies for the fu-
ture. I think it's accurate to say that in
the past quite often Federal funds have
not been channeled where the need was
greatest. And I think that the first thing
we need to do in all of our proposals to
the Congress is to recognize that fact and
correct those deficiencies. I think that is
about the best I can describe.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. Mr. President, I am from Connect-
icut, which I believe is now the only
State which generates more than half of
its electrical power by nuclear means. In
fact, we have three operating nuclear
plants at Waterford and Hamden, within
a 20-mile radius, and the fourth being
constructed at the present time.
My question is this: There seems to be
something of a discrepancy. We are as-
sured by the AEC and others that nuclear
plants are entirely safe. Yet, I believe
there is a requirement that any new plant
not be built in an area, in a city area or
some immediate suburbs; in other words,
that they be built in rural areas. Is this
for safety reasons, because we are not ab-
solutely sure how safe they are, or what
is the reasoning behind this? This seems
to worry a lot of our people.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the nu-
clear powerplants have demonstrated
themselves to be safe. So far as I know,
since nuclear power became a factor on
the world scene, there has never been a
fatality. I know there hasn't been in our
own country.
Admiral Rickover's nuclear power-
plants, which have been used in tightly
confined configurations like atomic sub-
marines and also which quite often have
been experimental in nature, have oper-
ated a cumulative total of 1500 years with
never any sort of mishap. And I think part
of it is because of the rigidity of standard
that Admiral Rickover instituted and also
the very tight operating supervision.
The major reason to consider the siting
constraints on nuclear powerplants is to
try to avoid fear of people in the neigh-
borhood and try to avoid the long de-
lays that quite often have resulted because
people could not be convinced that they
were safe.
So, when you have an option to build
an atomic powerplant in a heavily popu-
lated area and one that's not populated,
obviously the best place to go is to one
that's not populated.
I hope that all States will do what, for
instance, Georgia has done working in
conjunction with North and South Caro-
lina, for instance, and that is to identify
sites for energy production many years
ahead of time so that there won't be the
hot controversy and the feeling among en-
vironmentalists and others that they are
949
