Feb. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
see some things you like. I hope you can
help me and the others to strengthen
them.
You have got a great country. And you
are part of it. And I hope you won't let
this be just a transient episode in your life
but an opportunity for you to tie yourself
to the Government of the best Nation on
Earth.
I have got to go. I can't stay with you.
But I would like to introduce to you the
finest Vice President that I have ever had
work in my administration. [Laughter]
Fritz Mondale.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I am sorry the
President left before I could return the
compliment, because I wanted him to
know in many ways he is the best Presi-
dent I have ever worked for as Vice
President. [Laughter]
I would never be parochial, but I would
like, if I might, in addition to the two
representatives from Georgia, we are de-
lighted to have with us, if we might find
room on the platform for the two from
Minnesota; if we could do that.
First of all, I want to say how pleased
I am to be here. I have a special connec-
tion with the Senate Youth Program be-
cause when I was in the Senate, I served
as one of the cochairmen a few years ago
and worked very closely with the Senate
Youth Program.
And my colleague, Hubert Humphrey,
was the one who I believe introduced the
first resolution, along with Senator
Senator
Kuchel, and I forget who else, creating
the Senate Youth Program. There is
nothing like it—as you have already found
out, for youth program-perhaps in the
world, like the Senate Youth Program.
First of all, you have to be special, as
the President pointed out, to be selected
as one of two from your State. But, sec-
ondly, there is just no program that gives
you a better look at Washington, at gov-
ernment, how it really works, and to see
and hear the leadership in government
that remotely compares to the Senate
Youth Program.
So, I want to congratulate you for be-
ing selected. And I want to second the
President's point that you realize that with
this opportunity comes a special respon-
sibility; because I have been around
Washington long enough to watch people
like you come down here and watch
many of them grow and develop into
community leaders, State leaders, public
leaders, religious leaders, business leaders,
leaders in education-all walks of life.
And I hope that will happen to each of
you, that you really go back now and let
this be not just a great trip that you are
on-it is unusual-but the beginning of a
magnificent life of public service, that
special dimension that we are all privi-
leged to be a part of as Americans in a
free society.
Finally, I want to say something about
the Hearst family. You know, in our
country we have a marvelous institution
of philanthropy, of charitable and educa-
tional giving, and people of substance
often give for various causes. But it is a
funny thing. You usually don't see the
family that did it, but that is not true of
the Senate Youth Program.
Randy Hearst,2 Mrs. Hearst, the Hearst
family, every year that I have seen, have
been here personally, day after day, doing
everything that has to be done to make
certain that this program is a success. If
it weren't for their personal involvement,
I don't think it would have succeeded and
continued the way it is.
And I want to thank, on behalf not
only of the participants here but of the
United States Senate-I am no longer
Senator, but I get to preside over it—
and on behalf of the President-we con-
2 William Randolph Hearst, Jr., editor-in-
chief, Hearst Newspapers.
80
