May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
As you know, all the signatories of the
Helsinki agreement-I think there are
about 35 of us-will go to Belgrade later
on this spring to assess how well our coun-
tries have done in the field of human
rights. We're not perfect ourselves.
Since I have been in office, for instance,
I've changed the regulations so that
American citizens for the first time can
visit any foreign country. In the past, we
had very tight constraints on visitors visit-
ing back and forth. But we're not support-
ing South Africa. We are very eager to
see, and willing to use, all the leverage
that we can to bring about an end to racial
discrimination in South Africa and an end
to the apartheid system where the black
people have to carry passes and have spe-
cial constraints on them, and the white
people don't.
But we don't have the authority short
of war, which we wouldn't consider, to go
in and just change the structure of their
government. But we're not only trying to
move ourselves but we're trying to get
other nations to join in with us.
You might be interested in knowing
that the other four nations that have
joined with us with the help of Andrew
Young were: the Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Great Britain and
Canada.
We've gone to Vorster now and given
him a request a little bit stronger than a
request, saying that if you don't do some-
thing about Namibia, then we're going to
take strong action against you in the
United Nations.
Let me say how grateful I am to all of
you for letting me come to be with you.
I don't claim to know all the answers. I'm
just like you are. I'm searching for the
ability and the understanding to do a good
job as President. And I need to have your
support when you think I'm right, and
your strong expressions of criticism when
you think I'm wrong.
I think though that I will minimize the
mistakes that I make by staying close to
you. The questions that I've had today are
very broad in their scope, from dealing
with South Africa, about apartheid, to
how to have a more beautiful city, and to
stop graffiti, in a place near one's home.
This is a kind of sense that I need as Pres-
ident to understand what is of concern to
you.
I'm very grateful that you've come to-
day. I'll try to do the kind of job that will
make you proud of your own country be-
cause I think that we make mistakes on
occasion, but I think it's good for us to
remember that as free people we still live
in the greatest country on Earth.
Q. Mr. President, why has it taken you
so long to come back to California?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've been very
few places since I've been in office. I've
only been to Plains once. So I've been to
Los Angeles as much as I've been to my
home.
I think the first few months that I am in
the White House, possibly this first whole
year, I need to stay close to my work. I've
got so much to learn, and we've ap-
proached some major questions that have
been ignored for a long time. The energy
policy should have been done a long time
ago, I have had to do that. The basic wel-
fare reform package, we'll be ready to go
with that this year.
We're working on health. We're work-
ing on social security. We're trying to deal
with the Middle Eastern questions. We're
trying to deal with the Russians on SALT,
and this is a time consuming thing.
And I might add that I really enjoy it.
There's no place that I would rather be
than in the White House late at night in
my office working on things that I think
are both important and stimulating, and
also very exciting. But I'll come to Cali-
fornia every time I get a chance.
914
