Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
At one time, after about a month when
I was in office, I had 315,000 letters that
hadn't been opened or answered. We are
current now. We're only running 3 or 4
days behind.
It's taken extra people to do it. We've
gotten an equivalent increase in the num-
ber of telephone calls. We get 20,000 or
30,000 telephone calls per day. It really
puts a tremendous pressure on us to deal
with this unpredictable interest in our ad-
ministration by people around the
country.
I don't want to discourage people from
staying in touch with me, but it has taken
a lot of struggle to do that. I think in our
regular staffing, when we-in this surge
which will be within the next 3 or 4
weeks-we will make public the staffing
levels, and we will still have the same goals
in mind.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: President Carter's fifth news confer-
ence began at 10 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building. It was broadcast live
on radio and television.
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on
Progress Made Toward a Negotiated
Settlement. April 15, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94-104, this
report describes progress which has been
achieved during the last sixty days toward
settlement of the Cyprus problem and the
efforts the Administration has made to
contribute to its resolution.
In my first report, dated February 11,
I emphasized the high priority we place
on this effort and reaffirmed our inten-
tion to work closely with the Congress in
deciding on our future course. I promised
that my Special Representative, Mr.
Clark Clifford, would consult with you
both before and after his trip to the area.
He has done so. Before his departure, Mr.
Clifford discussed the Cyprus question,
and other pertinent matters, with a num-
ber of interested Senators and Congress-
men. Leaving Washington February 15,
he spent some two weeks visiting the east-
ern Mediterranean area to confer with
leaders in Ankara, Athens and Nicosia.
He also met with United Nations Secre-
tary General Kurt Waldheim, under
whose leadership the Cyprus intercom-
munal negotiations were subsequently re-
convened. Returning from this series of
intensive conversations, Mr. Clifford
stopped in London to share his impres-
sions with leaders of the British Govern-
ment which, as current incumbent of the
European Community Presidency as well
as former administrator of Cyprus, main-
tains a special interest in finding a just
and speedy Cyprus solution.
Upon his return, Mr. Clifford reported
to me that the leaders of Greece, Turkey
and Cyprus correctly saw his mission as a
signal of the deep interest this Admin-
istration takes in the problems of the
eastern Mediterranean. He came away
convinced of their clear understanding
that the United States is firmly committed
to the search for a fair and lasting Cyprus
settlement as well as to the improvement
of relations with our two important and
valued NATO allies, Greece and Turkey,
and to the creation of a more stable atmos-
phere in the eastern Mediterranean.
The tasks I gave Mr. Clifford were to
make a first-hand assessment of current
problems and attitudes in the three coun-
638
