May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
(2) I have asked the Administrator of
AID to make available to developing
countries assistance in environment and
natural resources management. Such as-
sistance could help developing countries
design environmentally sound projects, re-
gardless of the source of funding for a
particular project.
INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
AGREEMENTS
A number of federal agencies, under the
guidance of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, are engaged in interna-
tional conservation activity. I am direct-
ing my Administration to expand this
effort, giving particular attention to the
following areas:
(1) The Endangered Species Conven-
tion is now in effect. The next step is to
implement the treaty effectively. The
United States has begun efforts to prohibit
trade in endangered species of plants and
animals, and will encourage similar steps
by other nations.
(2) Pursuant to the Antarctic Treaty, I
am today submitting legislation to Con-
gress to provide for special protection of
the flora and fauna of Antarctica. Because
this remote, unpopulated region greatly
influences the stability of the entire earth's
oceans and atmosphere, its unique envir-
onment must be preserved.
(3) The Convention for Nature Protec-
tion and Wildlife Preservation in the
Western Hemisphere was signed by
Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940, but has yet
to be carried out fully and systematically.
I propose to the countries of the Americas
that we now implement this Convention
through the offices of the Organization of
American States. I urge the development
of a Pan-American Migratory Species
Treaty, and the convening of an Inter-
American Conference on the Manage-
ment of Western Hemisphere Renewable
Natural Resources. The United States has
already offered to host the Conference.
(4) I soon will send to the Senate for
ratification the Treaty for the Conserva-
tion of Migratory Birds and Their Envir-
onment, which we signed with the Soviet
Union last November. This treaty-and
the legislation I will submit to implement
it-will establish new authority to con-
serve the habitat necessary to the survival
of these birds.
SAVING THE WHALES
Sharing the worldwide public concern
about the condition of marine mammals,
especially whales, I have directed the
Secretary of Commerce, with the foreign
policy guidance of the Secretary of State
to:
• Prohibit commercial whaling within
our 200-mile fishery zone;
• Pursue negotiations within the Inter-
national Whaling Commission for a
stronger international conservation
regime for whales and other ceta-
ceans, affording protection for them
throughout their range;
• Maintain firm U.S. support for a ten-
year worldwide moratorium on the
commercial killing of whales; and
Report to me within 60 days any ac-
tions by other countries that have
diminished the effectiveness of the
International Whaling Commission's
conservation program.
VII. IMPROVING GOVERNMENT
The foregoing proposals, along with
others which will follow in the coming
years, constitute the most far-reaching
environmental program ever put forward
by any administration. My support for
them is resolute, and it is personal. But
belief in these goals does not necessarily
mean uncritical belief in the federal gov-
ernment's present methods for achieving
them. In the past, our environmental pol-
984
