Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
and I presume Congress as well, and Civil
Service?
I have asked every one of the Secre-
taries, as I said earlier, by the end of
March to give me an analysis of all the
reports, the survey forms and so forth,
that are required. Some of them are re-
quired by law, and neither I nor the Sec-
retary can change that immediately.
But I would like for Bob Bergland to
give me a list of all those reports that are
required by law that ought to be elimi-
nated. As you well know, in some in-
stances, Congress passes a law in 1912
that says that every
month the American
farmers or the commissioners of agricul-
ture, the different States have to make a
report to the Department of Agriculture
in Washington. Unless the law is changed,
a thousand years later those reports will
still be coming in. I am sure you see a lot
of them. I want to have an analysis so that
I can go back to Congress, to the Agricul-
tural Committee and others, and say these
are the reports that we don't think we
need anymore. Maybe in one piece of
legislation we can eliminate those unnec-
essary reports.
I don't like to see State officials, local
officials, business people, farmers bogged
down making reports to us. I particularly
don't like to see your time taken
up with
the collection, dissemination, analysis, and
collation of material that comes out of
those reports. It is not necessary.
We certainly don't need to have per-
sonal data coming into the Agriculture
Department if the same exact data is com-
ing into HEW or HUD. I think this would
free you to deal more directly with people
that depend upon you for Government
services and not just have you transferring
paper back and forth among yourselves
or between you and people who are ag-
gravated by it and are obviously not aided
by it.
I am really sincere about this request,
and I am determined to correct it. It is
not a transient idea of mine. I consider
my
word of honor is at stake. I intend to
do something about it. I hope you will
help me with it.
Let me say this in closing: We have all
got a tremendous opportunity given to us
to serve in the Government of the great-
est nation on Earth. There ought to be
a complete, intimate, trustful relationship
between the people of our country and the
Federal Government employees. I am one
of them.
That relationship, when it is damaged,
almost invariably has been hurt by Presi-
dents, Cabinet members, and in some in-
stances by Members of Congress.
It is very seldom your responsibility or
your fault, but quite often, if the Presi-
dent or Cabinet officers or Congress takes
an attitude, that attitude percolates down
to the home demonstration agent, to the
county agent, to the experiment stations,
to the forestry personnel and others.
I just want to make sure that all of us
reassess our attitude toward Government
service. We are not any better than any-
one else. I am no better than you. We
don't know all the answers. We are no-
body's boss. We are servants. We are also
partners.
I cannot succeed as President unless you
help me succeed. You cannot succeed as
public servants either, unless you have my
support and my cooperation.
So it's a partnership. I will do the best
I can not to let you down.
Thank you very much.
SECRETARY BERGLAND. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. in
the Patio Area at the Department of Agricul-
ture.
175
