Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 30
ress, the Government of Canada will an-
nounce whether or not it is willing to per-
mit construction of a transit pipeline for
Alaskan gas.
The Transit Pipeline Agreement pro-
vides a formal basis for United States-
Canadian cooperation on hydrocarbon
transportation systems, should both gov-
ernments decide cooperation is advanta-
geous. I urge the Senate to act favorably
on this Agreement at an early date by giv-
ing its advice and consent to ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 30, 1977.
Department of Agriculture and
Commodity Credit Corporation
Nomination of Alex P. Mercure To Be an
Assistant Secretary and a Member of
the Board of Directors of the
Corporation. March 30, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Alex P. Mercure of Al-
buquerque, N. Mex., to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Agriculture (Rural Develop-
ment) and a member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the Commodity Credit Corpo-
ration. Mercure is vice president of the
University of New Mexico.
executive director of the home education
livelihood program of the New Mexico
Council of Churches.
He was president of the New Mexico
Technical Vocational School in El Rito,
N. Mex., from 1971 until 1974, when
he became vice president and associate
provost of the University of New Mexico,
in charge of regional and community
affairs.
Mercure has served on National Advi-
sory Committees on Adult Education and
on Minority Business Enterprise. He has
been a member of a National Academy of
Sciences study group on applied sciences
and social change in rural areas and has
served on the White House Conferences
on Children and Youth and on Food, Nu-
trition and Health.
He has served on the Joint Commission
on Mental Health for Children and the
New Mexico Cooperative Research and
Study Council. He has been on the board
of directors of the Albuquerque Commu-
nity Council, the Spanish Colonial His-
torical Foundation in Santa Fe, Del Sol
(a rural development corporation affili-
ated with HELP), and Juntos (a barrio
organization in Santa Fe).
Mercure received the New Mexico dis-
tinguished Public Service Award in 1976.
Nomination of Joan M. Davenport To Be an
Assistant Secretary. March 30, 1977
He was born June 30, 1931, in Lum- Department of the Interior
berton, N. Mex. He received a B.S. de-
gree in education from the University of
New Mexico in 1958 and an M.A. degree
in guidance from New Mexico Highlands
University in 1961. He is completing a
doctorate in education at the University
of New Mexico.
Mercure was a teacher at Chama High
School in Chama, N. Mex., from 1958 to
1962 and a counselor at Los Lunas Public
Schools in Los Lunas, N. Mex., from
1962 to 1964. From 1965 to 1971, he was
The President today announced that
he will nominate Joan M. Davenport, of
Orange, N.J., to be an Assistant Secretary
of the Interior (Energy and Minerals).
Ms. Davenport is currently Director of
the Office of Environmental Assessment
of the Federal Energy Administration.
She was born in Newark, N.J., on Janu-
ary 2, 1943. She received a B.S.F.S. in
535
