Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
ture promotion. I really hate to see people
who have been promoted or placed in a
position in good faith, demoted or moved,
with damage to their lives and to their
career and to their families.
So, within the constraints that Secre-
tary Califano has said, that I don't have
complete authority over it, we will try to
accommodate this correction of what's
called grade creep through attrition and
through some freezing of promotions
until the ratios are corrected.
Did I answer your question?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. The gentleman with
the cane.
HANDICAPPED PERSONS
Q. Mr. President, could you outline
what plans you have to include more dis-
abled Americans in the top level decision-
making process, especially within HEW,
focusing, say, on the areas of civil rights
for the handicapped and affirmative ac-
tion for the handicapped?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Califano
and I have been discussing this. I wanted
to get the latest status. He has offered to
a blind person a very high position in the
Department. He's still waiting to get a
response from that offer. And he's just
told me that if the particular person who
has been offered the job refuses, then a
handicapped person will fill that major
vacancy.
I think, obviously, it ought not to be
confined to just one position. But I think
he's talking about a very high position.
Yes? Did somebody over here on the
right call me? [Laughter]
Go ahead, I'll listen.
FEDERAL INFORMATION CENTERS
Q. Mr. President, I would just like to
ask you whether or not you're aware that
sometimes the Federal employee gets the
blame because some of our legislative peo-
ple come directly to the Federal Govern-
ment and ask questions that they know
as well as we that they need to go to their
State agencies about-the problem being
they don't want to say no on their own
stationery, so they allow us to do it.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do realize that.
[Laughter]
One of the things that I hope to put into
effect is a much more beneficial use of
what's now called the Federal Informa-
tion Centers. This is under the GSA now,
I believe.
When I was Governor of Georgia, we
put in a system called tie-line. We got a
grant from HEW to do it. [Laughter] It
worked out very fine. I think we only got
$120,000, but we added a lot of local and
State money to it. And what we put into
effect, that we're trying now to emulate
for the Federal Government, is one tele-
phone number that can be used by any-
body in I'll just refer to Georgia for a
while to Georgia, and they can call this
number collect-it's a WATS number.
We had, I think, 25 or 30 very competent
people there to answer the phone.
And if they had a complaint or criti-
cism or just a question or suggestion, while
they held onto the phone, we would tie
them in to either the State agency or to
the Member of Congress or to the Fed-
eral agency involved with their question.
And they didn't have to make two tele-
phone calls. They didn't have to remem-
ber but one telephone number.
We now have 40 of those Federal In-
formation Centers around the Nation that
are not being used with any degree of ef-
fectiveness at this point, compared to
what they could be. And I hope to have a
similar circumstance, problem corrected
at the Federal level. We are doing a study
of that now.
165
