Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 18
and certification. In addition, I recom-
mend the immediate scheduling of a spe-
cial international conference for late 1977
to consider these construction and in-
spection measures.
IMPROVEMENT of crew standards and
training. I am instructing the Secretary
of Transportation to take immediate
steps to raise the licensing and qualifica-
tion standards for American crews.
The international requirements for
crew qualifications, which are far from
strict, will be dealt with by a major inter-
national conference we will participate in
next year. I am instructing the Secretary
of Transportation to identify additional
requirements which should be discussed,
and if not included, may be imposed by
the United States after 1978 on the crews
of all ships calling at American ports.
• DEVELOPMENT of Tanker Boarding
Program and U.S. Marine Safety Infor-
mation System. Starting immediately, the
Coast Guard will board and examine
each foreign flag tanker calling at Ameri-
can ports at least once a year and more
often if necessary. This examination will
insure that the ship meets all safety and
environmental protection
protection regulations.
Those ships which fail to do so may be
denied access to U.S. ports or, in some
cases, denied the right to leave until the
deficiencies have been corrected. The in-
formation gathered by this boarding pro-
gram will permit the Coast Guard to
identify individual tankers having his-
tories of poor maintenance, accidents, and
pollution violations. We will also require
that the names of tanker owners, major
stockholders, and changes in vessel names
be disclosed and included in this Marine
Safety Information System.
APPROVAL of Comprehensive Oil Pol-
lution Liability and Compensation Legis-
lation. I am transmitting appropriate
legislation to establish a single, national
standard of strict liability for oil spills.
This legislation is designed to replace the
present fragmented, overlapping systems
of federal and state liability laws and
compensation funds. It will also create a
$200 million fund to clean up oil spills
and compensate victims for oil pollution
damages.
IMPROVEMENT of federal ability to
respond to oil pollution emergencies. I
have directed the appropriate federal
agencies, particularly the Coast Guard
and the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy, in cooperation with state and local
governments to improve our ability to
contain and minimize the damaging
effects of oil spills. The goal is an ability
to respond within six hours to a spill of
100,000 tons.
Oil pollution of the oceans is a serious
problem that calls for concentrated, ener-
getic, and prompt attention. I believe
these measures constitute an effective pro-
gram to control it. My Administration
pledges its best efforts, in cooperation with
the international community, the Con-
gress, and the public, to preserve the
earth's oceans and their resources.
The White House,
March 17, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was released
on March 18.
Office of Science and
Technology Policy
Nomination of Frank Press To Be
Director. March 18, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Frank Press to be Director
of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy. Press will also serve as the Science
and Technology Advisor to the President.
459
