Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 18
handicapped. He also authored legisla-
tion authorizing State educational assist-
ance for veterans attending school under
the GI bill.
In 1972 Cleland was appointed by then
Gov. Jimmy Carter to head a special com-
mission established to study the problems
of veterans returning to Georgia after
service in Vietnam. He ran unsuccess-
fully for lieutenant governor in 1974, fin-
ishing third in a field of 10 candidates in
the Democratic primary.
In March 1975, Cleland became a full-
time member of the professional staff on
the Senate Committee on Veterans'
Affairs after serving since 1972 on the
national advisory council to that com-
mittee.
Cleland was selected as one of the Five
Outstanding Young Men in Georgia by
the Georgia Jaycees in 1969. In 1973 he
was named the Outstanding Handi-
capped Citizen in Georgia and was
awarded the Georgia Easter Seal Society
Award of Gallantry. In 1975 he was
named an Outstanding Disabled Veteran
by the New York Department of Disabled
American Veterans.
Director of ACTION
Nomination of Samuel W. Brown, Jr.
February 18, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Samuel W. Brown, Jr.,
to be Director of ACTION. Brown is
presently treasurer of the State of Colo-
rado.
Brown was born July 27, 1943, in
Council Bluffs, Iowa. He received a B.A.
from University of Redlands in 1965 and
an M.A. from Rutgers University in 1966
and attended Harvard Divinity School in
1966-67.
In 1968 Brown served as the national
volunteer coordinator of Eugene McCar-
thy's campaign for President. Later that
year, he served as statewide citizens' co-
ordinator for Gov. Harold Hughes' suc-
cessful Senate campaign in Iowa.
In December 1968, he was a consultant
to the Peace Corps, traveling to India and
Nepal. During the next 6 months, he was
a fellow of the Institute of Politics of the
John F. Kennedy School of Government
of Harvard University. Brown founded,
coordinated, and led the Vietnam Mora-
torium in Washington, D.C., in 1969.
The following year, he moved to Den-
ver, Colo. In 1972 he was employed by
the Fund for Neighborhood Develop-
ment as a consultant. He was also a prime
organizer of the Citizens for Colorado's
Future. In 1974 he was elected treasurer
of the State of Colorado.
Brown has been a member of the Board
of the Fair Campaign Practices Commis-
sion, the Brookings Institution Study on
the Presidency, and the Robert F. Ken-
nedy Memorial Foundation. He was also
a founding board member of the Council
on Economic Priorities, an economic re-
search organization.
He is the author of the book "Store-
front Organizing" (1972) and coeditor
of "Why Are We Still in Vietnam?"
(1970). He has written numerous news-
paper and magazine articles.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
anouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
193
