Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
provisions in EPCA would introduce a
degree of unnecessary uncertainty into
domestic crude oil pricing. This is because
of the large volume of new Alaskan oil
that would initially be moving into the
composite average at a wellhead price
anticipated to be considerably below the
current average. Under the proposed
amendments and extension of EPCA, this
problem would be eliminated. The $5.25,
$11.28, and new oil pricing tiers, adjusted
for inflation, would be substituted for the
composite average limitation. Alaskan oil
would be subject to an $11.28 wellhead
ceiling price, but would be treated as for-
eign oil for purposes of the entitlements
program. New Alaskan oil finds would be
subject to the new oil wellhead price.
b. Elk Hills production (legislative):
Legislation will be sought to limit pro-
duction from Elk Hills Naval Petroleum
Reserve to a ready reserve level at least
until the West-to-East transportation sys-
tems for moving the Alaskan oil surplus
are in place and until California refiners
have completed a major refinery retrofit
program to enable more Alaskan oil to
be used in California.
c. Shale oil (administrative): Because
of the high risks and costs involved in
shale oil development, shale oil will be
entitled to receive the world price of oil
in the United States.
d. Oil stockpile (administrative/budg-
et): We plan to expand the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to 1 billion barrels
from the currently projected 500 million
barrels. Such a reserve would enable the
United States to withstand a serious sup-
ply interruption for 10 months. In addi-
tion, rationing and conservation contin-
gency plans will be submitted to the Con-
gress for its review. The FEA will under-
take an analysis of additional contingency
plans which would be placed into effect
during a severe supply interruption.
e. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) (ad-
ministrative): The limitation on the im-
portation of LNG imposed by the previ-
ous administration is being replaced by
a more flexible policy that will provide for
a case-by-case analysis of each project.
Strict siting criteria would foreclose the
location of future tanker docks in densely
populated areas.
f. Synthetic natural gas (SNG) (ad-
ministrative): Current policy discour-
ages construction of SNG facilities. A
Federal task force will be established to
identify areas where additional SNG
plants should be built. The FEA will en-
sure that plants built in those areas will
receive priority for SNG feedstocks.
g. Gas development (administrative) :
Federal research and development pro-
grams on gas from geopressurized zones
will be greatly accelerated. Efforts to de-
velop gas from Devonian shale will also
be expanded.
h. Outer Continental Shelf (adminis-
trative): The Congress is now consider-
ing amendments to the OCS Lands Act
which would provide additional author-
ities to ensure that OCS development is
consistent with national energy policies,
particularly by providing for a flexible
leasing program using bidding systems
that enhance competition, assure a fair
return to the public, and promote full de-
velopment of OCS resources. The admin-
istration supports these amendments.
i. Gasoline decontrol (administrative) :
Gasoline prices have never reached their
allowable controlled ceilings, and mar-
keters have contended for some time that
deregulation of gasoline would increase
competition by allowing them to shop
among suppliers.
In order to assure the maintenance of
such competition, the administration will
support legislation similar in concept to
the current "Dealer Day in Court" stat-
682
