Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sumer confidence, retail sales, and other
economic indicators.
I've tried to address, ever since I've been
in office, the very difficult and pernicious
problem of inflation. We've not been will-
ing to control inflation by deliberately
dampening the economy nor holding
down employment. We've left intact, even
after withdrawing the recommendation
for a $50 tax rebate and the business tax
credits, an economic stimulus package in
excess of $20 billion designed almost en-
tirely to provide jobs for the American
people.
This morning I distributed to the press
and to the public a list of things that we
will do as an anti-inflation effort. It's com-
prehensive and it's as complete as we can
possibly devise. We will be probing
throughout the coming months and years
for additional ways to control inflation.
Our goal is to reduce the inflation rate by
2 percent by the end of 1979, which is a
very difficult task to undertake.
I've become convinced that the Govern-
ment by itself can't do it. We can take the
lead. We can hold down unnecessary ex-
penditures, work toward a balanced
budget by the end of this administration.
We can coordinate the many elements
within Government that have detailed in-
formation about specific inflationary pres-
sures to try to nip them in the bud before
they become apparent because of their se-
verity. We can build up adequate agricul-
ture reserves, deal with the widely fluctu-
ating commodity prices, make sure that
we have an international approach to
worldwidė inflation working with other in-
dustrialized countries, and make sure that
Government policies, including unneces-
sary programs, the unnecessary regula-
tions, enhance the competitive nature of
the American economic system.
All these things will be done simultane-
ously. I think they directly address the
roots of inflation and, at the same time,
permit us to have expansion in our econ-
omy and a simultaneous reduction in un-
employment. This is a commitment that
I have, and I'm very grateful that the
business and labor leaders have agreed to
cooperate on a continuing and routine
basis to try to address the basic causes of
inflation.
I will now schedule monthly meetings
with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve
Bank, Mr. Arthur Burns, and my own
economic advisers to make sure that there
is some maximum degree of coordination
in addressing inflationary pressures.
I'd be glad to answer any questions that
anyone might have.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
QUESTIONS
THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, in view of the Soviet
reaction and your own reassessment so
far, do you see any reason to change your
SALT proposals? Also, do you see any
validity in meeting with Secretary Brezh-
nev from time to time, starting this year?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the Soviet
response has been predictable. I've been
somewhat concerned lately that they've
decided to go public as much as they have.
But I have to say that there is a very im-
portant distinction that ought to be drawn
between private and determined and con-
tinuing negotiations which are being pur-
sued on the one hand, and the education
of the public, the presentation of issues to
people in our own country, which has
always been the case since I've been in
office. And it's very encouraging to know
that now Mr. Brezhnev and his other
leaders, through Pravda, are explaining
the Soviet position to the people of Russia.
So, I see nothing wrong with the Soviet
leadership giving their arguments and
their excuses for not agreeing immediately
630
