Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
that barrel of oil from the marginal sup-
plier overseas.
Conservation provides us with an
opportunity in the oil area of making
environmental considerations, economic
considerations, political considerations,
and foreign policy considerations coin-
cide. And that is a remarkable achieve-
ment.
On nuclear power, recognizably there
have been some concerns over the years
about safety. There has been more con-
cern, I think, in recent years with regard
to the question of the use of the plutonium
economy in relation to the spread of nu-
clear weapons.
I think that the President intends to
bring a separation between the plutonium
economy on the one hand and the use of
light water reactors, so that light water
reactors can indeed, along with coal, carry
more of our energy load.
THE PRESIDENT. You might briefly tell
them about solar energy, too.
MR. SCHLESINGER. The possibilities for
solar, warm-water heating, solar heating
and cooling are here now. Solar electric
is much further down the line, but we will
be looking at the possibilities in the en-
ergy package to introduce solar energy
for heating and cooling purposes so that
we can replace several millions of barrels
of oil equivalent by the end of the cen-
tury. And we will be working industri-
ously on the question of solar electric
power.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
THE PRESIDENT. One comment, and
then I'll recognize people.
Dr. Schlesinger has pointed out that
we waste more energy now that we can
save than the total amount of oil that we
import. So, that's such a rich field for in-
creasing our energy sources in the future.
And if it costs 10 times as much to buy
oil as it does to save oil or its equivalent,
that's a wonderful opportunity again.
And in many areas of production, like
the production of paper-an American
paper production plant takes twice as
much energy per ton of paper as in the
rest of the world. And we have about the
same living standard as they do, say, in
Germany or Sweden or other countries of
that kind, and still we use twice as much
energy per person in this country for the
same standard of living.
So, we've got a tremendous opportunity
now in our country because we have been
so wasteful, in the future, to improve the
circumstances now.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. That is why I
put my thermostat in the Senate and hold
it up almost every day to see that it is only
56 or 58 degrees. We've had 80 degrees,
as you know, Mr. President, in the Senate.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Yes, sir?
MR. REICHL. Mr. President, it has been
said many times, the Swedes and the Ger-
mans use half as much energy, and it is,
of course, a correct statement. But I think
that if we would bunch all the American
population in the same area as Germany
or Sweden, we would also come down in
energy demand. And I think that one
of the reasons we use more energy is our
geography and the freedom we enjoy as a
result of it. And I think we shouldn't for-
get that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we also use a lot
more energy than Australia, for instance,
and we use a lot more energy even than
Canada. I think next to us in the waste-
fulness is Canada. But I think even in
Sweden and Germany they've never
moved strongly toward a conservation ef-
fort. Japan is just beginning to. But I
certainly recognize the geographic factor.
MAYOR HUTCHINSON. Mr. President,
the thing that bothers me most in this
area is that, de facto, the Federal Govern-
421
