Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
This legislation is a major step in my
Administration's program for a compre-
hensive reorganization of the Executive
Branch.
Nowhere is the need for reorganization
and consolidation greater than in energy
policy. All but two of the Executive
Branch's Cabinet departments now have
some responsibility for energy policy, but
no agency, anywhere in the Federal gov-
ernment, has the broad authority needed
to deal with our energy problems in a
comprehensive way.
The legislation I am submitting today
will bring immediate order to this frag-
mented system:
-It will abolish the Federal Energy
Administration, the Energy Research and
Development Administration, and the
Federal Power Commission, thereby elim-
inating three agencies whose missions
overlap and sometimes conflict, and
whose specialized perspectives have im-
peded progress toward a unified energy
policy.
-It will allow us, for the first time, to
match our research and development pro-
gram to our overall energy policies and
needs. This is particularly important if
we are to make use of renewable energy
sources such as solar power.
-It will enable us to move more
quickly toward effective energy conserva-
tion by combining conservation programs
which are now split between FEA and
ERDA. And, to make certain that we will
see results, the legislation creates an As-
sistant Secretary for Conservation, who
will be personally responsible for seeing
that the conservation program is carried
out.
-It will place under one roof the pow-
ers to regulate fuels and fuel distribution
systems, powers which are now shared by
the FEA and the FPC along with the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission and
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
An institutional structure built on the
premise that fossil fuels are abundant
and cheap no longer serves well in an era
of fuel scarcity.
As this winter has shown us, uncoordi-
nated regulatory policies can have serious
impacts on our economic and social well-
being. This reorganization can help us
bring currently fragmented policies into
a structure capable of both developing
and implementing an overall national
energy plan. At the same time, we must
guard the quasi-judicial aspects of the
regulatory process against improper in-
fluence. The legislation meets this con-
cern by establishing a Board of Hearings
and Appeals within the Department
which is free from the control of the
Secretary of Energy.
In addition to abolishing the FEA,
ERDA, and the FPC, the legislation sub-
mitted today will transfer into the new
Department several significant energy-re-
lated authorities and programs which now
belong to other departments. These in-
clude the building thermal efficiency
standards from Housing and Urban De-
velopment, the voluntary industrial com-
pliance program from Commerce, and the
Navy petroleum and oil shale reserves
from Defense. The legislation provides for
consultation between the Energy Depart-
ment and the Department of Transporta-
tion on auto fuel efficiency standards, and
establishes a role for the Energy Secretary
in the REA loan program at Agriculture.
Where it is appropriate, these depart-
ments will still carry out the program, but
the new Energy Department will give
them the policy guidance needed to bring
unity and rational order to our energy
program.
Finally, this legislation transfers certain
parts of the Interior Department-those
concerning fuels data collection and anal-
ysis, and coal mine research and devel-
opment into the new Department. Coal
258
