Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 10
Sir, we shall also need to discuss the
eternal problem, the never-ending prob-
lem of how best to maintain and enhance
the liberty for our own citizens and for
people in all parts of the world.
We shall have to consider how to
strengthen our work for peace and en-
hance our own security, how we can live
with the different systems, political sys-
tems, from our own, those that are not
based on parliamentary democracy, as
ours is, for if we don't learn how to live
with them, then with the rapid advance
of nuclear technology we shall certainly
die with them.
And so, we have much to talk about,
and I look forward to our conversations
on these and many other matters.
We shall be able to carry the results of
our discussions with us into the interna-
tional gatherings to which we both be-
long, and especially, sir, to the Downing
Street summit in London on May 7 and
8 to which you have kindly accepted my
invitation. I hope that we shall be able
to have prior discussions that will lead
to positive results from that particular
conference.
You, sir, have referred to the relation-
ship between our countries. When I was
young I used to say what I would like to
do is have 6 months in the United King-
dom and 6 months in the United States.
Getting a bit old now, but even so, it is a
wonderful place to be.
You have got an invigorating country
here. You have problems, but your atti-
tude is always how can we lick them?
That is what I like to see. That is why
it is such a pleasure to be back here with
you, sir, at the beginning of your admin-
istration, to wish you every success in the
tasks that you are going to have to carry
through and which you will have our
great support in all that you endeavor to
do, because we know that as leaders of
the free world you will get plenty of criti-
cism. But you also need support and en-
couragement, too.
So, I can assure you, Mr. President, in
conclusion, you will receive a very warm
welcome when you come to London. We
are very honored that you should do so
on May 7 and 8. And I thank you again
for your most kindly welcome, you and
Mrs. Carter, here this morning.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Ad Hoc Coalition for Women
Remarks to Representatives of Women's
Groups. March 10, 1977
I wish I could get all my Cabinet mem-
bers and the Vice President and all the
others who work with me to be as brief
as I will never say anything any more
about women talking too much, because
I think, if anything, the presentations
were too abbreviated. But I think in every
instance you had thought very carefully
about what you wanted to say to me. It
means a lot to me.
I think that it is obvious that all of the
statements made are well considered and
justified. I think they were to the point. I
think that what women have demanded
and are demanding and have not yet re-
ceived are very significant considerations
for me as the leader of our country.
I think I might also say that the Vice
President and I don't feel that we are on
opposite sides of the issues that you have
described. There is no incompatibility in
our assessment of need. And I think that
perhaps some of you recognize that we
have tried to do a lot.
My own family members-my daugh-
ter-in-law, who hasn't got any money,
much, has traveled around this country
to meet with legislators, to try to talk to
them and cajole them and plead with
355
