Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
formational items coming out of Wash-
ington.
There was no continuity about the in-
formation. In fact, we in the West Vir-
ginia Legislature relayed letters to the
prior administration about disagreeing
facts on reserves and the contents of re-
serves and the inaccurate information
emanating from various departments.
I would hope that you would establish
one office which would coordinate all the
energy information and check it with Geo-
logical Survey teams in the various States
to be sure it's accurate, so that when you
say something about energy reserves,
you'll know that it's accurate and will not
be coming from a maze of various offices.
And in addition to that, I remember
Senator Randolph a moment ago men-
tioned the $700 million loan program for
low-sulfur coal, deep mines. I think it's
applied to 1 percent and lower. I would
hope that you would review that quickly
and be in a position to affirm the con-
gressional decision and make those loans
available posthaste so that people could
get along in that field.
Mr. President, I know you've expressed
concern about the housing problem, but
it, too, will be important in expanding
energy production. We have to do some-
thing about housing.
THE PRESIDENT. Judy Stephenson.
Ms. STEPHENSON. In February sev-
eral citizens from this region-Tennessee,
Virginia and Kentucky-and I, myself,
from West Virginia, went up to speak
before Morris Udall's committee regard-
ing H.R. 2. Our reception, we didn't feel
was extremely warm. The room was filled
with industry people who could afford
lawyers, and in general, I was surprised
at our reaction.
I'm glad that you're coming here to
talk with us, because going to Washing-
ton doesn't seem to work sometimes.
I really am glad that the department
of energy is going to be set up so that
citizens will have access. But one of my
concerns we talk about, that we talk
about consumers, you know, the impact
on the consumer. Very little has been said
in the past about citizen input or con-
sumer input. And I think that not only
just talking about it is a good idea, and
we are going to do it, but I would like to
see the administration set up structures
for doing that; I mean avenues for doing
that, and that the public knows what they
are and that there be more than just one.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. LLOYD. Mr. President, this panel
thanks you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I thank you.
MR. LIGHT. Mr. President, I'd like to
show you these bottles of polluted water
from our coal mines in West Virginia and
point out that we were very excited in
1972 when the Congress passed a strong
water pollution control act.
For 5 years, citizens groups in this State
and others, other coal-mining States, have
been frustrated by the previous adminis-
tration's great sensitivity to the coal com-
panies, apparently to not enforce this law
in any way, shape, or form. Right now,
there are hundreds of mines operating in
West Virginia without their required dis-
charge clean-up permits. The Federal
EPA's new effluent guidelines for strip
mines have major loopholes in them. The
coal companies didn't think there were
enough loopholes in them.
So, we've gotten the draft of an im-
pending additional relaxation which will
be totally unenforceable. If these permits
ever get issued, the priority system set up
by the previous administration puts the
lowest priority for enforcing the Federal
pollution clean-up laws on coal mines.
This policy obviously has to change if
we're going to protect the streams in West
428
