Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
training. They ought to be matched with
a job that is available, and they ought to
be offered the job. If they are offered a
job and don't take it, I am not in favor
of paying them any more benefits.
ZERO-BASE BUDGETING
Q. For a number of years the Federal
budget has been just like a refrigerator
containing old programs that may or
may not be any longer needed. Is the
zero-base budgeting an effort to correct
that problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The question
was that for a number of years the Fed-
eral budget has been just like a refrigera-
tor containing old programs that may or
may not be any longer needed. Is the
zero-base budgeting an effort to correct
that problem?
Yes, it is. That is one of the major
thrusts of zero-base budgeting, is to take
each year every program, whether it has
been there 100 years or 50 years or 5
years, and to reassess the need for the
continuation of that program at all or to
decide how much it ought to be cut down
to make room for new programs that are
much more necessary for our people in
this country.
This is done routinely, every year. You
will be very surprised, pleasantly, I be-
lieve, at the penetrating analysis that will
now be possible for a leader at the super-
visor level, for the Secretary of a major
department, a member of the Cabinet,
and for the President to assess what
things ought to be changed.
The other benefit is that it is organic
in nature, in that it doesn't start at the
top by the President telling the OMB Di-
rector to tell the Secretary to make a
change. It works exactly the opposite. It
starts with you. If you work in an agri-
cultural seed laboratory and you have 20
people working for you, on one side of
one sheet of paper you make an analysis:
"I've got 20 people working. This is a
product that I produce, the analysis of
seed. This is how many people I need
next year and the year after next, and
how much money I need. This is how I
can do my job better. This aspect of my
job we ought to cancel. This we ought to
increase."
And then all those one-sheet, one-page
analyses are put together, they are called
decision packages, they work themselves
up to the Assistant Secretary and into the
Secretary level. A copy of your analysis is
observed by OMB. And we make a deci-
sion within the overall budget limits that
might relate to this Department, how to
spend the money more effectively.
It is a very good system. It works. I
think you will be very pleased with it next
year.
Maybe I can take one other question.
I promised this lady right here. Yes,
ma'am?
FEDERAL REPORTING PROCEDURES
Q. You have put a lot of emphasis this
morning on the number of reports that
the bureaucracy puts on people. Do you
have an equal concern about the number
of reports placed on the bureaucracy from
other parts of the Government, like the
White House, OMB, and I presume Con-
gress as well, and Civil Service?
THE PRESIDENT. Right. That is an ex-
cellent question.
The question was this: I have put a lot
of emphasis this morning on the number
of reports that the bureaucracy puts on
people. Do I have an equal concern about
the number of reports placed on the bu-
reaucracy from other parts of the Gov-
ernment, like the White House, OMB,
174
