Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
gram that you have set forth in your pol-
icy to the extent that if you say we're
going to convert station X to coal, for
instance, that this question of interven-
tion, which has been such a major prob-
lem so far, can be handled and dealt with.
We cannot commit new coal mines,
new power stations, if anybody can come
in after it's started and money has been
spent and, by a suit, stop the project. I
think this is a very important authority
the new department will have to have to
be effective.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree. One of the
things that always creates havoc, whether
you're in the farming business like myself,
or producing energy like you, or power
like Mr. Lloyd, or whatever, is predict-
ability. We hope that when we get
through with this analysis and say this is
what we're going to do the first year, the
second year, the third year, and 5 years
from now, the people might then go ahead
and make plans with some assurance that
the plans can be carried out.
But the constant fear that a new regu-
lation or a new law, a new requirement
or new guideline is going to come along
and just create devastating economic
losses keeps us from taking steps that we
would otherwise.
I think that another factor that's in-
decisionmaking process takes into consid-
eration their own specific needs.
In the past I've not felt that way, even
as a Governor. I had a hard time finding
somewhere to go in Washington where I
could register a complaint or get the an-
swer to a difficult question. In the future,
in energy, there will be one person to go
to. That's Dr. Schlesinger. And if he
should have difficulty making a decision
or if there is a difference of opinion be-
tween him and, say, Secretary Andrus,
then I, as President, in the executive
branch of Government, will make the
decision.
If a constant series of questions comes
up, ultimately the Congress will have to
pass a law to put into effect a permanent
solution, but in the past it's been so con-
fused that nobody was responsible for it.
I think there are about 50 different Fed-
eral agencies now who have some voice,
a very strong voice, in different aspects of
energy production, conservation use, the
rate structures for charging consumers.
We want to make sure that we bring
some order out of this chaos. And I think
it's very encouraging at the speed with
which the Congress is giving attention to
this reorganization proposal. It's highly
controversial. It makes major changes in
the structure of government, but I believe
that we'll have it passed, I'd say, hope-
volved, certainly in the past, that I hope fully by the end of April, maybe even be-
to alleviate now is the ability of people
to feel that they have a voice in govern-
ment. Whether it's someone who repre-
sents consumers or someone who's afraid
that the beauty of the mountains of West
Virginia will be destroyed, or whether it's
a coal company ready to drill a new shaft,
or whether it's the coal miners deciding
whether to adopt mining as a profession,
they need to know that in the heart of the
government that there is some place they
can go to make sure their voice is heard
and to make sure that the legislation and
fore the April 20 deadline.
Mr. McManus, I would like to go to
the audience, but I will recognize Ms.
Stephenson, too.
MR. MCMANUS. I wanted to say some-
thing to Dr. Schlesinger, Mr. President.
Dr. Schlesinger, in your anticipated
role as the head of the new department
which the Congress is acting on now, I
would want to repeat a suggestion I made
last year at the Southern Interstate Nu-
clear Board meeting in Winston-Salem, in
which I talked about the variety of in-
427
