Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
One of the things that the press has
been very good about is to correct mistakes
we've made and also to explain difficult
questions. I know that all of you realize
the complexity of the energy question. I
knew it was complicated and confused.
But I didn't really realize how compli-
cated and confused till I read the news-
papers the next morning.
We are planning, Jody and I, to give
an award to the newsperson who can best
explain our energy policy in clear and
concise language. We have a cogeneration
trophy to award as soon as the retrofitting
of it is completed. [Laughter]
I've had a lot of setbacks and a lot of
troubles, as you know, and you've been
kind enough to make those clear—[laugh-
ter] to the American people, which is
legitimate and expected, and I don't have
any reason to think that objecting to it
would help. [Laughter]
I was quite at ease with the criticisms
that were derived from the Republican
leadership. I expected that, and I also ex-
pected to drop 10 percent in the polls, and
I was not disappointed with that predic-
tion. What did upset me, though, was the
other day Jody called and said that he had
arranged for a series of television inter-
views. I was quite pleased, until I found
out that it was with David Frost.
[Laughter]
It's difficult for me to describe the rela-
tionship that I have with you. I've tried
to get it clear in my mind tonight. There
is a great responsibility that we share to
understand one another as best we can,
to tell the American people the truth as
best we can, to realize the tremendous
joint responsibility that we have and the
eagerness among the people of our Nation
to know about their own Government-
how decisions are made, the options that
we have, the successes and the failures,
the hopes and the dreams, the deep con-
cerns and to reveal the prejudices that
still remain is a major responsibility.
Some times we feel a sense of antago-
nism and disharmony and a lack of ade-
quate communication. But to a major de-
gree, we serve together.
I'm very deeply grateful that you've
given me a chance to come here tonight to
meet with you.
In closing, let me say that Rosalynn and
I appreciate very much the silver center-
piece, and I would also like to express my
deep thanks to you for-I would like to
express my appreciation to the White
House correspondents for-the sense of
gratitude that I have for―[laughter]-
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:12 p.m. at
the Washington Hilton Hotel. He was intro-
duced by Paul Healy of the New York Daily
News, the new president of the association.
Larry O'Rourke of the Philadelphia Bulletin
was the outgoing president.
At the dinner, members of the association
presented President Carter with a silver cen-
terpiece, commemorating the Nation's 201st
year.
European Broadcast Journalists
Question-and-Answer Session. May 2, 1977
FOREIGN POLICY
DAVID DIMBLEBY [British Broadcasting
Corporation]. Mr. President, when you
came into office, people in the West were
looking to you, on the basis of the cam-
paign you had run, for quite a big boost
to the economies of the world. And I
wonder whether you think that they may
understandably feel a little bit let down
at the caution and conservatism you have
shown, and you've cut back even on what
you've done, and perhaps feel that Amer-
ica hasn't yet begun really to pull her
weight to get everybody back to work in
the rest of the world.
760
