Apr. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to prospective buyers about ways to work
out a common approach. We also believe
that regional agreements among pro-
ducers and purchasers of arms can fur-
ther such a global effort.
I spent most of this morning working
on a new United States policy to re-
duce the sale of conventional arms around
the world. Again, you in Latin America
have taken the lead. The pledge of eight
South American nations to limit the ac-
quisition of offensive arms in their region
is a striking example. If the eight nations
can implement their pledge, their own
people will not be the only ones to benefit.
They will have set a standard for others
throughout the world to follow.
These are challenges that face us in the
future. There are also problems that
plague us from the past. And we must
work together to solve them.
One that addresses itself to us is the
Panama Canal. In the first days of my
own administration, just a few weeks ago,
I directed a new approach to our negotia-
tions with Panama on a new Canal treaty.
In the light of the changes which I dis-
cussed before, the Treaty of 1903, which
combines [defines] our relationship with
Panama on the canal, is no longer appro-
priate or effective.
I am firmly committed to negotiating
in as timely a fashion as possible a new
treaty which will take into account Pana-
ma's legitimate needs as a sovereign na-
tion and our own interests and yours in
the efficient operation of a neutral canal,
open on a nondiscriminatory basis to all
users.
Another problem which we must in a
way address together is that of Cuba. We
believe that normal conduct of interna-
tional affairs and particularly the nego-
tiation of differences require communi-
cation with all countries in the world. To
these ends, we are seeking to determine
whether relations with Cuba can be im-
proved on a measured and a reciprocal
basis.
I am dedicated to freedom of move-
ment between nations. I have removed
restrictions on United States citizens who
want to travel abroad. Today there are
no restrictions imposed by our country.
Today I have also removed similar travel
restrictions on resident aliens in the
United States.
We seek to encourage international
travel, and we must take greater account
of problems that transcend national bor-
ders. Drugs and international crime, in-
cluding terrorism, challenge traditional
concepts of diplomacy. For the well-being
of our peoples, we must cooperate on
these issues. With each passing year they
will occupy a more and more central
place in our deliberations.
I have a longstanding interest in the
OAS, and I very much want to see it play
an increasingly constructive role.
The General Assembly of the OAS has
been an important forum for the direct
exchange of views among our govern-
ments. Such ministerial consultations are
extremely useful. They allow us to apply
our own collective strength to political
and economic problems.
The Inter-American Commission on
Human Rights has performed valuable
services. It deserves increased support
from all our governments. We believe
deeply in the preservation and the en-
hancement of human rights, and the
United States will work toward coordi-
nated and multilateral action in this field.
The United States will sign, and I will
seek Senate approval of, the American
Convention on Human Rights negoti-
ated several years ago in Costa Rica. And
we will support, in cooperation with in-
ternational agencies, broadened programs
for aiding political refugees. I urge this
organization and all its member states to
take a more active role in the care, pro-
614
