Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we will wind up
with an economic stimulus package for
this year or next year in excess of $20
billion, which we consider to be adequate.
In addition to that, we have had very
encouraging news about our own rate of
economic growth in the first 3 months.
The unemployment rate has dropped and
the gross national product has increased
well above what we had anticipated, al-
most doubling what it was the fourth
quarter of 1976.
At the same time, we've addressed
some long-range questions that would
help our economy in the future to channel
our resources where it's needed most. A
comprehensive energy policy with an em-
phasis on conservation will help us to cut
down our very serious payments deficit,
which this year is likely to be $12 billion.
As you know, some of the other western
governments have a payments surplus.
We think we are doing our share to ab-
sorb the built-in deficit that's caused by
the OPEC oil sales.
MR. DIMBLEBY. But will you be under
pressure in London, do you think, from
other governments to do more than you
have done, or do you think they are quite
happy to accept what you have now de-
cided on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't antici-
pate what other governments will think,
but my judgment is that they will agree
that our effort is adequate.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
CARL WEISS [ZDF German Television].
It has been suggested frequently, Mr.
President, that your administration ex-
pects somewhat higher gross rates, higher
stimulating efforts, particularly from
countries like Germany and Japan. Now
since you have cut yourself back a bit in
your stimulating measures, do you still
think that the Federal Republic isn't
doing enough?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's a judg-
ment for each country to make, of course.
Japan and we have tried to stimulate the
economy, about 1 percent of our gross
national product, which I think is a rea-
sonable level. We have a much higher
unemployment rate than does either
Japan or Germany. Our inflation rate is
already higher than it is in Germany. Our
basic inflation rate is about 6 percent. I
think that of the Federal Republic is
about 4 percent.
These questions are answered best by
showing the great difference that exists
among nations. Each nation is an indi-
vidual, but we share common problems
on overconsumption of energy, a lack of
attention to the future, a lack of concern
in dealing with one another and close
consultation before we make basic deci-
sions, a lack of attention that has been
given in the past to the developing or un-
developed nations of the world.
So, I think the purpose of the summit
is not to make every nation exactly the
same as others or to criticize one another,
but to search out common ground to get
to know one another, to set long-range
goals on the control of energy consump-
tion, the proliferation of atomic weapon
capability, cutting down on the sale of
military weapons, and increasing eco-
nomic growth in the less developed coun-
tries. These kind of things are what we
hope to address.
EMMANUEL DE LA TAILLE [TFI French
Television]. Mr. President, we are very
conscious that we are speaking with you
from many countries in Europe. I would
like to go to the political impact of the
crisis. Because of the economic situation,
most of the governments in Europe are in
a very weak position. They are almost
761
