Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 3
United States-Romania Trade
Agreement
Memorandum for the Secretary of
State. June 2, 1977
Presidential Determination No. 77-14
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination Under Section
402 (d) (1) of the Trade Act of 1974
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
by the Trade Act of 1974 (Public Law
93-618, January 3, 1975; 88 Stat. 1978;
hereinafter called the Act), I hereby de-
termine, pursuant to section 402 (d) (5)
of the Act, that the further extension of
the waiver authority granted by subsec-
tion (c) will substantially promote the
objectives of section 402 of the Act. I fur-
ther determine, pursuant to subsection
(d) (5) (c) of section 402 of the Act, that
continuation of the waiver applicable to
the Socialist Republic of Romania will
substantially promote the objectives of
section 402.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on June 3.
Nonnuclear Programs of the
Energy Research and
Development Administration
Statement on Signing S. 36 Into
Law. June 3, 1977
I am pleased to sign S. 36, a bill which
will authorize $1.639 billion for the En-
ergy Research and Development Admin-
istration's nonnuclear programs in fiscal
year 1977.
There are, however, two programs au-
thorized in S. 36 which cause me some
concern.
The National Energy Plan stated my
belief that we should avoid Federal sub-
sidy of existing energy technologies. I
believe that our energy research and de-
velopment dollars should be spent on
technologies which are not yet demon-
strated rather than on projects or tech-
nologies which have been shown to be
successful at a commercial or near com-
mercial scale. In the important area of
using municipal waste to generate power
ally assisted demonstration projects. Sev-
or fuel, we have already had five feder-
eral other facilities of this type have been
brought on line without any Federal sup-
port. I seriously question the need for
price supports for these types of facilities
since a significant body of experience
and demonstrated technology is already
available.
My second concern is with the timing
and scope of the Energy Extension Serv-
ice program. While I applaud the Con-
gress for its prodding in developing the
energy extension service concept and see
considerable merit in such a program, I
am concerned that we not move into a
full-scale, nationwide program before we
have had a chance to evaluate and learn
from the pilot program which is now
underway.
We are receiving preliminary results
from the four pilot projects now in opera-
tion and are learning that some types of
programs work better than others. Before
we ask the States to use their scarce staff
and fiscal resources to develop plans for
these programs, I feel we should be sure
that the requirements for these plans are
as well designed as possible. My energy
adviser will be working with the Congress
1057
