Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 16
But we did say that the actual out-of-
pocket costs, $2.20, management fee, 17
cents, and a 12 percent of actual land
values which, I think, we assume was
$400 an acre nationwide, was a figure that
ought to be guaranteed to the farmers.
That is $2.60.
Now, I know that in many areas where
the land is very valuable, highly produc-
tive, fertilizing needs are low, topography
is so you can use large equipment, that
you can produce wheat less than $2.60.
Other places you can't produce it for
$2.60. But you have to go on a nation-
wide average basis. And I don't have any
apology to make for the recommendations
that we made.
I have said in front of literally dozens
of farm groups that if I did become Presi-
dent, that I would never try to guarantee
the farmers a profit; that I would do the
best I could to make our own Govern-
ment payments equivalent to actual pro-
duction costs. I believe we have done that.
But, of course, you can get economists to
say that it costs more than $2.60 a bushel
to produce wheat.
Q. For all crops?
ENERGY COSTS
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We try to do that
for every crop individually, the ones that
have price support levels on them. Well,
you know what they are-feed grains,
soybeans, rice, cotton, and wheat, which
we just discussed.
Q. Mr. President, Lou Lerner, Lerner
Newspapers, Chicago. Let me ask you a
question about energy, or lack of it.
In your proposals which we have read,
part of it is a substantial increase in vari-
ous energy costs. How does the admin-
istration hope to convince the American
people that in fact these profits from the
increased costs are not going into the
pockets of the big oil companies to buy
Montgomery Ward, or Container Corpo-
ration, or something else?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, nobody has read
a report of my own position on the energy
question because I haven't written any-
thing and I haven't signed anything. I
haven't made any final approval on it.
Almost all of the stories that have been
written so far have been conjectural in
nature, or they have been designed
around a proposal that was made to me
from many different sources which I am
now assessing.
I think that we can convince the
American people that the oil companies
will not derive a windfall profit from any
increases in the cost of fuel to the con-
sumer. One way to do it obviously is to
have the increased costs above present
levels be mirrored in taxes collected and
then devise some way to return those taxes
to consumers so that the net cost to the
consumer over a period of a year doesn't
change appreciably, but the inclination to
restrict the use of scarce energy does be-
come stronger. That's just one possibility.
Also, there's a matter of distinguishing
between energy that's already being pro-
duced and an instigation to explore for
new supplies of energy. That can be done
by deregulating the price of newly dis-
covered oil and natural gas. And there's
another factor involved, and that is the
convincing of the American people that
we do face a crisis.
I have met with Stan Turner, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency,
just before lunch, as I said earlier, and
I asked him quite early next week to
make available the nonsecret elements of
the worldwide energy assessment that
they have just completed.ยน This was initi-
ยน On April 18, the White House Press Office
released copies of the Central Intelligence
Agency's 18-page report entitled "The Inter-
national Energy Situation: Outlook to 1985."
649
