June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
know exactly how he means things, as you
may or may not have noticed. He pointed
out to the Playboy people that I still was
filled with lust, but I didn't discriminate.
[Laughter]
I've really learned a lot in this brief
5 months as President. I've learned a lot
from some of you, as a matter of fact. I
know how the young man felt who
climbed up the tall building, and after
great exertion, he got to the top and
found out his reward was a $250,000 law-
suit. I ran for 2 years, and the only thing
I've got out of it so far is an income tax
audit. [Laughter]
I've learned, too, about compromise.
The mayor fined him $250,000 and had
to settle for $1.10. It reminds me of my
compromises with the Congress so far.
I'm learning. They told me I'd always
have a second chance. But I haven't
found it to be the case yet. As a matter of
fact, my tax audit is coming out OK. The
only thing they've questioned so far is a
$600 bill for toothpaste. But it paid off.
I'm President. [Laughter]
Tonight I do want to thank Arthur
Krim and Steve Ross and Mary Lasker
for being our hosts and hostess.
But I would like to recognize one spe-
cial person in the audience who hasn't
yet been recognized. When I started cam-
paigning for President a long time ago,
and I would come to New York for a
fundraiser, there would be four or five
people present in this early friend's apart-
ment—and she worked awfully hard to
get five people to come. And I want to ask
Alice Mason if she would stand.
Arthur Krim wins both ways. He is rec-
ognized throughout the Nation as a man
who has given his heart to sacrificial pub-
lic service. And when I knew that he and
Steve and Mary would be in charge of
this banquet, I had no doubt about the
outcome.
But he also benefits from the Democrats
as well. Late this past year there was a
movie that was going to be made about
the former Republican Governor of New
York. And he found that he couldn't have
this biographical film made, so Arthur
went down to Philadelphia and got a
Democrat ethnic with the same first name
as Rocky and made a film, and he made
a lot of money on it. [Laughter] So, the
Democrats help Arthur Krim as well as
helps us.
There are some fine people here. I seri-
ously want to recognize Governor Carey,
who has a balanced budget, which I hope
to have in Washington, and who for the
first time in 57 years has been successful
in getting a tax reduction for New York
citizens. I think that's a very fine achieve-
ment.
And Abe Beame, who helped me when
I needed help, who stood staunchly with
me, is appreciated tonight. But I think the
most I have ever appreciated my good
friend Abe Beame was on election night
when the returns came in from New York
City and the former President, whose
name escapes me laughter]-got 33 per-
cent and Jimmy Carter got 67 percent in
New York City. And I thank him for that.
And I am very grateful that my associ-
ate Walter Mondale is here. I've done the
best I could to find something for him to
do. [Laughter] And I have really been suc-
cessful. I think all of the news reporters
would agree that above and beyond any
previous Vice President, he's done a su-
perb job. And he's had his hands full, and
he's been well received wherever he's
been.
I would like to ask you to keep him from
getting lonesome in the White House. And
he's given me a list of his projects and
wanted me to call them out to you. If you
have a question about the Concorde,
Northern Ireland, abortion, gay rights,
1154
