Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
consent with respect to Level I and II
appointments, and by heads of depart-
ments or agencies with reference to other
appointments. The President has prom-
ised to make public the reasons for any
exceptions.
In both the case of Mr. Duncan and
Mr. Claytor, the exception was allowed
because sale of the stock in question.
would cause serious and unreasonable
financial loss because of the taxes im-
posed on such a sale of the stock. In addi-
tion, Mr. Duncan's and Mr. Claytor's dis-
qualification on matters affecting the
firms in question would rarely inhibit
their actions.
Dear Mr. Claytor:
February 7, 1977
Pursuant to the guidelines on Conflicts
of Interest, you and Mrs. Claytor will
each establish trusts with blind features
in that the trustee will be truly independ-
ent of you and Mrs. Claytor; the trustee
will have full investment discretion with-
out consultation, and you will both be in-
sulated from any knowledge of assets in
the trust.
The portfolios being transferred to the
trusts are well diversified except that
there are concentrations in three stocks
held by Mrs. Claytor in the portfolio. I
understand you will disqualify yourself
from acting on any particular matter
affecting the interest of any of those three
companies. The portfolio you transfer to
a trust is well diversified except that
approximately 50 percent of that port-
folio is invested in common or preferred
stock of Southern Railway. This consti-
tutes a deviation from provisions in the
guidelines in that the portfolio is not di-
versified to the extent normally required.
I understand that you have agreed to dis-
qualify yourself on all matters relating to
the Southern Railway.
Please be advised that I approve of the
foregoing exception. In accordance with
the guidelines, this approval will be made
public.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Mr. W. Graham Claytor, Jr., Secretary of the
Navy-Designate, Washington, D.C.]
February 7, 1977
To Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
I am advised as follows:
You will retain ownership yourself of
your real estate interests including resi-
dences, partnership interests in ranches
and other assets except as described be-
low.
You or your trustee will sell, make
charitable gifts, or give to a charitable
remainder unitrust all stocks owned by
you and your wife on the Department of
Defense statistical list used by the Senate
Armed Services Committee other than
that of The Coca-Cola Company.
You will transfer your other publicly
held securities and your Coca-Cola stock
to a trustee or trustees who will be appro-
priately instructed to insulate investments
from
you and your family; and who will
be fully authorized and directed to buy
and sell assets of the trust in their discre-
tion without your knowledge except that
you may limit their discretion to sell some
or all of the stock of The Coca-Cola
Company.
You will formally disqualify yourself
as Deputy Secretary of Defense from act-
ing on any particular matter as defined
in 18 U.S.C. 208(a) affecting the finan-
cial interests of The Coca-Cola Company.
The assets transferred to your trustees
will be diversified with the exception that
the stock of The Coca-Cola Company
amounts to a substantial portion of the
portfolio of one of the trusts.
125
