May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We have experiments going on, as you
know, with what's called-you're proba-
bly familiar with the fluid bed combustion
system where coal is very finely ground
and kept suspended in air, and it burns
almost completely and the exhaust is rela-
tively clean. And of course, you have very
expensive scrubbers that go into the stacks
as well. But I would guess that southern
California, because of air pollution prob-
lems, would have very little prospect in the
immediate future of shifting to coal.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
Q. In your energy package, I noticed
that there was not any particular emphasis
on beginning to extract new oil and new
gas within the United States. And when
you were campaigning for the Presidency,
I recall that one of your major goals was
that of balancing the budget. And the
deficit in our balance of payments is
brought about by the purchases of fossil
fuels from the OPEC nations. Why
haven't you put more emphasis on the
extraction of fossil fuels here within the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as a matter of
fact, we have. I think if you read the pro-
posal very carefully you'll see that newly
discovered oil, for instance, has a price on
it equivalent to the international oil price,
which is about $13 per barrel, which is an
adequate incentive for exploration in the
most enthusiastic way.
We've had a substantial increase in re-
cent years in the amount of money spent
for oil exploration, the amount of wells
drilled. The fact is, we're just running out
of oil. And we've had on an average, I'd
say the last 6 or 8 years, of about a 6-
percent reduction every year on the
amount of oil that's produced in the
United States. We're going to continue to
go down, in my opinion.
If we set an extremely high price for
newly discovered oil, even above the inter-
national price, which will be impossible,
I don't think we would still have enough
oil discovered to bring back the American
production above what it is now. We are
trying to cut down on the amount of oil
imported. We project that by 1985, un-
less we do something about conservation,
we're going to be importing about 16
million barrels of oil every day. Now we're
importing about 7 million barrels per day.
If we go through with the energy pro-
posal that I've given to the Congress,
then we can actually cut down on the
imported oil by 1985 to about 6 million
barrels a day. But we are robbing the
American people, really, and have a very
serious negative balance of trade, because
we are buying so much oil overseas. We
now waste about exactly as much energy
in our country that we could save as we
import in oil from overseas.
So, we have given the oil companies
enough incentive to explore for new oil
and natural gas by letting their price for
oil come up to the international price.
But in spite of that, we're just running out
of oil.
Q. I understand. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me go to UCLA.
JOB OPPORTUNITIES FOR COLLEGE
GRADUATES
Q. Mr. President, my question-like
some of those you've already had-
out of my personal situation. I'm finishing
a doctorate, but with college enrollments
down, jobs of research disciplines are
pretty scarce.
I'm wondering, with all of the empha-
sis on public works, if there is a plan in
your unemployment program to help keep
young scientists and scholars, especially
the newly trained ones that aren't en-
sconced already in universities, in work
and working for the country?
THE PRESIDENT. What is your special
field?
910
