Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
7
ought to do it when that red light is not
on.
So, I think that we're going to have to
shift toward some recognition of the peak-
load time, which would be very helpful to
the power companies, but which would
take a great deal of planning to acquaint
the American people with the opportuni-
ties.
Yes? Mr. Lloyd?
MR. LLOYD. If I may say, our company,
too, recognizes the need for insulation.
We have a program before we have a
request for a program from the SEC and
before the regulatory bodies of the two
States we operate in to finance an insulat-
ing program with all our customers irre-
gardless of electric or gas. And we're
hoping we can do this.
At the same time, we're experimenting
with heat storage, a matter which is off
peak loading. We have installed in an ex-
perimental program cassette recording to
determine people's living habits. I think
we're going to see a great innovation in
rate reform in the coming few years. And
it's going to be, I think, quite acceptable
by the public. It's something that we can
look forward to happening in the near
future.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
Ms. FERRELL. Mr. President, respond-
ing once again to Mr. Lloyd-Jack, you're
going to hate me after this-I don't think
the
power company has any business in the
insulation business. They're there to pro-
vide electrical power for us. Why couldn't
the Government provide low-interest
loans for homeowners and property
owners?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in most cases, I
agree with the consumer. I think in this
case, I see that Mr. Lloyd has got a good
idea. The reason is that it would take an
enormous bureaucracy for the Federal
Government to set up a way to bill home-
owners every month to repay loans to in-
sulate their homes.
Since the power companies already
have a mechanism with which you are
fully familiar to send you a bill every
month, you know, if it could be handled
with maybe the Government guaranteeing
part of the loan cost and then let the util-
ity companies, if they will, participate by
billing the homeowner and collecting the
money and turning it over to the ones who
gave the loan originally. But we're still
trying to work out that program under
Dr. Schlesinger, and it might be that in
different service areas, it would be han-
dled differently. In some areas, perhaps
the banks would do it directly. In some
areas, perhaps the power companies like
the TVA would certainly be a good way
to handle it there.
But we want to make sure that when
the time does come that we provide an
easy way for homeowners to insulate their
homes for the national good, to save elec-
tricity overall, and for the homeowners'
good, to make sure they don't pay exces-
sive power bills.
I think also it will help the power com-
panies, because it's getting more and more
difficult for the power companies to build
new powerplants. And if we can save elec-
tricity and let them not have such an
enormous capital investment requirement,
then it'll help in both ways, because as
you well know, when a power company
now gets the authority to go ahead and
put in a new powerplant, the current users
of electricity are to some major degree the
ones that have to pay off that loan.
So, I think it is going to have to be a
common assessment for the consumers, the
power companies, the Government, the
energy producers have to work together.
That's a task that falls on Dr. Schlesinger
primarily to work this program out. And
it falls on my shoulders to present it to the
412
