Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 26
opened the doors. I want to get out in
a hurry if any of my problems evolve
again." [Laughter]
Another thing I have in common with
these people on the stage is that when we
were all elected, we were all fuzzy on the
issues-which is proven by the fact that
we did get elected. [Laughter] There is
an advantage in being a Presidential can-
didate. You have a much broader range
of issues on which to be fuzzy. [Laughter]
I had a large staff in the transition pe-
riod. I would have had much less trouble
with some of my appointments had I
been able to find them. I knew they were
in Atlanta. They occupied a whole floor.
They were trained very carefully by me
on analyzing things and giving answers,
and I never could find out exactly which
floor they were on. [Laughter]
I will walk the straight and narrow
path, Senator, between what is right and
what is wrong.' And I will do the best I
can to measure up to the qualities of these
other leaders in this auditorium. I have
heard that Washington was a place of
contrast-this banquet tonight and prayer
breakfast in the morning. [Laughter]
My staff is quite frank with me. I told
them that I wanted to put on the image
of a common man, someone who didn't
have the accolades of the crowd and the
homage paid to a strong and able leader.
They said so far I have succeeded very
well. [Laughter] I told them I wanted
them to prepare a talk for me to make
tonight that was funny, and they didn't
get around to it. [Laughter]
One of the newcomers said on the way
over here that when a President tells a
joke, whether its is funny or not, people
in Washington laugh. And my wife, just
1 In remarks delivered earlier in the eve-
ning, Senator Daniel P. Moynihan had advised
the President to "follow the straight and nar-
row path between right and wrong.'
as I walked in, said, "Yes, that is true
with everybody except the press and the
Congress." [Laughter]
So, you have proven it tonight. I thank
you. We are partners together, and I hope
we will do better in governing our coun-
try than we have in entertaining each
other this evening. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
[Following the President's remarks, Senator
Robert C. Byrd spoke and then played three
selections on his fiddle, concluding with the
President's favorite hymn, "Amazing Grace."
The President then resumed speaking as fol-
lows:]
First of all, I want to thank Senator
Byrd for that beautiful, dedicated encore.
Before I leave, I thought you might be
interested in knowing how the Vice Presi-
dent is doing. To be serious for a few min-
utes, I have gotten some very frequent
calls from him. They have been fairly in-
coherent, unfortunately. [Laughter]
I thought for a couple of days it was
some kind of a secret scrambler telephone,
but I find out from some of his staff mem-
bers that he has put a little too much
emphasis on the social aspect of the trip.
[Laughter]
There was one message that came
through this afternoon that was not gar-
bled, I am very glad to report to you.
The
State Department informed me about it,
I think inadvertently. [Laughter]
Senator Mondale pointed out that he
was traveling almost alone, without his
wife Joan, that tonight would be his first
of two evenings to be spent in Paris, that
although he couldn't be a hundred per-
cent in being faithful to the people he left
behind, he would like to be loyal to me,
and that he wanted to be very careful not
to violate my own high standards of ethics
and mortality. He give the State Depart-
ment an urgent call for a copy of my
Playboy interview. [Laughter]
223
