Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
manent solution to that troubled region
of the world.
Our own country will offer its good
offices when called upon to do so, to share
with nations located there to find this
peaceful resolution.
We understand the common ground on
which that peace might be brought. And
I personally am willing to devote a great
deal of my own time and the time of the
American Government to cooperation in
this worthwhile pursuit toward a great
goal which might bring stability to the
entire world.
So, would like to say in closing that
President Sadat is received here in our
own country with a warm welcome, ap-
preciation for his great achievements in
the past, and a hope that with his leader-
ship and that of others in the Mideast
region, that the achievements might be
even greater this year.
Thank you
for coming to see us. I look
forward to detailed discussions about
many items that are on our agenda, and,
Mrs. Sadat, we are very grateful that you
could come and be with us also.
President Sadat, welcome.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Mr. President, it is
with great pleasure that I revisit your
country and meet with such a statesman
who is the personification of the new spirit
that is emerging in America today.
For so long we have been told that pol-
itics is amoral and that international re-
lations are not the domain of idealism or
spirituality, but one of expediency and
the pursuit of selfish interests.
But the unfortunate turn of events in
the past decades and the suffering that has
been inflicted upon many of our fellow
men have shaken the foundations of these
premises and confronted us with a new
challenge.
We had to reexamine the postulates
which we have taken for granted or ac-
quiesced to for centuries. A process of
soul-searching became inevitable for the
salvation of mankind.
Only leaders with vision and excep-
tional wisdom were able to grasp the mag-
nitude of the problem and recognize the
pressing need for a bold change without
delay.
It is quite evident, Mr. President, that
you were amongst those farsighted and
perceptive leaders. On the first day you
assumed the awesome responsibility of
your office, you took pride in the fact that
your society was the first one to define
itself in terms of both spirituality and hu-
man liberty. You pledged to spare no ef-
fort to help shape a just and peaceful
world that is truly humane.
It is in this spirit that I come to your
great country with an open mind and an
open heart in order to work with you for
strengthening the structure of peace and
promoting the revival of idealism in in-
ternational relations.
I am certain that you know, Mr. Presi-
dent, that Egypt ever since its emergence
as a state more than 7,000 years ago, has
been a land of ideals and principles. From
time immemorial, the Egyptian has re-
mained faithful to higher values and
ideals which render human life more re-
warding and fulfilling. His belief in the
divine truth, the afterlife, and the day of
judgment—all this has instilled in him
an extraordinary sense of justice and a
genuine conviction of the universal
brotherhood of man.
It is not a mere coincidence, therefore,
that we share with you the belief that the
only way to improve the quality of our life
is to reinstall the long-neglected idealism
and spirituality which enrich our exist-
ence, individually and collectively.
Mr. President, a few weeks ago, you
pledged to devote a major part of your
time this year to efforts toward a lasting
562
