Apr. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
bility. So, there will be a very complicated
interrelationship involving trade.
I think to the extent that we do con-
serve in our own country it would make it
easier for our European allies and for
Japan to meet their own energy needs. We
now sap so much extra oil from the inter-
national supplies that it makes it more
difficult for them.
'I think this will, over a period of time,
reduce the intense competition that's in-
evitable for dwindling supplies of oil in the
face of increasing demand.
CORMIER. Thank
MR.
President.
you, Mr.
The President. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's sixth news confer-
ence began at 10 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building. It was broadcast live
on radio and television.
Meeting With Abd al-Halim
Khaddam of Syria
White House Statement Issued Following
the President's Meeting With the Deputy
Prime Minister and Foreign Minister.
April 22, 1977
President Carter and President Asad of
the Syrian Arab Republic have agreed
to meet in Geneva on May 9. The two
Presidents are looking forward to their
first meeting together. They will discuss
ways in which the cause of a just and last-
ing peace in the Middle East can be ad-
vanced. The meeting of the two leaders
will also offer an opportunity to strengthen
further the growing friendship between
the U.S. and the Arab Republic of Syria.
The President met today with Syrian
Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Min-
ister Abd al-Halim Khaddam in the Oval
Office for 45 minutes. The President was
accompanied by Secretary of State Vance,
Assistant for National Security Affairs
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant Secretary
of State Alfred Atherton, Ambassador to
Syria Richard Murphy, and NSC staff
member William Quandt on the Ameri-
can side; and Foreign Minister Khaddam
by Ambassador to the United States
Sabah Kabbani, and Private Secretary
Abdul Salam Aqil, on the Syrian side.
The two interpreters were Samih Abu
Fares on the Syrian side and Isa Sabbagh
on the American side.
The President expressed his pleasure at
this opportunity to meet the Minister and
to discuss with him the meeting he will
have on May 9 with President Asad. The
President reviewed with the
Minister,
who is a leading participant in the con-
tinuing efforts to find a peace settlement
in the Middle East, the status of those
peace efforts, and discussed with him the
principal issues to be resolved. The Presi-
dent underlined the importance he attrib-
utes to Syrian participation in these
efforts, and said he was very much look-
ing forward to going over them in depth
with President Asad. He reaffirmed his
determination to make a major effort to
help the parties reach a comprehensive
settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict.
The President and Minister discussed
the continued improvement of Syrian-
American relations. The President main-
tained that these good relations serve not
only the interests of both peoples, but also
the cause of Middle East peace toward
which both strive. The President asked
the Minister to convey to President Asad
his sincere conviction that their coming
meeting will contribute to moving for-
ward in these peace efforts.
704
