Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 17, 1977
Interview With the Magazine
Publishers Association
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Members of the
Association. June 10, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I think Jody and Rex are
giving a press briefing now to the White
House press corps, which they do, as you
know, every day. My next press confer-
ence is, I think, Monday.
I've made my plans to have full-scale
press conferences twice a month. And so
far I've enjoyed it. We've had a few com-
plaints from the news representatives here
that they were too frequent. But I always
look forward to them, and I think that
they are constructive in letting the Amer-
ican people know what we are trying to
do and to explain our mistakes, to form
partnerships with the people.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I've now, I think, been in office long
enough to get a good assessment of our
Cabinet to let them form their proper
in-
terrelationships with one another. And I
think our staff members have become
fairly well assured about their own special
responsibilities and interrelationships, as
well. I've been pleased with them.
I just had lunch with Secretary of Com-
merce Juanita Kreps, and I told her ac-
curately that after a 5-months' assessment
there was no member of the Cabinet that
I would want to change, that I was very
proud of all of them. They are superb.
And this feeling is shared by, you might
say, outside observers, like my own staff
members, and Bert Lance, Office of Man-
agement and Budget, and others who
know them. I'm really pleased with them.
There's never been one discordant note
that has come to my attention among the
Cabinet members themselves, which I
think is quite a good achievement, as well.
We've now begun our spring budget
reviews. I have a total, I think, of 26 hours
scheduled to meet with the heads of all the
major agencies. And we spend anywhere
from a half an hour to 4 hours, depending
upon the complexity of the budget itself,
in preliminary assessments of major pro-
grams that are ongoing to make sure
they understand the full scope of the zero-
based budgeting technique, which is new,
and that we establish an order of priority
of the major expenditures that they antic-
ipate needing for fiscal year 1979. And on
almost every occasion we have either one
or two or three special studies that need to
be consummated before I make a final
decision on what to recommend to the
Congress for fiscal year '79.
These are done sometimes within our
own department, sometimes jointly be-
1087
