Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
three children, Frederick, Adair, and
Eliza.
White House Staff
Appointment of Five Persons.
February 17, 1977
The President today announced the
following appointments to the White
House staff:
DOUGLAS HURON, to be Associate Counsel to
the President;
RICHARD HUTCHESON, to be Staff Secretary;
BRUCE KIRSCHENBAUM, to be Associate As-
sistant for Intergovernmental Relations;
MARGARET MCKENNA, to be Deputy Counsel
to the President; and
MARK SIEGEL, to be Deputy Assistant to the
President for Policy Analysis.
Huron was born December 28, 1945,
in Highland Park, Mich. He received a
B.A. from Swarthmore College in 1967
and a J.D. from the University of Chicago
Law School in 1970.
From 1970 through early 1976, Huron
worked in the Civil Rights Division of
the Justice Department, where he prose-
cuted cases of employment discrimina-
tion. In April 1976, he resigned from the
Justice Department to work for the Carter
campaign. In the general election, he
served as counsel to the Carter-Mondale
campaign, where he was responsible for
ensuring compliance with Federal elec-
tion laws.
Hutcheson will be responsible for or-
ganizing the paper flow to and from the
President; for seeing that all communi-
cations going to the President are appro-
priately staffed; and for following up on
the President's comments on the material
he has read.
Hutcheson was delegate selection co-
ordinator for the Carter campaign during
the primaries, and directed the Carter
floor operation at the 1976 Democratic
National Convention. During the general
election campaign, he was national cam-
paign coordinator, responsible for relating
the polling, scheduling, and field office
operations to one another.
In 1974 he was assistant to the director
of political research at the Democratic
National Committee. He received an
M.A. in political science from the Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley in 1974
and a B.A. with highest honors from
Swarthmore College in 1973. He was
born January 23, 1951, in Yorktown, Va.
Kirschenbaum was born January 31,
1945, in New York City, and grew up
there and in Harrison, N.Y. He is a grad-
uate of Syracuse University and Colum-
bia University Law School.
Prior to joining the Carter transition
staff in August 1976, Kirschenbaum
served as director of New York City's
Washington office. Other positions in-
cluded director of the Washington office
of the National Legal Aid and Defender
Association, staff attorney at the Office
of Economic Opportunity, and legislative
assistant to Senator Jacob Javits. Kirsch-
enbaum resides in Reston, Va.
McKenna is a native of Providence,
R.I., born June 3, 1945. She served as
Rhode Island State coordinator for the
Carter-Mondale campaign, and was for-
merly assistant to the director of the
Office of Revenue Sharing of the Treas-
ury Department.
From 1974 to 1976, she was executive
director of the International Association
of Official Human Rights Agencies. Prior
to that she was a trial attorney in the
Civil Rights Division of the Department
of Justice.
McKenna is a graduate of Emmanuel
College in Boston. She attended Boston
College Law School and graduated from
Southern Methodist
Southern Methodist University Law
School in Dallas, Tex. She has taught at
SMU Law School and the University of
184
