May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MAY 12, 1977
TRIP TO EUROPE
THE PRESIDENT. I have a very brief state-
ment to make to begin with, just an
overview of what I consider to be the re-
sults of our trip to Europe, and then I will
be glad to answer whatever questions you
might have.
This was the first trip I've taken out-
side of our country since I became Presi-
dent. It was a very full few days. I tried
to be well prepared. And I think that I
can report substantial success, not par-
ticularly because of my own participation
but because there was, I believe, a re-
newed spirit of hope and confidence en-
gendered among all of us who partici-
pated as we look to the future in our
ideological competition with the Eastern
Communists and Socialist countries, com-
pared to our own in the Western democra-
cies, now including Japan.
I think there is a sense, a quiet sense
that we have justified reasons for that con-
fidence, although we sometimes suffer a
temporary discomfiture in unemploy-
ment, inflation, and a sense that the
Soviets perhaps are increasing their mili-
tary strength.
I think there is now a much clearer
picture that we are able to compete and
that that competition must be conducted
under peaceful circumstances.
There is a difference. We have strong
systems of government. For the first time
since NATO was begun many years
ago, all the participating countries are
democracies.
We are very proud of the new emer-
gence of Spain and Portugal with the
democratic system of government. And
I think there is a sense to conclude that
in a test of will, of confidence, of coopera-
tion, that when men and women in our
societies are free, when we can make our
own decisions, choose our own govern-
ments, that gives us an inherent ad-
vantage.
There was a closeness among us when
we adjourned that I thought was very
encouraging, a better understanding.
I personally had private conversations
with the leaders of 16 or 17 different
countries. I tried to study, ahead of time,
what their special problems were and
what their opportunities were for in-
creased friendship with us. And I think
we were successful.
We recommitted our commitment to
NATO. We called on a reanalysis of
what NATO will be during the 1980's, a
new study of East-West relationships, and
a better way to save money, and to make
a NATO commitment more effective with
standardization of weapons.
While there, I took a quick trip to Ge-
neva to meet President Asad of Syria-a
continuing process in my own life as
President-to study the special attitudes
toward a possible alleviation of the Mid-
dle Eastern dispute this year. And hope-
fully, after the Israeli elections this month,
we can have the new leader of the Israeli
Government come back to meet with me,
as Prime Minister Rabin did earlier this
year.
So, these are the things that we at-
tempted. I think our successes were well
publicized, but it was a joint success and
I believe that we understand each other
better. There's a renewed strength and
commitment in the democratic societies
who are our friends and allies.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
860
