Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 9
Thirtieth World Health
Assembly
Message to the Assembly. May 5, 1977
To the President and Members of the
Thirtieth World Health Assembly, Ge-
neva, Switzerland
I want to commend the outstanding
work of the World Health Organization,
under the leadership of Dr. Halfdan
Mahler. Public health has been a particu-
lar concern of mine for many years. My
mother is a nurse, and my wife is deeply
committed to improving health services.
During my lifetime, science and tech-
nology have brought under control a
number of diseases that once weakened,
crippled, or killed people throughout my
home state of Georgia.
But many parasitic and infectious dis-
eases remain, even in a country such as
ours. In some areas of the southeastern
United States, more than 25 percent of
the children suffer from intestinal para-
sites.
The situation is far worse, of course, in
countries which have not yet reached the
technical and scientific levels made
possible by our abundance of natural
resources. In the developing countries of
Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Mid-
dle East, some two billion people live with
the constant threat of malaria, schistoso-
miasis, leprosy, measles, yaws, and other
terrible diseases.
Malnutrition and high population
growth rates complicate the problems of
health care-and the chief sufferers are
children.
In Upper Volta, to pick one tragic ex-
ample from the many, mortality among
children under five is close to 50 percent.
These questions affect us all, since in-
creased international travel hastens the
spread of disease throughout the world.
But a greater degree of cooperation be-
tween scholars and scientists of all nations
can slow that spread, and even wipe out
certain diseases altogether. Smallpox, for
example, is almost eradicated except for
Somalia.
In my speech to the United Nations
General Assembly several weeks ago, I em-
phasized our commitment to basic human
rights. These include the right of every
human being to be free from unnecessary
disease.
To work toward that right, we will
offer to share our medical know-how with
all nations, regardless of politics or ideol-
ogy. We will work together to control dis-
ease, improve nutrition, and raise the
quality and productivity of life through-
out the world.
The United States is ready to help de-
velop a truly international program to
identify and report epidemic and endemic
diseases. We will work with the World
Health Organization, as well as with in-
dividual countries, in a global effort to
give early warning of impending disease
outbreaks.
The gap in health and productivity be-
tween developed and developing nations
is bound to increase political and social
instability in the world.
In some measure this gap is due to un-
equal distribution and consumption of
food, energy, and water. We know the
economic and social consequences to
other nations of our own waste of non-
renewable energy resources, and we are
determined to correct the situation.
We also know that health and eco-
nomic development are closely linked.
The child with malaria often misses
school. The anemic worker, with a para-
sitic infection, is less productive than he
should be. We need to pursue programs
which break this cycle of poverty, dis-
ease and hunger.
When I return to the United States, I
will strive personally to find ways in which
839
