Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 11
We've got people now who are drawing
sometimes three retirement payments and
they're still fairly young. And they're ex-
cessive, in my opinion, in some instances.
Other employees who have served equally
well find themselves deprived of an ade-
quate retirement benefit or they find that
their retirement fund is only 40-percent
funded when they're getting ready to quit
work in their older age.
So, this is the kind of question that has
been delayed. I can't guarantee that
everything that we have set forth as a goal
will be achieved. But the only thing I can
do is to set the goal to put the mecha-
nism for achievement into effect, to
describe to the American people periodi-
cally and without evasion our progress or
our retrogression. And if we do fail in
some instances with an enormously ambi-
tious program, then I think the American
people will understand that we've done
our best.
That's all I can say to answer you
might have a specific question.
Q. Without being pretentious, the only
thing that I would suggest is that I think
that the function thus far in explanation
has been on a shorter term process, par-
ticularly zero-based budgeting, rather
than the processes which are going to be
involved in moving toward a set of goals
in 1981. And I think particularly the busi-
ness community, perhaps not the general
population, would be impressed by know-
ing what executive actions have taken
place which have applied the kind of logic
that they apply day to day to the kind
of problems that they know that you're
faced with.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good point. I
have to say that we're doing the best we
can with that. It would be interesting, I'm
sure, to you to know how many hours a
month Mike Blumenthal and Bert Lance
and Juanita Kreps and Charlie Schultze
and others spend meeting with business
groups, chambers of commerce groups,
manufacturing groups, to explain to them
what we are doing. And I think that to
that particular audience, the impact is
very good. But to achieve an adequate
news coverage of their presentations is
not always a sure thing. But I think your
question and your cautionary comment is
very pertinent.
Q. I've heard them-I'll get off the
floor-and they are tending to talk and
the questions are tending to be directed
to the shorter range issues-
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q.-
1979.
-how's energy going to work in
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, all of our
projections, like on energy, are for 1985.
When we present our budget to the Con-
gress in '79, we'll go through 1981 and
1982 as far as impact is concerned. But
as you pointed out very accurately, we've
only been in office yet 5 months. A lot of
these programs are still in the embryonic
stage as far as we are concerned.
You can do a lot of talking, a lot of
studying, a lot of question-and-answer-
ing and speaking during a 2-year cam-
paign, but until you have the authority to
demand confidential information and the
cohesion of a staff to pull together accu-
rate information, it's hard to bring your-
self to comprehend a problem well enough
to get a potential answer.
So, we are still working on it. And I
wouldn't want to exaggerate what we
hope to accomplish. But our goals, as you
can see, are very ambitious.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe one more quick
question.
URBAN AREAS
Q. Mr. President, I am Earl Graves of
Black Enterprise Magazine.
And in listening to Chairman Schultze
this morning as he described and new
1095
