Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
International Economic Summit
Meeting
Remarks Following the Reading of the Joint
Declaration. May 8, 1977
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I think the great attention that's being
paid to our deliberations and decisions by
the world is accurately expressed by the
attendance of the news media here. I
think, however, it's good for all of us to
remember that sometimes heads of state
tend to overemphasize or overestimate
our own influence.
Historical occurrences can remind us of
this. There was a King of England who
considered himself to be more influential
than the actual fact. Three hundred and
twenty-eight years ago, he had a struggle
with the Parliament. He came to this
building. And when he left, on orders of
the Parliament he was beheaded in the
street.
And I think this may not happen to
us, but we have to remember [laugh-
ter]-we have to remember that making
decisions, even difficult ones, in unanim-
ity, is not a guarantee that our decisions
will be consummated.
I have been very fortunate on my first
trip to meet with experienced leaders.
Five of them have been finance ministers
before becoming Presidents or Prime
Ministers. I've learned a lot. I think it's
accurate to say that we've made some far-
reaching decisions, facing a world whose
economic structure has changed.
We now face the constant prospect that
the OPEC nations export about $45 bil-
lion worth of goods more than they im-
port, which means that the consuming na-
tions, including our own country, have to
have a deficit of about $45 billion a year.
Most of us can accommodate these defi-
cits for the time being. But the poor and
deprived nations of the world, who don't
have the industrial capacity, can't do so.
The prime discussion that we had that
created most problems was trade and how
to seek and use new sources of energy. I
think it's accurate to report that the lead-
ers who were debating these points de-
cided that there is no way to ensure future
world prosperity unless we have a maxi-
mum degree of free trade among our
countries. It's a great temptation in a time
of high unemployment to erect protec-
tionist barriers at our nations' borders.
But after a great deal of discussion, we all
decided that this was something that we
want to avoid.
We also are now embarked upon a time
when the use of nuclear energy is crucial
to some nations who are not blessed with
other kinds of fuel supplies. We are one of
the supplier nations, along with Canada
and others, of nuclear fuel.
We want to be sure that when we ex-
port these nuclear fuels, that they are not
subsequently converted into explosives.
And how to deal with this difficult ques-
tion without encroaching upon the au-
tonomy of nations who consumer this
energy is a very difficult and sensitive
question indeed.
We've agreed, as Prime Minister Cal-
laghan has pointed out, to study this
problem for 2 months, to define the terms
of reference and to assess the entire nu-
clear fuel cycle from the exploration for
uranium and other supplies, the extrac-
tion of those supplies, the enrichment of
the fuel, the transportation of it, the con-
sumption of it to produce electricity, the
handling of the waste products with care,
and the ultimate disposal of waste is a
very, very difficult assignment, which I
believe for the first time has been ad-
dressed in a very frank fashion.
Another point that was discussed,
which was not so far reported, is that we
believe that a time has come for inter-
national control and prohibition against
825
