Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
American people and the Congress, so
that everybody will say, "Well, I'm going
to give up a lot of the pet peeves, and a lot
of the criticisms that I've had in the past
and join in a mutual effort to bring it
about."
And to the extent that people will trust
me as President, to a major degree, that
will be a step in the right direction.
STRIP MINING
I'd like to ask Secretary Cecil Andrus
now to comment on the specific subject of
coal production and to cover very quickly
the question of strip mining.
We've got a bill, as you know, before
the House and Senate, reclamation of
areas that have been strip mined, compar-
ison with underground mining techniques
and opportunities, compare eastern and
western coal, pollution control, the needs
for research and development efforts in
the use and production of coal, and also
coal conversion, changing of coal to liquid
and to gaseous forms of energy.
So, I'll call on Secretary Cecil Andrus.
MR. ANDRUS. Thank you very much,
Mr. President.
Ladies and gentlemen, I won't take a
great deal of your time to try and impress
you with our knowledge, but as the Presi-
dent has said many times, we're here to
listen to you, to learn from you and to get
your input. And I would hope that Mr.
Smith and other people who have had
experience underground for many years
would share with us your knowledge of
what we can do to improve the situation.
With reference to the short term of
energy,
I would point out the fastest way
to get new energy is to do just what the
President has said, that's conserve the
existing energy that we have.
It's also the lowest cost. I might add
one point, Mrs. Ferrell, to what we were
talking about to help the people whose
homes are not insulated. While doing that
that also creates more jobs within the
crafts that we have more employment
with those people. But now we have to
get into the part of our own program with
reference to production.
The production of that coal, as your
Governor pointed out, is very crucial to
the economy of this State and I think,
Jay, to all of America. So, the adminis-
tration in Washington does recognize the
transportation costs that have been men-
tioned here, with western coal coming in.
But as we move into development, it's
important that H.R. 2, or S. 7, the two
bills the President mentioned, are passed,
in my opinion, so that while we main-
tain and improve our standard of living,
we do not destroy our quality of life. It
is being done in West Virginia. It's being
done in some other States. In some States,
frankly, it is not.
So, we'd like to listen to your comments
and gentlemen.
and to respond to your questions, ladies
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
MR. KILPATRICK. Mr. Secretary, if I
could, one part of this section, as I under-
stand it, concerns coal restriction develop-
ment. I'd like to mention that or express
my views on this. I feel that there's going
to be a lot of Federal investment in this
area. I hope that it is based on develop-
ment instead of more research. We've got
enough low-sulfur coal in the West, in the
East to take care of certain areas. We've
got some technologies that are here, to-
day technologies-that means they either
can be done commercially now or are
ready to go demonstration-that, it seems
to me, a lot more money and attention
should be put into, instead of the pro-
posals of the past administration to spend
a billion dollars, as I recall, on gasifica-
tion and hydrocarboning and all this.
413
