Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
National Congress of American Indians
and Indian tribes throughout the country,
was vetoed by President Ford.
Mr. President, that bill has been rein-
troduced already in the 95th Congress as
S. 666. Mr. President, will you support
passage of that legislation and will you
sign it into law if it is passed by the
Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with
the legislation. But I will say this: My
strong inclination is to make sure that we
have more native Americans occupying
high positions of authority within the
Government and in the administration,
particularly of the affairs of American In-
dians themselves. If the legislation is de-
signed so that there is no punitive aspect
for those who are not Indians who have
been in these positions, I would certainly
favor it and also sign it.
One of the campaign commitments that
I made was that in the filling of top posi-
tions that I would be sure that those who
are responsible for Indian affairs would
be either American Indians or recognized
nationally by the American Indian tribe
leaders, who are the spokesmen for the
Indian people, as being thoroughly con-
versant with Indian problems and com-
pletely dedicated to their solution. I
would hope that we could establish a ma-
jor position even more exalted in impor-
tance within this Department for Indian
affairs.
So, with that one caveat, that we can't
be punitive to those who have been in the
Federal Government for a long time, I
would favor the bill, and I believe that I
would sign it.
If you will let me have a chance to read
it, I will get the answer back to Cecil
Andrus for you specifically. I just hate to
say yes glibly when I haven't read the leg-
islation itself.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Jimmy
McGee, the Safety Manager from the
Fish and Wildlife Service. I have a ques-
tion and also a concern, not only my own
but for all of my fellow safety managers
throughout the Interior and United
States Government.
You are aware of the existing legisla-
tion, the Occupational Safety and Health
Act, and the Executive orders from your
predecessor have made great strides to
bringing safety and health to our Fed-
eral employees. However, my concern is,
I felt that in the last 4 years, we reached
a plateau and what is necessary is more
stringent direction from you to the heads
of all Government agencies and to their
operating top management making them
aware of their responsibility and account-
ability for the safety and health of our
fellow employees. However, along with
that must come the necessary manpower
ceilings and funding necessary to abate
these hazardous health and safety haz-
ards throughout the Government.
Do you plan to address the safety and
health movement within the Government,
and can we expect additional support and
funds to abate these unsafe and unhealth-
ful conditions?
THE PRESIDENT. I have already had a
meeting
meeting with Secretary of HEW,
Mr. Califano, and with the woman whom
he has chosen to administer the OSHA
program. I believe that this is one of the
better programs that the Congress has
ever passed and has been put into effect
in our country. It has been circumvented
to some degree in its effectiveness by the
building up of animosities and a state of
combat between many employers who are
concerned about their employees on the
one hand and the field administrators of
the OSHA program on the other hand.
200
