Apr. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. Mr. President, about a year and a
half ago
THE PRESIDENT. You might tell me
where you are from.
IMPORTS
Q. I'm Tom Bonnar, from [WMUR-
TV] Manchester, New Hampshire.
About a year and a half ago you spent
a lot of time going through our mills and
shaking hands with a lot of people when
it was pretty cold. And our mills seem to
be in trouble now because of imports, and
there is a good chance that a lot of them
will be closing and there will be thousands
of people out of work. What can be done
by you?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't go into the
details of what we are facing at this point,
but one of the major issues that I have
to resolve is the correlation of permitting
international trade to continue without
creating tariff warfare, which is very help-
ful to our own economy, our exports, and
also the prices that consumers pay on the
one hand, and restricting unwarranted
imports from other countries.
I have already resolved as best I could
the question of imported mushrooms,
shoes-and I'll get back to that in a mo-
ment. We are now renegotiating the mul-
tifiber agreement, and I face the problem
of television sets, color television in par-
ticular, and very shortly the question of
sugar.
I believe that Bob Strauss, who is our
Special Trade Representative and re-
sponsible for these negotiations, will do a
good job. I would guess that I've been
in at least 50 of the shoe-manufacturing
companies in your area, and I've seen the
tremendous dedication of those people,
the hard work that they put forward,
quite often in very old buildings that have
been modified to accommodate the shoe-
manufacturing process.
The two primary countries that I think
have increased their imports to our Na-
tion too much have been Korea and Tai-
wan. And the representatives of those
governments are in Washington now
working with Bob Strauss. I believe that
when we come out with a mutually ac-
ceptable agreement, with as much of it
being voluntary as possible, that it will be
a reasonable approach.
And this will be mirrored very quickly
by an approach to the color television
question; specialty steels has already been
decided. To the extent that we can follow
my own campaign commitment in this
respect, voluntary constraints, first of all
with our country putting pressure on
them. If you don't agree to cut back vol-
untarily on the number of shoes you ex-
port to our country, then we will put
mandatory quotas on or high tariffs. I
think that's the best approach.
I recognize the problem. And, of course,
we are moving simultaneously in some of
these industries, particularly shoes, to get
the Departments of Labor, Commerce,
Treasury, and others, to help revitalize
the industry because in the long run you
cannot benefit from having very old and
outmoded manufacturing plants compet-
ing, with artificial protection, with the
more modernized and more productive
plants. Of course, the difference in labor
costs we try to accommodate for that.
AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, you touched briefly
on the alien problem this morning. Are
you still favoring amnesty for these illegal
aliens that are already in the country, and
do you favor the Rodino bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't say that
I favor the Rodino bill because I am sure
that we'll advocate some difference with
that particular bill. It's in a state of flux.
I don't know if you could say that a cer-
644
