Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 17
that said that I was interested in mental
health. And so everywhere I went, if peo-
ple had a good program, they wanted me
to see it. I had a chance to see things hap-
pening all over this country that are good.
I also saw things happening that I
thought needed help.
I hope, with the establishment of this
Commission, I know that we can give
some of that help. We have a chance to do
great things in our country. The best
thing, as Jimmy said about this Commis-
sion, is that we don't have to start from
scratch. Many of you have done just great
things. Past commissions have made re-
ports; commissions that are operating now
have made reports. We have a chance to
have the best knowledge, the best minds.
The original Joint Commission on Men-
tal Health and Mental Illness, as you
know, changed the whole direction of
treatment of the mentally afflicted, away
from the institutions to the communities.
We have a chance to see that these com-
munity services reach the communities all
over our country. Right now, I think
about 40 percent of our population is
reached by these centers.
But we also have a chance to see how
better to treat these persons when they are
in the communities. We now have a better
understanding of the problems of alcohol
and drug abuse and how related they are
and problems of other sometimes acts of
violence that are so related to mental
health. We have a chance to do great
things.
I need every one of you. I need your
help. I need the help of your colleagues
and your friends.
This is a great day for me. We have a
chance to do some great things for our
country and for those in our country who
are underserved.
Thank you very much.
And now, I want to introduce to you
the Executive Director of our Commis-
sion, Tom Bryant. Tom lives in Washing-
ton. Since 1972 he has been president of
the Drug Abuse Council. I think he has a
background and qualifications to be a
great Executive Director.
I want to introduce him to you now.
Tom Bryant.
MR. BRYANT. As he leaves the room, let
me be sure and thank the President.
THE PRESIDENT. When I was first
elected, I appointed four people to go out
throughout the Nation and see what ought
to be done in the field of mental health.
[Inaudible]
These people who did so much in Geor-
gia-I know it is just typical of people all
over the country. There is one thing I
found when I was Governor, when I pro-
posed a budget that didn't treat a mental
health barrier, I got absolutely run over.
I want to be sure that we treat mental
health fairly in this country in the future
so that we can work in the initial stages
not to ever make another omission or seri-
ous mistake.
I am very proud of Rosalynn, and of
Tom. The fact that I have to leave early
is no indication that I am abandoning this
project to begin with. It is part of my life.
I guarantee you that you have the best
spokesman that anybody ever had for a
commission.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
The press release also contained remarks by
Executive Director Thomas E. Bryant and Mrs.
Carter at a question-and-answer session with
reporters.
President's Commission on
Mental Health
Executive Order 11973. February 17, 1977
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes of the
187
