Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
But I would like to ask you to stay in
close touch with me and also with others
who have constant access to me and not
to ignore the possibility of helping to
shape Government policy, which is so-
cietal policy, even if you are not part of
you are not part of
the Government itself.
I will do the best I can to be a better
President, and I know that you will see to
it that I have your constant advice and
counsel and criticism. And I welcome it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. in
the Family Theater at the White House.
U.S. Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. March 10, 1977
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
I transmit herewith for consideration
of the Congress proposed legislation to
extend the appropriation authorization
for the Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency and for other purposes, together
with a letter from the Acting Director of
the Agency in support of this legislation.
The United States Government's in-
terest in arms control agreements has
gained widespread public and bipartisan
political support. The ultimate goals of
these agreements are to lessen the danger
of war and to promote peaceful settle-
ment of disputes. We are currently pur-
suing these goals in many forums, includ-
ing negotiations bilaterally with the
Soviet Union, and multilaterally with the
Warsaw Pact countries, in the Geneva-
based Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament and in the United Nations.
In the troublesome area of nuclear pro-
liferation, we are continuing to increase
the effectiveness of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
and the International Atomic Energy
Agency. We are taking important initia-
tives to establish new cooperation with
the other major nations supplying nuclear
equipment and technology. And I have
given my support to a comprehensive
nuclear test ban.
In my Administration, the Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament Agency will have
a very important role in all of these activ-
ities. By statute the Director of the
Agency serves as the principal adviser to
the Secretary of State, the National Se-
curity Council, and me on arms control
and disarmament matters. In addition,
the Director will serve as my chief nego-
tiator at the Strategic Arms Limitations
Talks and his Agency will continue to
have the principal support responsibility
for these negotiations and the negotia-
tions relating to mutual and balanced
force reductions in Europe. Its budget
supports research in furtherance of these
negotiations as well as nuclear non-pro-
liferation, nuclear test limitations, and
other important arms control activities.
Current authorization and appropria-
tions for the Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency expire September 30, 1977.
I am transmitting the attached draft bill
in order that the Congress may begin its
consideration of future authorizing legis-
lation for the Agency.
The draft bill would also amend the
Arms Control and Disarmament Act to
delete a requirement that all of the
Agency's contracts and agreements for re-
search be with United States institutions
or persons. As explained in the letter from
the Acting Director of the Agency, this
amendment is needed for the Agency to
358
