Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
for instance, sit down with the Secretary
of State and the Secretary of Defense and
the energy director and me, to exchange
both information and criticisms and
ideas.
I think you know from your own knowl-
edge of my Cabinet selections that I've
got competent people. Quite a few of them
have backgrounds similar to your own.
Mike Blumenthal, the Secretary of the
Treasury, is a man who, I think, demon-
strates in a personal way the kind of op-
portunity that our country provides. He is
Jewish. His father was in a concentration
camp in Germany. They finally scraped
up enough money, he and his mother, to
let his father out of prison. They went to
Hong Kong and spent a number of years
almost living in custody. And he came here
as a young man and worked himself up to
the president of one of the finest and most
well-organized business entities in the
world, Bendix Corporation. And at a tre-
mendous financial sacrifice to himself, he
came to work in Government. His salary
is probably one-tenth what it was at Ben-
dix, and he faces tremendous challenges
in his Department.
One of his responsibilities will be to deal
with
your industry, which is so crucial to
our country. You are the largest employer
in our Nation outside of agriculture itself,
which is so generic in its makeup. I think
you have about 22 million employees.
As I campaigned for President for 2
years or more, I tried to visit as many of
the textile mills and the shoe manufactur-
ing plants and so forth as I could, where
you have such high labor intensity. And
I know the tremendous competition that
has come to you from unwarranted im-
ports. Obviously, we've got to have some
imports so that we can let people have a
way to pay for our exports. But I want to
be sure that not only do we have the dif-
ferent departments tied together with one
another, and not only do I want to have
the Cabinet members tied directly to me
as President, and not only do I want to
have cooperation between the Congress
and me, I also want to have cooperation
between the business community and my-
self.
I was fortunate enough to be elected
President without having to make any
promises in private. I never made a sin-
gle promise to anyone that wasn't made
public. I never promised a single person
a job. So, I am free to make decisions as
President, based on the merits of the de-
cision as I make an ultimate judgment.
But there are many aspects of business
and government and private life with
which I'm not familiar. And to the extent
that you feel at ease in coming directly to
me or to Mike Blumenthal, to any of my
White House staff, it makes my job much
more assured of being a successful effort.
I want to do a good job as President. I
don't know all the answers. You have
many answers that would help me, and I
hope there will be a partnership formed
between us.
I do have one thing that need not cause
you any concern. Because of the quality
of my Cabinet officers and their own in-
dependence, I think you might find a re-
duced need to come directly to the White
House for an answer to a question or to
relieve a problem that you might face.
So, my suggestion to you is that in mat-
ters relating to international trade, to re-
straints, that you go directly to Mike Blu-
menthal, directly to the Secretary of State,
and then if you can't get your problem
addressed, then come to me or the White
House. I don't believe in having my own
White House staff subordinates try to
run the departments of Government.
They are not as well qualified to be Secre-
tary of Treasury as is Mike Blumenthal.
So, there will not be another Ehrlich-
man or Haldeman in the White House
whom you have to approach to get an
121
