Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 26
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I've been in office now a little over 2
months, and we've had, I think, a begin-
ning, at least, for some substantial changes
in domestic and foreign policy; also in the
relationship that exists between the White
House and the people of our Nation, be-
tween the White House and the Congress.
We've made some progress on many
of the projects that we've undertaken:
Government reorganization; zero-based
budgeting; energy policy evolution; reor-
ganization of the Energy Department;
an effort in the Eastern Mediterranean,
Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece; reestablish
relationships with Vietnam; opening
communications up with Cuba; a new
start on SALT negotiations; a strength-
ening of our NATO position militarily;
a reemphasis on close consultation with
our allies and historical friends. These
kinds of things are well underway.
Secretary Vance will be coming by in
just a few minutes to have a brief discus-
sion before he leaves for the Soviet Union.
He'll be reporting to our allies in Europe
on the results of his trip. We have hope
that it will be a successful trip. So far
we've had good cooperation from the
Soviet leaders in arranging the agenda.
They've not put on any pre-conditions;
they've left it completely open to us, and
we to them. So, there is a good spirit, I
think, that surrounds this trip.
The last point I'd like to mention be-
fore I answer questions is that in the field
of foreign affairs, at least in the Middle
East, we see the potential progress in 1977
as being uniquely hopeful. We have strong
indications that the Arab leaders want to
reach a substantial agreement. I think,
compared to previous periods, they are
very moderate in their general philosophy
and in their attitude toward Israel at this
point compared to their predecessors,
possibly compared to their successors
when that happens.
And I believe that our country is will-
ing this year to devote a great deal of
attention to that crucial problem, and I
know I am, personally, and the Depart-
ment of State and my own staff, as well.
Southern Africa-we've got three si-
multaneous questions: one in Namibia,
one in Rhodesia and, ultimately, South
Africa itself.
On the domestic scene, we've become
involved in long-range analyses of how to
deal with inflation and unemployment
simultaneously. I hope that what I con-
sider to be a modest stimulation package
will go through the Congress substantially
in its present form. And within the next
couple of weeks, we will make a major
presentation to the country, to the Con-
gress on controlling inflation.
These matters are sometimes in conflict
with one another, as you can well see, but
we're trying to balance them properly.
And I announced yesterday in a press con-
ference something that's obvious: that the
authority and the power and leadership
capabilities of
capabilities of any President are derived
almost completely from the support that
I have from the people of the country.
And if there has been one-been a
broad-based criticism of me so far, it's
that I've told the people too much and
have been too frank in discussing matters
that in the past were both sensitive and
secret. I don't have any qualms about
what I've done. I think that I've taken
the right position, and when I have made
a statement, it's been very carefully con-
sidered. And I might say that we have a
very close working relationship and
almost complete compatibility between
myself and Dr. Brzezinski and Secre-
tary of State Vance, the Secretary of De-
fense, the Secretary of Treasury, the
Council of Economic Advisers. And this
513
