Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 26
And I think unless we see some strong
possibility for substantial achievements
before a Geneva conference can be con-
vened, unless we see that prospect, then I
think it would be better not to have the
Geneva conference at all.
So far, though, I have been encour-
aged. I think it would be a mistake to
expect too much. The differences are very
wide and long-standing and deep. But I
found a strong desire among all the
leaders with whom I met so far to mar-
shal extraordinary efforts during this year
because of the moderate leadership that
exists in the Middle East and because of
the experiences that have been so devas-
tating in the past. So, we are all deter-
mined to do the best we can in '77.
I think that the exact composition of
the delegations, involving the Palestinians,
of course, and the interrelationships that
exist among the Arab nations-whether
part of the discussions would be done as a
group and part of them on a bilateral
basis, those kinds of things have to be
worked out.
After I've finished meeting all the lead-
ers in May, a strong likelihood is that we
would consolidate our own analysis of the
remaining problems and possible answers
to questions, and then Secretary Vance
would go back to the Middle East for
another complete round of talks with the
leaders involved.
Those are our present plans, and so far
the leaders in the Middle East have agreed
with that.
Q. May I follow that up, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is prob-
ably about all I need to say.
Q. But you do seem more pessimistic
than before Hussein came.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I am not more
pessimistic. I think it would just be a mis-
take for us to be overly optimistic. To
raise expectations too high would be I
think would be potentially very damaging.
I think after May, though, we'll have a
much clearer concept of what can be done.
Q. Did you learn anything new from
Hussein?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I did. He is a very
good instructor, and I am a very eager
student.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
The transcript of the President's remarks was
made available by the White House Press Of-
fice. It was not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
Dam Safety
Memorandum to the Heads of Certain Federal
Agencies. April 23, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of the In-
terior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of the Army, the Director,
Office of Management and Budget, the
President's Adviser on Science and Tech-
nology, the Chairman, Federal Power
Commission, the Chairman, Tennessee
Valley Authority, the Commissioner, U.S.
Section, International Boundary and
Water Commission
The safety of dams has been a principal
concern of Federal agencies that are in-
volved with the various aspects of their
planning, construction, operation and ulti-
mate disposal. Events of the past several
years have highlighted the need to review
procedures and criteria that are being em-
ployed by these agencies with the objective
of ensuring that the most effective mecha-
nisms are established to give the best as-
surance of dam safety possible within the
limitations of the current state of knowl-
edge available to the scientific and engi-
neering communities. The safety of such
projects should continue to be accorded
highest consideration, and it is the respon-
sibility of the head of each agency con-
723
