Apr. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
afternoon or early next week. I intend to
meet with Senator Long later on today to
discuss the effects of this tax bill. My own
position against the business tax credit
has been very clearly expressed, and I'll
have to decide at the time the bill gets to
my desk, if it passes, whether I can accept
it or not.
I believe that there have been erroneous
reports made about the intangible drill-
ing tax, to which I think you also referred.
The first part of the sentence, which
has not been adequately emphasized, is
that we would like to do away with the
special provisions under the tax shelter
laws that permit doctors, lawyers, wealthy
farmers, and others to invest in explora-
tion for oil and receive benefits. But the
present law does permit the intangible tax
credit for corporations. It does not permit
the same tax credit for legitimate partner-
ships or individuals who have a full-time
profession of drilling oil. That needs to be
equalized.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. If the
energy package that I have proposed to
the Congress is adopted, I don't see any
reason in the future of ever having ration-
ing. However, it's going to take us quite
a while to build up to a billion-barrel oil
reserve supply which could tide us over
10 months even with an embargo. And
until this is done, we are vulnerable, and
we are getting more and more vulnerable
every year. But if the entire package is
put into effect and I certainly hope and
expect it will then I see no reason for
gasoline rationing.
Q. Mr. President, since the first surge
in gasoline prices caused by OPEC, Amer-
ican consumers have adjusted to the
higher prices and are consuming as much
now, if not more, than they were before.
If your package goes through intact, as
you have said, and in 1981 you see that
Americans are not conserving, in fact,
have adjusted again and are willing to
pay the new higher price, then would you
Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Jr., invoke rationing?
Christian Science Monitor].
GASOLINE RATIONING
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are some
constraints built into the energy package
that don't presently exist. Americans have
Q. Mr. President, if the energy crisis is adjusted to the increase in the price of
of wartime proportions, as you have indi-
cated, why not rationing right now? I
have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. There is a provision
now in the law that permits me to im-
pose gasoline rationing in case of a na-
tional emergency, and that would be a
part of the overall energy package. If I
feel at any time that the Nation's security
is in danger, for instance, if there should
be an embargo imposed and I see no
likelihood of this then gasoline ration-
ing would be a viable alternative.
Q. Are you saying there, Mr. President,
rationing would be a fallback position if
milder measures proved out to be not
sufficient?
gasoline, but we still have an average effi-
ciency of automobiles in the American
fleet, which only gets 14 miles per gallon,
and this is a gross waste of fuel.
Another thing that we have now, of
course, is a much heavier dependence by
industrial users on natural gas and oil than
ward coal. When they do, this will relieve
is necessary. Many of them can shift to-
the pressure on scarce supplies of gas and
oil.
We also, of course, will increase the
overall price of oil further than it has been
now. We don't pay the OPEC price in this
country. Much of the oil that's presently
known to exist, which had been discov-
ered before the OPEC prices went into
effect, now is sold at a price of $5.25,
696
