Mar. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Cancer Control Month, 1977
appointment as a fellow at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars,
Washington, D.C., in 1975-76.
Proclamation 4490. March 8, 1977
of America
He has also served as chairman of the By the President of the United States
Committee on National Priorities and
Resources and is presently chairman of
the National Democratic Forum.
Gilligan is married to the former Mary
Kathryn Dixon. They have two sons and
two daughters and one granddaughter.
Their permanent residence is in Cincin-
nati, and they are currently residing in
the District of Columbia.
Department of Commerce
Nomination of Charles L. Haslam To Be
General Counsel. March 8, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Charles L. Haslam to be
General Counsel of the Department of
Commerce. Haslam is university counsel
at Duke University in Durham, N.C.
Haslam was born on June 7, 1944, in
Birmingham, Ala. He received an A.B.
degree from Princeton University in 1965
and a J.D. degree from Duke University
School of Law in 1969.
From 1969 to 1972, he served as an
assistant professor at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University. He was
associate counsel for the American Asso-
ciation of University Professors from 1972
until 1974, when he became university
counsel at Duke.
Haslam is a member of the American
Bar Association and the Bars of Florida
and North Carolina. He is also a member
of the American Society for International
Law and the American Civil Liberties
Union.
He resides in Chapel Hill, N.C.
A Proclamation
Approximately 385,000 of our people
will die this year of cancer, one of our
greatest unsolved medical problems. The
economic cost of cancer is high, but its
toll in terms of human suffering is far
higher. Recognizing that—and that our
efforts to overcome cancer must be aggres-
sive and sustained—the United States has
committed itself to the conquest of can-
cer as a national goal.
Our efforts have been rewarded. Every
year we learn more about the causes of
cancer, and about its prevention, diag-
nosis, treatment, and control. Our prog-
ress is largely due to the dedication of
scientists and physicians throughout our
Nation. But the fight against cancer also
depends on the willingness of the Ameri-
can people to alter their eating, drinking,
and smoking habits and to seek early and
appropriate medical care.
In order to encourage public dedica-
tion to our national commitment to the
control of cancer, the Congress, by a joint
resolution of March 28, 1938 (52 Stat.
148, 36 U.S.C. 150), requested the Presi-
dent to issue annually a proclamation
designating April as Cancer Control
Month.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the month of April,
1977, as Cancer Control Month, and I
invite the Governors of the several States
and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
the Mayor of the District of Columbia,
and the appropriate officials of all other
338
