Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 23
own judgment until I see what his report
is to me. But that's my own inclination.
It's the position that I took during the
campaign. And so far I have no reason to
change my mind.
FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, you gave us kind of
a timetable for your domestic program in
your preliminary statement. I wonder if
you have a similar timetable of what you
hope to achieve in foreign policy between
now and the end of the year, such as in
Middle East peace, Cyprus, the treaty
with Panama?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course I can't an-
swer that question specifically because I
don't know what cooperation we will get
from other nations, and I don't know
what the inclination of those nations in
the leaders from Egypt, from Jordan, and
from Syria, from Saudi Arabia. And I
look forward to meeting with them.
At that point I hope I will have a very
clear picture of what role the American
Government ought to play.
The same thing applies to the situation
that exists between ourselves and Turkey,
ourselves and Greece, ourselves and Cy-
prus. We can't impose our will on other
people, but if they honestly want to seek
a solution, we are perfectly willing to offer
our good offices as a country with in-
fluence and interest to help them resolve
their own differences. But it's got to be
done primarily by those countries in-
volved.
We have begun again, within the last
week, our discussions on the Panama
Canal treaty. We have two extremely
disputed regions of the world want to do good negotiators, and I hope that we will
toward one another.
Secretary Cyrus Vance has just re-
turned from what I consider to be a very
successful trip to the Middle East. He not
only probed with the heads of those gov-
ernments and their cabinet members their
own positions both public and private on
the controversial issues that have so far
prevented a peace in the Middle East. He
also had a chance to compare their posi-
tions on issues, which ones they found to
be in harmony, which ones there was still
a dispute.
We also invited the leaders of all those
nations to meet with me. They have all
accepted, and I will be meeting with the
heads of the nations in dispute in the Mid-
dle East, all of them, before the end of
May.
The first visit of one of those leaders
will be Mr. Rabin, I believe, March 12
(7 and 8).* And he will be followed by
*White House Press Office clarification.
have success there. There is no way that
I can say at this point what degree of
progress we have made. It's just begin-
ning.
So, throughout the areas of high dis-
pute, including South Africa and others
that I don't have time to mention, we are
probing as best we can to discern some
possibility of resolution of those tension
areas.
We are meeting today, in fact all this
week, with the British, to try to get a re-
newed proposal to make concerning the
questions surrounding Rhodesia, and then,
of course, we will still have left Namibia
and ultimately the majority rule question
in South Africa.
But I've only been in office a month. I
don't claim to know all the easy answers.
And these questions that have been in
existence for 25 or 30 years are not going
to be easy to solve. But we are going to
do the best we can, openly and forcefully,
offering our good services, not trying to
impose our will on other people.
225
