Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 30
We've eliminated already more than
200 advisory commissions and boards,
and that work has only just begun.
I've asked many leading groups like
college presidents, State school superin-
tendents, the National Association of
Manufacturers, and others, to give me a
list of regulations and reports they get
from the Federal Government that they
think are ill-advised or unnecessary. And
they come in to Bert Lance. Bert assesses
them and, in some instances, we eliminate
them or combine them among depart-
ments. So, I think we're making good
progress.
Q. We're broadcasters, of course, sir, as
you know, so when the FCC one comes by,
would you take a good look at it?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact, I
would always welcome-for instance, the
National Association of Broadcasters. If
you all would take the forms that you are
required to fill out, put yourself in my
position and let your staff of the national
association look up the law, and if you
can devise, with a few days' work, a sim-
plified form that meets the requirements
of the Government, we would welcome
that. And it will come directly to Bert
Lance. He'll bring it to me and I'll say,
"Well, why don't we put this into effect?"
But I have to ask you not to try to mis-
lead us.
You know, I think it has to be adequate
to fulfill the law and the legitimate needs
of the Government, because we do need
a lot of information. But we welcome that
effort on your part. And the college presi-
dents organization and the State school
superintendents are already working on
this project.
PUBLIC REACTION TO ENERGY PROPOSALS
Q. Mr. President, first of all, before I
ask my question, as president of this orga-
nization, Radio-Television News Direc-
tors Association, we thank you for this
day. We've had a very profitable morn-
ing and are looking forward to more. So,
thank you very much.
How do you feel about the way the
American public has reacted to this point
about your energy proposals?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been
three or four public opinion polls con-
ducted that I've seen, and I believe that
there has been a dramatic shift or in-
crease in the number of Americans who
think there is a serious problem. Before I
went public with our analysis and propos-
als, there was substantially less than 50
percent. Now some polls show as high as
70 to 80 percent of the American people
agreeing that energy conservation is im-
portant and that we have a serious crisis
ahead if we don't do something about it.
As far as the number who approved my
proposals are concerned, I think that's
also been encouraging. We don't have a
majority who advocate a gasoline tax,
but we have a majority who advocate
most of the parts of the program. And
sometimes you have to do something that
is not popular, like advocate a tax in-
crease, even though the people don't
approve.
My own personal popularity is probably
going to drop. At first it didn't. I think
the New York Times-CBS poll that I
heard about this morning showed that it
had not decreased. I think the Harris poll
and the Hart poll. Gallup poll, showed it
had not. I think NBC did a poll that
showed it had dropped some. But that's
to be anticipated. I don't particularly
regret that.
The automobile manufacturers, the oil
companies, and other legitimate interest
groups have expressed varying degrees of
concern about the proposals. I think
they've been very moderate and very
modest. And most of them have said we
753
