Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
SEC. 3. Each Federal agency shall insti-
tute and put into operation, as soon as
practicable, a plan of organization and
sales promotion recommended by the
Committee, with such modifications as
particular circumstances may render ad-
visable.
SEC. 4. As used in this Order, the term
"Federal agencies" means departments,
agencies, and establishments of the Execu-
tive branch of the Government.
SEC. 5. This Order supersedes Execu-
tive Order No. 11532 of June 2, 1970.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 29, 1977.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:15 p.m., March 29, 1977]
NOTE: The President signed the Executive
order at an Oval Office ceremony attended by
Bert Lance, Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, W. Michael Blumenthal,
Secretary of the Treasury, and Treasury De-
partment officials from the Federal Payroll Sav-
ings Program.
Interagency Committee for the
Purchase of United States
Savings Bonds
Memorandum to the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. March 29, 1977
Memorandum to the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
Attached is the Executive Order which
establishes and explains the Federal In-
teragency Committee for the purchase of
United States Savings Bonds.
I have appointed Bert Lance, Director
of Office of Management and Budget, as
Chairman of the Committee. I assigned
him one of the most crucial tasks in the
entire Federal establishment; that of mak-
ing the Federal Government the leader
in the Savings Bonds Program. I am con-
fident he will succeed and that all Depart-
ment and Agency heads will shoulder
their full share of the responsibility to-
wards that end.
Savings Bonds are both prudent and
patriotic, because they strengthen the se-
curity of our families and help protect
the value of the dollar. At the present
time, outstanding Savings Bonds repre-
sent approximately one-fifth of the pri-
vately held portion of the Public Debt.
THE EXECUTIVE ORDER STATES IN PART:
"Members of the Committee may des-
ignate an alternate, who shall serve as a
member of the Committee whenever the
regular member is unable to attend any
meeting of the Committee. The alternate
member may be authorized to act for the
regular member in all appropriate mat-
ters relating to the Committee. In the
case of an executive or military depart-
ment, a Deputy Secretary or an Under
Secretary may be designated as an alter-
nate member. In the case of any other
Federal agency, the alternate member
shall be designated from among the offi-
cials thereof of appropriate rank."
In order that the Committee can be-
come functional at the earliest possible
date, please send Director Lance the
name of your alternate as soon as one has
been selected.
Under your personal leadership and
encouragement, I am certain that your
employees will respond with enthusiasm
and that together we may attain a new
high level of participation in this impor-
tant program.
JIMMY CARTER
532
