Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
main so if we work to improve it. The
United States is prepared to make a major
effort to this end-as Vice President Mon-
dale told you in January-in the expecta-
tion that our allies will do the same.
There have been real increases in allied
defense spending. But difficult economic
conditions set practical limits. We need to
use limited resources wisely, particularly
in strengthening conventional forces. To
this end:
-We must combine, coordinate, and
concert our national programs more
effectively.
-We must find better ways to bring
new technology into our armed
forces.
-We must give higher priority to in-
creasing the readiness of these forces.
To fulfill these goals, I hope our de-
fense ministers, when they meet next
week, will begin developing a long-term
defense program to strengthen the Alli-
ance's deterrence and defense in the
1980's. That program should help us make
choices and set priorities. It should empha-
size greater Alliance cooperation to ensure
that our combined resources are used most
effectively. It should take full advantage
of work already done within the Alliance.
But plans are not enough. We must en-
sure that our Alliance has an adequate
means for setting overall goals in defense,
for measuring national performance
against these goals, and for devising and
carrying out joint programs. I propose
that our defense ministers, working close-
ly with the Secretary General, consider
how best to strengthen the Alliance's abil-
ity actually to fulfill agreed programs.
After an interim report to the Decem-
ber 1977 meeting, I hope the defense
ministers will submit their program to the
spring meeting which might be held at
the summit to review their recommenda-
tions. I also hope the defense adminis-
trators will agree next week to make high
priority improvements in the capabilities
of our forces over the next year.
As we strengthen our forces, we should
also improve cooperation in development,
production, and procurement of Alliance
defense equipment. The Alliance should
not be weakened militarily by waste and
overlapping, nor should it be weakened
politically by disputes over where to buy
defense equipment.
In each of our countries, economic and
political factors pose serious obstacles.
None of our countries, the United States
included, has been free from fault. We
must make a major effort—to eliminate
waste and duplication between national
programs; to provide each of our coun-
tries an opportunity to develop, produce,
and sell competitive defense equipment;
and to maintain technological excellence
in all Allied combat forces. To reach these
goals our countries will need to do three
things:
First, the United States must be will-
ing to promote a genuinely two-way trans-
atlantic trade in defense equipment. My
administration's decisions about the de-
velopment, production, and procurement
of defense equipment will be taken with
careful attention to the interests of all
members of the Alliance. I have instructed
the Secretary of Defense to seek increased
opportunities to buy European defense
equipment where this would mean more
efficient use of Allied resources. I will
work with the Congress of the United
States to this end.
Second, I hope the European allies will
continue to increase cooperation among
themselves in defense production. I wel-
come the initiative taken by several of
your countries in the European Program
Group. A common European defense
production effort would help to achieve
economies of scale beyond the reach of na-
tional programs. A strengthened defense
production base in Europe would enlarge
851
