Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Haynes is a member of the Council on
Foreign Relations and the Democratic
Advisory Council of Elected Officials,
and a member of the board of the Social
Sciences Foundation. He has had several
articles published.
Zero-Base Budgeting in the
Executive Branch
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies. April 27, 1977
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
At my request, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget has
issued guidelines about the use of zero-
based budgeting in the Executive Branch.
This is a new system, and I recognize
that your staff may need advice about
how to interpret and apply it. Wherever
possible, I want you to rely on OMB for
information about this system, rather than
turning to outside commercial consultants.
I have asked the OMB to designate mem-
bers of the program and budget staff as
zero-based budgeting representatives.
They will give you the information you
need about establishing the process and
using it effectively.
Within your own office, I ask that you
name one or two members of the budget
staff to serve a similar function as sources
of information on the zero-based budget-
ing system. This approach will help en-
sure that zero-based budgeting is applied
uniformly throughout the
throughout the Executive
Branch and that we save the wasted
effort and unnecessary cost of relying on
consultants.
JIMMY CARTER
Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Message to the Congress. April 27, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
The need to halt nuclear proliferation
is one of mankind's most pressing chal-
lenges. Members of my Administration
are now engaged in international discus-
sions to find ways of controlling the spread
of nuclear explosive capability without
depriving any nation of the means to sat-
isfy its energy needs. The domestic nuclear
policies which I have already put for-
ward will place our nation in a leader-
ship position, setting a positive example
for other nuclear suppliers as well as dem-
onstrating the strength of our concern
here at home for the hazards of a pluto-
nium economy. Today I am submitting
to the Congress a bill which would estab-
lish for the United States a strong and
effective non-proliferation policy.
This bill relies heavily upon work
which the Congress has already done, and
I commend the Congress for these valu-
able initiatives. I look forward to working
with the Congress to establish a strong,
responsible legislative framework from
which we can continue strengthened ef-
forts to halt the spread of nuclear
weapons.
Among our shared goals are: an in-
crease in the effectiveness of international
safeguards and controls on peaceful nu-
clear activities to prevent further prolif-
eration of nuclear explosive devices, the
establishment of common international
sanctions to prevent such proliferation,
an effort to encourage nations which have
not ratified the Non-Proliferation Treaty
to do so at the earliest possible date, and
adoption of programs to enhance the re-
liability of the United States as a supplier
of nuclear fuel.
728
