Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 30
made, and to expose those and prevent
them in the future.
In many instances, the distribution
companies at the local level have no
control whatsoever over their supplies.
And to understand the extremely com-
plicated energy system in all its forms is
something that's going to take a great
deal of detailed work.
I chose the best qualified person that
I know of in the Nation to head up this
energy effort, Dr. James Schlesinger. He
has recently been the Secretary of De-
fense. Before that he was head of the
Atomic Energy Commission. He has been
the Director of the CIA. He has been the
Director of the Budget Bureau, and he
is a brilliant, very tough, competent man.
And if anybody can bring order out of
chaos and give us a clear understanding
of what we ought to do to conserve en-
ergy, first of all, and then to distribute
what we have to use in an effective and
fair way, Dr. Schlesinger can.
And I deliberately wanted him in the
White House, very close to me on a daily
basis so that I could add the strength
of the President himself to the brilliance
and capability of Dr. Schlesinger and his
people, to work with the rest of the
Nation in evolving a good policy.
But I believe we are now moving, for
the first time, to correct some of the very
basic defects that we have in our country.
Q. I would like to ask that you protect
these people on fixed incomes so these
gas companies don't shut them off. You
know, they are really hurting.
THE PRESIDENT. The question is about
people on fixed and very low incomes.
In the 11-State area that I have described
to you, we estimate that the average fam-
ily is having to spend $200 or $300 more
on fuel costs, even with the lower tem-
perature settings.
And as you know, for a person that
makes $15,000, $20,000, $25,000 a year,
they can accommodate a $200 or $300
extra expenditure without cutting back
on the basic necessities of life. But some-
one who has a very low income or a
fixed income like social security and
nothing else, to add $300 extra expendi-
tures on their bills, means that they are
going to have to do without medical care
or do without clothing or do without food.
We have already begun to work
through the Community Services Agency,
through the Labor Department, through
Health, Education, and Welfare, to try to
allot an additional financial aid to those
very low-income families. And only Friday
night, I was talking to Senator Muskie
and Senator Kennedy who had done a
survey of the northeastern part of our
country to bring this problem to my atten-
tion. But that will be one of the responsi-
bilities that I will assume, and it will be
done very quickly.
INDUSTRY LAYOFFS
Q. Mr. President, there are a group of
us employed at the Westinghouse Air
Brake Company, which is located about 2
miles up the road, and we are facing the
same problems as Westinghouse Electric
Company.
We have been informed by manage-
ment that if this cold extends until Mon-
day, that the complete foundry will be
shut down. That will mean 800 jobs, and
then that will have a spillover effect that
will affect the whole Westinghouse Air
Brake Company.
We have over 4,000 people employed
there. We have another concern, Mr.
President. In addition to facing layoffs, we
are also faced with skyrocketing gas bills.
Our members are paying $85 and $95 a
month for gas bills. You know, faced with
layoffs and these tremendous gas bills, that
is quite a concern.
41
