Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
at $1.50 per barrel and remain at that
level thereafter.
-Industry would be eligible for either
an additional 10-percent investment tax
credit for conversion expenditures or a re-
bate of any natural gas or petroleum taxes
paid, up to the amount of any expendi-
tures incurred for conversion to coal or
other fuels. The rebate in any year could
not exceed the amount of taxes paid.
However, there would be a carry-forward
provision for conversion expenditures that
exceeded the tax payments.
-Oil and gas taxes collected from util-
ities would be set aside to help utilities ac-
celerate the retirement of their oil and
gas burning capacity.
With tax liability delayed until 1979
for industry and 1983 for utilities, prudent
investors undertaking an aggressive con-
version program should be able to accu-
mulate enough conversion credits to elimi-
nate, or minimize, the actual amounts of
tax collected. As a practical matter, only
those industrial firms and utilities which
lagged behind in conversion would be sub-
ject to the tax.
2. Coal conversion regulatory policy
(legislative): In order to assure the great-
est possible conversion of utilities and in-
dustrial installations to coal and other
fuels, while ensuring compliance with ap-
plicable environmental standards, legisla-
tion will be submitted to:
-prohibit industry and utilities from
burning natural gas or petroleum in
new boilers with only limited envi-
ronmental and economic exceptions;
industry could also be prohibited
from burning gas or petroleum in fa-
cilities other than boilers, by regula-
tions applicable to types of installa-
tions, or on a case-by-case basis;
-prohibit existing facilities with coal-
burning capability from burning gas
or oil, by regulations applicable to
categories or on a case-by-case basis;
with limited temporary exceptions,
no utility will be permitted to burn
natural gas after 1990;
-require facilities burning coal to ob-
tain approval to shift to petroleum
or natural gas;
-require utilities burning natural gas
to obtain a permit to shift to petro-
leum;
-allow any industrial firm or utility
prohibited from using natural gas to
sell its contract to purchase gas at a
price that would provide adequate
compensation.
a
3. Environmental policy for coal:
-The administration supports
strong, but consistent and certain, en-
vironmental policy to protect the environ-
ment and provide the confidence industry
requires to make investments in energy
facilities. That policy would:
-require the installation of the best
available control technology in all
new coal-fired plants, including those
that burn low-sulfur coal;
-protect areas where the air is still
clean from significant deterioration;
encourage States to classify lands to
protect against significant deteriora-
tion within 3 years after enactment
of Clean Air Act Amendments;
-require Governors to announce intent
to change the classification of the
allowable air quality for a given area
within 120 days after an application
is made to construct a new source in
that area;
-require States to approve or dis-
approve the application within 1 year
thereafter.
-The President believes that further
study is needed with regard to the En-
vironmental Protection Agency's current
policies allowing offsetting pollution
trade-offs for new installations and there-
684
