Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
that they may have gotten from other
sources, from other departments of the
Government in this case?
THE PRESIDENT. If they have asked
for it, it has not come to my attention. I
can't say that somewhere in the pipeline
from the Justice Department, the State
Department, the CIA, or even my own
counsel, that requests have been made.
But I have not been aware of them.
Q. Were questions concerning Mr. Lip-
shutz's statements communicated to you
last Friday after some briefings in the
White House?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not received any
request from Mr. Lipshutz. Obviously,
when something gets to the White House
it takes time for them to staff it and give
me the options I have to address and,
since I'm not an attorney, to give me
some opinion on the legalities of. But it
has not come to my attention at all.
Q. You cannot say whether he has it
in his office?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not know.
CORY MOORE
Q. Mr. President, I understand that
you have agreed to speak on the tele-
phone to the man in Ohio who is holding
a police official hostage after he releases
him. Are you concerned that this might
be regarded as a precedent?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am.
Q. What are the factors that you
weighed in that regard?
THE PRESIDENT. The request was made
to me to talk to Mr. Moore as a pre-
condition for his releasing the police offi-
cer who now has been held about 24
hours. I replied that I would be glad to
talk to Mr. Moore after the police officer
was released.
It is perhaps a dangerous precedent to
establish. I weighed that factor before I
made my own decision. I understand that
Mr. Moore has promised to release the
police officer after this news conference,
regardless of any comments that I might
make on it. And I hope that the police
officer will be released. But if he should
be released, I will talk to Mr. Moore.ยน
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to go just a
little bit further in your discussion of the
defensible borders issue.
If I understood you correctly, you're
talking about the possibility of something
like an Israeli defense line along the Jor-
dan River and perhaps at some point on
the Sinai Desert and perhaps at some
point on the Golan Heights, that would
be defense forces but not legal borders.
Have I understood that correctly, that
your feeling is that the Israelis are going
to have to have some kind of defense
forces along the Jordan River and in
those other places?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you added a
great deal to what I said. In the first
place, I didn't mention any particular
parts of the geography around Israel.
And I didn't confine the defense capa-
bility to Israeli forces. These might very
well be international forces. It might very
well be a line that's fairly broad, say, 20
kilometers or more, where demilitariza-
tion is guaranteed on both sides. It might
very well consist of outposts, electronics or,
perhaps, personnel outposts as were estab-
lished in the Sinai region as a result of the
Egypt and Israeli agreement.
I'm not going to try to get more spe-
cific in saying what will or will not be the
case. But that is a possibility that might
lead to the alleviation of tension there,
and it's one about which I will be discuss-
1 The White House later announced that
the President spoke briefly with Cory Moore at
4:13 p.m., March 9.
347
