Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 18
Rights, of the Helsinki Accords, and of many other international instru-
ments must be taken just as seriously as commercial or security agree-
ments.
This issue is important in itself. It should not block progress on other
important matters affecting the security and well-being of our people and
of world peace. It is obvious that the reduction of tension, the control of
nuclear arms, the achievement of harmony in the troubled areas of the
world, and the provision of food, good health, and education will inde-
pendently contribute to advancing the human condition.
In our relationships with other countries, these mutual concerns
will be reflected in our political, our cultural, and our economic attitudes.
These then are our basic priorities as we work with other members
to strengthen and to improve the United Nations.
First, we will strive for peace in the troubled areas of the world;
second, we will aggressively seek to control the weaponry of war; third,
we will promote a new system of international economic progress and co-
operation; and fourth, we will be steadfast in our dedication to the dignity
and well-being of people throughout the world.
I believe that this is a foreign policy that is consistent with my own
Nation's historic values and commitments. And I believe that it is a for-
eign policy that is consonant with the ideals of the United Nations.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in the General Assembly Hall. He was intro-
duced by United Nations Secretary General Kurt Waldheim. Following his address,
the President attended a reception in the North Lounge, hosted by Secretary General
Waldheim.
Earlier in the evening, the President had dinner with Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance and U.S. Representative to the United Nations Andrew J. Young.
Rhodesian Chrome Bill
Remarks on Signing H.R. 1746 Into
Law. March 18, 1977
Somebody said it's such a short bill that
was passed. But it took so long to get it
done.
I'm very grateful this morning to have
a chance to sign House Resolution 1746,
which gives me the authority to reestab-
lish the embargo against the purchase of
chrome from Rhodesia.
This legislation probably has as high a
symbolic importance in international af-
fairs as anything that I will do this
year.
It's something that I sign with gratitude
and appreciation on the one hand, and
regret on the other gratitude and appre-
ciation because the Congress and I have
demonstrated vividly that we are deeply
451
