Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ering of Government spending, how can
AID be allowed to spend a quarter of a
million dollars to move a portion of its
agency into buildings when the overall
object of AID is to get the people into two
buildings rather than have them scattered
all over the Washington area?
that there is an excessive pressure on Gov-
ernment for information. If that same
citizen had a sense that he could trust us,
there would be much less inclination to
demand access to the files.
I am not sure that I've answered your
question adequately but that's one ap-
THE PRESIDENT. That's a question that proach to it.
I can't answer. [Laughter]
The question was that when we are
short of money for the AID program, how
can we, as was expressed, waste a quarter
of a million dollars moving AID person-
nel to a building when the purpose ought
to be to bring the AID people together.
I don't know the background of the
question. I don't know the answer. But
if you would permit Secretary Vance to
give you an answer to your question later
on, I will pass that question on to him.
Since I couldn't answer that question,
I will try another one. I hate to end up on
a question I can't answer. [Laughter].
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know
if you are aware of the increased amount
of requests for freedom of information
material that is going to be released or
will be released which I think in the fu-
ture might come back to haunt us?
THE PRESIDENT. I am familiar with the
problem. In general, I favor the freedom
of information laws. I think that one
thing that we might do within the bounds
of the law, which I doubt could be re-
pealed even if we wanted it to be, is to
restore the trust of the American people
in us.
When there is a sense among American
citizens that they are being misled or that
illegalities are taking place within our own
Government, like the plotting of assassina-
tions or murders and so forth, or when
they feel that their own rights are not
being protected by their own Govern-
ment, I think under those circumstances
And I think I might, as President, as-
sume more responsibility in that field.
When I learn more about it, when I have
a little more time in office, when the peo-
ple have a more accurate sense of what
I am and what I stand for, I might very
well point out to the American people in
a press conference or otherwise that this
has become a problem for us, and just as
a matter of idle curiosity or just to test
the law, for them to refrain from asking
for this information. If they genuinely
need it, we will provide it. But I think that
the first few months of a new law like that,
there is an inclination on the part of those
who have fought for it just to test it, to
see if they ask for something, can they
really get it.
So, I hope that with those two or three
approaches that we might take within the
bounds of the law that we can minimize
the burden on us in months to come. I
hope so.
Let me say this in closing: I think we've
made good progress in the first month in
learning about one another and in my
learning about the Federal Government,
in seeing the extent and the limitation of
my own influence in the White House, in
learning about foreign countries and their
inclinations toward us, the problem areas
that we can address and those that we
ought to avoid addressing for a while. I
think that we've got a good sense around
the world of what we are trying to do
already.
I can't think of any time in human his-
tory, for instance, when there has been
such a worldwide concern about human
244
