Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 17
United Auto Workers
Remarks at the Union's Convention
in Los Angeles. May 17, 1977
Thank you very much, President Wood-
cock, distinguished members of the UAW
who have come here from all over the
Nation to reconfirm what you stand for,
to my good friend Doug Fraser and to
many people in the audience and behind
me, who throughout the last 2 years stood
in factory shift lines in the cold and in
the rain so that I could become better
informed about what a President ought
to be, about what our Nation is, and what
our future might hold:
It's a very rare occasion that I have a
chance to come to a convention. I haven't
been to one since I've been President. I
may not go to another one this year. But
I particularly wanted to come and be with
you.
Ordinarily Vice President Mondale is
the one who chooses to go and make a
speech at the conventions. I had to send
him to Yugoslavia to have this chance
today. He'll be coming back to our coun-
try in about a week, having been to
Portugal-a brand-new democracy; to
Spain-a brand-new democracy; having
visited the President of South Africa to
try to work out some solution to the diffi-
cult problems in that continent; having
met with Marshal Tito in Yugoslavia to
reconfirm their independence of the Big
Bear to the north of them; and then
having come back through England to
discuss the common basis on which we
approach the future.
So, I'm glad to have a chance to be with
you today. I've been talking a lot about
conservation, lately, and efficiency in
automobiles. When I got off the plane, I
was greeted and rode in one of your finest
products a very large, very black Cadil-
lac limousine. [Laughter] So, I've enjoyed
so far my visit, and I'm looking forward
to the rest of it and to speak to you. Later,
I'll be on a 90-minute call-in television
show, and then I'm going to visit some of
the farmlands around Fresno.
It's no accident that I've chosen the
UAW convention to make this speech and
to make this appearance. Your union was
born in struggle, and you've won many
victories. But you've never retreated into
complacency or narrow selfishness.
The UAW is still fighting, because this
union has always understood that it can-
not stand alone. And above every other
trade union I know in the world, you've
always seen that your membership and
your leadership were part of a larger so-
ciety and a larger world. Very few insti-
tutions anywhere have been so fortunate
as to have the kind of superb leadership
that has always been a mark of the UAW.
For 31 years, this union has been led
by men whose vision and sense of respon-
sibility extended far beyond the walls of
Solidarity House-men who have de-
manded decency and a better life not just
for the UAW membership but for all the
people.
The next president of the UAW has
big shoes to fill. I won't predict who's
going to win your election tomorrow,
although I noticed that Doug Fraser
doesn't look too worried.
Seven years ago, when Walter Reu-
ther's life was so tragically cut short,
there were predictions that this union
would turn inward and would abandon
its role as defender of social justice. Leo-
nard Woodcock showed how wrong these
predictions were. He's left his mark of
support for the poor and the oppressed
as clearly as for his own members at the
bargaining table.
Recently, as you know, I asked him to
undertake an extremely sensitive assign-
1 Former president of the United Auto
Workers.
887
