Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
other intelligence community agencies in
the past.
I am conducting now a very careful
analysis of the entire intelligence com-
munity. Admiral Stan Turner is going to
be the new Director. He shares my com-
mitment. But working with Cyrus Vance,
with Admiral Turner, with Dr. Brzezin-
ski, with the Attorney General, and with
Harold Brown and myself, we are trying
to evolve very rapidly what the intelli-
gence community ought to be, what the
limit of divulging of this material ought
to be, and how can we at the same time
guarantee to the American people that
the abuses will be permanently elimi-
nated.
In the last 2 or 3 days, I've had a
chance to meet with the congressional
leaders. I have hopes, which may or may
not be realized-it's not in my control-
that we can have one joint congressional
committee with a limited membership to
whom we can reveal what is going on in
its entirety within the confines of the
intelligence community. So, we will have
a key group of Congress very small-
myself, the Intelligence Oversight Board,
which is an independent agency to whom
anyone can come and give complaints or
revelations, the Attorney General, and
let that be it.
We are not in the position where some
of our key intelligence sources are be-
coming reluctant to continue their rela-
tionship with us because of the danger of
their being exposed in the future.
Now, I also pointed out to the press
yesterday that many of the recent public
revelations have been erroneous. I have
written two letters to foreign leaders
apologizing for them after I checked the
CIA files to find that the published re-
ports were completely in error. Others
had some degree of accuracy within them.
I have reviewed all of the correspond-
ence between the Intelligence Oversight
Board and President Ford last year. The
Attorney General was involved. I have
not detected any instance of an impro-
priety or an illegality that is presently
being conducted or that was conducted
in the last 6 or 8 months, as far back as
my study went.
And I think it's good for the American
people to know this. But we have got to
have a good intelligence system in order
to protect the security of our country. We
sometimes relax too much in peacetime.
We've got to establish this relationship
on a permanent, workable basis while we
are at peace. It's one of the best means
to make sure we don't have war. And if
we should ever be in danger in a time of
crisis, it's too late to build up an adequate
intelligence community, including our
worldwide system of information.
So, your question is a very good one.
And this is a matter that presses on me
in a very personal way. And I think I can
tell you that within the next couple of
months your questions will be answered
satisfactorily. I've had good response from
the Members of Congress. There are now
six committees in the House that have
access to this information by law. The
Speaker has indicated yesterday to the
Vice President that he would favor one
joint committee. Whether that will be
feasible, I don't know, but that's our hope
in the Congress.
And I will do the same thing in the
executive branch of Government to make
sure we do have adequate oversight, but
also at the same time an adequate degree
of privacy and secrecy in things that ought
not to be revealed.
Maybe one more question.
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
Q. I would like to know how can AID,
with all the reorganization that is going on
in the Federal Government, with the low-
243
