Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 26
Second, it authorizes emergency sales of
intrastate natural gas to the interstate
market through July 31, 1977 at prices
that are fair and equitable, thereby ending
legal uncertainties presently connected
with such sales.
My Administration has developed this
legislation after extensive consultation
with the Congressional committees most
directly involved. I believe there is no
prudent alternative to this type of legis-
lation to deal with the present shortage
situation. I urge its immediate enactment
by the Congress.
With best wishes,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
Natural Gas Legislation
Remarks at a News Briefing on the
Legislation. January 26, 1977
Hi, everybody. This afternoon I sent to
Congress my request for the Emergency
Natural Gas Act of 1977. I urged the
Congress to act immediately because this
month's shortage of natural gas has be-
come a crisis. Everyone in the eastern
two-thirds of our Nation realizes that this
has been a winter of unprecedented se-
verity. Temperatures far below normal
have dangerously depleted our natural
gas supplies.
Half the pipelines of our country have
already curtailed shipments to the major
industrial users. Four thousand plants are
now closed. Four hundred thousand peo-
ple have been laid off because of natural
gas shortages. Shipments to homes have
been curtailed by two major pipelines.
And many other homeowners are now
threatened with that same prospect, and
the forecast for the rest of the winter is for
continuing extreme cold.
The effect of this winter's hardships
will spread to all portions of our Nation,
and continued layoffs of workers will seri-
ously harm our chances for economic re-
covery on which we are working so hard.
This legislation, if passed, will permit
me to allocate gas to critical areas of our
country to meet threats to life and health
and to property. The bill will also allow
emergency sales so that pipelines which
have a healthy reserve supply can transfer
those supplies to pipelines that have a se-
vere shortage.
But it is important to be frank. This bill
will not end the shortages; it will not im-
prove the weather; and it will not solve
the unemployment problem. Its purpose is
just to ensure that no portion of our coun-
try must go without essential services.
It will also mean somewhat higher
prices, since a larger portion—perhaps 2
percent of the total of the interstate sup-
ply will come from emergency sales. Prices
will remain the same for the other 98
percent.
Nothing more clearly illustrates the se-
rious consequences of our long delay in
creating a comprehensive national energy
policy than does this necessity for crisis
legislation.
In addition to offering this emergency
legislation to the Congress, I directed Dr.
James Schlesinger, who will answer ques-
tions in a few minutes, to develop a com-
prehensive national energy policy for sub-
mission to the Congress at an early date.
There is one other step that we must
take. I again ask every American to lower
the thermostat settings in all homes and
buildings to no more than 65 degrees dur-
ing the daytime and to a much lower set-
ting at night. This single step, if carried
out by all our people, can eliminate half
21
