Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
money. Of course, that extends over 40
years in the future.
To answer your first question, I would
like to see in a tax reform package a re-
moval as much as possible of any sort of
tax advantage for either single people or
married people. This is a complicated
question, and I don't know how to deal
with it.
We have now in some parts of the in-
come tax laws a fairly substantial reward
for people who live in the same house but
who are not married, and I would like to
remove that, but at the same time let peo-
ple who are single and who live alone, not
as married people, not be punished.
So, that's one of the complicated ques-
tions that has always been a matter of
debate, both in the States' and National
Legislatures.
I don't know how to give you the an-
remove, if possible, any advantage one way
or the other, Walter.
MR. CRONKITE. Mrs. John Ritchey is
on the phone, Mr. President. She is in
Georgetown, Kentucky. Mrs. Ritchey?
MRS. RITCHEY. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, Mrs.
Ritchey.
OTTAWA INDIAN LAND SALE
MRS. RITCHEY. I am part American
Indian. I'm a descendant of the Ottawa
tribe of northern Michigan. We presently
have a bill in the Senate. It's bill number
1659. This is awarding us payment for sale
of land to the Government, but the Gov-
ernment is once again dragging its feet for
prior services and things like this.
I would like to know if you are aware
swer yet. But there is a great disparity of this bill and if you can help us in any
now.
MR. STONE. Yes, sir, you will have an
answer, I believe you said in September,
in
your tax package.
way. This originally started in 1870. It was
a signed treaty. There was a partial pay-
ment made in 1910, but since then, no-
thing.
THE PRESIDENT. I see. The answer to
THE PRESIDENT. I hope so. We're going the first question is easy. The answer is
to address that issue, and I hope we can
come up with a reasonable answer. We
are going to complete the study of this
entire tax code, which is enormously com-
plicated, as you know, and the deadline
that I have established and the Secretary
of the Treasury, Mike Blumenthal, is the
lead Cabinet officer on it, has agreed we
can complete this study and make our
recommendations to the people and to the
Congress by September 30. Yes.
MR. STONE. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, did I
understand you to say there you would
penalize unmarrieds living together?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I just don't think
there ought to be an advantage between
married people and the unmarried people
who share the same household. I'd like to
no. I'm not familiar with the bill. The
answer, if I will help you or not—I'll help
you to this degree. I will look into the bill
and see what I think is a right and fair
thing to do. If it seems to me that the
particular Indian group to which you re-
fer has not been treated fairly, then,
through the Department of Interior and
the Attorney General, I'll give you what
help is proper.
MRS. RITCHEY. Okay.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll either be back in
touch with you this coming week or let
one of my staff members call you back and
see what we think about the legislation
that you have described. Okay?
MRS. RITCHEY. Okay. This is some-
thing, you know, that we've worked
on-
311
