Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
without respect for observance of human
rights on their part?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, the
differences that arise between us and the
Soviet Union are the things that are high-
ly publicized. I'm grateful to know that
we are beginning this week to work closely
with the Soviet Union on a comprehensive
test ban treaty to prohibit all testing of
nuclear devices underground or in the at-
mosphere.
They have suggested, along with us, that
Great Britain join this negotiation. That's
a step in the right direction.
Paul Warnke will begin to negotiate
with the Soviet Union within the next
week on demilitarization of the Indian
Ocean, again a very major step forward
if completed. There are continuing discus-
sions between ourselves and the Soviet
Union on details of the overall SALT
agreement. And, as I have announced
earlier, the Secretary of State and the
Soviet Foreign Minister will meet at least
twice more between now and the expira-
tion date for the present agreement.
So, I think that in general we are mov-
ing in the right direction. Our statements
concerning human rights, I think, have
been well received around the world. We
have not singled out the Soviet Union for
criticism, and I have never tried to inject
myself into the internal affairs of the So-
viet Union. I have never made the first
comment that personally criticized Gen-
eral Secretary Brezhnev.
But when we pursue aggressively and
with determination our commitment to
the principle that human beings are to be
well treated by governments, that human
freedom is one of the highest aspirations
and commitments of our country, I think
this is the right thing to do. If it hits our-
selves as self-criticism, so be it. If it touches
the Soviet Union and they interpret it as
intrusion, so be it. But we have tried to
make this a broad-based approach.
I think it's hard to assess the results of
this deep commitment which I think is
compatible with the inclinations of the
American people. But I don't believe that
there is a single leader of a nation on
Earth today who doesn't have within his
or her consciousness a concern about hu-
man rights--how do we appear to our own
people, how do we appear to observers
from other nations? And as we approach
very quickly now the preparation for the
Belgrade conference to assess the Helsinki
progress-that will take place next Octo-
ber-I think there's a general sense in the
world we had better get our own houses
in order, we had better make a good image
available to the outside world. And the
scrutiny that's focused on this issue is
constructive.
And I think that the Soviets' reaction
against me personally on the human rights
issue is a misplaced aim. I have no hatred
for the Soviet people, and I believe that
the pressure of world opinion might be
making itself felt on them and perhaps I
am kind of a scapegoat for that adverse
reaction on their part.
But I feel very deeply that we ought to
pursue aggressively this commitment, and
I have no second thoughts or hesitation
about it.
AMBASSADOR ANDREW YOUNG
Q. Mr. President, U.N. Ambassador
Andrew Young continues to make head-
lines with his comments about racism.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. [Laughter]
Q. Do you think his words have opened
old wounds at home and damaged our
interests abroad, or do you welcome this
discussion on the nature of racism that
he has touched off?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the statements
that Andy Young has made are different
from what I would have said. The word
"racism" has different connotations to
different people, as does the phrase "hu-
1107
