Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 30
tional weapon capability; a mutual effort
on the part of us, the Soviet Union,
France, Germany on sales of conven-
tional weapons to other nations.
We're trying to do all these things. We
need your help. And they are crucial to
every person and, particularly, to a group
as well organized and as forceful as you
are.
We're also hopeful that in the future we
can have success in our effort to identify
abuses and to correct the abuses and to
set a new standard in the preservation of
human rights throughout the world. I
don't intend to yield on this position, be-
cause I think it represents what our Na-
tion is and what the world ought to be.
Your forceful voices in constantly es-
pousing the cause of human rights would
help me a great deal and help the Mem-
bers of Congress and help other leaders of
our Nation to establish a corps of moral
commitment that can restore the legiti-
mate pride in our country, to the extent
that is has been diminished, and reestab-
lish the United States of America as the
rallying point for human rights around the
world. We've not enjoyed that position in
recent years. But I'm determined that
once again, we'll be a beacon light for
those who believe in human rights all over
the globe. And you can help me with it if
you will.
On the domestic scene, there are just
two or three other items. I'd like to men-
tion to you. One, of course, is the passage
of the equal rights amendment. I and my
wife and my daughter-in-law and others
have tried as best we could to join with
you in the furtherance of this noble and
very necessary change in the United
States Constitution.
You might be interested in knowing
that the first time I met Ambassador Do-
brynin from the Soviet Union he brought
up the subject of human rights. And I
said, "Well, my position is strong. It's not
going to change." He said, "Well, let me
point out that the United States is not
without fault itself." I said, "I know that,
but what do you mean?" He said, "Well,
you still haven't ratified the equal rights
amendment." And I said, "I tell you
what. I'll try to help you with human
rights in the Soviet Union; you help me
get the equal rights amendment passed in
the United States." [Laughter]
But to be serious about it, our failure to
pass the equal rights amendment hurts us
as we try to set a standard of commitment
to human rights throughout the world. I
hope we can correct that defect by next
year at the latest.
Just a couple of other points. Watch
very carefully and participate deeply in
the evolution of a new energy policy. This
could have broad and far-reaching impact
on everyone who looks to you for leader-
ship.
The same thing applies to basic welfare
reform that's going to be presented to the
Nation on the 1st of May; energy policy,
the 20th of April.
Another very major effort that we are
undertaking this year on which I need
your help is basic tax reform, income tax
reform. This will be presented to the
American people by the end of September.
There are many other major goals that I
tried to express as a commitment to the
American people during the long cam-
paign. They all touch your lives in one
way or the other.
I don't claim to know all the answers.
I need you to help me with your support
when you agree, with your advice when
we're evolving policy, and with your criti-
cism when you think I've made a mistake.
I need all three.
And I pledge to you a continuing, un-
swerving, never-diminishing commitment
on my part, as your President, to the goals
that you and I know are crucial to a better
life for all Americans, including of course
545
