Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 22, 1977
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With a
Group of Publishers, Editors, and
Broadcasters. April 15, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's nice to be here
with you. We had a CIA briefing just be-
fore lunch and ran a little bit late.
I think it might be good to conserve our
time as much as possible and let me an-
swer your questions, but I would like to
take just 3 or 4 minutes to outline some
of the things that we are doing in this
1-week period, which I hope is not typical.
We've had to deal with a rapidly chang-
ing economic prospect and have modified,
as you know, our stimulus package by
withdrawing the business tax credit pro-
posal and the $50 rebate. I have been
assessing 31 major water projects that had
been previously approved by the Congress
and my predecessors.
I am working on two major speeches to
make on Monday and Wednesday con-
cerning an energy policy, and I can now
understand very clearly why no previous
President has put forward one. [Laughter]
It's been one of the most challenging and
in some degrees unpleasant undertakings
I've ever assumed.
We are assessing our Nation's position
on the SALT negotiations, which will re-
sume in Geneva early in this coming
month. We are putting together 8 or 10
different committees to deal with things
like the comprehensive test ban, the de-
militarization of the Indian Ocean, and
so forth.
I just issued today an anti-inflation
speech. We have a comprehensive welfare
proposal to put forward the first of May.
And all those things are going on simul-
taneously. I try to farm out as much of
my own administrative responsibility as I
can to my staff members, and I rely much
more heavily on Cabinet officers than per-
haps my immediate predecessors have
done. But I think we have got a good,
strong staff and a good, strong Cabinet.
We have done the best we could so far
to have an open interrelationship with
the public so that the controversial issues
that I face every day-there are literally
dozens of them each day, as you can
imagine, including some major ones that
I have described-can be freely debated
in the American society.
It's very helpful to me to have an anal-
ysis of your own editorial comments. I
get this daily. The last thing I read at
night is an accumulation of editorials, the
network commentators, columnists, so
that I can see in that fashion what the
American people think about the issues
that I have to decide.
I think it might be good to answer your
questions, and I will try to be as brief
as I can.
643
