May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Announcement of Proposed Legislation.
May 18, 1977
The President today announced that a
bill developed by the administration, in
close coordination with interested Mem-
bers of Congress, will be introduced to
prohibit electronic surveillance in the
United States for intelligence purposes
without a judicial warrant. This bill will
be introduced in the Senate by Senator
Kennedy and in the House by Congress-
man Rodino. It was transmitted to the
Congress today.
The Carter administration bill was
drafted by an interagency committee com-
posed of members of the intelligence com-
munity and chaired by the Attorney
General. The bill would make illegal the
abuses of the past, confirm the need for
electronic surveillance for intelligence
purposes in limited circumstances, and
subject to the procedures of the bill, all
electronic surveillance in the United
States.
Last year a similar bill was reported
by the Senate Judiciary Committee and
the Senate Intelligence Committee. The
Carter administration bill expands pro-
tections for Americans in three major
areas beyond the bill sponsored last year
by the Ford administration:
(1) The current bill recognizes no in-
herent power of the President to conduct
electronic surveillance. Last year, there
was an explicit reservation of Presidential
power.
(2) It ensures that persons in the
United States cannot be targeted for elec-
tronic surveillance without a judicial war-
rant. Last year's bill did not extend the
warrant requirement to NSA "watch list-
ing" of American citizens.
(3) Judges are allowed to review the
executive certification that the informa-
tion sought is foreign intelligence infor-
mation when United States persons are
targeted.
The bill does not cover electronic sur-
veillance abroad, but the administration,
in coordination with interested Members
of Congress, is drafting separate legisla-
tion to provide protections for Americans
abroad from electronic surveillance for
both intelligence and law enforcement
purposes.
The bill generally requires Americans
to be engaged in criminal conduct before
they can be targeted for electronic sur-
veillance. It provides one narrow excep-
tion for electronic surveillance of Ameri-
activity, although they must be engaged
cans who are not engaged in criminal
in the collection or transmission of na-
tional security information to a foreign
intelligence service in a clandestine man-
ner pursuant to the direction of a foreign
intelligence service. The reason for this
one exception is that the current espio-
activity. The Department of Justice is
nage laws do not clearly criminalize such
now reviewing the espionage laws and will
propose revisions and modernization so
that electronic surveillance of Americans
will only be permitted when they violate
the law.
Procedures in the Bill
The bill provides a procedure by which
the Attorney General may authorize ap-
plications to the courts for warrants to
conduct electronic surveillance within the
United States for foreign intelligence pur-
poses. Applications for warrants are to
be made to one of seven district court
judges publicly designated by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court. Denials of
such applications may be appealed to a
928
