Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
We also need incentives, though, for those who own homes and busi-
nesses so that they will conserve. Those who weatherize buildings to make
them more efficient would be eligible for a tax credit of 25 percent of the
first $800 invested in conservation and 15 percent for the next $1,400.
If homeowners prefer, they may take advantage of a weatherization
service which will be required from all regulated utility companies to
offer. The utilities would arrange for contractors and provide reasonable
financing to the homeowners. The customer would pay for the improve-
ments through small, regular additions to the monthly utility bills. In
many instances, these additional charges would be almost entirely offset
by lower energy consumption brought about by energy savings.
Other proposals for conservation in homes and buildings include:
first, direct Federal help for low-income residents; next, an additional
10-percent tax credit for business investments in conservation; third, Fed-
eral matching grants to nonprofit schools and hospitals; and public works
money for weatherizing State and local government buildings.
While improving efficiency in our businesses and homes, we must also
make electrical home appliances more efficient. I propose legislation that
would, for the first time, impose stringent efficiency standards for house-
hold appliances by 1980.
We must also reform our utility rate structure. For many years, we
have rewarded waste by offering the cheapest rates to the largest users.
It's difficult for individual States to make such reforms because of the
intense competition among States for new industry. The only fair
to adopt a set of principles to be applied nationwide.
way is
I am therefore proposing legislation which would require the follow-
ing steps over the next 2 years: first, phasing out promotional rates and
other pricing systems that make natural gas and electricity artificially
cheap for high-volume users and which do not accurately reflect actual
costs; next, offering users peak-load pricing techniques which set higher
charges during the day when demand is great and lower charges during
the day when demand is small. We also need individual meters for each
apartment in new buildings instead of one master meter. Tests have
shown that this will save 30 percent of the electrical cost in the apartment
building.
Plans are already being discussed for TVA-the whole system-to
act as a model in implementing such new programs as I have described to
conserve energy.
One final step toward conservation is to encourage industries and
utilities to expand what's called "cogeneration" projects, which capture
667
