Apr. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Q. But to take up another foreign pol-
icy question, your son Chip was on a trip
to China, has come back. I think you sent
a message with him and may have gotten
a message back. I wonder if you could
tell us about that communication, and,
specifically, are you planning a trip to
China or are they planning, any of their
leaders, to come here in the near future?
THE PRESIDENT. The nature of the
message is one just of friendship and good
will and a mutual agreement that it's in
the best interests of the world and our
own countries to increase communication,
trade, and, ultimately, through compli-
ance with the Shanghai agreement, to
normalize relationships with China.
I don't anticipate any trips outside the
country this year except my trip early
next month to London. And I'll go to
Geneva to meet with President Asad of
Syria.
The Chinese Government have always
taken the position that their leaders com-
ing to our country would not be appro-
priate so long as there is an Ambassador
here which represents the Republic of
China on Taiwan. So, I think even from
the first visits there of President Nixon
and Kissinger, this has been the Chinese
position. I would certainly welcome the
Chinese leaders to come to Washington
to meet with me as I would other leaders
of nations, but I think I have described
the situation now as best I can.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, you have had your
attention taken away from one of the al-
ternatives that you have been working on,
the Middle East peace, recently. But I
wonder if there has been any progress,
movement, or additional flow going on
privately during this time, if you could
tell us about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, yes. I've con-
tinued my own study of the Middle East-
ern question. As you know, I have met
now with the Prime Minister of Israel
and also with President Sadat of Egypt.
Today I'll be meeting with Deputy Prime
Minister and Foreign Minister Khaddam
of Syria. And early next month I'll meet
with President Asad from Syria on a brief
trip to Geneva. King Hussein will be here
Sunday and Monday to meet with me.
And I'm trying to learn as best I can
the attitudes of the different nations that
are involved in the Middle Eastern dis-
pute and to try to at least observe and
analyze some common ground on which
a permanent settlement might be reached.
I think it's best until I meet with all
these leaders to minimize my own state-
ments on the subject. I have outlined as
best I could some of the options concern-
ing borders, Palestine, the Palestinian
people, the definition of permanent
peace those are the three major issues.
But now that the foreign leaders know
my own suggestions, I am trying to get
responses from them before I make fur-
ther comments about it.
COSTS OF THE ENERGY PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, we, in getting briefed
by Dr. Schlesinger, didn't get much in the
way of costs as far as your energy package
went, and some of these figures are kind
of impressive that I have been hearing
about.
Is it true that you are going to spend
about $13 billion on the stockpile of stra-
tegic oil, and it looks like about $5 billion
to $10 billion in credits for corporations,
tax credits for corporations? I don't know
how much for individuals. But what's the
total overall package cost, either by year
or 5 years?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try to give you the
total cost as best I understand it.
702
