Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
United States of America, and as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the provisions of the Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App. I), it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby estab-
lished the President's Commission on
Mental Health, hereinafter referred to as
the Commission, which shall be composed
of not more than twenty persons who shall
be appointed by the President.
(b) The President shall designate a
Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from
among the members.
SEC. 2. (a) The Commission shall con-
duct such public hearings, inquiries, and
studies as may be necessary to identify the
mental health needs of the Nation. In par-
ticular, the Commission shall seek to iden-
tify:
(1) How the mentally ill, emotionally
disturbed, and mentally retarded are be-
ing served, to what extent they are being
underserved, and who is affected by such
underservice.
(2) The projected needs for dealing
with emotional stress during the next
twenty-five years.
(3) The various ways the President, the
Congress, and the Federal Government
may most efficiently support the treatment
of the underserved mentally ill, emotion-
ally disturbed, and mentally retarded.
(4) Various methods for coordinating
a unified approach to all mental health
and people-helping services.
(5) The types of research the Federal
Government should support to further the
prevention and treatment of mental ill-
ness and mental retardation.
(6) What role the various educational
systems, volunteer agencies and other peo-
ple-helping institutions can perform to
minimize emotional disturbance in our
country.
(7) As nearly as possible, what pro-
grams will cost, when the money should
be spent, and how the financing should be
divided among Federal, State and local
governments, and the private sector.
(b) The Commission shall submit a
report to the President recommending
how the mental health needs of the Na-
tion can be met and identifying the rela-
tive priority of those needs.
SEC. 3. The Commission shall make a
preliminary report with recommendations
to the President by September 1, 1977.
A final report with recommendations and
priorities shall be submitted to the Presi-
dent by April 1, 1978.
SEC. 4. (a) The Chairperson of the
Commission is authorized to establish such
advisory committees as may be deemed
appropriate to carry out the purposes of
this Order.
(b) The Commission, and any advisory
committees established pursuant to this
Order, shall hold such hearings and pub-
lic meetings as the Chairperson may deem
necessary and as required by law.
SEC. 5. The Commission is authorized
to request, at the direction of the Chair-
person, from any executive department
or agency, any information deemed nec-
essary to carry out its functions under this
Order. Each department or agency shall,
to the extent permitted by law, furnish
information and otherwise cooperate with
the Commission in performing its func-
tions under this Order.
SEC. 6. The General Services Admin-
istration shall provide administrative
services and facilities to the Commission
on a reimbursable basis.
SEC. 7. (a) Each member of the Com-
mission and its advisory committees and
staff who is not otherwise employed in the
Government, may receive, to the extent
permitted by law, compensation for each
day he or she is engaged upon the work
of the Commission at a rate not to exceed
the maximum daily rate now or hereafter
188
