Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
work to ensure sustained American assistance as the process of global
economic development continues. I am also urging the Congress of our
country to increase our contributions to the United Nations Development
Program and meet in full our pledges to multilateral lending institutions,
especially the International Development Association of the World Bank.
We remain committed to an open international trading system, one
which does not ignore domestic concerns in the United States. We have
extended duty-free treatment to many products from the developing
countries. In the multilateral trade agreements in Geneva we have offered
substantial trade concessions on the goods of primary interest to develop-
ing countries. And in accordance with the Tokyo Declaration, we are also
examining ways to provide additional consideration for the special needs
of developing countries.
The United States is willing to consider, with a positive and open
attitude, the negotiation on agreements to stabilize commodity prices, in-
cluding the establishment of a common funding arrangement for financ-
ing buffer stocks where they are a part of individual negotiated agree-
ments.
I also believe that the developing countries must acquire fuller par-
ticipation in the global economic decisionmaking process. Some progress
has already been made in this regard by expanding participation of de-
veloping countries in the International Monetary Fund.
We must use our collective natural resources wisely and construc-
tively. We've not always done so. Today our oceans are being plundered
and defiled. With a renewed spirit of cooperation and hope, we join in the
Conference of the Law of the Sea in order to correct past mistakes of
generations gone by and to ensure that all nations can share the bounties
of the eternal oceans in the future.
We must also recognize that the world is facing serious shortages
of energy. This is truly a global problem. For our part, we are determined
to reduce waste and to work with others toward a fair and proper sharing
of the benefits and costs of energy resources.
The search for peace and justice also means respect for human dig-
nity. All the signatories of the U.N. Charter have pledged themselves to
observe and to respect basic human rights. Thus, no member of the United
Nations can claim that mistreatment of its citizens is solely its own busi-
ness. Equally, no member can avoid its responsibilities to review and to
speak when torture or unwarranted deprivation occurs in any part of
the world.
449
