Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 18
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I wouldn't want to put Alaska ahead of
the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia. But
I think, of all the untapped places in the
world, there is no place more beautiful
than Alaska. I think that obviously is an
oversimplifiaction in describing the beauty
of our Nation because every single aspect
of our Nation that has been preserved by
this Department is precious. And the
marshlands of Georgia and the Rocky
Mountains and the other parks that we
have are equally as important, but in the
unexplored regions of human enjoyment,
I think Alaska is a precious possession.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. I would like to ask you how do you
feel about the Middle East situation, and
do you think that peace will ever come?
The reason I am asking is because I have
faith in your administration after hearing
the news this morning about you cutting
the CIA money from King Hussein.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. Well, I don't want to mislead you
in thinking that I, as President, or anyone
else who would be in the White House,
can resolve the Middle Eastern question
simply or quickly. It is a very complicated
problem. It has been there for years and
years, more than 30 years, and the differ-
ences of opinion are deep.
We don't want to try to exert an im-
proper, outside pressure on the nations of
the Middle East to resolve their differ-
ences for them. Even if we had the polit-
ical and military means to do this, it
would be an uneasy peace and a tem-
porary circumstance, so the only way to
do it is to have it done among those who
live there.
As you know, I have just dispatched
Secretary Vance to go to the Middle East.
He has already talked to Mr. Rabin, yes-
terday he was with Mr. Sadat. He will go
to Syria. He will go to Saudi Arabia, to
Jordan, and to Lebanon very quickly, and
then come back to report to me on what
the prospects are for a common agree-
ment on questions that so far have not
yet been resolved.
I would hope that later on this year
that we could reconvene those parties at
Geneva. The Soviet Union and our coun-
try will be cochairmen of that conference.
Based on, I hope, a mutual search for
peace among those nations, we might be
the stimulating factor that could bring
about a resolution of the questions.
I am very deeply dedicated to this. I
think that, because of the intense interest
in solving the Middle Eastern question,
this might be the good year for it. But I
cannot predict with any assurance that
we will be successful. I put in a lot of my
own personal time in studying the ques-
tions that have been raised. Every day
when I get back a report from Secretary
Vance by cable, I very carefully have my
staff log the attitudes of the different
leaders who represent their nations to see
if I can understand compatibility among
them and what the remaining differences
might be.
The last point I would like to make is
this: We are inviting the leaders of the
Middle Eastern nations to come over
here to our country this year as soon as
possible to discuss those problems directly
with me as President. I think, whether
or not we deserve such a position, our
own country has got to be the focal point
for the resolution of many of these
differences.
This is not something that I have
caused, but it is an attitude that exists
among the leaders of Egypt and Israel
and Syria and Saudi Arabia and Jordan
and Lebanon. They look to us to be kind
of a place through which they can chan-
nel ideas and through which we might
act as a mediator. But the major respon-
sibility is among the people who live
203
