Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
I think that of all the beneficial legis-
lation that has been passed by the Con-
gress in recent years, the one that has the
best prospect of improving the lives of
American workers and the one that had
the most adverse acceptance has been the
OSHA program.
I have seen this as a businessman. I
have seen it as a businessman, and I have
seen it as a candidate for 2 years, and I
have seen it as Governor of a State. And I
believe that the OSHA program can be
both well administered and well ac-
cepted by the business and the labor com-
munity.
We need to have, though, some sensi-
tive approach at the delivery end of the
OSHA program, with a minimum num-
ber of regulations, a maximum amount of
common sense, a maximum amount of in-
put in regional hearings or discussion or
forums around the country. And both the
new Administrator of the OSHA pro-
gram and Secretary Marshall and I have
already discussed this question.
But I think OSHA can be a great pro-
gram. The concept is good. I intend to
enforce the law rigidly, but I also hope
that we can have an acceptance of the
OSHA program by the business com-
munity. But there would be no backing
down on the concept or the purpose of
the law concerning OSHA. I just want to
make sure that it is administered with a
maximum amount of support from labor
and of industry.
FISCAL POLICY
Q. Can you comment about the mone-
tary policy being combined with the fiscal
plan?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know-the
question is about the monetary policy to
be combined with the fiscal plan—there
are three entities in the Federal Govern-
ment that can have impact on the mone-
tary policies of our Government. One is
the Federal Reserve Bank Board, headed
by Dr. Burns. As you know, he is quite
conservative, and he wants to make sure
that there is an even flow of new money
coming into the economy, ranging from
5 percent to roughly 7 percent to 7.5 per-
cent, and he has the ability to open or
close those gates to let money flow into
the economy. He has shown a strong in-
clination to work closely with me and the
Secretary of the Treasury and others.
The second control of the monetary
supply in this country comes from the
President and the Cabinet officers who
evolve the budget for the year. Increased
spending by the Federal Government
could obviously increase the flow of
money into the financial structure of our
Nation. And the other source of control,
obviously, is the Congress, with the pack-
age of tax rebates and other changes in
the tax laws, and so forth.
So, those three have to be intermeshed
to a maximum degree. I hope that we
could maintain roughly the monetary
supply levels that have been maintained
in recent months, and that we can have
above and beyond
above and beyond that, the stimulus of
roughly $15.5 billion per year for the next
years in our extra program to the Con-
gress.
2
I might point out that that is just
about 1 percent of the gross national
product of our Nation, and I think any
extra stimulus above that 1 percent would
be inflationary in character. I believe it's
about a good balance.
But obviously, they are interrelated, and
I and the Congress have about two-thirds
of the control over the monetary system.
I would say the Federal Reserve Board
has the other one-third.
ZERO-BASE BUDGETING
Q. Do you have any comments on man-
agement by objective?
105
