Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 27
This bill differs from pending pro-
posals, however, in several respects:
1. It defines the immediate nuclear ex-
port conditions which we can reasonably
ask other nations to meet while we nego-
tiate stricter arrangements. The pro-
posals currently before Congress would
impose criteria that could force an im-
mediate moratorium on our nuclear ex-
ports, adversely affecting certain allies
whose cooperation is needed if we are to
achieve our ultimate objective of non-
proliferation.
2. It defines additional nuclear export
conditions which will be required in new
agreements for civil nuclear cooperation.
In particular, we will require as a con-
tinuing condition of U.S. supply that re-
cipients have all their nuclear activities
under IAEA safeguards. I view this as
an interim measure and shall make it
clear to all potential recipients and to
other nuclear suppliers that our first pref-
erence and continuing objective, is uni-
versal adherence to the Non-Proliferation
Treaty.
3. For the near future, it attempts to
tighten the conditions for U.S. nuclear
cooperation through renegotiation of
existing agreements to meet the same
standards as those we will require in new
agreements. I believe that this approach
will better meet our non-proliferation ob-
jectives than will the unilateral imposition
of new export licensing conditions.
4. It increases the flexibility we need to
deal with an extremely complex subject.
For example, instead of requiring coun-
tries that want our nuclear exports to
foreswear fuel enrichment and reprocess-
ing for all time, it allows us to draft new
agreements using incentives to encourage
countries not to acquire such facilities. It
also permits me to grant exceptions when
doing so would further our basic aim of
non-proliferation. All new cooperation
agreements would, of course, be subject
to Congressional review.
This bill is intended to reassure other
nations that the United States will be a
reliable supplier of nuclear fuel and
equipment for those who genuinely share
our desire for non-proliferation. It will
insure that when all statutory standards
have been met, export licenses will be
issued or, if the judgment of the Exec-
utive Branch and the independent Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission should
differ, that a workable mechanism exists
for resolving the dispute.
Since I intend personally to oversee
Executive Branch actions affecting non-
proliferation, I do not think a substantial
reorganization of the responsibility for
nuclear exports within the Executive
Branch is necessary. This conclusion is
shared
by the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.
The need for prompt action is great.
Until domestic legislation is enacted,
other countries will be reluctant to re-
negotiate their agreements with us, be-
cause they will fear that new legislation
might suddenly change the terms of co-
operation. If the incentives we offer them
to renegotiate with us are not attractive
enough, the United States could lose im-
portant existing safeguards and controls.
And if our policy is too weak, we could
find ourselves powerless to restrain a
deadly worldwide expansion of nuclear
explosive capability. I believe the legisla-
tion now submitted to you strikes the
necessary balance.
The White House,
April 27, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
729
