June 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
people, is recognized throughout this
country and indeed throughout the world.
She also has a good, strong legal back-
ground, and she's brought a sensitivity and
a concern and a compassion to those that
she has represented, combined with a
tough competence in the management of
a very difficult governmental bureauc-
racy. She's managed the commission in
New York with great success.
And we now have a great obstacle in the
guarantee of basic equal rights in Wash-
ington, because of the diversity and the
fragmentation and the maladministration
of some of the agencies that are supposed
to operate efficiently to guarantee those
rights.
And I believe that if anyone can bring
order out of chaos and have a consistent
and effective policy in the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission, it is Elea-
nor Holmes Norton.
Patt Derian comes from a different part
of the country. She comes from Missis-
sippi. And sometimes it's been difficult in
Indiana and New York, I know, to speak
out for civil rights, but I hope that you will
admit that it's a little bit more difficult in
Mississippi, or has been in the past. Not
any more. But there were just a few people
in our part of the country in years gone by
who had the deep commitment and the in-
tense demonstration of courage to be al-
most alone in a community and say the
time has come for the black people of our
region to have a chance to vote, to own
property, to hold a job, to go in public
places, to be educated on an equal basis
with whites. Patt Derian was one of those
very rare people who had the commitment
and the courage to do so.
And now she is on a special assignment
with the State Department, a very major
position. She's already traveled to Africa,
to Latin America, to Geneva to represent
our country. She's gotten worldwide at-
tention and acclaim for her commitment
to human rights and humanitarian pur-
poses of the United States Government.
So, I'm very proud of these three wom-
en. I'm very proud to be one who has
recognized their past achievements. I'm
very proud as your President to be one to
give them an opportunity to do even more
in the future. They are partners of mine
now, and they will be kind of a conscience
for me, for the other public officials in
Washington, and for our Nation, and I
believe will help us set an example that
the world might want to emulate.
Judge Higginbotham will now give
the oath of office to these three fine
Americans.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:03 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Follow-
ing his remarks, A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr.,
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, administered the oath
of office.
United States Liaison Office,
People's Republic of China
Nomination of Leonard Woodcock for the
Rank of Ambassador While Serving as
Chief of the Liaison Office. June 20, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Leonard Woodcock, of De-
troit, Mich., for the rank of Ambassador
while serving as Chief of the United
States Liaison Office in Peking, People's
Republic of China. Woodcock is president
of the United Auto Workers of America
International Union.
He was born February 15, 1911, in
Providence, R.I. He attended Wayne
State University.
Woodcock has been with the United
Auto Workers since 1940, serving as staff
representative from 1940 to 1946, as ad-
ministrative assistant to the president in
1946 and 1947, as regional director from
1132
