Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
I'm also concerned about the whole
problem of productivity, not only here but
across the Nation. Our coal miners today
are not being able to produce the amount
of coal that they were even 10 years ago.
And even though we have more coal min-
ers working than 10 years ago,
the tonnage
is way down. There are a lot of reasons for
that. Part of that reason, I think, comes
as a matter of attitude and certain basic
conflicts between unions and operators-
part mythology, part correct-but in ef-
fect, it's had its toll. And in order to serve
the national interest, which West Virginia
chooses to do, we've got to overcome those,
not only here but elsewhere-problems of
attitudes, problems of relationship.
We think that coal is good. We expect
20 or 30 thousand more jobs in our State
in this future related to coal, directly and
indirectly. And we are proud to have coal.
But we do not want to have coal,
Mr. President, to mine it, to produce it,
to help the Nation serve its problems, and
have this come back and run over the top
of us a little bit like it did in World
War II, when people came in and took
our coal and didn't leave us anything left.
So that we have a very strong sense that
there must be as West Virginia gives its
coal to the Nation-it's going to be costly,
because the socio-economic impact on
West Virginia is something that all of us
in this State have to be very concerned
about.
We're optimistic. We're proud of this
type of forum. We feel we have something
to offer, and we're ready to do it.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Jim?
NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY
MR. SCHLESINGER. Thank you,
President.
Mr.
The first area of discussion for us today
will be the elements that would constitute
a national energy policy.
I'll just make a few brief observations.
We have a legacy which will be short-
lived, a fleeting legacy of fossil fuels. Dur-
ing the past century, we have been going
through those fossil fuels at an increasing
rate. By the early part of the 21st century,
oil and gas will be gone or going; we will
have to become more dependent on coal.
But over the course of the 21st century,
we must find a long-term technological
solution that will provide us with a sub-
stitute for fossil fuels when they perma-
nently run out.
For the next decade, we have only what
we have at hand today. And that means
that we are going to have to do two things
in our national energy policy: conserva-
tion, fuel efficiency on the one hand, and
switching to those fuels that are domestic-
ally available, notably coal, on the other.
Those will be the principal challenges,
and the President will be proposing a leg-
islative program on the 20th of April to
achieve those near-term objectives as well
as a longer-term solution.
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Do you want to call on
some of the other folks?
MR. SCHLESINGER. Mayor Hutchinson.
MAYOR HUTCHINSON. Mr. President,
very quickly, West Virginia and Charles-
ton is proud to have you and members of
your official family with us today. Con-
servation, as you well know, is a necessary
first step in the solution of the energy
problem, not only in the short term, to
ease the pain somewhat in the availability
of energy, but in the long run, necessary
building blocks for a long-range policy.
Conservation, as you know, is either
voluntary or mandatory. And the deci-
sions, where you bite the bullet, will fall
someplace in between the two.
The connotation of mandatory regula-
tion brings about the specter, possibly, of
hardship and rationing to the American
people. But our people, as you know, have
405
