May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
can be seen in Europe as an American
pressure in order to prevent the European
people from getting more independence
in terms of energy, in terms of nuclear
fuel or exports. What's your answer to
this reaction that you have in Europe,
especially in France and in Germany?
THE PRESIDENT. The sharp distinction
that needs to be drawn, which hasn't
been adequately understood yet, is that we
favor the supply of adequate nuclear fuel
to nations for power production and we
will rapidly increase our own capability
in this country to manufacture and to dis-
tribute enriched uranium. That is com-
patible, I think, among all nations.
We also are heavily committed to the
prevention of the capability of non-
nuclear nations from developing explo-
sives, atomic weapons. We think the key
to that is whether or not these non-
nuclear countries sign the nonprolifera-
tion treaty on the one hand and forgo the
opportunity to reprocess spent nuclear
fuel or used nuclear fuel into explosives,
as was done by India just a few years ago.
This creates a disharmony among us,
but I think the basic principle is compati-
ble between us and the Federal Republic
of Germany, between us and France.
MR. DIMBLEBY. You have been con-
demned today by the 59-nation energy
conference in Salzburg by the chairman,
who is saying that at a time when atomic
energy is needed, what you have done is
made it harder than ever to get it.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is an in-
correct statement on his part, because as I
pointed out, we will substantially increase
our production of nuclear fuels. We are
very eager to sell our own nuclear power-
plants. We are very eager to see other na-
tions do the same.
What we don't want to do is to give
these nonnuclear countries the capability
of making weapons. And I don't think
these two thrusts of our policy are
incompatible.
MR. WEISS. Could you perhaps, Mr.
President, explain in some more detail the
conditions and criteria under which the
United States will in the future reliably
supply nuclear fuel? Could nuclear fuel
elements originally supplied by the United
States be reprocessed in third countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. They are now.
And they would be permitted to be re-
processed in the future.
MR. WEISS. Now, the German Federal
Government has said it is in no position
to retreat from the nuclear exports. Do
you consider this still as a deal concluded
with Brazil-
MR. DE LA TAILLE. Or France with
Pakistan.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
MR. WEISS.—as a major
a major impedi-
ment to your desire to curb proliferation?
THE PRESIDENT. We have expressed
ourselves publicly in this administration-
and my predecessor, President Ford, and
Secretary Kissinger did the same—in de-
ploring the sale of the reprocessing plants
both to Pakistan and to Brazil. This is a
decision, though, for France, the Federal
Republic of Germany, Brazil, and Paki-
stan to make themselves. We hope that
our objection to this sale, which has been
openly expressed, will curb or prevent
future sales of this kind being consum-
mated regardless of the action of the
nations on these two particular sales.
I don't know what's going to happen
in Brazil or Pakistan about these pur-
chases. My understanding is that the
Brazilians are quite determined to go
through with their reprocessing capability.
But we did object to it. We do object to
it. We are not going to try to impose our
will on other countries. And we believe
that our opposition will prevent similar
sales in the future.
764
