Apr. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Columbia Code, and on March twenty-
third, 1973, was sentenced to twenty
years' imprisonment and ordered to pay
a fine of forty thousand dollars ($40,000);
and
WHEREAS the fine has not been paid
and the said George Gordon Liddy began
National Defense
Transportation Day and
National Transportation
Week, 1977
Proclamation 4500. April 13, 1977
service of his sentence on January thirti- By the President of the United States
eth, 1973, is presently confined in the
Federal Prison Camp, Allenwood, Penn-
sylvania, will be eligible for release there-
from with credit for statutory good time
on April twelfth, 1988, and will be eligible
for parole consideration on July ninth,
1981; and
WHEREAS it has been made to appear
that the ends of justice do not require that
the aforesaid sentence be served in its
entirety:
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT KNOWN, that
I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United
States of America, in consideration of the
premises, divers other good and sufficient
reasons me thereunto moving, do hereby
commute the aforesaid prison sentence of
said George Gordon Liddy to a term of
the eight years' imprisonment, the forty
thousand dollars ($40,000) fine to remain
in effect.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF I have here-
unto signed my name and caused the seal
of the Department of Justice to be affixed.
[SEAL]
-DONE at the City of Washington this
Twelfth Day of April, in the Year of
Our Lord One Thousand Nine Hun-
dred and Seventy-seven and of the
Independence of the United States
the Two-Hundred and First.
By the President: JIMMY CARTER
Attorney General: GRIFFIN B. BELL
NOTE: Deputy Press Secretary Rex Granum
announced the order of commutation at his
of America
A Proclamation
Our Nation's transportation network
provides us with the goods and services
we need and the mobility in work and
play that we want.
While our transportation systems have
improved in recent years, they can still be
made more efficient, accessible, and re-
sponsive to the needs of the nation. The
Federal Government should take the lead
in establishing and carrying out policies
to help reduce energy consumption, cur-
tail environmental abuses, and increase
competition.
In recognition of the importance of re-
liable transportation to our economy and
defense, and to encourage continued
work on the problems that face our cities,
roads, rail, air and water ways, the Con-
gress has requested the President to pro-
claim annually the third Friday in May
as National Defense Transportation Day,
and the week in which that day falls as
National Transportation Week (71 Stat.
30, 36 U.S.C. 160; 76 Stat. 69, 36 U.S.C.
166).
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Friday, May 20,
1977, as National Defense Transportation
Day, and the week beginning May 15,
1977, as National Transportation Week.
I urge the Governors of our States and
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
April 12 news conference at the White House. Mayor of the District of Columbia, and
610
