Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 3
But I remember another difficult time in our Nation's history when
we felt a different spirit. During World War II we faced a terrible crisis—
but the challenge of fighting Nazism drew us together.
Those of us old enough to remember know that they were dark and
frightening times—but many of our memories are of people ready to help
each other for the common good.
I believe that we are ready for that same spirit again—to plan ahead,
to work together, and to use common sense. Not because of war, but be-
cause we realize that we must act together to solve our problems, and be-
cause we are ready to trust one another.
As President, I will not be able to provide everything that every one
of you might like. I am sure to make many mistakes. But I can promise
that your needs will never be ignored, nor will we forget who put us in
office.
We will always be a nation of differences-business and labor, blacks
and whites, men and women, people of different regions and religions and
different ethnic backgrounds—but with faith and confidence in each
other our differences can be a source of personal fullness and national
strength, rather than a cause of weakness and division.
If we are a united nation, then I can be a good President. But I will
need your help to do it. I will do my best. I know you will do yours.
Thank you very much, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. from the Library at the White House. His ad-
dress was broadcast live on radio and television.
President's Personal Emissary to
Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus
Designation of Clark M. Clifford.
February 3, 1977
The President announced today that he
has asked Clark M. Clifford to undertake
a special mission to Greece, Turkey, and
Cyprus as his personal emissary.
Mr. Clifford will visit all three coun-
tries in the near future, on a schedule to
be developed in consultation with the
three governments concerned.
In Greece and Turkey, Mr. Clifford
will discuss matters relating to our bilat-
eral relations with these two valued allies.
Through these consultations he will seek
to improve our understanding of matters.
of importance to them and to the United
States.
Mr. Clifford's visit to Cyprus will be
designed to enable him to make an inde-
pendent assessment of the situation on the
island, prospects for early movement to-
ward a negotiated settlement, and how we
might be of assistance in this process.
He will consult with United Nations
Secretary General Waldheim, who will be
visiting Cyprus in mid-February, and
77
