Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
most important steps that you can take to
encourage conservation, because I don't
think voluntary conservation will work,
but economic conservation will.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Mat-
thews.
I am going to let Dr. Schlesinger answer
that.
MR. SCHLESINGER. We will be review-
ing a variety of proposals with regard to
rate structures and, in particular, with re-
spect to the natural gas market which is
in such a sad state of disequilibrium.
There will be proposals to reduce the
temptation for industry excessively to burn
gas.
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the station-
ary powerplants, the use of natural gas is
going to be phased out as rapidly as we
can.
REGULATORY REFORM
Q. Mr. President, my name is Edward
Hall.
My question is actually directed to Sec-
retary Andrus. I would like the Secretary
to know that I am a practicing lawyer here
in Charleston, and I have corresponded
with him since his appointment to his
position.
The question, in fact, deals with what
the representatives of the industry feel is
an inhibition to greater production of coal,
especially in West Virginia, from the in-
consistencies possibly, in the application
and interpretation of a very good law, the
1969 Coal Mine Health and Safety Act.
Your predecessor, by regulation, cre-
ated what is called the Interior Board of
Mine Operations Appeals. It is not a stat-
utory body. The members of that particu-
lar reviewing body are lawyers who do
not qualify from any other sense of quali-
fication through any civil servant require-
ments, and in their interpretation of this
particular law, it seems to be that there
have been created several inconsistencies.
I think maybe the lack of direction to
the industry and, for that matter, as far
as labor is concerned, in the interpretation
of that law itself, causes an enormous
amount of litigation.
My question is in the form of what was
your response to the administrative law
judge group's proposal to abandon the In-
terior Board of Mine Operations Appeals?
As I understand, their recommendation is
that if you did that, that it would stream-
line the administration of your office and
would save the taxpayers over $1 million
a year. I wonder what your position on
that is?
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Mr. President, as
a matter of fact, that's before the Solicitor,
within the Department of Interior right
now. Frankly, you advised me and the
group that you have corresponded with
me, implying that I haven't answered. If
I have not, I beg your pardon.
THE PRESIDENT. He did.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Yes, I I did.
[Laughter]
I would point out that before we had
the Solicitor and the Under Secretary and
others confirmed, I was like a yo-yo, back
and forth to the Hill, and I signed those
in stacks at night. So I thought, "Oh, oh,
I've lost one."
But it's before the Solicitor's office in-
ternally right now. It's attractive with ref-
erence to the savings that we can bring
about to the taxpayer.
Our concern, sir, is simply whether in
fact there was some productivity within
that Board that should be salvaged in an-
other way and cut down the redtape. And
I'm not prepared to say that to throw it
all out is the answer. But our Solicitor is
looking at it right now and perhaps by
tomorrow will have helped to bring about
that determination.
But I'll correspond with you again.
Q. I appreciate that, sir.
432
