May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
sized to an adequate degree, I believe, our
own Nation's commitment to human
rights, which has been a disturbing factor
in international councils.
I have removed all restraints on Amer-
ican citizens to travel abroad, reopened
discussions with the Vietnamese, with the
People's Republic of China, with Cuba.
We tried to lead toward a normalization
of relations with those countries, and also
with 10 or 11 other nations with whom we
don't now have diplomatic relations.
And of course, on the domestic scene,
we've put forward a comprehensive eco-
nomic stimulus package which, even after
the withdrawal of the $50 tax rebate, still
comprises a heavy emphasis on jobs, job
training, public works, and amounts to
more than $20 billion.
These are some of the items that we
have discussed. I think the major criticism
of my administration has been, perhaps,
that it's been too open; that an apparent
naïveté in dealing with foreign countries
and with the Congress through the pub-
lic debate and discussion has, perhaps, in
some instances prevented the concealment
of failure or, perhaps, in some instances
contributed to dissension between our-
selves and our friends and allies both in
the Congress and overseas. But my own
commitment is to try to address difficult
questions, to do the best we can to resolve
them, to make our proposals public, to
have a maximum of exposure of what we
are doing, so that debate both among
American citizens and in the Congress and
overseas can be conciliatory toward deriv-
ing the best examples or the best solutions
or answers.
These are some of the things that I see
as an analysis of the first 3 months or so.
And I'd be glad now to answer any ques-
tions that you might have for a few
minutes.
QUESTIONS
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, this is John Quinn of
the Gannett News Service.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, John.
Q. In the first hundred days, some have
seen a pattern of compromise rather than
confrontation with Congress. After the ex-
perience with the tax rebate and the water
projects and with that heavy agenda of is-
sues ahead, can we expect to shift to a
"no more Mr. Nice Guy" policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, contrary to what
has been reported, the $50 tax rebate was
withdrawn simply because it is not needed.
At the time we proposed it we had a com-
pletely different set of economic circum-
stances, and we hoped for the rebate to
actually go out in the mail very early in
May. As the time for the vote in the Sen-
ate grew near, the economic improve-
ments had made it unwarranted and the
delay, even if it had been warranted,
would have been counterproductive.
On the water projects, I haven't given
up on those. We have advocated, as you
know, about a dozen and a half projects
to be completely eliminated. We've drasti-
cally reduced the amount of money com-
mitted to about nine others, and we've ap-
proved some that we reassessed.
I think the subcommittee in the House
took an action within the last few hours
that is very mistaken, and I intend to pur-
sue a curtailment of water projects until
the last vote in the House or Senate.
I'm very determined to carry forward
the proposals that I make to the Congress.
I'm eager to get along with the Members
of Congress but have no hesitancy about
going public with my positions or fighting
for projects, even though sometimes we
may not win them all.
790
