Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
must be addressed in a comprehensive
farm bill.
My own recommendations on basic
farm price supports are much lower than
many farmers desire. They are predicated
on a commitment to make American food
products competitive on an international
market scale with similar products from
other countries.
We've also tried to give in a new farm
bill a proposal, which I think is adequate,
to maintain farmers' income at a break-
even point on individual crops. I've never
wanted to guarantee farmers a profit.
We've tried to assess the cost of produc-
tion, and that's a recommendation.
The building up of adequate reserves
of basic food supplies-wheat, soybeans,
and so forth to be held primarily by
farmers themselves, is the best approach,
I think, to the question. Almost chroni-
cally we have a shortage of soybeans. The
American soybean production comprises
about 85 percent of all soybeans traded
in international circles. And of course, we
have a dominant portion of the wheat
traded on a worldwide basis coming from
our country.
So, with adequate production, adequate
storage when you have excessive produc-
tion, and orderly marketing primarily
controlled by farmers, I believe that we
can remove the wild fluctuations that
have been characteristic of farm prices
in the past.
As you know, we had sugar almost a
dollar a pound just a few months ago.
Now it's down less than the cost of
pro-
duction, about 12 cents a pound. And I
will try to pursue an international market-
ing agreement on sugar.
So, in many different ways, varying
from one crop to another, we are trying to
hold down the wild fluctuations in food
prices. Almost invariably the prices go up
after the farmers sell their crop; the con-
sumers pay. When the prices go down to
the farmer, they do not go down quite
often in the marketplace. So, stability is
good for the farmers and consumers.
ENERGY PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, there appear to be
some different philosophies on two prob-
lems. In the field of energy, it's pretty clear
your program is going to have mandatory
incentives to force Americans to save fuel.
Yet in this inflation program it is pretty
clear that you leave it up to voluntarism
on holding down wages and prices. Now,
why do you think Americans need to be
forced to save energy but will voluntarily
shown restraint in the field of wage and
price increases?
THE PRESIDENT. Because I'm still work-
ing on my energy policy and will spend
the whole weekend in this pursuit and
will make a major statement next week
on energy policy, I don't want to get into
details. But I believe that a predictable
energy policy with tight constraints on
waste of increasingly scarce energy sources
is by far the least inflationary approach to
the question.
With a lack of planning, a lack of com-
prehension of the problem, and a lack of
effort to conserve scarce energy products,
you are going to have a wildly escalating
inflationary impact which we've experi-
enced in the last 4 or 5 years.
So, I don't think the two questions are
incompatible at all. When you have ex-
cessive regulation of an industry-say air-
lines-it's obviously inflationary. In almost
every instance I believe the free competi-
tion in our enterprise system is superior.
There comes a time when commodities
like energy are extremely scarce, when
there has to be perpetuated some Govern-
ment controls. But in the energy package
we will try to minimize those regulations
and controls. But at the same time, I be-
lieve that our policy will be less inflation-
633
