Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Mr. President.
I understand that this trip is a historic
first. To have a Vice President leave on a
diplomatic mission this quickly after in-
auguration on a diplomatic mission of
this kind is unprecedented in American
history. And the reason for the trip is
to demonstrate immediately and dramati-
cally the high level of importance that the
Carter administration places on high
level, continuous, cooperative relation-
ships with our traditional allies and
friends.
The many problems that we face, they
also face. The problems of inflation, un-
employment, nuclear proliferation, con-
trol of armaments, the relationships be-
tween our nations and the poorer nations
of the world, and many other issues are
issues which we face together. And it's
essential at the very moment of beginning
that the cooperative relationship be estab-
lished in a way that permits us to move
ahead quickly, effectively, and coopera-
tively.
I look forward to this trip, and I wish
to thank the President for his confidence
in me.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Are you sure
that helicopter works? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. If it doesn't we'll all
be very disappointed.
I caught a lot of flak when I issued the
pardon proclamation. Maybe this will re-
store faith in the American people, having
you leave the country for 10 days. Well,
we love you, and thank you very much.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. As I told some
people at the Inaugural, the mail has been
pouring in as follows: "Dear Jimmy, if I
had known that your first move would be
to send Mondale out of the country, I
would have voted for you." [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
am proud of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:38 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Swearing-In Ceremony for
Members of the Cabinet
Remarks at the Ceremony. January 23, 1977
We decided to forgo the "Ruffles and
Flourishes" and "Hail to the Chief."
It is really a great pleasure for me to
be here this afternoon on the first official
and completely open ceremony to the
press, to take a great step forward in what
I hope will be a good administration for
the American people. And that is a swear-
ing in of a superb group of Cabinet of-
ficers and other leaders of our Nation.
My first very gratifying experience af-
ter I was nominated to be the Democratic
candidate for President was to introduce
to the country my choice for Vice Presi-
dent, Walter Mondale, and we set a stand-
ard of excellence there that I hope to
maintain throughout my own adminis-
tration. It would be hard to equal what
Fritz Mondale has meant to me, but I be-
lieve I will be equally close to the Cabinet
members and other leaders that will be
sworn in this afternoon.
I want to thank the Congress for their
close cooperation so far. We don't have a
complete entourage this afternoon to ac-
cept the oath. I have always heard about
the advise and consent role of the Con-
gress so far they have been a little
stronger on the advice than they have on
the consent. We will have three or four
delayed ceremonies. I hope that there will
be a very rapid move though toward com-
pleting our leadership group.
This afternoon, I would like to wel-
come in particular the friends and neigh-
12
