Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 22
which is a very low and an artificially low
price. The difference between this very
low price and the world price will be in-
creased in the form of taxes which would
be refunded to the American public.
So, what we are doing in effect, to ex-
press it in general terms, is we are raising
the price of fuel for everyone. We have an
additional tax for those who deliberately
waste fuel. We refund all these collected
taxes, and they will be of great benefit to
Americans or families who conserve fuel.
And the overall impact will be to reduce
consumption substantially below what it
would have been. Just to give you one
statistic, we would have been using im-
ported oil at the rate of 16 million barrels
per day by 1985. If this plan goes into
effect, that 16 million barrels per day will
be reduced to only 6 million barrels a day.
RAPID TRANSIT
Q. In your effort to reduce consumption
of gasoline, however, the program seems
to place very little emphasis on, if any
emphasis, on rapid transit and mass tran-
sit. Why not?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that this
is a separate item that will be handled
under the Transportation Department.
We do intend to continue with our efforts
toward rapid transit. It's not part of the
energy package as such.
We have already embarked upon a mas-
sive rapid transit effort in this country. It
will be continued and I think would per-
haps be expedited.
We are now approaching the time of
completion of many portions of the inter-
state highway system, and the pressures for
that construction cost will lessen.
As I mentioned in my energy speech,
though, we have one problem, and that is
the maintenance of highways that are al-
ready constructed. As we reduce the con-
sumption of gasoline, we'll have to make
that up to States so they can continue an
adequate maintenance program, because
they'll sell less gas in those States and
they'll collect less gas tax.
But we will not ignore the rapid transit
systems, and I think there will be a sub-
stantial shift toward increasing use of the
public transportation systems, rapid tran-
sit, as the price of the gas guzzler automo-
biles goes up and as the price of fuel goes
up.
HYDROELECTRIC POWER
Q. Mr. President, in neither of your
addresses this week did you place much
emphasis on the question of capping the
unexploited hydroelectric power sites in
the country, and in your administration's
fact sheet there was mention only of Army
Engineer add-ons to existing projects. Do
you have any plans for encouraging either
the private utility companies or State
power agencies where they exist to exploit
these untapped hydroelectric sources
where they are economically and environ-
mentally feasible?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when they are
economically and environmentally feas-
ible, yes. But I think the fact is that in the
historical development of our Nation the
obviously beneficial sites where dams
might be constructed and hydroelectric
power might be derived have already been
utilized or construction plans are well on
the way. This now comprises about 4 per-
cent of our Nation's energy supplies-
hydroelectric power. I don't see any possi-
bility of increasing that substantially as a
percentage of our total use.
ENERGY TAX REVENUES
Q. Mr. President, a minute ago you said
that all the money would be refunded in
the form of direct tax payments, yet some
of your advisers said that some of the re-
funds would be in the form of other pay-
ments. What percentage of the rebates
697
