Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
for a new system which will minimize abuse, strengthen the family, and
emphasize adequate support for those who cannot work and training
and jobs for those who can work. We expect their first report to be ready
within 90 days.
In the meantime, I will support the Congress in its efforts to deal with
the widespread fraud and waste and abuse of our Medicaid system.
Reforming the Government also means making the Government as
open and honest as it can be. Congress is moving strongly on ethics legis-
lation.
I've asked the people appointed by me to high positions in Govern-
ment to abide by strict rules of financial disclosure and to avoid all con-
flicts of interest. I intend to make those rules permanent. And I will select
my appointees in such a way which will close the revolving door between
Government regulatory agencies on the one hand and the businesses they
regulate on the other.
My Cabinet members and I will conduct an open administration,
with frequent press conferences and reports to the people and with "Town
Hall" meetings all across the Nation, where you can criticize, make sug-
gestions, and ask questions.
We are also planning with some of the radio networks live, call-in
sessions in the Oval Office during which I can accept your phone calls and
answer the questions that are on your mind. I have asked the members of
the Cabinet to travel regularly around the country to stay in close touch
with you out in your communities where Government services are
delivered.
There are many other areas of domestic policy-housing, health, crime,
education, agriculture, and others—that will concern me as President but
which I do not have time to discuss tonight.
All of these projects will take careful study and close cooperation
with the Congress. Many will take longer than I would like. But we are
determined to work on all of them. Later, through other reports, I will
explain how, with your help and the help of Congress, we can carry them
out.
I have also made commitments about our Nation's foreign policy.
As Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, I am determined to have
a strong, lean, efficient fighting force. Our policy should be based on close
cooperation with our allies and worldwide respect for human rights, a
reduction in world armaments, and it must always reflect our own moral
values. I want our Nation's actions to make you proud.
75
