Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 30
most every leader in Europe-sometimes
only 15 minutes, sometimes for an hour or
an hour and a half.
And following the summit, which is a
seven-nation meeting, we'll have a special
meeting, a very private meeting of the
nations responsible for Berlin. And then
I will go to Geneva to meet with Presi-
dent Asad from Syria. I'm trying to meet
with all the Middle Eastern leaders be-
fore the end of May. And I'll come back
to London for the NATO Conference
and then back home.
So, I think we'll derive a great deal of
benefit from it. I think we'll come away
from there with a new knowledge of the
differences that divide us and the options
to be presented to our people and the
Congress. I think we'll find a lot of com-
mon ground that we haven't yet recog-
nized. But tensions tend to build up
among nations when there is not an easy
way to communicate between the heads
of state.
And I was quite concerned, as I said
earlier, about the potential breakdown in
negotiating new air rights. The British
feel that we have too many planes flying
between our country and London with
too many empty seats, that this is wasteful
of energy and wasteful of airplanes, that
it creates excessive competition and ex-
cessive costs for the few passengers who
do fly on a half-empty plane. We agree
with that.
The British are also, though, quite in-
sistent that we cut down on the number
of additional points that we serve beyond
London. We feel a much more deep dedi-
cation to the free enterprise system and
to competition than most of our allies,
even as close a friend as Britain. And just
the fact that Jim Callaghan and I can sit
down and talk about these things and see
what we can yield on—we cannot afford
to let another country tell us what the ca-
pacity of our airplanes ought to be-but
I can tell Jim Callaghan that I'll person-
ally be responsible to him that we cut
down on the waste of empty seats, but
that we cannot yield on that point and
that we can't give up our right to travel
beyond London to Frankfurt, to Copen-
hagen, and to other points around the
world. So just the fact that we can have
a personal relationship will benefit us
greatly.
Let me say in closing that I really ap-
preciate a chance to meet with you. I
wish I had more time to talk about things
in detail. All of these matters that get
to the President's desk, as you can well
see, are things that can't be solved at a
State level or between employers and em-
ployees or within the Congress. And I've
welcomed a chance to get deeply in-
volved. I've enjoyed it.
Our family has gotten well established
in the White House. Amy is enjoying her
school nearby. Rosalynn has gotten deeply
involved in problems concerning the el-
derly and in her mental health work.
We've had a tremendous increase here in
the burden on our staffs because of our
openness. I get from 65- to 85,000 letters
a week, and this is about three or four
times more than President Ford got. Rosa-
lynn gets 3- or 4,000 a week. Amy gets
2,000 letters a week.
We appreciate this access to the public,
but it has caused us some problem in staff-
ing. And we hope that our availability and
accessability to you will be the kind of
thing that we can maintain as long as I am
here.
Rosalynn had-we were really worried
about Rosalynn for 2 or 3 days. She had a
lump in her breast and we obviously didn't
know the character of it, but yesterday
afternoon she had an operation and it
turned out to be benign. And we are very
grateful about that.
I might say I haven't told anybody
else, but President Ford called last night.
757
