Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
personnel within that 10 percent is very
easy. Over a 4-year period of time, it is
compounded, of course; that's 40 percent
of the people who change their status on
their own initiative.
So, I would hope that we could accom-
modate the problems with past abuses of
grade creep and also accommodate the
changes that you advocate and that I
agree on, on reorganization within the
constraints of normal attrition, so that I
don't disturb your lives and your status as
a Government employee.
CONSUMER PROTECTION AGENCY
Q. Mr. President, when do you intend
to appoint a Special Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Consumer Affairs? And, coupled
with that question, when do you intend to
submit legislation to the Hill to establish
an independent consumer agency?
THE PRESIDENT. The legislation to es-
tablish an independent consumer protec-
tion agency is already there. I favor it
strongly and will use all my influence as
President to get the agency established.
As far as appointing a Special Assistant
for Consumer Affairs, if I do that, it would
be on a temporary basis and would exist
within the White House only until we
could get the consumer protection agency
established by law.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, do you have a time-
table for and a phased approach-or do
you advocate a phased approach to na-
tional health insurance?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is do I
have a timetable for, and do I favor a
phased approach for national health in-
surance. The answer is yes, I have a time-
table and a phased approach.
I made a speech on this subject to the
black medical students convention last
March. And I would like to ask Secretary
Califano to get a copy of the speech and
make it available to you and to others who
have an interest in it.
We do need to move on national health
care in a phased basis. I would say the
first thing we need to do-and Joe and I
have already talked about this extensively
-is to assess what we presently spend on
health care. There are some abuses in
Medicaid and Medicare. I think there is
a rapidly increasing cost for both hospital
and physicians' care that's unwarranted.
We need to have an additional empha-
sis on prevention of disease. We talked
yesterday at length, Secretary Califano
and I did, about child disease immuniza-
tions and the searching out of young chil-
dren who need outpatient care as a first
step. And what I'd like to do is, before the
end of this year, to have clear in my mind
and, hopefully, clear in yours, a year-by-
year progression toward a complete com-
prehensive health care system.
I think that the cost of it has got to be
very carefully assessed. We'll have to have
some tradeoffs about what ought to be put
into it and not. But I want everybody, by
the end of this year, to understand the
major steps and the time schedule and the
best estimates of costs of a move toward
comprehensive health care.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOME RULE
Q. How do you feel about complete
home rule for the District of Columbia
and what do you intend to do about the
$10 million request that was cut by Presi-
dent Ford?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is what
I feel about complete home rule for the
District of Columbia and what do I feel
about the $10 million request that was cut
by President Ford.
I'm not familiar with the $10 million
request. It hasn't got to me. I presume it's
in the hands of the Office of Management
and Budget now. So I can't answer your
question about that.
162
