Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We had a question at HEW this morn-
ing that might be important to you, in
fact, we had two questions; that is, on the
correction of the increasing percentages
of Federal employees who occupy the
higher grade levels. There has been a dis-
proportionate accumulation of persons in
those high grade levels. Something has got
to be done to correct that.
My own inclination again is to use the
concept of normal attrition rather than
demoting people in an unfair way. But by
having some freeze for a limited period of
time to get the proportion reestablished
and by using normal resignations and re-
tirements and transfers initiated by the
employees themselves, I think we can cor-
rect this problem much better and more
fairly than by just peremptorily demoting
people who have been granted a promo-
tion because of their accomplishment.
ENVIRONMENT
Q. How do you feel about the mix of
environmental quality and production?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is how
do I feel about the mix between environ-
mental quality and preservation and pro-
duction of food and fiber.
gress.
We also need to have in the research
and development program a search for
less toxic chemicals that can be used.
Many of the chemicals that we formerly
accepted as a normal part of our lives,
like DDT, we have now found that they
have very serious long-range impact on
not only animal life but also human life.
I think that we have to balance them as
best we can on an individual case basis.
I think that the farmers have been very
eager to accommodate changes in new
chemicals. I know in my own warehouse
business, we act almost like a school.
When a new chemical comes out that has
been proven to be both effective and safe,
we teach all of our former customers along
with the county agents and others how to
use those chemicals in a proper fashion.
I can't answer your question simply be-
cause it is a complicated question. But I
would not deliberately derogate the qual-
ity of our human and animal life in this
country just to have a slight increase in
productivity. I think it can be balanced.
I think research and development and
predictable policies on quality standards
which are reasonable are the only ap-
proaches that I think can resolve this
basic conflict. It is not a good answer, but
it is the best I can give you.
Yes, in the back, standing up?
FOREIGN POLICY
Q. [Inaudible]
I don't want to mislead you. I am a
farmer myself. I use a wide range of her-
bicides and insecticides and other chemi-
cals. Also we have a problem in my own
processing plants. I have a cotton gin
and a peanut shelling plant that I have
now relinquished control of. But we have
a problem there with environmental qual-cult to answer in a simplistic way.
ity as well, air pollution in particular. As
you know, farmers who are involved in
livestock management quite often have
additional problem with water
an
pollution.
So, in the use of toxic chemicals and
air and water pollution, I think we ought
to be
very strict in adhering to the stand-
ards that have been established by Con-
THE PRESIDENT. That question is diffi-
I would hope that we could get bilateral
and multilateral agreement between our
Nation and one other country and our
Nation and all nations, to eliminate the
possibility of additional nations being able
to build atomic weapons. That would in-
clude South Africa, further development
in India, an expansion of the nuclear ca-
pability to other countries, like Brazil, Ar-
172
