Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 16
tain thing is the Rodino bill now because
Congressman Rodino has not decided
what he wants to be in his bill.
I think some element of amnesty will
be mandatory. How far back to go, what
particular kinds of citizens to grant am-
nesty to will be the difficult questions.
But I don't think that we could have any
sort of workable control on undocu-
mented workers or illegal aliens if we just
say that everyone who's here who's not a
citizen has got to be arrested and forced
to depart to Mexico.
Some of those illegal aliens have been
here 15 or 20 years. They are fine Ameri-
can citizens in the practical sense of the
word "citizen." They have good jobs, they
are self-supporting, and we don't want to
kick them out. But I think the definition
of amnesty is the difficult part. But I do
think amnesty is going to be a part of the
program, yes.
FLOOD DISASTER CONTROL PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, I am Bob Comstock
[The Record, Hackensack, N.J.] I had the
job your cousin Don once held in Hacken-
sack, New Jersey.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Q. And a matter of great concern there
is the Federal flood disaster control
pro-
gram, whereby a house which is desig-
nated in a flood plain and severely dam-
aged by flood or by fire, or anything else,
it's difficult, if not impossible, to rebuild.
The act in '73 authorized purchase-
negotiation for purchase of houses par-
tially damaged, but it has never been
funded.
I wonder if you have a position on this
program or have concerned yourself with
it at all and feel that the Federal Govern-
ment has an obligation to people they re-
fused to allow to rebuild a house which is
60-percent damaged, for instance?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with
that particular provision and don't have
an opinion to express. We do have, this
week, a legitimate need to designate sev-
eral States as major disaster areas, at least
certain counties in those States. I have
done that already, in several instances.
But whether or not the Congress needs
to appropriate money specifically to pur-
chase homes in a flood plain area which is
dangerous and can't be corrected, with
upstream dams and so forth, I just don't
know how to answer that question now.
I haven't gone into it.
PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, I am Walter Cowan,
from the States-Item of New Orleans.
I am very much interested in one of
your proposals. You talk about recreating
the old-type CCC. I think it was really a
worthwhile organization. And you have
mentioned revitalizing the neighborhoods
in some of the rundown cities, of which
New Orleans has its great share, along
with New York and Detroit and places
like that.
What about the prospect of tying the
CCC-type operation into an urban neigh-
borhood improvement program that
really has meaning to it? I am thinking
about a corps that would move from
neighborhood to neighborhood, probably
centered around the public schools, and
really upgrade the inner cities.
We have a big movement now back to
the cities and there's no reason why a lot
of those rundown areas couldn't be re-
vitalized. What would you think about
that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is an ex-
cellent idea. We have left intact, after
withdrawing the rebate and the business
tax credit, about $20 billion to $23 billion
in economic stimulus. All but about $4
billion of that is for job programs. And
645
