May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mr. President, you expressed your be-
lief that international relations should be
based on the solid ground of morality,
high ideals, and genuine respect for hu-
man rights. Sharing your belief, Mr. Presi-
dent, that any policy defying these values
and standards is doomed to failure, we
hope that this humane conviction on your
part will contribute to bringing about a
new era in international relations where
supremacy will be for right and not for
might, for justice and not for oppression.
Your sympathetic attitude towards the
Third World's search for a future without
hunger, poverty, or backwardness means
that we can look forward toward a future
full of understanding and cooperation be-
tween the industrial nations and the
developing nations, between the energy-
producing nations and the energy-con-
suming nations, in order to build an in-
ternational community free of discrimina-
tion, injustice, or exploitation.
Mr. President, what concerns us most
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
Arab world in general is to achieve our
goals in the areas of development, well-
being, and stability. We are concerned
with using our own resources and invest-
ing them in programs that will enable us
to catch up with progress and technology,
to shake off the burdens of backwardness
and their inherent ills, which infest man's
best values and turn him against every-
thing that is good and noble.
The greatest hindrance to achieving
this creative, enriching goal is the prob-
lem of instability in the Middle East area
whose core is the Palestine issue with all
its ramifications-this issue, which for
more than a quater of a century has been
pleading, has been crying out for free
human consciousness hoping to find one
with a just and clear vision, to say a word
of justice that will restore the situation
and return a displaced people to its
homeland.
I hope that our discussions here with
you, Mr. President, will enhance the
peace prospects and clarify the justice
of Arab demands. Looking at the develop-
ments in the Palestinian issue during the
last few months I find it a pleasant task
to express my appreciation to the friendly
people of the United States of America
and my thanks to you, Mr. President, for
the realistic view and the increasing un-
derstanding of the Palestinian issue.
I believe that this view will give the
issue the needed thrust to achieve just
peace and permanent stability in the Mid-
dle East, where the energy of its peoples
might then be devoted to their develop-
ment and betterment.
We in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
look with optimism to what can be at-
tained through the increased relations be-
tween our two nations for our mutual
benefit, to what can be coveted through
your support and that of the friendly
American people for a just solution to the
Palestinian issue and its people who suf-
fered displacement, destitution, and ex-
pulsion from their homeland, Mr.
President.
Mr. President, Excellencies, and
friends, please permit me to express my
true appreciation and gratitude for your
kind reception and genuine warm feelings
and to convey the same to the friendly
American people from the people of the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
I thank you very much, Mr. President,
and if you will permit me, I would like to
propose a toast in the name of King
Khalid and ourselves to the President of
the United States of America.
President Carter.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:45 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
1008
