Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
THE PRESIDENT. And you reclaimed
25,000. So you're reclaiming now about
the same acres as you
all-
Ms. STEPHENSON. Some of that is be-
ing reclaimed which is abandoned orphan
lands. I don't know the percentage on
that. But there is a percentage of that
that's going for reclaiming of those lands.
So in all of them, of course, that's under
permits, isn't being stripped, you know,
that year. I was just going to say, to re-
claim all the orphan lands is going to take
10 years, if we reclaim 25,000 acres a
year, because we have about a quarter of
a million according to some statistics I
have seen.
Could I respond to a couple of other
things?
THE PRESIDENT. Please, while you have
the floor.
Ms. STEPHENSON. One of the concerns
we had about strip mining in “Save Our
Mountains" was the fact that all the per-
mits in this State, and I gather the permits
that are going to come after H.R. 2 and
Senate bill 7 become law, are going to be
done on a permit-by-permit basis. In re-
gard to mountaintop removal, there has to
be impact statements made. That has to
be looked at, some use of mountaintop
removal, unless the industry is trying to
get this changed, I believe. There has to
be valid use for that land afterwards, and
there has to be as good or better than the
use before.
That's going to present some problems
out west. It's going to present some
problems here. I would like to see those
regulations left in. But the problem is that
if it's on a permit-by-permit basis, that
these strip mine permits are granted, there
is no place currently in this State where
there is an overall look at the whole re-
gional impact of what that means,
whether it is watershed by watershed,
whether you want to call it a State plan-
ning area or by State.
And I think that's extremely important,
that in looking at the long-term energy
needs of this country-and I think we
have got to talk in 50 and 100 years as
well as 5 and 10-we have got to look at
the overall long-term effect it will have
in southern West Virginia.
A few years back in the late sixties,
when I was working for State government
and I was getting into solid waste disposal,
stripping then was becoming a reality,
and we were talking about the fact that
ultimately—this was a joke at the time—
that what we could envision is stripping
most of southern West Virginia and turn-
ing it into a solid waste disposal landfill
for the eastern part of the country while
the eastern part of the State provided
electric power to Washington, on up, you
know, with our hydroelectric plants.
So, I think that there is a real possi-
bility. And this year when I was in Wash-
ington talking with other groups from out
west, Northern Plains Council, we were
talking about a tradeoff.
Maybe we'll take southern West Vir-
ginia and Gillette, Wyoming, and just let
them devastate those two areas and give
them to the country. I think there is a
real possibility that could happen. I think
the Federal bill is going to help. But there
has got to be a look at the impact region-
ally and nationally to the strip mining.
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to let
Secretary Andrus respond to that.
SECRETARY ANDRUS. Ms. Stephenson,
let me say two things. First of all, in H.R.
2 and S. 7, there is a provision for a col-
lection of a fee, an assessment or tax,
upon each ton of coal. This then is uti-
lized within the State. It's collected; if it's
not expended within 3 years, it can be
used anyplace in America for the recla-
437
