Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
I also want to be sure that there is a
minimum amount of compartmentaliza-
tion in your own Department. We need a
cohesive approach to transportation.
And also, I come to let you know, as I
said a little earlier, that we are equal part-
ners in this effort. I'm no better than
you.
You are no better than the people who
look to you for service throughout the
country, in local and State office, and also
among private citizens. And I want to be
So I'm with you on it. I believe we can
make the American people proud of us
and our administration.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:47 p.m. in the
Department of Transportation building's cen-
ter courtyard. Prior to his remarks, he made
a brief tour of the Department's Information
Center.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 24, 1977
sure that all of us feel a sense that we Department of State
can make changes, and that those
changes will be beneficial and that, be-
cause of them, you professional public
servants can have a more productive ca-
reer life. I want to be sure that whatever
changes are made through zero-base
budgeting, through reorganization, are
initiated by you.
And I want to assure you, also, that one
of the primary considerations that I will
always have is to make sure that your own
lives, your own families, are not disturbed
by changes brought about through im-
provement which affects your own ca-
reers. We're not going to fire people as a
result of reorganization. We're not going
to demote people as a result of reorganiza-
tion. We might have to transfer some, but
if so, we'll train you at Government ex-
pense. And I want to make sure that you
are part of the whole process.
I'll do the best I can to be a good Presi-
dent. I'll do the best I can to make you
proud of me. And I hope all of us together
can restore to our Government the fine
professionalism and the sensitivity about
our people's needs and the efficiency and
economy and good management that the
American people deserve, so that we can
prove that the Government itself, which
we represent, can be equal to the quality
of those who look to us for both leader-
ship and for service.
SECRETARY VANCE. Ladies and gentle-
men, the President of the United States.
Mr. President, on behalf of all of the
members of the State Department, we
wish you the warmest welcome and thank
you for coming to visit us here today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. I am glad to be here.
This has been perhaps the Department
on which I've placed the heaviest respon-
sibility for instructing me. I've got a lot
to learn, and I've had superb support
from all of you during this first month or
so that I've been in office.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I think it's accurate to say that in many
parts of the world, the problem areas in
particular, there was just a clinging to
the status quo, waiting for a new adminis-
tration to take over in our powerful and
great Nation. It's not because of me. It's
because of our country and because of
the hope that exists among people of all
kinds in all nations that we might set an
example in the relationship among na-
tions and in the search for peace, and
also, I might add very strongly, in the
preservation of our deep and unchanging
commitments to basic human rights. I
will never change that commitment, and
235
