Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 22
special interests could place on Presiden-
tial candidates, increased the pressures on
candidates for Congress as the large con-
tributors look for new means of gaining
influence with their political funds.
The method we select should allow
each American the option of deciding
whether to participate in public funding.
The check-off provision on the income
tax form accomplishes this goal for Presi-
dential campaign financing. The check-
off method should also be used to raise
the funds necessary to support Congres-
sional candidates.
Congress is best suited to decide on an
exact formula for financing campaigns.
However, I believe there are several fea-
tures which should be part of any plan:
First, the plan should require that
candidates demonstrate substantial pub-
lic support before they get public funds to
help finance their campaigns. This would
guard against frivolous candidates deplet-
ing the limited public funds available. The
matching formula in the Presidential pri-
maries provided a successful link between
total public funds received and a candi-
date's ability to demonstrate citizen sup-
port through small private donations.
• Second, the limit on overall expendi-
tures should not be excessively low so as
to prevent an adequate presentation of
candidates and their platforms to the
people.
Third, we should ensure that candi-
dates who accept public financing are not
placed at a serious disadvantage in com-
peting with opponents who have extraor-
dinarily abundant private funds. Under
the recent Supreme Court ruling, if a
candidate refuses to accept public financ-
ing, then no limitation can be imposed
on the amount of personal or other pri-
vate funds which may be spent on the
campaign. But if a less wealthy opponent
does accept public financing, stricter
spending limits would be imposed on him
than on his opponent. I hope Congress
will address this problem.
Fourth, I favor the broadest possible
application of public financing. It should
apply to primaries as well as general elec-
tions. I hope the Congress will act soon to
pass legislation so that public financing
can be available for the 1978 Congres-
sional campaigns. It is important to begin
now with public financing for general elec-
tions, even if a plan for primaries cannot
be adopted this year.
Strengthening the
the Federal Election
Campaign Act
While public financing of the last Pres-
idential election was highly successful, my
third suggestion is for certain modifica-
tions which our experience has shown
could make the system work even better.
We noticed, for example, that there was
less activity than in the past at the state
and local level during the general election
campaign. Opportunities should be avail-
able for more grass-roots participation in
Presidential races. This could be accom-
plished by allowing Presidential candi-
dates to designate one committee in each
state to raise and spend a limited amount
of money for campaign activities within
the state. A reasonable limit for this activ-
ity might be 2¢ per eligible voter. Such
committees could be allowed to delegate
spending authority to local committees,
but they should still be responsible for re-
porting contributions and expenditures.
Also, when Congressional candidates men-
tion in their advertising the Presidential
nominee of their party, the expenditure
should not have to be reported by the
Presidential candidate.
Another useful change would be to
grant Presidential candidates an addi-
tional amount to cover the great costs of
483
