Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 17
ing deficiencies in past practices of the
Bureau of Reclamation. It addresses the
San Luis Unit of the Central Valley
Project, in particular, the need to study
and reform the water service contract in
the Westlands Water District.
I am particularly pleased that the con-
gressional delegation from the State of
California has joined together to make
this legislation a reality.
Recent investigations have shown that
undue public subsidies to large landowners
are occurring in the Westlands area. Even
before the passage of this legislation, Sec-
retary Andrus had already begun a review
of the situation. This bill establishes the
statutory framework for analyzing the
problem and coming to a solution, while
continuing construction on some of the
project features during fiscal year 1978.
It sets up an Interior Department Task
Force, including representatives from the
State of California, which will report back
to the Congress on January 1, 1978. The
investigation required by this bill should
lay the foundation for the negotiation of a
new Westlands Water District contract
which will fully protect the interests of the
people of the United States and will con-
form to all applicable law. In addition to
assuring equitable prices for water, the
Department will enforce acreage limita-
tions to assure broad distribution of bene-
fits and seek to promote sound ground-
water management.
This important effort will be going on at
the same time as my administration, under
the leadership of Secretary Andrus, is de-
veloping far-reaching reform initiatives in
water resource policy. Particularly in this
drought year, it is
it is apparent that we as a
that we as a
nation must ensure that our water resource
policies reflect the urgent necessity for wise
planning, water conservation, environ-
mental protection, and equity for all water
users.
I look forward to working with the
Congress to build on their record of legis-
lation such as this bill I am signing.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4390 is Public Law
95-46, approved June 15.
Death of Wernher von Braun
Statement by the President. June 17, 1977
To millions of Americans, Wernher
von Braun's name was inextricably linked
to our exploration of space and to the
creative application of technology. He was
not only a skillful engineer but also a man
of bold vision; his inspirational leadership
helped mobilize and maintain the effort
we needed to reach the Moon and beyond.
Not just the people of our Nation but
all the people of the world have profited
from his work. We will continue to profit
from his example.
NOTE: Dr. von Braun headed the team of sci-
entists who developed the Saturn launch ve-
hicle used in the Apollo manned space program.
The statement was made available by the
White House Press Office. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
Jewish Cadet Chapel at the
U.S. Military Academy
Statement on Meeting With a Committee
To Discuss Plans for the Chapel.
June 17, 1977
The Jewish Cadet Chapel at the United
States Military Academy will meet several
important needs.
Most significantly, it will provide a
place of worship and of religious suste-
nance for Jewish cadets, officers, and
members of the West Point community
and their families.
Both as Commander in Chief and as a
graduate of one of West Point's sister
1125
