Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
present to the American people my side
of the argument. But it is done with the
best of good will between myself and the
Congress. It's not anything personal about
it. It's just the difference of opinion.
I think we can have a good quality of
life; I think we can have clean air; I think
we can have pure water; I think we can
have open streams; and I think we can
have a balanced budget-all at the same
time we meet the needs of the American
people.
Yes, sir?
STRIP MINING
Q. I am Robert Gates, local filmmaker
and engineer. I'd like to ask a rather
broad question relating to strip mining to
the panel as a whole, possibly Governor
Rockefeller. I would like to see if we could
come to some consensus, how much land
we want to strip. It has a lot in kin, I
think, with Professor Lynsky's charts that
he handed you. How much of West Vir-
ginia do we want to strip mine? How
much of the Nation? Because the land
area that has been strip mined is immense,
and the land area that will be strip mined
probably in the next 25 years, the strippa-
ble regions of this country, is enormous.
So, I think we have to-talking about
reclaiming and minimizing the effects of
specific strip mines is well and good-but
we need still to take an overall, broad look
at what we're doing. How much land do
we want to strip? How much land can we
afford to strip? We mine 50 percent of our
coal today by strip mining. That percent-
age increases yearly.
And we're going to be using a lot of
coal. I don't think myself that we can af-
ford to strip all the strippable land in this
country.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me let Governor
Rockefeller respond first, and then if any
other member of the panel would like to
respond.
Jay?
GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER. Thank you,
Mr. President.
One of the, I think, fortunate aspects
of our coal production in the State of
West Virginia, at least, is that only 20 per-
cent of our coal is produced by the strip
mining method, and the rest is done by
deep mining. In Kentucky it's about 60
percent strip mining and about 40 percent
deep mining. I prefer, frankly, our bal-
ance.
We reclaim about 25,000 acres per year,
and it's my own judgment that we can
have strip mining in West Virginia if we
are able to look out into the future. This
may be a responsibility that the govern-
ment has not exercised at the State level,
to decide where it is that it is not for the
long-term benefit of the State to have
strip mining and where it is that it is.
I
Our director of the department of natu-
ral resources has the ability at any time to
declare an area simply off limits for strip
could be exercised. Í think with intelli-
mining. That is rarely exercised. But that
gent planning, perhaps even some degree
of land-use planning, exercised either by
State government or by county govern-
ments, that we could reach an acceptable
solution to the problem of still producing
coal, but not producing it to the detriment
of the long-term State planning.
THE PRESIDENT. How many acres per
year are strip mined in West Virginia?
GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER. We issued
last year about 272 permits, Mr. Presi-
dent. Some of the Western States issue 5,
6, or 7 a year, but Kentucky is up to 450.
And the average size of those will be 200
to 300 acres.
Ms. STEPHENSON. Last year, Mr. Presi-
dent, about 23,000 acres were issued un-
der permit. That was just for 1 year.
436
