Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 14
The recent improvements in all the
economic indicators, the recent reduction
in unemployment, the recent increase in
the inflationary indicators, and the pro-
spective impact of the new energy pro-
posals all have convinced me, the
leaders of Congress, our economic ad-
visers, that we do not need to proceed in
the Congress with the $50 tax rebate, nor
with the optional business tax credits.
Back in December, when I and the
Members of the Congress met in Plains
and put together the package of economic
stimulus, the increase in the gross na-
tional product was down about 3.2 per-
cent, the unemployment rate was about
8 percent or a little bit more, the economy
was dormant, to say the least, and the in-
flationary pressures were not as great as
they are now.
At that time, Senator Byrd, Speaker
O'Neill, and their fellow workers in the
Congress, and I all agreed on the total
economic package. That's changed. Our
hope then was that we would have two
basic thrusts. One was toward a simplifi-
cation of the income tax structure with
an increased standard deduction. That
will proceed. Another one was to put
people to work with public works projects,
public service jobs, training programs,
and countercyclical aid to local govern-
ments. That will also proceed.
The other effort was to stimulate
quickly, hopefully at that time in April,
consumer confidence and consumer
spending with a tax rebate. It's now too
late to do that as early as we had antici-
pated. And the consumer confidence has
returned; consumer spending is up. As a
matter of fact, with the exception of
longer trends in the stock market prices,
every single indicator of the economy is
up in recent weeks.
I might add one other thing: The re-
maining elements of the economic stimu-
lus package will, I think, guarantee us
durable growth. Not only do the economic
indicators look good now but our Coun-
cil of Economic Advisers believes that this
will continue right on up through June.
The last half of this year, of course, we'll
start feeling the impact of the training
programs,
programs, jobs programs, and public
works projects.
Later this week, Friday, I will make a
comprehensive statement on inflation and
how we might reduce inflationary pres-
sures in the future. I'm determined to
hold down the deficit that will exist in our
Federal Government this year, in 1978
fiscal year, 1979-80, leading toward a
balanced budget in 1981.
I will resist to the utmost of my own
ability
ability excessive spending by the Con-
gress in fiscal year 1978. And although we
will reduce net spending substantially
with this change, I am going to oppose
strongly-and the congressional leaders
with whom I've consulted agree—any
substitution of this money for spending
projects that might be nonvital and which
might initiate permanent programs or
expenditures that can't be controlled in
the future.
We don't know the exact figures yet.
This change will reduce the deficit sub-
stantially in 1977 fiscal
stantially in 1977 fiscal year, but we still
have enormous deficit prospects in fiscal
year 1978. As I prepare my first budget,
fiscal year '79, that will be a major factor
involved in my decisionmaking process.
I might add one thing in closing: The
announcement that I've made this after-
noon has been supported by the Demo-
cratic leadership in the Senate, and we've
also got the same expressions of approval
from the House. I think this was a mu-
tual decision. I think that there had been
slow building-up of doubt about
whether or not the economic stimulus this
year was necessary. And it's a joint de-
cision. And I think that, as you well know,
Senator Long and Senator Byrd and
619
