Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 2
the highest payments in the yellow-
colored States with dots on them.
I don't know if you can read it from
there, but the States with the yellow and
black dots have an average Federal con-
tribution of $1,125 to $1,688. The orange-
colored States have an average Federal
contribution of $860 to $1,125. The blue
cross-hatched States, $575 to $860; and
the green States from $283 to $575.
One of the basic principles that I de-
scribed is to have a uniform payment by
the Federal Government for welfare re-
cipients around the country, varying in
amount only enough to accommodate
changes in the cost of living from one
community to another.
Another problem with the present sys-
tem is that the multiplicity of programs
not only is confusing to administrators
and to those who receive the benefits but
also result in almost unconstrained fraud
and honest mistakes. This chart shows
that 67 percent of the recipients get bene-
fits from two or more programs, 18 per-
cent of the recipients get benefits from
five or more different programs; 2 per-
cent of the recipients get benefits from
eight or more separate and distinct wel-
fare programs.
The complexity of the system is almost
incomprehensible, and the consolidation
of the cash payment into one basic aid to
the poor those who cannot work, those
who cannot earn enough income to sup-
port their families-will be a major step
forward.
Another problem arrives from the lack
of incentive to work. For instance, a
father who heads up a family with four
people in it, either a mother and two
children or three children, in Michigan,
working full time at the minimum wage,
has a total income of $5,678. A same-sized
family without the father in the home
with still four people there, not working
at all, has an income of $7,161.
A family with the head of the house-
hold a mother and three children-if
she goes to work at the minimum wage,
has a total income of $9,530 [$8,970.] ยน
This shows that the best thing that a
working father can do to increase the in-
come of the people that he loves is simply
to leave home.
Another thing that occurs is for a fam-
ily that stays intact when the father shifts
from a State where his family gets welfare
assistance to one where he doesn't get
many of the programs to aid him and his
family, for instance, a father-and this
happens to be Wisconsin-who is work-
ing full time at the minimum wage, after
he pays his taxes and draws tax credits for
earned income and receives food stamps,
has an income of $5,691, working full
time.
If that father quit his full-time job and
took a half-time job at the same wage
scale, minimum wage, his income would
jump almost $3,000, a little more than
$3,000-$1,300 to $6,940.
This is another defect in the hodge-
podge welfare system that runs counter to
the basic commitment of American people
that work on a full-time basis-for those
who are able to work-is beneficial, ought
to be beneficial to a family.
Another thing that happens in the wel-
fare system is that those who are working
and receiving benefits, if their income
should increase, either to more hours per
week, or to a higher wage scale, is quite
often counterproductive, and it doesn't
take a working person, adult, long to fig-
ure out that an increased effort pays no
dividends.
For instance, for a family head who
if
again is earning the minimum wage,
they got an increase in income of $100,
1 White House Press Office clarification.
773
