Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
Nation approach a time of war with any
sort of predictability about it without dis-
cussing it thoroughly and frequently with
the Congress and also letting the Ameri-
can people know what is going on.
Although we did get involved in the
Vietnam war, and even fought exten-
sively in Cambodia without telling the
American people, and sometimes lying to
them, I would never have that inclina-
tion. So, I have no hesitancy about com-
municating with Congress, consulting
with them and also letting the American
people know what we do before we start
any combat operation. And I think with
that process we can minimize greatly the
chances that we will get involved in com-
bat anywhere in the world.
MR. KIMBLE. Sir, you would accept
their approval for your actions on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. There is, I think,
a provision that in a time of crisis, where
an unanticipated attack might be
launched against our country's security,
that I could act, but to continue any sort
of military operation, I would have to get
the Congress approval. I have no doubt
that that is the right thing to do.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you, Mr.
Kimble.
The next call is from Mr. Johnnie
Strickland of Fayetteville, North Caro-
lina.
MR. STRICKLAND. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
PANAMA CANAL
MR. STRICKLAND. I am John Strickland
from Fayetteville, North Carolina. And I
want to thank you for this opportunity to
talk with you, and I would like to know
what your sentiments are on the Panama
Canal 1904 treaty, and changing it.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. It is good to
hear from you, Mr. Strickland. My sister
lives in Fayetteville, as you may know. I
am glad to answer your question.
We are now negotiating with Panama
as effectively as we can. As you may or
may not know, the treaty, signed when
Theodore Roosevelt was President, gave
Panama sovereignty over the Panama Ca-
nal Zone itself. It gave us control over the
Panama Canal Zone as though we had
sovereignty. So, we've always had a legal
sharing of responsibility over the Panama
Canal Zone.
As far as sovereignty is concerned, I
don't have any hang-up about that. I
would hope that after that-and expect
that after the year 2000, that we would
have an assured capacity or capability of
our country with Panama guaranteeing
that the Panama Canal would be open
and of use to our own Nation and to other
countries.
So, the subject of the negotiation now—
it has been going on quite a while-is to
phase out our military operations in the
Panama Canal Zone, but to guarantee
that even after the year 2000 that we
would still be able to keep the Panama
Canal open to the use of American and
other ships.
MR. STRICKLAND. I understand, and I
certainly hope that we are not too lenient,
because we have lots of money invested in
the Canal Zone. And I really think the
Canal Zone belongs to us a whole lot more
than most people think it does.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you, Mr. Strick-
land.
And the next call comes from Miss
Michelle Stanley of North Benton, Ohio,
and Mr. President, Miss Stanley is 11
years old.
MISS STANLEY. Jimmy?
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, Michelle.
MISS STANLEY. Hi. I just called to
thank
you for sending me the invitation
to your Inauguration.
325
