Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
there. We will do the best we can. This
year is the brightest hope for peace that
I remember. And although I can't guar-
antee any success, it is a major priority
for us, for our potential adversaries like
the Soviet Union, and for the whole
world, because the Middle Eastern situa-
tion could explode at any time in the
future, and I want to be sure that we do
our best to avoid such a consequence.
ENERGY REORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, I am with the Inter-
national Data Analysis Section of the
Bureau of Mines. In your plans to reorga-
nize the Government, do you contemplate
simply a Department of Energy or is it to
be a Department of Energy and Natural
Resources, and if it is to be a Department
of Energy and Natural Resources, what
impact would this have on the Interior
Department?
Also, in many countries in Latin Amer-
ica and around the world, natural re-
sources under the ground and offshore
belong to all of the people. They are con-
sidered a national patrimony or Patrimo-
nium nationale. Do you feel it would be
necessary to have a similar law in this
country which would guarantee more ef-
fective control over our natural resources
and more assurance that we would have
environmental control?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. We will present to the Congress
and to the American public by the end of
this month our proposals on the future
Department of Energy. My inclination is
that it be a Department of Energy. The
Congress may decide to name it differ-
ently. The basic thrust of this new depart-
ment will be to make long-range plans
and policies for the utilization of energy
resources which are now under the con-
trol of the Department of the Interior.
Those policies and plans would be ap-
proved by me, by Dr. Schlesinger, by
Cecil Andrus, and then the actual leasing
of lands or undersea areas would be de-
cided by the Department of the Interior.
I don't think it is appropriate, nor am I
qualified at this point, to spell out in any
detail the division of responsibility that
will exist between Interior and Energy,
but I can tell you that the agreement has
been reached harmoniously by Dr. Schles-
inger and Cecil Andrus. And I believe
that you
will be pleased when you see the
results of our deliberations.
As far as the public ownership of lands
and areas of special importance, as you
know, our Federal Government owns a
great quantity of land in this Nation al-
ready. Many of the people of the States
also have control over natural areas. The
marshlands of Georgia, for instance-
about 600,000 acres are owned by the
people of Georgia. And even though the
Federal Government has no interest in
them, legally speaking, it is a joint protec-
tive capability that we share between the
Federal and State governments. I hope
that we can extend this protective capa-
bility by the Heritage Trust program that
I've just described to you, where precious
land areas, whether they be important
archeologically or geologically, or because
it is a natural area or because of some
other historic reason, might be acquired
by the Federal Government, starting with
the ones of highest priority first, the ones
that are most in danger of being de-
stroyed, and then working down the list
as funds become available.
So, the concept of ownership as you
have described suits me fine. I think the
mechanisms that I've described to you
will be adequate. But I think you need
not be concerned about the reorganiza-
tion proposal. It will be a good move in
the right direction, but I think that Sec-
retary Andrus can vouch for the fact that
204
