Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
smuggling, usually across the border of
Mexico.
Last week, 9 tons of marijuana was con-
fiscated. In your recent discussions with
Mexican President López Portillo, did you
discuss this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Yes, we did dis-
cuss it at length. I would guess that 70 per-
cent of our heroin comes to our country
now from Mexico. And the only way we
can reduce that particular influx of drugs
to our country is to cooperate with the na-
tions where it is grown. We can, by infra-
red photography, either we or the Mexi-
can Government, for instance, identify
the fields where the heroin poppies are
grown. And by going to the farms, the
Mexican soldiers go into the farms, they
can destroy those poppy fields before the
harvest is complete. At the same time,
many of those farmers are small, poverty
stricken, live in remote areas of the moun-
tains. I think you have to be above 3,000
feet to grow heroin poppies, and alterna-
tive crops need to be provided for them.
So, we discussed this at length, Presi-
dent López Portillo and I did, and we
agreed that with sub-Cabinet level repre-
sentatives that we would explore this
question further. A part of it, obviously,
is trying to stop drugs as they cross the
border. But that's a very, very inefficient
operation. The cost is enormous. And as
you know, a tiny volume of a very large
quantity of heroin makes concealment
very, very easy. And so, to stop the drugs
where they are being produced is by far
the better approach. López Portillo is also
deeply concerned about this. He feels the
same way I do.
I've appointed as my own representa-
tive, here in the White House, Dr. Peter
Bourne, who is probably the world's fore-
most expert on heroin, cocaine, and mari-
juana-even alcohol-all the drugs that
are bad. He's traveled throughout the
world at the invitation of other countries.
He goes into countries that we can't even
get into because we don't have diplomatic
relationships with them. But because of his
knowledge about the subject, they bring
him in to help them with their problems.
And he is heading up our drug effort in
this country. And I think that with him
and the equivalent leaders in the other na-
tions, particularly Mexico, we can help a
great deal in the future.
I want to say in closing, this: I wish I
had more time to answer your questions.
I tried to give as much time as I could to
you.
I don't claim to know all the answers.
I'm learning. I'm studying. I'm enjoying
the job. I get over here every morning at
the latest by 7 o'clock. And I ordinarily go
home in time for supper at 7, and then
I spend 2 or 3 hours at night working and
studying and reading.
It's not a laborious thing for me be-
cause I really enjoy it. In the first 6 weeks,
I have shifted away from details and ex-
cessive burden of paperwork to a more
long-range analysis of the questions that
face our country. I study about foreign
matters. I get briefings from the Cabinet
Secretaries on things that are important
to them. And I'm trying to prepare my-
self to make decisions as they come up in
the future. But it's very important to us
to let the American people know what's
going on.
And I'm deeply grateful that you've
been willing to come to Washington to
meet with me and with Jody Powell and
Midge Costanza, and others who work
with me closely. I hope that you will feel
after you go back home, that there need
any obstacle to your direct contact
to us. If you call Walt Wurfel or Jody or
Rex Granum in the news section of our
operation, they'll give you an answer to
the question. And I really hope that you
will always feel that this is your Govern-
ment as well as it is mine.
not be
290
