Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 7
of public importance involving the
government.
Second, I support legislation which will
give citizens broader standing to initiate
suits against the government, in appro-
priate cases. The government has too
often routinely invoked the "standing"
defense when it is challenged in court.
The Department of Justice will work
with my Special Assistant for Consumer
Affairs, Esther Peterson, and with the
Congress toward legislation to reform
this practice.
Third, I support the effort to enable
consumers to sue as a class to enforce
their rights. Recent court decisions have
greatly restricted their ability to do so. I
want to expand the opportunities for re-
sponsible class actions, starting with vio-
lations of consumers' rights. The Depart-
ment of Justice and Mrs. Peterson will
work with the Congress to develop suit-
able legislation.
These measures-and the others which
members of my Administration will dis-
cuss in the months ahead—will enhance
the consumer's influence within the gov-
ernment without creating another un-
wieldy bureaucracy. I believe they will
increase confidence in government by
demonstrating that government is con-
sidering the people's needs in a sensitive
and responsive way.
The White House,
April 6, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
New Community Development
Corporation
Nomination of William J. White
To Be a Member of the Board of
Directors. April 7, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate William J. White, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., to be a member of the
Board of Directors of the New Commu-
nity Development Corporation. White is
executive director of the Massachusetts
Housing Finance Agency in Cambridge.
The Board of Directors of the New
Community Development Corporation
consists of the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, five persons ap-
pointed by the Secretary of HUD, and one
person nominated by the President and
confirmed by the Senate, who is then des-
ignated General Manager of the Corpo-
ration and serves as its chief executive offi-
cer. The Corporation carries out a pro-
gram of grants, loans, and loan guaran-
tees to assist new communities.
White was born in Cambridge on De-
cember 18, 1926. He attended Suffolk
University in Boston and Babson Institute
in Wellesley. He served in the U.S. Navy
in the Pacific theater during World War
II.
From 1950 to 1961, White was presi-
dent and owner of a real estate firm in
Natick, Mass. From 1961 to 1965, he was
executive director of the Brokers' Institute
and Multiple Listing Service of the
Greater Boston Real Estate Board.
He was president of White-Bison and
Co., a small real estate company in Boston,
from 1965 until 1969, when he became
executive director of the Massachusetts
Housing Finance Agency. At MHFA, he
was responsible for creating and adminis-
tering the first mixed-income housing pro-
gram in the Nation. He also developed a
program for financing the rehabilitation
of deteriorated properties.
White has been a guest lecturer at
Harvard University, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology, and the University of
Massachusetts. He is a member of the
Brokers Institute and chairman of the
Greater Boston Real Estate Board.
White is chairman of the Governor's
Task Force on Bank Disclosure and a
575
