May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
extraordinary productivity of this part of
the world. They've had in this whole re-
gion an unprecedented drought. And al-
though on the surface it doesn't show up
so starkly, those who analyze the present
and future prospects are quite deeply
concerned.
This small mountain behind me, this
time of year, would ordinarily be cov-
ered with green grass 2 or 3 feet deep,
which is being used in normal times for
grazing. Silva produces beef cattle over
to near those other hills. And he's had to
sell already 65 percent of his beef cattle
herd because there's just nothing for them
to eat. And because of the drought last
year and so far this year, the price of hay,
which ordinarily would be $50 or $60 a
ton, is between $85 and $100 a ton. At
the price of cattle now at the market, it's
impossible to produce them. So what he's
had to do is just to sell his cattle. If the
rains come, and the snows in the winter
come, then he'd have to replenish his
whole herd by purchasing brood stock
again.
This farm on which we are now stand-
ing was formerly a cattle ranch, and it
now, of course, produces olives and plums
and a young orchard of peaches. And this
is an area that is presently irrigated from
a well that is on this farm itself. They
don't receive any irrigation water from
the reservoirs in the mountains.
The purpose of my visit here is to try
to anticipate the devastating effect next
year, not only in this valley region but
throughout the country, if the drought
should continue.
We all saw a temporary aberration of
very high food costs brought about by the
few weeks of winter weather this year.
And if the drought should continue
throughout 1977 and 1978, as it has been
in the last 18 months, the production of
food in this region-which is the most
highly productive region, perhaps, in the
world-would be drastically reduced.
Many crops that would have been planted
this year have not been planted. And
some farmers, in order to conserve the
limited water they have and to keep their
vines and trees alive, have had to knock
off all the fruit-grapes, citrus, olives, and
so forth and let what scarce water there
is just go to sustaining the tree itself and
not producing the crop.
This is probably going to be much more
prevalent later on this year. And you've
probably noticed, coming here from
Fresno, that the main irrigation ditch,
which ordinarily would be full this time
of the year, is completely dry. Some of
the metropolitan areas, including Fresno,
use water that is permitted to seep into
the ground during high water times of the
year, and then the water is later pumped
out of the ground with underground
wells. This year there won't be any re-
plenishment of those ground water sup-
plies, and the water level is falling 6 or
8 feet per year.
So, what we see here is the first stages
of what could be a national problem of
great severity. We have proposed already
to the Congress aid for these farmers-
long-term loans at low-interest rates and
some direct grants which might permit
them to drill deeper wells, to line irriga-
tion ditches with plastic so that water
won't be lost, and also to prepare for a
low crop yield this year.
We have seen the reservoirs that we
flew over in the mountains. Ordinarily,
they would be brimming full, with ade-
quate snow still on the mountaintops to
replenish them for several weeks. But
there is no snow on the mountains now,
and the reservoirs are maybe a third full
and being depleted quite rapidly.
This is very important for me to under-
stand. I've not been familiar with many
different crops. Red Martin
says that they
918
