Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 10
Third, he spoke about improving the
situation in respect of defense production
and procurement, acknowledged that our
own country was not without fault, and
suggested three steps to improve the
situation.
One, he said that he had instructed the
Secretary of Defense to search out oppor-
tunities for buying increased European
defense equipment where this was com-
petitive.
Second, he urged the Europeans to co-
operate among themselves increasingly,
particularly within the independent Euro-
pean defense program group, so that they
could achieve the economies of scale in-
volved in the Europe-wide defense pro-
duction base, which would make them
more competitive.
And third, he suggested a joint ex-
amination between the collective Euro-
pean entity and the U.S. as to how you
could go about improving procedures.
So these were the three proposals: po-
litical consultation, the East-West study,
defense the improvement in forces and
in machinery over the longer term for the
1980's, and the focus on specific steps
that could be taken now in the meantime;
and third, defense production and pro-
curement-trying to buy more European
stuff, encouraging the Europeans to co-
operate; and a joint U.S.-European
U.S.-European
examination.
A second thing I'd like to go through
with you is a few interpolations the Presi-
dent made, which are not in his prepared
speech. If you go through it on the first
page, there was nothing of significance;
on the second page, when he spoke about
the Belgrade conference, just before he
got to the final sentence, he interpolated
an additional sentence which I took down
as follows: This is after the sentence "We
support a careful review of progress by
all countries in implementing all parts of
the Final Act," he then said, "We take a
particular interest in human rights and
hope that good progress can be made in
this field."
Then on the defense side, at the top
there, when he was talking just before
he got to the improvement of Soviet
forces, he noted that in the defense
budget, which he's just submitted to the
Congress, he asked for additional funds
for U.S. conventional forces.
Finally, on the last page, when he was
still talking about defense production, he
elaborated on his view of the enormous
amount of waste which was involved in
the present overlapping and duplication
in defense production, and when he got to
the final end, he said NATO was the mid-
dle-aged alliance, that new initiatives.
would be useful in redirecting it to new
tasks; he thought that the Alliance had
good grounds for confidence in tackling
these tasks, even though this would in-
volve some sacrifice from the members.
The third thing I wanted to mention
was the reaction of the other countries.
We agreed, that we wouldn't brief spe-
cifically about what individual countries.
said, but each of the heads of government
spoke, and when the Secretary General
tried to summarize it at the end, he said
the reactions to what he called President
Carter's keynote address were positive,
that President Carter's specific proposals
to adopt the Alliance to the political and
military tasks of the 1980's were proposals
to which the other leaders responded
positively.
There was general satisfaction with the
notion of a fresh look at future tasks in the
political field, the defense field, and the
defense procurement field. And the Presi-
dent followed up later by saying that he
was looking forward, at the NATO meet-
ing in May '78 in Washington, which he
hopes will be at the summit, to reviewing
the progress that's been made in each of
these three fields, and the studies that have
853
