Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and also with Prime Minister Callaghan,
for instance, just in recent days about a
joint approach to these kinds of problems.
Obviously, the smaller nations, the
ones that now have established atomic
powerplants, have to have someplace
either to store their spent fuel or to have
it reprocessed. And I think that we would
very likely see a continuation of reproc-
essing capabilities within those nations
that I have named and perhaps others.
We in our own country don't have this
requirement. It's an option that we might
have to explore many, many years in the
future.
But I hope that by this unilateral ac-
tion we can set a standard and that those
countries that don't now have reprocess-
ing capability will not acquire that ca-
pability in the future. Regional plants un-
der tight international control obviously
is one option that we would explore. No
decision has been made about that.
If we felt that the provision of atomic
fuel was being delivered to a nation that
did not share with us our commitment to
nonproliferation, we would not supply
that fuel.
Q. Mr. President, this carries an assur-
ance, which you had said earlier, for an
assured and adequate supply of enriched
uranium to replace the need for plutoni-
um. Do you foresee any kind of price
guarantees also for underdeveloped and
poorer countries so that the supply would
not only be assured but at a reasonable
price in case lack of reprocessing drove
prices up?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know what
the future prices of uranium might be.
At the present time, of the enriched ura-
nium that we produce, about roughly a
third of it is exported, roughly a third of
it is used for our domestic needs, and
about a third of it is put in storage.
There has been an attenuation in re-
cent years of the projected atomic power-
plant construction in our own country.
Other nations, though, are moving more
and more toward atomic powerplants.
But I can't tell you at this point that we
will guarantee a price for uranium fuel
that's less than our own cost of produc-
tion, and that would be a matter of nego-
tiation, perhaps even on an individual
national basis.
I think that a standard price would
probably be preferable, but then we might
very well give a particular nation that was
destitute or a very close friend of ours or
who cooperated with us in this matter
some sort of financial aid to help them
with the purchase.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. You also said last year, a couple of
times, that you hoped to call a world
energy conference to discuss this as well
as a lot of other things. Do you foresee
that happening any time in the near
future?
THE PRESIDENT. The item of nuclear
powerplants and the handling of spent
nuclear fuels and the curtailment of the
possibility of new nations joining us in
their capability for explosives will be on
the agenda in the discussions in London
early in May. And this will be a continu-
ing process for us.
I might add that Secretary Vance also
discussed this question with the Soviet
authorities on his recent visit to Moscow
and asked them to join in with us in en-
hancing the nonproliferation concept.
Their response was favorable. But it will
entail a great deal of negotiation, and I
can't anticipate what the results of those
negotiations might be. We obviously hope
for it to apply to all the nations in the
world.
584
