Mar. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Federal Open Market Committee, and
director of the Division of Research. He
has been with the Commercial Credit Co.,
since 1969.
At Commercial Credit, Brill has been
responsible for developing new markets
and new services and launched the com-
pany's international operations, includ-
ing personally negotiating joint ventures
in Japan, Spain, and Israel, and acquisi-
tion of a bank in France.
He is currently engaged in launching a
new venture in computerized, worldwide
transfer of science and technology. He
serves on all management committees of
Control Data Corp., the parent com-
pany, which deal with corporate-wide
policies, strategies, and operations.
Brill is a member of the board of di-
rectors of several Dreyfus mutual funds,
and is a member of the Brookings Panel
on Economic Activity.
with no end in sight. I am determined
that we make every effort to reverse this
trend, and, therefore, effective with the
date of issuance of this memorandum do
hereby establish the recently enacted Of-
fice of Drug Abuse Policy (ODAP). I
look forward to early confirmation of the
nominations which I have sent to the
Senate of Peter G. Bourne and Lee I.
Dogoloff for the positions of Director and
Deputy Director respectively.
The Office of Drug Abuse Policy shall
be responsible for carrying out the Con-
gressional mandate specified in the law.
In addition, and to the maximum extent
permitted by law, the Director of ODAP
is hereby directed to fulfill the following
responsibilities:
• Recommend government-wide im-
provements in the organization and man-
agement of Federal drug abuse prevention
and control functions, and recommend a
He is married and has two children. He plan to implement the recommended
resides in Silver Spring, Md.
Office of Drug Abuse Policy
Memorandum for the Heads of Certain
Departments and Agencies. March 14, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of State,
Secretary of Treasury, Secretary of De-
fense, Attorney General, Secretary of La-
bor, Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare, Secretary of Transportation,
U.S. Representative to the United Na-
tions, Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, Director of Central
Intelligence, Administrator of Veterans
Affairs
Subject: Activation of the Office of Drug
Abuse Policy (ODAP) and Revitalization
of the Strategy Council
Drug abuse continues to drain our hu-
man resources, especially from our youth,
changes;
• Study and recommend changes in
the resource and program priorities
among all agencies concerned with drug
abuse prevention and control;
• Assume the lead role in studying and
proposing changes in the organization and
management of Federal drug abuse pre-
vention and control functions, as part of
my promise to reorganize and strengthen
the government operations; and
• Provide policy direction and coordi-
nation among the law enforcement, inter-
national and treatment/prevention pro-
grams to assure a cohesive and effective
strategy that both responds to immediate
issues and provides a framework for
longer term resolution of problems.
In addition, I am abolishing the
Cabinet-level committees concerned with
international narcotics control, drug
abuse prevention, and drug law enforce-
ment created by previous Administra-
tions, and am directing that the Strategy
378
