Mar. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
concerned about our own abandonment
of a unanimous decision made by the
United Nations in which our country par-
ticipated, in effect, on its word of honor,
and then later because of pressing cir-
cumstances revoked.
I think it puts us on the side of what's
right and proper. I believe that this reso-
lution can lead to help in resolving the
southern African questions, particularly
relating to Rhodesia.
I am also instructing that the embargo
be reinstituted, permitting shipments that
are en route to come into our country.
And, of course, under the congressional
decision that was made this week, I would
have the authority to reopen purchases of
Rhodesian chrome in the future if it be-
comes appropriate.
So, it is with a great deal of gratitude
to the Congress and to others who have
helped make this decision that I sign this
very important legislation.
[At this point, the President signed the bill into
law.]
The regret is that we've not been able
to work harmoniously with a legitimate
government in Rhodesia/Zimbabwe. As
you know, there is an illegal government
there. They have not been willing yet to
come forward and negotiate effectively nally passing this bill. It was a matter of
between the white and black citizens of
Rhodesia, and this is something that all
of us regret.
Our country is playing a strong but
secondary role in the Rhodesian question.
Britain legally still has dominion over this
territory. They are the top persons who
have participated in trying to bring the
disputing parties together. We've negoti-
ated constantly with them, and I think
we will continue to play this secondary
but important and supportive role.
I want to thank again the Members of
the Congress who were so effective in fi-
great interest last night when I visited the
United Nations. Many of the delegates to
the U.N. who came by to speak to me in
the receiving line expressed their deep
appreciation for this move.
I think it is going to help us not only
in the South African question, the Rho-
desian question, the Namibian question,
but also throughout the world.
Thank you very much, again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Cabinet Room at
the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 1746 is Public Law 95-12,
Rhodesian Chrome Bill
The only nation, I believe, that recog-
nizes the Smith government is South
Africa, and we've been working closely approved March 18.
with them. This puts us back on the side
of support for the United Nations. It puts
us in the strategic position to help with
the resolution of the Rhodesian question.
And the attendance here of the labor
leaders, for instance, who are involved in
the steel industry, is indicative of the fact
that we do have adequate supplies of
chrome on hand or in shipment to tide us
over in this period that is immediately
ahead of us.
Statement on Signing the Bill Into
Law. March 18, 1977
I have today signed H.R. 1746, which
restores Executive authority to enforce
sanctions against Rhodesian chrome.
This measure is a central element in
our African policy. Members of my ad-
452
