Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
IRS period of April. Can something be
done to simplify for the average individual
the Internal Revenue form that they must
fill out each year? They tried to revise it
several years ago, and last year, and the
one that came out this year is even more
complicated for the average individual.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. There is
no way that I can modify the form for the
1976 income tax returns. That's already
been fixed in the law and the form can't
be modified. It is grossly complicated.
I can guarantee you that when you fill
out your income tax form for 1977, it will
be much simpler. There is no doubt about
it. If I don't do that, I will have broken
my word of honor. And I don't intend to
break it.
MINIMUM WAGE
Q. Yesterday, Mr. President, you sur-
prised the small business community with
a minimum wage package which was be-
low the union projections. Number one,
was there some philosophy behind that
lower wage, and number two, were the
union leaders aware of your feeling prior
to the announcement?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to the first
question is yes. The answer to the second
question is no. I'll tell you what the phi-
losophy was. I think it's been a mistake
historically for us to have the minimum
wage level slowly drop over a period of
years, compared to the cost of living. And
then we've gotten way behind with those
very low-income earners and then-
they're the ones who suffer most—and
then we've had a substantial increase in
the minimum wage which brought them
up to where they should be. But it's been
quite a shock to the economic system, and
it's also created a great deal of political
confusion and animosity.
I favor the concept of indexing so that
every year you have an automatic increase
in the minimum wage depending upon
manufacturers' average wages.
I went back to 1938 when the mini-
mum wage was 40 cents. That's when I
got my first job at the minimum wage,
40 cents an hour. Since 1938 the average
minimum wage compared to the manu-
facturers' average wage has been almost
exactly 50 percent.
It has varied from, I think, from 41
percent up to the high of 56 percent, but
the average has been 50 percent.
So, what I decided, and I hope my posi-
tion will prevail, is to move this July to
establish a minimum wage permanently at
50 percent of the previous year's average
manufacturers' wage. And so, that's the
philosophy behind it.
I didn't consult with anyone outside of
my own administration. I talked to my
economic advisers. I talked to Ray Mar-
shall, the Secretary of Labor, who wanted
a higher level. I met yesterday morning,
I think, with Congressman Dent, who
wanted a much higher level. And I made
my own decision. Now, whether that de-
cision will prevail in the Congress, I can't
say. I might add one other thing that was
erroneously reported: that the Secre-
tary-I mean that President Meany came
over here yesterday afternoon and com-
plained about it. He did not complain
about it at all. He came over to talk to
me about the inadvisability of permitting
Communist trade unionists to come into
our country without constraints.
But I've never tried to mislead anyone.
And on the situs picketing bill, I had
earlier announced, throughout my cam-
paign, that I would not work for the situs
picketing bill. I did not work for it or
against it.
And on the minimum wage, I think it's
a reasonable level, as is the case with the
farm price supports. I think that in both
instances they are fair, not overly infla-
516
