Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and race discrimination. The one in the
Civil Service is only one out of seven. The
average length of time required from the
filing of a complaint that might bè per-
fectly justified and the ultimate resolution
of that case is about 3 years. In EEOC
alone there are about 30,000 backlog cases.
During the campaign I had a good analy-
sis of this problem made, and my hope is
to bring all those functions into one
agency that does not have a built-in bias.
I think we have a long way to go in the
rooting out of discriminatory practices.
And quite often, men like myself who are
leaders don't even have an ability to detect
discrimination that ought to be obvious,
and it is, once it is pointed out.
So, I don't know exactly where the re-
sponsibility for elimination of sex discrim-
ination might be placed. But I know we
don't need seven different agencies. And
we need to have a clear technique both
legally and administratively to resolve
those cases very quickly.
But it is too early for me to say what will
happen to their particular agency or func-
tion that you described that is now in Civil
Service.
Q. We are not talking only about sex
discrimination. We are talking about ev-
erything.
THE PRESIDENT. Of course. I under-
stand that.
TRADE BOYCOTTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Howard
Griffin, from the Department of Com-
merce, Office of Export Administration.
Some of my workers would like to know
what are you planning to do with the
Arab boycott? In one of your speeches you
said that you were planning to end it.
They were wondering, how far have you
progressed on this?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is good for
all of us to understand that there are dif-
ferent meanings to the word "boycott." A
primary boycott is perfectly acceptable in
international affairs.
We have, for instance, a primary boy-
cott against Cuba. It is all right for a na-
tion to say we are not going to trade with
you. It is perfectly all right for the Arab
countries to say we are not going to trade
with Israel. What does create a problem
that I hope to eliminate is for the Arab
countries to say to us, "You cannot trade
with Israel and also trade with us" or
"You cannot trade with us, the Arab
countries, if you have Jews on your board
of directors." This, in my opinion, violates
the constitutional rights of Jewish citizens.
It also is completely obnoxious to me in a
society like our own, built on an absence
of legal attention, of recognition of a per-
son's religious or racial or sexual charac-
teristics.
So, that is what is called a secondary
and even tertiary boycott. We now have
several bills that have been introduced in
the House and Senate. We have a cohesive
group of business and labor leaders, many
of whom happen to be Jewish, who are
working on the principles that ought to be
included in an antiboycott law.
And I will support those. I think it is
time for us to root out the concept of the
secondary and tertiary boycott, never per-
mit a foreign nation to discriminate
against any of our citizens who happen to
be Jewish, with legal permission from our
own Government. And we also need to
have as a last thing uniformity among the
different States of the Nation in dealing
with the antiboycott legislation. We now
have a strong antiboycott law in New
York. We have a weak antiboycott law in
New Jersey. So, when the Arab countries
want to come and trade, they just bypass
New York, come into New Jersey, and
they can discriminate against Jewish citi-
zens accordingly.
116
