Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
he's an early spokesman when difficult
and controversial changes are made.
I hope that this year, 1977, might be a
time when we can tap his superb judg-
ment and leadership and make major
strides toward permanent peace in the
Middle East.
I think the characteristics that I've de-
scribed and there are many more that I
could outline to you-can be a basis for
substantial progress. I've learned a lot
from him during this morning's conversa-
tion and this evening. And after supper,
we're going to go upstairs and just have a
private meeting, just me and him.
But his knowledge of the background of
developments in the Middle East and
south of him, in Africa, are a very valuable
reservoir of knowledge and experience
and insight that will help to guide me in
making the right decisions that apply to
our own country's influence.
We are proud of his friendship already.
And I believe that the ties that bind Egypt
and our country together can be strength-
ened even further in the weeks ahead. As
I pointed out this morning in the brief
ceremony during the rain, I think that the
archeological exhibition of King Tutank-
hamen's Tomb-as we call it, King Tut—
has been received as gratefully as any cul-
tural event that's ever occurred in our
Nation.
When I visited the National Gallery to
look at this remarkable exhibition-for
some reason or another they let me in
ahead of the waiting throngs—[laugh-
ter]—I got there early to do it, I might
say but there were people there with
pallets on the sidewalk. And when I left
the exhibition and shook hands with the
people along the way who had spent the
night waiting in line, they asked me if it
was worth waiting overnight, and I said,
yes, it was.
This was an exhibition, I think, of only
55 artifacts out of more than 5,000 that
were discovered in this one site. And the
beauty and the sensitivity of them, I think,
were typical of the long and distinguished
and proud heritage of Egypt.
I'm very grateful that we've had come
to our own country for a revisit-he's been
here before as you know-my own good
friend, and Foreign Minister Fahmy, and
others. And I would like to propose a toast
to the people of Egypt and to their great
leader, President Sadat, my good friend.
We're glad to have you here, sir.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Thank you.
Mr. President and dear friends, I came
here looking forward to meeting you and
working closely with you on subjects of
mutual interest. I'm happy to state that
our first get-together this morning met my
expectations.
I found you a man of courage and
vision. You listen only to the dictates of
your conscience. Your first and foremost
allegiance is to the truth. Your determina-
tion to pursue what is right is paralleled
by your willingness to accept the diversity
of views and differences of opinion. Your
grasp of the complex issues of our time is
formidable. Above all, your paramount
commitment is to the cause of
peace and
the universal brotherhood of man.
I can quite understand the way you
think and act. Like you, I come from a
rural area that is the heart of Egypt's
farmland, where life has different dimen-
sions and a different meaning. Social soli-
darity is dominant. A conscious submission
to the divine will provides us with tremen-
dous strength to deal with the continuous
challenge of life. People are not judged by
their wealth or power but rather by their
adherence to the supreme norms and
higher values cherished by the entire
community.
Judging by words and deeds alike, I
sense a streak of all that in your back-
ground. I fully agree with you that in our
dealings with others, we should apply the
568
