Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
or any other beneficiary of the trust ex-
cept that he shall give to the Grantor an
annual report containing (i) the informa-
tion required by the Grantor in making
any mandatory reports or returns to any
government authority and (ii) the aggre-
gate net asset value of the trust (including
the amount of principal held in cash or
cash equivalents). All such reports to the
Grantor shall avoid the identification of
any specific assets of the trust unless the
withholding of such information would
necessitate a violation of any applicable
laws. The Trustee may make reports or
accountings to persons other than the
Grantor or any beneficiary of the trust
as the Trustee shall deem desirable, pro-
vided that the Trustee is assured that such
information will be kept confidential. Not-
withstanding the foregoing, on termina-
tion of this trust the Grantor may demand
a full accounting by the Trustee.
7. Reports to Court.
The Trustee shall not be required to
file any inventories, appraisements, ac-
counts, reports or returns of any kind to
any court or to give bond.
8. Successor Trustees; Resignations;
Compensation.
(a) If the original Trustee shall cease
or be unable to serve as Trustee, the
Grantor shall have the power to desig-
nate the person or those persons (includ-
ing corporate persons) who shall serve as
Trustee(s) of this trust. If all such desig-
nees (including successors thereto) should
fail to qualify or should cease or be unable
to serve in this capacity or if the Grantor
shall fail to make a designation, then B.
HARVEY HILL, JR. (currently with Alston,
Miller & Gaines, of Atlanta, Georgia)
shall serve as the Trustee. If B. HARVEY
HILL, JR. should fail to qualify or should
cease or be unable to serve as Trustee,
then FRANK MYERS (currently of Myers
& Parks, of Americus, Georgia) shall serve
as Trustee of this trust.
(b) A Trustee may resign by delivering
written notice of such resignation to the
Grantor at least sixty (60) days prior to
the effective date of such resignation.
(c) No successor Trustee shall be re-
quired to inquire into or audit the acts or
doings of any predecessor Trustee or to
make any claim against any such prede-
cessor Trustee or his estate.
(d) Any successor Trustee shall have
and
may
exercise any or all of the powers
herein conferred on the original Trustee
as fully and to the same extent as if such
successor had originally been named as
Trustee herein.
(e) The Trustee shall be entitled to rea-
sonable compensation for his services. The
Trustee may suggest to the Grantor from
time to time the amount of reasonable
compensation to which he feels entitled
and unless the Grantor objects, the Trus-
tee shall pay himself the amount sug-
gested. Any disputes concerning the com-
pensation of the Trustee may be resolved
by the Probate Judge of Sumter County,
Georgia, in his sole discretion.
(f) The Trustee shall be entitled to re-
imbursement for any expenses reasonably
incurred by him (including compensation
and reimbursement of agents employed
by him) which are appropriate for the
proper administration of this trust.
9. Amendments and Revocations.
This trust may not be revoked or ter-
minated except as provided above. This
Trust Agreement may not be modified
except by instrument in writing signed
by the Trustee and the Grantor. How-
ever, the Trustee shall not agree to any
amendment which is in derogation of the
purposes of the trust described in Section
1 above.
142
