Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
with the greatest need; and that there must be a predictable and a steady
growth in our economy.
Two days ago, I presented this plan to the Congress. It is a balanced
plan, with many elements, to meet the many causes of our economic
problems.
One element that I am sure you will like is reducing taxes. This year
the one-time tax benefits to the average family of four with $10,000 in
income will be $200-a 30-percent reduction in income taxes.
But my primary concern is still jobs, and these one-time tax rebates
are the only quick, effective way to get money into the economy and create
those jobs.
But at the same time, we are reducing taxes permanently by increas-
ing the standard deduction, which most taxpayers claim. Again, this
family of four earning $10,000 will save $133 on a permanent basis—
about 20 percent-on future income taxes. This will also be a major step
toward tax simplification, allowing 75 percent of all taxpayers to take the
standard deduction and to file a very simple tax return, quite different
from the one that you will file this year.
We will also provide tax incentives to business firms to encourage
them to fight inflation by expanding output and to hire more of our people
who are eager to work. I think it makes more sense for the Government
to help workers stay on the payroll than to force them onto unemployment
benefits or welfare payments.
We have several proposals, too, in this legislation to help our cities,
which have been especially hard hit by nationwide economic problems.
Communities where unemployment is worst will be eligible for additional
money through the revenue sharing program. A special program of public
service employment will enable those who are now unemployed to con-
tribute to their communities in hospitals, nursing homes, park and recrea-
tion programs, and other related activities. A strong public works
program will permit the construction of selected projects which are
needed most.
These will not be make-work projects. They will be especially valu-
able in communities where budget cutbacks have reduced municipal serv-
ices, and they will also help to prevent local tax increases.
Now, because unemployment is most severe among special groups of
our people—the young, the disabled, minority groups—we will focus our
training programs on them.
The top priority in our job training programs will go to young vet-
erans of the Vietnam war. Unemployment is much higher among veterans
72
