Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 14
tection, and the resettlement of political
refugees.
The peacekeeping function is firmly
embedded in the OAS Charter. I want to
encourage the Secretary General of the
OAS to continue his active and effective
involvement in the search for peaceable
solutions to several long-standing disputes
in this hemisphere. The United States
will support his efforts and initiatives.
The OAS, of course, is not the only in-
strument of cooperation among the na-
tions of the Americas. The Inter-Ameri-
can Development Bank is among the most
important multilateral mechanisms for
promoting development of the world to-
day. By bringing in nations outside the
Western Hemisphere, the IDB bears tes-
timony to Latin America's growing in-
volvement with the rest of the world.
Within this hemisphere, many of you
are working toward regional and subre-
gional integration efforts including
those in the Caribbean, in the Central
American Common Market, and the An-
dean Pact and we favor such efforts.
They are the first steps toward Bolívar's
vision of a hemisphere united.
Let me conclude by bringing up a mat-
ter that is particularly close to me because
of my long interest in inter-American
affairs. My wife and I have traveled and
made many friends in Mexico and Brazil,
the two largest and most rapidly chang-
ing countries in Latin America. And we
have traveled elsewhere and made many
friends in Central and South America.
My wife is presently studying Spanish,
along with the wife of the Secretary of
State, and I have tried to keep up with
my own Spanish that I learned at school.
I have seen clearly how greatly our coun-
try has been blessed and enriched by the
people and cultures of the Caribbean and
Latin America. And we are bound to-
gether and I see it very clearly-in cul-
ture, history, and by common purposes
and ideals.
The United States actually has the
fourth largest Spanish-speaking popula-
tion in the world. I tried to meet many of
them during my campaign the last 2
years. And they gave me their support
and their encouragement and their ad-
vice. The novels we read, the music we
hear, the sports that we play-all reflect
a growing consciousness of each other.
These intellectual, social, cultural, and
educational exchanges will continue,
either with or without government help.
But there are steps that governments can
take to speed up and enhance this process.
In the months ahead, therefore, we plan
to explore with your governments-indi-
vidually and here in the OAS-new
people-to-people programs, an increase
in professional and scientific exchanges,
and other ways of strengthening the ties
that already link us.
The challenge we face is to awake our
institutions to a changing world. We must
focus our attention on the problems which
face our countries and tailor each solu-
tion to its problem.
As you know, I am a new President.
I've got a lot to learn. My heart and my
interest to a major degree is in Latin
America. I welcome every opportunity to
strengthen the ties of friendship and a
sense of common purpose and close con-
sultation with the nations and the peoples
of the Caribbean and Latin America.
Many of you are leaders representing
your own governments. I ask for your
advice and your counsel and your sup-
port as we face problems together in the
future. This means a lot to our country,
and it means a lot to us also to have inti-
mate bilateral and direct relationships
with you.
We look on the OAS, headquartered
thankfully here in Washington, as a chan-
nel through which we might learn more
615
