Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I have not been asked
for any documents. And the Helms case
has not come to my attention, either offi-
cially or even indirectly from any of the
people involved.
Whether or not to proceed with the
case will be the exclusive right of the Jus-
tice Department. The revelation of any
documents that affect our national secu-
rity will be my own judgment, in this or
other cases.
I can't respond any further than that,
because that's all I know about the
subject.
Q. Mr. President, if I may say, sir, the
problem, as you know, relates to, I guess,
national security considerations on the
one hand and the legal system and justice
on the other. Given the recent history, I
just wonder how closely you will weigh
those two.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the prosecution
of the case has nothing to do with me;
that will be a judgment made by the
Justice Department. The actual revela-
tion to a grand jury, or in case of a trial,
if it should ever evolve, of confidential or
secret material, would have to be judged
by me.
Q. That would control, sir, would it
not, whether the prosecution could go
forward even if it chose?
THE PRESIDENT. It may or may not. At
that point, the responsibility for making
a judgment and the responsibility for the
consequences of an inaccurate judgment,
if it should occur, would be my own.
CIVIL DISORDERS
Q. Mr. President, in connection with
your concern about human rights, a task
force on terrorism and violence last week
presented a report to Attorney General
Bell regarding recommendations they had
to make on how we should handle civil
disorders should they occur again like
they did in the sixties. It's a 600-page re-
port, funded—the study was funded-by
the LEAA, and Attorney General Bell
typified this as one of the good things the
LEAA was doing.
Well, sir, in the report there are certain
recommendations, such as the use of mass
arrests, the use of preventive detention,
some of the very things that were used in
the sixties and later ruled inappropriate
by the courts. And I wondered, sir, what
you felt about this problem involving
human rights in the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be opposed
to mass arrests, and I would be opposed
to preventive detention as a general
policy and even as a specific policy, un-
less it was an extreme case. Obviously, in
a 600-page report there would be things
with which we would agree and things
with which we would disagree. I've not
seen the report. I'm not familiar with it.
But I think the abuses in the past have in
many cases exacerbated the disharmonies
that brought about demonstrations, and
I think the arrest of large numbers of
people without warrant or preventive de-
tention is contrary to our own best system
of government.
RICHARD HELMS
Q. Mr. President, to follow on Mr.
Donaldson's [Sam Donaldson, ABC
News] question on the Helms case, he
asked you if documents have been
requested.
THE PRESIDENT. They have not.
Q. You said they have not. Mr. Lip-
shutz, your general counsel, indicated to
some reporters last week, however, that
the matter of decision on release of in-
formation is in the White House, is in his
office, and that would make it ultimately
up to you.
Now, has the Justice Department not
asked permission to declassify documents
346
