Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
price. The second tax installment in 1979
would bring all domestic crude prices up
to the $11.28 tier, and the third increment
would bring it to the world price in 1980.
Once the tax is fully in place, it would
rise with world oil prices, except that
authority would exist to discontinue an
increase if the world price increased sig-
nificantly faster than the general level of
inflation. The net funds collected as a
result of this tax would be returned to the
public, on a per capita basis, in the form
of tax credits or direct payments for those
who have no tax liability.
The oil tax would provide no net gain
to the Treasury and no net loss to con-
sumers as a group, while establishing a
more realistic energy pricing system. Once
the tax is fully in effect, all domestic oil
would have approximately the same price
(after tax) as the world price, the entitle-
ments program would be terminated, and
certain related regulatory activities could
be phased out.
3. Natural gas pricing (legislative):
Current pricing policy evolved at a time
when gas was a surplus byproduct of oil.
As a result it is now the Nation's most
underpriced and oversold fuel. By help-
ing bring natural gas supply and demand
back into balance, this pricing proposal is
an important first step toward deregula-
tion. If the oil and gas pricing and taxing
initiatives in this plan succeed, it may be
possible to return to a market-determined
price for new natural gas.
The new gas pricing policy provides
prices for new gas that will reflect future
costs and risks associated with finding
new supplies, recognizes that the United
States constitutes a single market for
natural gas, and continues controls on old
gas.
Specifically, this proposal would:
-subject all new gas, sold anywhere
in United States, to a price limita-
tion of the BTU equivalent of the
average refiner acquisition cost (be-
fore tax) of all domestic crude oil.
That price limitation would be ap-
proximately $1.75 per Mcf at the
beginning of 1978; the interstate-
intrastate distinction would disap-
pear for new gas;
-define new natural gas using the
same standards as are used to define
newly discovered oil (2½ miles,
1,000 feet, new leases);
-guarantee price certainty at current
levels for currently flowing gas, with
adjustments to reflect inflation;
-authorize the establishment of higher
incentive pricing levels for specific
categories of high cost gas;
-allow gas made available at the ex-
piration of existing interstate con-
tracts or by production from existing
reservoirs in excess of contracted
volumes to qualify for a price no
higher than the current $1.42 Mcf
ceiling adjusted for inflation; gas
made available under the same cir-
cumstances from existing intrastate
production would qualify for the
same price as new gas; i.e., $1.75 per
Mcf at the beginning of 1978;
-allocate the cost of the more expen-
sive new gas to industrial users, not
to residential and commercial users;
extend Federal jurisdiction to SNG
facilities guaranteeing them a rea-
sonable rate of return.
This pricing mechanism would not
affect the existing intrastate contracts.
Because the Nation will remain vulner-
able to natural gas supply emergencies
during the coldest months of the year, the
President will propose the emergency gas
allocation authority be extended for 3
years.
4. Other oil and gas measures
a. Alaskan crude pricing (legislative) :
Inclusion of North Slope oil in the do-
mestic composite price under the current
681
