May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
change. Our policy is reinforced by our material wealth and by our mili-
tary power. Our policy is designed to serve mankind. And it is a policy
that I hope will make you proud to be Americans.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. at the University of Notre Dame Athletic
and Convocation Center after being introduced by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, president
of the university. Prior to his remarks, the President was presented with an honorary
doctor of laws degree by Father Hesburgh.
Tax and Drought Relief Bills
Remarks on Signing H.R. 3477 and S. 1279
Into Law. May 23, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Again, I apologize for
sitting down in the presence of my dis-
tinguished peers. I just have to assume
this position to do the signing.
The first bill that I'd like to discuss
and sign is House Resolution 3477, which
is designed and which has been success-
fully passed by the Congress to greatly
simplify the income tax codes of our Na-
tion, to provide greater equity and, also,
substantially to reduce taxes among our
people. We have seen many Members of
the Congress work long hours on this very
fine legislation, and I think to a substan-
tial degree, the local and State officials
have been involved in this process.
This legislation will provide $5 billion
in direct tax reduction to the American
taxpayers to be implemented immedi-
ately, perhaps as early as June, in with-
holding taxes.
And for the average family of four that
makes $10,000 a year, this will be a per-
manent tax reduction of 30 percent,
which is of very great benefit to the Amer-
ican average family. Most of the benefits
in this tax reduction will go to lower- and
middle-income families; about 80 percent
of it to families that make less than
$15,000 a year.
Also, it greatly simplifies the procedure
for computing income taxes. About 95
percent of the American people next year,
as they file their 1977 tax return, will be
able to use a simplified version with a
standard deduction and one very simple
computation.
We are very proud of the fact, too, that
this bill does extend the earned-income
tax credits that were initiated by Sena-
tor Long. They worked very well. They're
an instigation for the lower-income groups
to seek and to find employment, and they
reward hard work at the low-income
levels when the salaries might be too low
to finance the needs of the low-income
families.
This bill also includes countercyclical
help for low- and middle-income families,
but particularly through direct grants to
the local and State governments.
And this is a bill that's designed to con-
tinue our tax simplification, equity, and
to stimulate our economy in a way that is
productive.
I'm very pleased at the good work that
Chairman Ullman in the House and
Chairman Long in the Senate have done.
And many of the Members of Congress
on my left played an instrumental role
in bringing forward this good legislation.
962
