Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 8
Plains about information he had uncov-
ered in Congress about the transgressions
of this man in not enforcing pricing and
protective regulations against oil, gas, and
utilities people. Are you keeping him on
knowingly, or you just didn't know about
him?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't know about
it. But I will check on it after this press
conference. I promise.
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL
LEADERSHIP
Q. Mr. President, regarding your rela-
tions with Congress, Representative Shir-
ley Chisholm, as you know, is the elected
secretary of the House Democratic cau-
cus, but she has not been included in your
regular Tuesday morning breakfast meet-
ings with the leaders, although her coun-
terpart in the Senate, Daniel Inouye, has
been included and participates in those
meetings.
My question is, Mr. President: In view
of the fact that Representative Chisholm
is the first black and the first woman who
holds a leadership post and in view of your
oft-repeated commitments to those two
groups, do you plan to do anything to
wipe out this inequity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that
the attendance at those Tuesday morning
breakfasts are not decided by me. I ask the
Speaker of the House of Representatives
and the Democratic majority leader in the
Senate to decide which Members of the
two Houses come to have breakfast with
me.
I also tell them about the major subject
for discussion. This morning, for instance,
it was on reorganization. Chairman Ribi-
coff in the Senate and Chairman Jack
Brooks in the House attended the meeting
because of that reason. I don't want to get
in the position of inviting specific Mem-
bers of the Congress to come, but I am
sure that if you addressed your question to
Speaker O'Neill, he would be glad to give
you an answer on it.
Let me say one other thing about that:
As far as the executive branch of Govern-
ment is concerned, I have really tried hard
to bring into the Government additional
numbers of women and of minority
groups. I asked Hamilton Jordan, just be-
fore I came over here, for a summary of
what we have done so far.
We've only appointed now about two-
thirds of the subcabinet members in the
major departments, but in those major
departments headed by a Cabinet Secre-
tary, we have tripled, more than tripled,
the number of women involved. I think
in the last administration we had eight
women. We now have 29 and the number
is growing. We have doubled the number
of black Americans who serve in those
major positions from 8 to 16, and we have
tripled the number of Spanish-speaking
Americans.
I would guess that this percentage, two
or three times more than has been in-
volved in the past, will grow as the addi-
tional appointments are made.
THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, there have been a se-
ries of actions taken in recent days by the
Soviet Union, including the expulsion of
American journalists and the arrest of
Alexander Ginsburg, actions that we have
taken issue with in one form or another.
How concerned are you that by being out-
spoken on issues of human rights that we
may jeopardize possibly our relations with
the Soviet Union on other matters?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this brings up
the question that is referred to as linkage. I
99
