Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
And I believe that you will find, without
casting any criticism on previous Cabinet
officers over here, that he will be one of
the best qualified to understand your point
of view. And to the extent that your point
of view is compatible with my point of
view, I am sure he will do a good job. I
don't know the details.
FEDERAL REGULATIONS
Q. Mr. President, what are your plans
for requiring that the Secretary of Labor
read the regulations that are promulgated
by this Department and that the regula-
tions, as prepared, are signed by the per-
son responsible for their preparation?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is a very
good one that I anticipated hearing.
[Laughter] He said what are my plans for
requiring that the Secretary of Labor read
the regulations that are promulgated by
this Department and that the regulations,
as prepared, are signed by the person re-
sponsible for their preparation?
I am very serious about cutting down
on the excess regulations issued, and I am
also very serious about making sure that
when the regulations are written, that I
and the people who have to follow them
can understand them.
I have already asked all the Cabinet of-
ficers to personally read the regulations
that are promulgated by the department.
It might take all their weekends for a
while. I don't object to that.
I think after a while, if the Secretaries
themselves know what is going forward
from their department, they can make
sure, first of all, that it represents the
proper philosophy that's part of the de-
partment's attitudes; secondly, that they
are not excessive or too complicated.
Also, I believe that a lot of people—as
is the case when I issue a proclamation—
a lot of people are involved in the prepara-
tion of it. But someone who is responsible
for, say, OSHA, when that regulation is
promulgated, ought to put their name on
it. They are responsible for the language
involved. They are responsible for the at-
titude expressed in the regulation, and
they are responsible to the Secretary if the
regulations are too voluminous that it
takes up his whole weekend to read them.
By the way, I had a meeting this morn-
ing with my own staff, with key members
of the congressional committee, like Gov-
ernment Operations and others, to try to
simplify the laws that relate to the regula-
tion-writing process. And I hope that all
of us can work together to make sure that
the regulations are minimal, clear, well
written, and accurately express the phi-
losophy of the department.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. No. The question is we
have, obviously, a need to issue regula-
tions and instructions and interpretations
of laws.
I am not trying to abolish the prepara-
tion of regulations. But the only reason
that you prepare a regulation is that it be
enlightening to the people who have to
comply; that it be a directive to your own
field workers to require conformity with
Federal law and, also, uniformity of ad-
ministration around the country; and,
also, so that those people's lives who are
touched by the regulation are treated fair-
ly; and it's the intent of myself and Con-
gress to carry it out.
So, I think it is a very good move to
minimize the volume of regulations, to
make sure they are written clearly, and
to make sure they are compatible with the
intent of Congress and your leaders and
my own. But I don't want to eliminate all
regulations, obviously. I just want to
make sure that those that are issued carry
out those purposes.
107
