Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 15
Joan. I know Fritz-here she comes. I
think Joan is adding a lot to American
art and music and drama, don't you?
[Applause]
Where is Frank-Frank Fowler—and
Gil Kinney? Hi, Frank. Thank you again
very much.
Is Mr. Kinney here? We want to thank
you both.
You know, I think it is really remark-
able and gratifying that people like Frank
and Mr. Kinney can come in, along with
Tom Beard and others, and just say this
is something that needs to be done. It'll
add a distinctive acquisition to those who
want to remember the Inauguration Day,
and it kind of exhibits a wide diversity of
artistic ability and talent, and it also helps
to finance the opportunity for literally
hundreds of thousands of people to be
well occupied in cultural events during
inauguration.
So, I think the culmination of all this
effort is really something that I will never
forget. I had nothing to do with it. I was
just a participant and also one who en-
joyed the fruits of their great work and
their great talent.
And I thank all of you for coming to
commemorate this occasion. Thanks a lot.
NOTE: The presentation ceremony began at
4:40 p.m. in the State Dining Room at the
White House. Tom Beard was the coordinator
of the Inaugural Portfolio project. In his re-
marks, the President referred to art dealer
Frank Fowler and art collector Gil Kinney.
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Robert H. Mundheim To Be
General Counsel. June 15, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert H. Mundheim, of
Philadelphia, Pa., to be General Counsel
of the Department of the Treasury.
Mundheim is the Fred Carr Professor of
Law and Financial Institutions at the
University of Pennsylvania Law School;
professor of finance at the Wharton
School; and director of the University of
Pennsylvania Law School Center for
Study of Financial Institutions.
Mundheim was born February 24,
1933, in Hamburg, Germany. He received
a B.A. from Harvard University in 1954
and an LL.B. from Harvard Law School
in 1957. He served in the U.S. Air Force
in 1961 and 1962.
Mundheim was with Shearman & Ster-
ling in New York City from 1958 to 1961.
He was special counsel on Investment
Company Act matters at the Securities
and Exchange Commission in 1962 and
1963. He was a visiting professor of law
at Duke Law School in 1964 and has
been at the University of Pennsylvania
Law School since 1965.
National Rural Electric
Cooperative Association
Youth Tour
Remarks to Participants in the
Tour. June 15, 1977
Midge seemed to have lost part of our
audience, and I thought I'd rescue her.
When she talks about being close to the
people, you know, I have to prove that I
can do that.
You are nice to come to Washington,
and you are nice to come out to the White
House this afternoon. I understand that
after a few minutes you will have a chance
to see the center of the executive branch
of Government.
As you know, John Adams was the first
President who lived here. He was not only
the second President but George Wash-
ington's Vice President. And this is a place
of great historic importance.
1119
