Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
They have also suggested, and we have
agreed, that we go to Paris to negotiate
further without any preconditions. In the
past, the Vietnamese have said that they
would not negotiate with us nor give us
additional information about the MIA's
until we had agreed to pay reparations.
They did not bring this up, which I
thought was an act of reticence on their
part.
They had claimed, previously, that
President Nixon had agreed to pay large
sums of money to Vietnam because of
damage done to their country. Our posi-
tion had been, whether or not that agree-
ment had been made, that the Vietnam-
ese had violated that agreement by in-
truding beyond the demilitarized zone
during the war.
But they told Mr. Woodcock and sent
word to me: We are not going to pursue
past agreements and past disagreements.
We are eager to look to the future. And I
am also eager to look to the future.
If we are convinced, as a result of the
Paris negotiations and other actions on
the part of the Vietnamese, that they are
acting in good faith, that they are trying
to help us account for our MIA's, then I
would aggressively move to admit Viet-
nam to the United Nations and, also, to
normalize relationships with them.
Q. As to the second part of my ques-
tion, what about the families of the 2,500
people who have still not been accounted
for, or remains have not been returned?
The President. I have nothing but
sympathy for the families involved, and I
can assure them through this news con-
ference presentation, that we will never
cease attempting to account for those
2,500 American servicemen who were lost.
I might point out that at the conclu-
sion of the Korean war and the Second
World War, of those that were lost in ac-
tion, we only accounted for-I think we
still did not account for 22 percent. At
the conclusion of the Vietnam war, my
understanding is that we had accounted
for all except about 4 percent.
I can't certify that we have all the in-
formation available, and we are never go-
ing to rest until we pursue information
about those who are missing in action to
the final conclusion. But I will do the best
I can. But I don't want to mislead any-
body by giving hope about discovery of
some additional information when I don't
believe that the hope is justified.
WATER RESOURCE PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, in the criticism of
your water project hit list, so-called, which
now totals about 30 projects, I believe,
there has been a suggestion that some kind
of an environmental clique has produced
that list but there has been no actual re-
view or consultation by some of the line
agencies Interior. Specifically, there has
been a suggestion that Secretary Andrus
has not been involved in the final consul-
tations of the review. This, after some
years of review, went into the production
respond to that kind of criticism, sir?
of those projects themselves. Could you
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
The so-called hit list is a list of projects
that will be meticulously reviewed in pub-
lic hearings, where Members of Congress,
Chambers of Commerce, Governors,
farmers, environmentalists, and others
who are concerned about each individual
project can participate.
All of the projects that have been rec-
ommended for reassessment have been
carefully reviewed by Secretary Andrus in
every one of those that relate to the In-
terior Department, the Bureau of Recla-
mation, and by the Corps of Engineers,
those that are being proposed for con-
struction by the Corps of Engineers. In
effect, the Corps of Engineers and the De-
partment of Interior have had a veto over
500
