Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 12
right thing. But I don't want to try to
guess what the outcome of the investiga-
tion or the possible trial might be.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, one of your prede-
cessors is going on television tonight to
discuss his foreign policy, Mr. Nixon, and
I suspect he'll talk a great deal about
China.
Inasmuch as it's been 5 years since the
Shanghai Communique was signed, I was
wondering if you have a target date
within your administration for full diplo-
matic recognition of the People's Repub-
lic of China? Do you have a target date?
Will it come within your first administra-
tion, and if you don't have a target date,
what's the problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's very difficult
for me to set a target date, because this is
a two-way negotiation. We have com-
menced discussions with the Chinese Gov-
ernment to resolve the first obstacle, and
that is the claims settlement.
Long years ago, we had roughly
$190 million worth of American property
and other goods confiscated by the Mao
Tse-tung government. We in our country
confiscated in return about $80 million, I
believe, primarily in Chinese bank depos-
its. We've never been able to work out
those differing claims. That would be the
first step.
We have espoused, and I have renewed
my commitment to the Shanghai Com-
munique, which says that there's just one
China. We didn't say which one, and I
think that we have moved [laughter]—
and neither did anyone else-we have
moved, I think, to strengthen our ties with
the People's Republic of China.
I have met personally with Ambasasdor
Huang. Cy Vance has met several times
with him. We've sent a delegation of Con-
gress Members over there, along with my
own son, as a demonstration or gesture of
friendship. They were well received. We
haven chosen one of the good friends of
mine and a great leader, Leonard Wood-
cock, who we expect to be the next Am-
bassador to the People's Republic of
China and I would like to see progress
made toward normalization of relation-
ships.
The one obstacle, major obstacle, obvi-
ously, is the relationship we've always had
with Taiwan. We don't want to see the
Taiwanese people punished or attacked.
And if we can resolve the major difficulty,
I would move expeditiously to normaliz-
ing relationships with China. But I can't
put a time limit on it.
FOREIGN TRAVEL PLANS
Q. Mr. President, your trip to Europe
was judged to be a great success. We know
that you've been invited to Paris in the
fall by President d'Estaing. When will you
be going back to Europe, or to any other
foreign country?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not decided defi-
nitely to go to France. President Valéry
Giscard d'Estaing did invite me to come,
and if the Congress is able to get through
with its work as presently scheduled, some-
time in October, then that would make it
possible for me perhaps to take another
trip at the end of this year. But I have not
decided to do that yet.
I don't know what the prospects of the
trip would be. I don't know what the itin-
erary would be, and it's still very much in
doubt.
WELFARE REFORM
Q. Mr. President, if the welfare mess is
as bad as you have said it is, why are we
going to have to wait until 1981, in your
second term, to see it cured?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you for your
comments. [Laughter] I don't think that's
what we have in mind at all. We expect
to propose a legislative package to the
863
