Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 30
ments about ex-Presidents. I have a com-
plete determination when I go out of
office to say what I damn well please
[laughter] about my successor. I knew
that if I gave Fritz an inch, he'd try to
take a mile. [Laughter]
I've been to seven or eight news con-
ferences, and I never knew there was so
many White House correspondents be-
fore. [Laughter] You have my own White
House staff outnumbered 10 to 1-using
the campaign figures for the White House
staff, of course. [Laughter] The way it's
turned out, on a temporary basis, this is
just about one for one.
We do have a lot in common, though.
I understand that everybody on the
White House staff and among the White
House correspondents has had about a
tripling in their salary since I came in
office. I know you all appreciate the new
arrangement that I've brought to the
White House.
I appreciated, too, the remarks that
were made about the new policy that
we've tried to implement throughout the
Government in bringing women and
blacks into the Government. We've got
a long way to go. I've derived a lot of in-
spiration from looking at the head table.
[Laughter] If my black friends from
Archer could just see this assemblage up
here, they would be sure that their strug-
gles over a long period of time were well
worthwhile.
It is difficult to separate in a White
House environment, fact from fiction,
which reminds me of my good friend,
Jim Wooten, here [laughter]-the Erica
Jong of the New York Times. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, the fiction and fact
relationship is not what hurt me so much;
it was the use of the phrase "cruel rec-
luse." I have asked Jody Powell to find
out who first used that phrase. He's inter-
rogated all the White House correspond-
ents and 23 White House staff members.
If I find out who said it, I'll let you know.
And if I'm not there, my new Press Sec-
retary will let
retary will let you know. [Laughter]
It's always good to have an experienced
person at your side who can extricate you
from one of those difficult situations.
I have thought that I knew my key sup-
porters very well, who have been with me
8 or 10 years, but I've learned a lot about
them since we've been in the White
House.
I read a story not too long ago about
Hamilton Jordan's [laughter]—about
Hamilton Jordan's [laughter]-under-
wear. Of course, I don't have any way to
know about the veracity of the story. I
really didn't until the other afternoon
someone hit a very hard tennis ball over
the net and it missed Hamilton's racket
and I found out that the story was true.
[Laughter]
We all have to accommodate changing
times. I've tried to bring to the White
House the campaign commitments that I
made, and carry them out. Obviously,
when circumstances do change, you have
to change with them.
I noticed that Paul mentioned the $50
rebate. This was a firm commitment of
mine, as you know. And my economists,
though, discovered that so many people
spent the $50 before they got it, that we
didn't have to give it to them. [Laughter]
I can't understand why everybody else
can't understand something like that.
Hamilton is in charge of appointments,
as you know. And the other day a story
got out that we were considering three
people for Ambassador to Nantucket. We
want to be ready when the new nations.
are formed.
My brother, Billy, found out we were
considering an ambassador to Martha's
Vineyard. We had to explain to him that
the name was derived a long time ago.
[Laughter]
759
