Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 14
there would be nothing in it for the work-
ing people, as he put it, the backbone of
the United States. What are you going to
say to all of those people in anticipation of
the rebate who have already, in essence,
spent it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's ac-
curate to say I can't speak for all the
people in the country; I don't profess to
do that. We consulted with the labor lead-
ers on this change in our policy. I think
it's accurate to say, for instance, that Mr.
Meany thought it was a very good move
that we terminate the $50 rebate package.
We still have intact more than a $20 bil-
lion economic stimulus package with most
of the emphasis on direct job opportuni-
ties in public service jobs, public works
projects, CETA and other training pro-
grams, and in the anticyclical allotment of
funds to local governments to help them-
selves.
The only exception to the direct job op-
portunities in the remaining stimulus
package, which was quite large, is the sim-
plification of the tax structure with the
standard deduction. I intend to go ahead
with that. But the overwhelming part of
more than a $20 billion stimulus package
is directly oriented to jobs.
ECONOMIC DECISIONS
Q. Mr. President, what concern do you
have that this is the start, perhaps, of a
week of several pieces of bitter medicine
you're going to have to give us today,
and then tomorrow, on anti-inflation
measures and then a week later on con-
serving energy? It's going to be kind of a
grim week.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't deny that
description. It's not an easy thing to do.
I think that as the President I have to face
facts as they are. My own experience in
politics is that if people believe that they
are making a sacrifice, but if it's equitable
and fair and necessary, there is very little
political consequence to be derived for
the one who makes the announcement.
With the anti-inflation package there
will be constraints on people. There will be
special interests, some quite benevolent in
nature, who will be disappointed. And
with the energy messages that I'll deliver
next week there will be another presenta-
tion that's quite severe.
But I think that in general I can live
through the next week, and I believe that
when the period is over, I hope and I do
believe that the American people will
think it's not only fair and equitable but
also necessary. So, I don't think the polit-
ical consequences are as severe as you
might have thought.
TAX REBATE
Q. Mr. President, Treasury Secretary
Blumenthal said only yesterday afternoon
that this rebate was still needed because
unemployment was over 7 million and in-
dustrial capacity was only operating at 80
percent. What happened to change from
then until last night when you turned
around on this?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll let him speak for
himself in just a moment. But let me point
this out: In the last 2 months, we've had
an increase in jobs in the country of al-
most a million. The unemployment rate,
when we made this decision, was about
8 percent-I think 8.05, 8.1. It's now
dropped down to 7.3. This is still much
too high. And it's just a matter of judg-
ment; there is not any sure thing about
what's going to happen in the future.
If the present economic indicators con-
tinue to improve and if the present infla-
tionary pressures continue to rise, I don't
think there is any doubt in my mind that
this is the right decision to make. Obvi-
ously, we can't anticipate with any degree
of certainty what's going to happen in
621
