Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 14
been substantially caused by increased im-
ports. The USITC had recommended a
system of tariff-rate import quotas, which
the President rejected as not being in the
national economic interest.
U.S. imports of nonrubber footwear in-
creased from 265 million pairs in 1974 to
370 million pairs in 1976. Of this 105-
million-pair increase, Taiwan accounted
for 68 million pairs and Korea 36 million
pairs, for a total of 104 million, or 99 per-
cent of the increase over the 2-year period.
The OMA provides for consultations on
any future-year quota adjustments war-
ranted by conditions in the domestic foot-
wear industry and other economic factors;
the USITC will monitor conditions in the
domestic footwear industry as well as any
inflationary impact of the agreements on
U.S. consumers and prepare appropriate
reports on a quarterly and yearly basis.
Ambassador Strauss noted in this connec-
tion that the agreement should not have
any significant inflationary impact nor ad-
verse effect upon consumers.
NOTE: A summary of the principal provisions
of the footwear agreement was also included
with the release.
Conference on HIRE
Remarks to Participants in the
Conference. June 14, 1977
I want to introduce to you a good friend
of mine who is in the back, Johnny Cash,
and his wife, June Carter, whom I have
always claimed as my cousin, and their son
John Carter, who is also a person that I
claim as my cousin.
Johnny is the kind of man who has had
hard times in his own life, who has over-
come them because he had friends who
believed in him, and who is now devoting
a major part of his own great talent to the
service of other people.
known him now for almost 10 years. He
and June and John Carter have been
down to Plains to visit my relatives and
friends. And I think his own great success
in life is because at a crucial time some-
body gave him a chance. And that's what
I came this afternoon to talk to you about
very briefly.
You men and women are very success-
ful. You've enjoyed the benefits of our
own free Nation, our system of govern-
ment, and our system of economics that
gives you a chance to excel and you've
done so, because of your own talent and
ability, of course, but also because you
had a chance.
And I am sure, as you are, that there
are hundreds of thousands of people in
this country just as intelligent and com-
petent as you and me who are in deep
despair and whose families might be
broken and who have not benefited from
a framework of our own governmental
system.
Our country is one that's proud of its
achievements. We've been through hard
times in war. My father was in the First
World War; he came out as a first lieu-
tenant. And I went into the Navy in 1943
and came out after the Korean war. My
own son went to Vietnam as a volunteer.
I always felt that the neighbors and
friends that I had recognized me as a
hero when I came home. I wasn't. All I
did was wear the uniform and was will-
ing to serve. I never did anything heroic.
But I was appreciated. And I was proud.
And my neighbors and friends were proud
of me and they let me know it.
Well, that was not the case in the re-
cent war in Vietnam. It was not a popu-
lar war. Most of the young people who
went were too poor to hide in college and
escape the draft; others went, like Max
Cleland, who already had a college edu-
cation, because he was highly patriotic and
I'm very proud of his friendship. I've deeply motivated.
1115
