Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
So, I think the entire system of retire-
ment needs to be examined very care-
fully. And although I haven't announced
it publicly before, I intend very quickly to
appoint a commission to give me advice
on what ought to be done to correct these
inequities.
Marilyn [Marilyn Berger, NBC News].
U.S. DIPLOMATIC RELATIONSHIPS
Q. Mr. President, on Saturday you
spoke about aggressively, peacefully chal-
lenging the Russians in their own spheres.
Could you please elaborate on those re-
marks and explain how this differs, for
example, from the cold war, which in
some cases led to hot war, as in Korea and
Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The comment
that I made was-with an emphasis on
peaceful competition-was to win the
friendship of nations that in the past have
not been close to us who may have been
heavily influenced by or very closely
friendly with the Soviet Union and who
may still be.
I think this is a normal and a proper
hope for our country. We don't want to
be in a position that once a country is not
friendly to us and once they are complete-
ly within the influence of the Soviet
Union, they should forever be in that
status.
And as I have already indicated and
named several countries-Somalia, Ethi-
opia, Iraq, even more controversial
nations like Vietnam, Cuba-I want to
move as best I can to reestablish normal,
friendly relationships with those coun-
tries.
In some instances the obstacles are
quite severe, as in the case of Cuba and
perhaps Vietnam, but I think this is what
our government ought to do, and I would
like to have a situation when I go out of
office that all the nations in the world
have diplomatic relationships with us.
We now have 14 who don't. And I've
been pursuing this aggressively, to use the
word that you described, and also I think
that I am completely in harmony with the
Secretary of State and others who work
with me on this pursuit.
Mr. Mohr [Charles Mohr, New York
Times].
ANATOLY SCHARANSKY
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on your
remarks about human rights, Mrs. Ana-
toly Scharansky, the wife of a Soviet dissi-
dent who is under arrest, is visiting in the
United States, and yesterday she ex-
pressed interest in seeing you to ask you
to intervene in this case. I'd like to ask,
do you think that this sort of thing can be
useful, and do you plan to see her?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any plans
to meet Mrs. Scharansky, but I have in-
quired deeply within the State Depart-
ment and within the CIA as to whether
or not Mr. Scharansky has ever had any
known relationship in a subversive way
or otherwise with the CIA. The answer is
no. We have double-checked this, and I
have been hesitant to make that public
announcement, but now I am completely
convinced that contrary to the allegations
that have been reported in the press, that
Mr. Scharansky has never had any sort of
relationship to our knowledge with the
CIA.
B-1 BOMBER
your
Q. Mr. President, in the context of
campaign you said a number of times that
the B-1 was an exotic weapon which
should not be built. Now you've given two
sets of Congressmen who met with you
last week the impression that even though
this is the most expensive plane that ever
would have been built, that you are about
to go ahead.
Can you comment as to whether you
have made a decision; and whether you
1109
