Apr. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
would be used by you to pay the cost of
federalizing the welfare program and
other payments, rather than direct
refunds?
THE PRESIDENT. We still have to have
some flexibility about exactly what we do.
I can't certify today that every nickel of
the taxes collected will be refunded to
consumers.
There will be, for instance, for those
who use fuel to heat their homes-oil-
at the time they pay their fuel bills, that
increase in the price will be part of that
settlement and they won't have to pay the
higher price for fuel as it relates to home
heating.
This is particularly important in the
New England States. If we do refund,
however, all the wellhead tax which goes
on one step at a time for 3 years, this will
bring in enough money to give a credit,
a tax credit, by 1980 of about $188 per
family. And as I said before, for each 5
cents that we add on to the gas tax if it is
imposed, because of continued waste that
will be about $100 per family; that's if
all the tax is refunded to the family.
That's our present plan. But, of course,
we'll have to work on that with the Con-
gress in the months ahead.
Q. Can I ask a followup?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. As you developed this energy pro-
gram, however, was it in your mind that
a subtsantial portion of the additional tax
revenues that would come in to the Gov-
ernment, by some estimates as much as
$70 billion a year by 1985, would be used
for other domestic social welfare pro-
grams, the federalization of the welfare
program, and other unemployment pro-
grams, a substantial portion to be used
ultimately for those purposes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we considered
a lot of options. Those that you men-
tioned were among the options that we
did consider.
We also thought about the possibility
of refunding part of the gasoline tax
through the payroll deductions for social
security. The judgment that was made
just in the last few days was that it's better
to keep the social security question sepa-
rated from the energy tax.
But all those options have been con-
sidered, and I have described my present
thinking about it now. But I don't know
what I and the Congress will work out
during the next 2 or 3 months ahead.
If a better option should arise, then this
will be debated openly and we will make
a judgment accordingly. My present in-
clination is to see that the gasoline taxes,
to a substantial degree, and the fuel tax
increases, to a substantial degree, are re-
funded directly to the people of the coun-
try in the form of tax credits.
ENERGY PROGRAM AND THE ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, can you explain to us
just how you have had to reassess the
economic impact of the energy plan, the
impact on inflation and general economic
recovery?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I can do that, I
believe. We've run a series of computer
model analyses to try to predict as accu-
rately as we can what the impact of the
overall package will be if it's passed with-
out change. There are varying results.
The variations are not very substantial.
There's a general consensus that there
will be some inflationary impact. I think
the inflation would come along if we
didn't have an energy package. But with
the energy package intact, the inflation-
ary impact would probably be less than
one-half of one percent per year.
Secondly, as far as economic stimulus
is concerned, will it hold down our in-
crease in our gross national product or
will it cost the American people jobs? The
most conservative and unfavorable anal-
698
