Apr. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Vernon started in his own professional
career, which has been very successful,
as a small businessman-I think making
Venetian blinds in Miami. Is that correct,
Vernon? And we welcome him to our
administration, in the Small Business Ad-
ministration itself.
Another appointment that I make this
afternoon with a great deal of pride is to
the Federal Trade Commission. This is
ostensibly or by reputation the battle-
ground between the business community
on one side and consumers on the other.
But the man that I've chosen to serve as a
member is one that's been almost unani-
mously supported by both the business
community and consumers.
Mike Pertschuk comes to us as a dis-
tinguished member of the Senate staff. He
has a background that's broad and, I
think, has demonstrated his sound judg-
ment and his own integrity. And I'm very
grateful that he has been willing to come
and serve with us.
And, of course, we also have coming to
on the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Harold Williams, who has
a background as an educator and also as
a businessman. I doubt that there is any
other appointment that can be made by a
President where personal reputation and
deep knowledge of both the theory and
practical aspects of our own national
economy is more in demand than mem-
bership on the Securities and Exchange
Commission, because there you must have
confidence, above all. And I'm deeply
grateful that you are willing to serve with
us as well.
So you can see, I believe that this group
is one which meets demanding standards.
And I believe that their appointment,
along with the good members who already
serve in these capacities, will add a great
deal to the trust that Government can
justify among the people of our country
who look to us with confidence.
Justice Brennan has agreed to come and
administer the oath. And it's with a great
deal of pride, Mr. Justice, that I ask you
now to swear in for full-time Government
service, these remarkable examples of suc-
cess in their own field and a dedication
to an even greater career in public service
in the months to come.
Thank you very much.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Following
his remaks, Supreme Court Associate Justice
William J. Brennan, Jr., administered the oath
of office.
Soviet Press Comments
on President Carter's
Economic Programs
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. April 21, 1977
We have long maintained that the So-
viet Union has the perfect right to say
whatever it pleases. Neither this adminis-
tration nor this country has any fear of a
free discussion of ideas, no matter how
misinformed or ridiculous they might be.
Amer-
any
It is worth pointing out that
ican can say the same thing or worse about
the President, without fear of arrest, in-
timidation, or harassment from the White
House.
We certainly have no objections to the
exercise of the right of free speech by the
Soviet Government. We look forward to
the day when the right of citizens to criti-
cize his or her government is guaranteed
everywhere in the world.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at his April 22 news conference at
the White House in response to an article which
had appeared in the Communist Party news-
paper Pravda. The article criticized the Presi-
dent for failing to keep his Presidential cam-
paign promises to black voters in formulating
his economic policies.
692
