Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
What it does mean, in effect, is that I
can present to the Congress a reorganiza-
tion plan whenever I develop one on a
specific subject. And if the Congress
doesn't veto that plan in either House in
60 days, it automatically goes into effect.
The only change that I'm requiring or
requesting, compared to the previous au-
thority, is that while the bill or plan is
still in committee, I would have the right
to amend that proposal before it gets on
the floor. In the past, once it was sub-
mitted to Congress, no amendments were
permitted. But with that one exception,
it will be the same as the authority given
to Richard Nixon, for instance, when he
came in office in 1969.
I can't answer your question about
specific changes yet.
FEDERAL REGULATIONS; TAX REFORM
Q. Mr. President, I read in the paper
that you are asking the Cabinet members
to read their regulations before they issue
them. I think it might be interesting to
see if the Cabinet would fill out the new
short forms on income tax regulations.
THE PRESIDENT. I've noticed, as a pea-
nut farmer, that the 1040 gets simpler
and simpler every year. And I've just
hired my second CPA to help me fill it
out. [Laughter]
I think that you will see that if our
economic stimulus package proposal goes
through, giving a standard deduction of
$2,800 to every family, that it will be
indeed much simpler. And we have some
plans already that we almost proposed to
Congress that would be included in a
comprehensive income tax reform that I
hope to make it very simple. But after
this year, if the Congress adopts just this
first-step proposal, 75 percent of all the
taxpayers of our Nation will be able to
fill out by themselves the income tax re-
turn, which will be a big step forward.
I know that my request to the Cabinet
officers to read all the regulations that
are issued is a very, very onerous task. I
also know that my request that the ones
who are responsible for writing the regu-
lation sign it might create some problem.
But I want to make sure that the regu-
lations that come out of the Federal
Government, first of all, are necessary;
secondly, are brief as possible; third, are
worded in plain and simple English and,
also, accurately represent the policies of
the Secretary or the member of Cabinet
or my own administration.
Now, if it takes all weekend for the
Secretary of Treasury to read those regu-
lations, I'd like for him to do it-[laugh-
ter] not on a permanent basis. But I
think it's very important that the Secre-
taries of HEW and HUD and Transpor-
tation and Treasury actually read those
regulations for awhile to see the enor-
mous volume that comes out. And then,
I think, they'll be able to call a meeting
of those who are responsible for writing
the regulations and say, "Look, why can't
we cut down on some of this volume? Why
can't we simplify the language, and why
can't we leave more responsibility and
judgment up to our field workers to ex-
ercise common sense?"
Now, I'm going to be doing the same
thing at the White House level. I've
already spent a good bit of time studying
the overall procedure by which Govern-
ment regulations are issued. And I've
already had a meeting with the members
of the Government Operations Commit-
tee in the Congress to start working out
some changes in the law that might re-
duce the onerous requirement for the
writing of regulations.
I never dictate a letter. Almost all of
my memoranda are written on one side
of one sheet of a 5- by 8-inch pad. I can
write it very quickly, send it out, and it's
done. I hope that every person in the
!!
130
