Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
and so forth. Just say this is what I think
you ought to do to be a better President.
Yes, sir?
PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, Clinton is preparing
a lot of necessary information to submit
to the Federal and State Governments for
revitalizing our downtown area. When
and if this information is presented to the
governments, would Clinton be given
strong consideration for Federal funding?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it would. We've
got now, I believe, two Cabinet Secre-
taries, both of them happen to be women.
One is Juanita Kreps, in charge of the
Commerce Department which has charge
of the Economic Development Adminis-
tration. And the other one is Patricia Har-
ris, who's head of the Housing and Urban
Development Department.
They, working with Labor and other
agencies, are considering very rapidly now
the applications that are put in. We're
going to have a very strong public works
program put into effect by the Congress.
I don't think there's any doubt about it.
The bill hasn't passed yet, but it's well on
the
way, and the Congressmen are strongly
in favor of this bill. This will give us a
great opportunity to expand the health
for communities like Clinton.
So, I think to answer your question
when your application is put in, I can't
promise you that it'll be approved be-
cause I don't know what's in it, but it will
be handled expeditiously, and if it com-
plies with the law, I'm sure that it will be
approved.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
SELECTIVE SERVICE PARDONS
Q. My name is Mary Correia. I live at
14 Woodruff Road, and I'm a freshman
at the Clinton High School. I would like
to ask if you believe in the draft. Why,
may I ask, did you pardon the draft
evaders?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I didn't say that
I was going to put a draft back into effect.
In fact, I said just the opposite. If I feel,
though, that a restoration of the draft is
necessary for the Nation's security, I
would certainly not hesitate to recom-
mend it to the Congress. I might add there
are a couple of other things. If we do re-
institute the draft, I would like to make
its application universal to let people serve
whether they go and fight in the military
or not. And I would not let college attend-
ance be an excuse for not being drafted.
To answer the other part of your ques-
tion about the pardon, I recognized, be-
fore I issued the pardon for the draft
evaders, that it would not be a popular
decision. About half the people in the
country think it was a good decision;
about half of them don't think it was a
good decision.
I don't intend to issue a pardon for
those who were deserters or for those who
violated in a criminal way any military or
civil law. Those persons will have their
cases considered on an individual case
basis within the framework of the Defense
Department. But I did pardon those who
violated the draft laws because I think it's
time for us to get over the horrible conse-
quences of the Vietnam war, and I feel
that those young people have been pun-
ished enough.
After the wars in the past, after the war
was over and the wounds were being
healed, those who violated laws were par-
doned. I know in the War Between the
States that those of my family who se-
ceded from the Union and who fought
against the Union, after the war was over,
they were pardoned. So, I did it. I let the
people of the country know I was going to
do it before I was elected. Nobody voted
399
