June 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
There are literally hundreds of thou-
sands of young people in our country who
might be intellectually superior to you
and whose aspirations might be higher
than your own. But because their parents
might be ignorant or because they've
grown up in poverty, they haven't had a
chance to nourish and to develop those
innate talents that they possess. And a
feeling of superiority on your part because
you have been honored would be a very
serious mistake.
Your sense ought to be to delve deeply
into the consciousness of our country and
to detect those unrealized potentials that
exist in those who are not as fortunate as
you.
So, I don't think you are better than
anybody else. I think you are perhaps
luckier because your innate abilities have
been recognized and nourished, because
of government, because of society, because
of your social position, or because of the
character and good fortune of your
parents.
But don't look on your recognition as
superior achievers to be a sense of superi-
ority of yourselves over others. And don't
look on your present and future achieve-
ment as a means to constrain yourself in
seeking beneficial change. Be eager to see
our country progress, even though some-
times it might mean that progress gives
others equality with you. That's what
government ought to impress on every
public servant.
And since you are at least a temporary
public servant as you have come to gov-
ernment, I hope that you will take home
those commitments.
Maybe one or two questions. Yes?
Q. I've noticed that in the early his-
tory of the Nation, the Government was a
rather small elite with minds of extremely
high quality. Since then, I think the Gov-
ernment has become much more egali-
tarian. But do you think that because of
this egalitarianism, the best minds are un-
willing to drag themselves through the
mud of an election? No offense to any-
one. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I think perhaps with
the exception of 1976 and the Presiden-
tial election [laughter]-
That's an excellent question. I don't
know that we could equate the present
level of achievement and idealism and in-
tellect now with 200 years ago. Obviously,
Thomas Jefferson and George Washing-
ton, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine,
and others are revered by us, and legiti-
mately so. But at the same time, you have
to realize that later persons who were not
considered to be intellectual giants have
also been legitimately revered both in and
out of government.
I won't go down the list but, obvi-
ously, Harry Truman was one of those
who was sometimes even despised while
he was President. His public approval rat-
ing in the national polls was lower than
Nixon's was at any time, even including
now. Only 23 percent of the people in our
country thought Truman did a good job
while he was actually in office, after he
fired MacArthur and after he initiated
aid to Turkey and Greece, and the Mar-
shall Plan, and so forth. Those are con-
troversial things.
So, the measurement of effectiveness of
a public servant is not necessarily attrib-
utable to an IQ test result. I think the
measure is in different ways. But I think
to the extent that we can repair the dam-
age that's been done in recent years be-
tween people and government, to that
extent we can encourage those who are
worthy to seek public office.
I'm sure that many of the 15 or 20
other candidates who ran against me for
President are as well qualified or better.
I don't deny that at all. My own election
result was attributable to good fortune.
I had 11 members of my family who
1076
