Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
I believe the best thing to do is to put
them on the table, to have an open de-
bate, and when I see that there is a better
solution, accommodate it. But I'm not
naturally inclined to overcompromise, and
I don't have any apology for what we have
done so far.
I think we've still got our sleeves rolled
up and gloves off, and I believe that we
have a growing awareness of the problems
of Congress. I think they are getting to
know me. And I anticipate that we will
have tough debates and sharp confron-
tations, but the product of this will be
success.
ADMINISTRATION GOALS
Q. Mr. President, this is Tom Winship
of the Boston Globe and Waikiki Beach.
[Laughter] It's always a pleasure to visit
with you over the telephone from the con-
vention hall, and I do hope sometime we
can get a live encounter.
I have a question: Now that the 100-
day assessments are over with and behind
us, what is your minimum list of accom-
plishments that would make you satisfied
after your first 300 days?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would like to
get the economic stimulus package passed.
I'd like to get a new department of
energy approved and established. I would
like to get Congress to accept the essence,
hopefully all, of the proposals we made
on a comprehensive national energy pol-
icy. I'd like to have a common approach
among the developed, industrialized na-
tions of the world toward dealing with
inflation and unemployment.
I'd like to have as much of a commit-
ment as I can in our country to providing
jobs for our people. I'd like to get anti-
boycott legislation passed. I'd like for
there to be a worldwide awareness and,
hopefully, an increasing commitment to
the acceptance of human rights and the
abolition of the deprivation of those
rights. And I guess 300 days would prob-
ably include a productive Geneva meet-
ing on the Middle East and, also, some
easing of tension in the establishment of
good relationships with countries which
presently are not very close friends of
ours.
I would guess, too, that within that
length of time, I would work out with
Mr. Brezhnev an acceptable, first major
step toward the resolution of the SALT
question and the framework for much
more drastic reductions of nuclear weap-
ons in the future.
The other point that comes to mind is
that I think that within that time period,
I will have presented to the Congress for
their resolution, a comprehensive welfare
proposal, some guarantee that the social
security system will be firm, and the first
steps toward reorganizing the executive
branch of Government.
Tom, I look forward, too, to meeting
with you personally. I met with the edi-
tors of the Boston Globe a couple of times
during the early stages of the campaign,
and I would hope that my next meeting
politically.
with you might be more productive
WORLD ENERGY SUPPLY
Q. Mr. President, this is Joe Parham
of the Macon News.
THE PRESIDENT. Joe, how's it going?
Q. We're having a wonderful conven-
tion here in Hawaii-and one little
problem-no grits on the menu in the
morning. [Laughter]
I have a question, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
Q. You scared the hell out of me the
other night [inaudible]-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
791
