Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
of the United Nations and also Secretary General Kurt Waldheim so well
represent.
No one nation by itself can build a world which reflects all these fine
values. But the United States, my own country, has a reservoir of
strength-economic strength, which we are willing to share; military
strength, which we hope never to use again; and the strength of ideals,
which are determined fully to maintain the backbone of our own foreign
policy.
It is now 8 weeks since I became President. I have brought to office
a firm commitment to a more open foreign policy. And I believe that the
American people expect me to speak frankly about the policies that we
intend to pursue, and it is in that spirit that I speak to you tonight about
our own hopes for the future.
I see a hopeful world, a world dominated by increasing demands for
basic freedoms, for fundamental rights, for higher standards of human
existence. We are eager to take part in the shaping of that world.
But in seeking such a better world, we are not blind to the reality
of disagreement, nor to the persisting dangers that confront us all. Every
headline reminds us of bitter divisions, of national hostilities, of terri-
torial conflicts, of ideological competition.
In the Middle East, peace is a quarter of a century overdue. A gather-
ing racial conflict threatens southern Africa ; new tensions are rising in the
Horn of Africa. Disputes in the eastern Mediterranean remain to be
resolved.
Perhaps even more ominous is the staggering arms race. The Soviet
Union and the United States have accumulated thousands of nuclear
weapons. Our two nations now have five times more missile warheads
today than we had just 8 years ago. But we are not five times more secure.
On the contrary, the arms race has only increased the risk of conflict.
We can only improve this world if we are realistic about its com-
plexities. The disagreements that we face are deeply rooted, and they
often raise difficult philosophical as well as territorial issues. They will
not be solved easily. They will not be solved quickly. The arms race is now
embedded in the very fabric of international affairs and can only be con-
tained with the greatest difficulty. Poverty and inequality are of such
monumental scope that it will take decades of deliberate and determined
effort even to improve the situation substantially.
I stress these dangers and these difficulties because I want all of us
to dedicate ourselves to a prolonged and persistent effort designed first to
445
