Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
I was extended a cordial welcome when
I came, by the many people in the Treas-
ury who are eager to work with you and
with us to do a good job.
We're just across West Executive Ave-
nue, and you've shown us that it's only a
few feet. We're very happy to have you
here.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
There is literally no department in Gov-
ernment which touches more people in a
more sensitive way than does yours. I
think you know that a lot of the attitudes
that people form about public administra-
tion and leadership and about the attitude
of their own Government toward them is
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I'm glad derived from the Treasury Department.
to be here. Thank you very much.
Well, I'm very glad to be here, Mike.
You are my closest neighbor, as you know.
A lot of my people in Georgia always felt
that if I came to this building, it would
probably be because of income tax evasion
or something like that. [Laughter]
I would imagine that standing on this
stage are more Georgians than there were
at U. S. Grant's Inauguration in this
room, right after the Civil War. We had
about 60,000 people who came to the
Inauguration Balls this time, and many of
them were my close and personal friends
whom we had met and gotten to know
during the long, tedious, laborious but en-
joyable and openly successful campaign.
I don't think many Presidents have
taken the time to come and meet with the
key employees and leaders of our Govern-
ment. And I consider it a great honor to
be able to come and meet with you for a
few minutes.
One of the major successes that I have
already realized is a choice of a superb
Cabinet. I had an opportunity, as you
know, to select a Secretary of Treasury
from literally thousands of people who
were well qualified. And there is no doubt
in mind that I chose the best person
my
in the United States to be your leader. I
have complete confidence in him, and I
am deeply grateful that Mike Blumenthal
was willing to come and work with you
and with me to make the Treasury De-
partment successful. And I'm sure he'll
succeed, along with us.
This is so important to me, because in
the last few years our country has been
deeply embarrassed. There has been an
impression that swept the Nation that our
Government was neither competent nor
honest nor had sound judgment, and that's
because of the mistakes of a very few peo-
ple who were in leadership positions. The
consummation of the Vietnam war, the
revelations that the CIA and sometimes
the FBI violated the law, and the Water-
gate revelations really shook the people of
this Nation and helped to destroy their
good relationships and opinion of the Fed-
eral Government.
But at the same time, there remained
within the hearts and minds of Americans
an unshakable patriotism and an unshak-
able hope and belief that all those serious
mistakes could be repaired, that difficult
questions could be answered, and that we
would approach the future with a re-
newed commitment to common principles
that have bound our lives together.
I have been lucky enough to be elected
leader of this great country. I'm no better
than any of you. I'm sure there are many
people in this room who are better quali-
fied than I am in many ways. I've got a
lot to learn. I've only been on the job now
about 3 weeks. Some of you have been
here for years.
I was introduced yesterday at the Com-
merce Department by Dr. John Taylor,
who had been on the job since 1929 48
years. But I share with you an equal re-
sponsibility to represent the people of our
country well. And whether I succeed or
127
