Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
In 1968 and 1969, McHenry served as
assistant to the Secretary of State-desig-
nate and Secretary of State. From 1969 to
1971, he was special assistant to the Coun-
selor of the Department of State.
From 1971 to 1973, McHenry was on
leave from the State Department, serving
as a professorial lecturer in the School of
Foreign Service at Georgetown Univer-
sity, a guest scholar at the Brookings In-
stitution, and an international affairs fel-
low of the Council on Foreign Relations.
In 1973 he became project director of
Humanitarian Policy Studies at the Car-
negie Endowment
Endowment for International
Peace.
McHenry has served as an advisor to
the U.S. delegation to the United Na-
tions Trusteeship Council and an Alter-
nate U.S. Representative to the U.N.
Trusteeship Council; an Alternate U.S.
Representative to the U.N. Seminar on
Apartheid and Racial Discrimination; a
member of the U.S. delegation to the
U.N. International Conference on Hu-
man Rights; and a consultant to the U.S.
congressional delegation to the Inter-
parliamentary Union.
McHenry received the Superior Honor
Award of the Department of State in
1966. He has had numerous articles pub-
lished in journals and newspapers.
Federal Advisory Committees
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 29, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
Section 6(c) of the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, the report on the status
of advisory committees in 1976 is here-
with forwarded.
This is the fifth annual report. It is or-
ganized to provide summary information
about the activities of advisory commit-
tees, and public access to specific commit-
tees and the federal agencies to whom they
provide advice.
With the current government-wide,
zero-base review of all advisory commit-
tees, the number of existing committees
should be sharply reduced. This reduction
will be reflected in the next annual report.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 29, 1977.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Federal Ad-
visory Committees Fifth Annual Report of the
President, Covering Calendar Year 1976"
(Government Printing Office, 184 pp.).
The message was not issued in the form of a
White House press release.
President's Commission on
Mental Health
Appointment of 20 Members to the
Commission. March 29, 1977
The President today announced the
names of 20 members he will appoint to
serve on the President's Commission on
Mental Health.
Lady, who is honorary chairperson of the
The group met today with the First
Commission. The Commission will begin
work on April 1, and will submit a pre-
liminary report to the President by Sep-
tember 1.
Over 1,000 candidates for the Commis-
sion were screened by a small ad hoc com-
mittee chaired by John Gardner, chair-
man of Common Cause, and composed of
the following members: Eleanor Holmes
Norton, Human Rights Commissioner for
New York City; Margaret Mahoney, vice
president of the Robert Wood John-
son Foundation, Princeton, N.J.; Brian
O'Connell, executive director of the Men-
tal Health Association; Joseph T. English,
528
