May 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
in the future, I think, Australians, to some
lesser degree France and southern Africa;
and of course, the Soviet Union does pro-
duce some; they don't export much-how
to provide the fuel to people that need
nuclear power for production of elec-
tricity and how to prevent the changing
of the spent fuel, the used fuel, into ex-
plosives. And each of the nations is so dif-
ferent in its background, and it's the first
time that the heads of state have ever
been willing to address this very divisive
issue. So, we are going to set up a group
of technicians to try to study all of the
facets of the problem, and then, of course,
try to work with many other nations in
bringing about a comprehensive interna-
tional agreement on how to handle this
problem. But it was a very fruitful dis-
cussion. We have some nations there who
have signed the nonproliferation treaty,
like we have, who do produce weapons.
There are other nations who produce
weapons who have not signed the non-
proliferation treaty like France, and of
course, Germany and Japan have signed
the nonproliferation treaty and they don't
produce weapons-the same way with
Canada-having adequate fuel, but
they've decided not to produce weapons
either. So, there's such a diversity of in-
terest and a deep concern about the
future that we thought it was time to
address this problem.
Q. Was it your suggestion to set up this
panel? Is that a solution?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it was a mutual
suggestion. We don't know yet whether
the panel will be successful in solving the
question or dealing with the differences
among us. But the nations who do pro-
duce large amounts of enriched fuel, like
ourselves, have a great deal of influence
on the others. And, of course, we want to
to be fair to them because it's a very divi-
sive political issue in some of the coun-
tries. They want to retain their legitimate
independence and autonomy. They don't
want other nations like ourselves telling
them how to act. And still, I think, there
was a unanimous belief that unless we do
take action, that there will be a lot of
other of the so-called threshold nations
who will produce explosives in the future,
as India did a few years ago. And all of
us want to prevent that.
Q. Did you find any sympathy for
your views on human rights today,
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Unanimous.
Q. Really? And did you get along with
Giscard?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, very well. Yes, I
like him.
Q. Really? We expected a confronta-
tion.
THE PRESIDENT. No, no. Good night.
The President spoke at approximately
11 p.m. upon his return to Winfield House.
The transcript of the exchange was made
available by the White House Press Office. It
was not issued in the form of a White House
press release.
818
