Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
Special Representative for the
Panama Canal Negotiations
Designation of Sol M. Linowitz.
February 8, 1977
The President today designated Am-
bassador Sol M. Linowitz to be part-time
co-negotiator of the Panama Canal nego-
tiations. Ambassador Linowitz will join
Ambassador at Large Ellsworth - Bunker
in heading the U.S. negotiating team. He
will serve as Special Representative of the
President with the personal rank of Am-
bassador.
Mr. Linowitz was born December 7,
1913, in Trenton, N.J. He graduated from
Hamilton College in 1935. He then at-
tended Cornell Law School, where he was
editor-in-chief of the Cornell Law Quar-
terly, and graduated first in his class in
1938.
From 1938 to 1942, Mr. Linowitz prac-
ticed law in Rochester, N.Y., with the firm
of Sutherland and Sutherland, and then
became Assistant General Counsel of the
Office of Price Administration in Wash-
ington. He served as an officer in the U.S.
Navy from 1944 to 1946.
Mr. Linowitz returned to Rochester
after the war to practice law. He became
vice president and general counsel of
Xerox Corp. in 1946. From 1961 to 1966,
he was chairman of the board of Xerox
Corp. From October 1966 until May
1969, Mr. Linowitz was U.S. Ambassador
to the Organization of American States
and U.S. Representative on the Inter-
American Committee of the Alliance for
Progress. In 1969 he left these positions to
join Coudert Brothers.
Mr. Linowitz is cochairman of the Na-
tional Urban Coalition, president of the
Federal City Council, chairman of the Na-
tional Council of the Foreign Policy Asso-
ciation, and chairman of the board of
overseers of the Jewish Theological Sem-
inary. He is a member of the National
Commission on Critical Choices for Amer-
icans and Chairman of the Commission
on U.S.-Latin American Relations.
Ambassador Linowitz is married to the
former Toni Zimmerman and is the father
of four daughters.
Chief of Protocol for the
White House
Nomination of Evan S. Dobelle for the
Rank of Ambassador. February 9, 1977
The President announced today that he
intends to nominate Evan S. Dobelle to
have the rank of Ambassador while serv-
ing as Chief of Protocol for the White
House.
Mr. Dobelle was born April 22, 1945, in
Washington, D.C. From 1971 to 1973, he
was executive assistant to U.S. Senator
Edward W. Brooke. In 1973 he was elect-
ed mayor of Pittsfield, Mass., and he was
reelected in 1975. He is presently commis-
sioner of environmental management for
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mr. Dobelle completed his undergrad-
uate studies at The Citadel, Military Col-
lege of South Carolina, and the American
University School of Government in
Washington, D.C. He received a master
of education degree from the University
of Massachusetts and has completed his
comprehensive oral examinations and all
academic courses for the Ed.D. degree.
In addition to his position as commis-
sioner of environmental management, Mr.
Dobelle is chairman of the board of ad-
visers of Berkshire Community College,
president of B'nai B'rith Adullam Lodge
No. 420, a member of the board of trustees
of the Friends of Tanglewood, and holds
101
