Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
overwhelming vote of the Senate on the
reorganization bill which was highly con-
troversial, even in the Senate, at first, is
encouraging-we won't have that easy
time in the House. I think we have an
excellent chance to get an early approval
of the new and major Energy Depart-
ment which was a puzzle that was faced
with potential pitfalls of a very serious
nature-these are good indications at the
beginning.
I've had a constant reassessment by
my own staff and me of my campaign
commitments. We've even had collected
for my own personal use, 2 or 3 months
ago, a complete book of every statement
that I've ever made on any issue. And
we went back through all the local news-
papers, including your own, to make sure
that if I made any local statement, that
it was included. I think the book was-
I've forgotten-110 pages. And we never
anticipated it going to the news people,
but they demanded to have it, so we just
gave it to them as it was. I hope to carry
out all of my promises.
The last point I'd like to make before
I answer your questions is that I've estab-
lished, I think, a working relationship
with many of the foreign leaders already,
either directly or by telephone or letter or
by use of normal diplomatic communica-
tions channels, and I hope that I've estab-
lished as good a relationship with the
American people.
We've already had one fireside chat. I
committed myself to at least two full-scale
press conferences every month, live. I will
every month, live. I will
have tomorrow, a 2-hour call-in tele-
phone opportunity for American people,
and I expect to be cross-examined on
issues over which I would have very little
control, if any.
Later, I intend to make a major speech
at the United Nations on foreign affairs,
perhaps even this month. And I expect to
make another major speech to the Con-
gress on the 20th of April or there-
abouts my first, to the Joint Session-
on the new energy policy.
We will make a trip to two or three
States this month for a couple of days
to let me have town-meeting-type inter-
communications with the people who are
interested.
We are exploring in new ways, and
hopefully effective ways, to let the Ameri-
can people believe legitimately that it is
their Government, that they have access
to me and to those who work with me,
and that we don't have anything to con-
ceal.
I know you built up, perhaps, some
questions that you want to ask me. And
I'll try my best to answer them.
QUESTIONS
CONCERNS OF THE PRESIDENT
Q. Mr. President, you spoke of some of
the satisfactions of your first 6 weeks-
legislation passed or moving along
through Congress. Could you look at the
other side of the coin for a minute and
talk, perhaps, about some of the disap-
pointments and/or surprises that you have
felt in your first 6 weeks about the Gov-
ernment or the job?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the surprises
has been the almost total absence of any
sort of confidentiality around Washington
on matters that I think, sometimes, we
would like to hold to ourselves. I've been
quite disconcerted at some of the CIA
revelations, for instance, and I believe it's
damaged us considerably in our capability
of obtaining adequate intelligence infor-
mation from other countries.
I might say that all of the revelations
have been explored by me personally. All
those that were at all accurate—and that
would be less than a majority of them-
were previously assessed by the Intelli-
gence Oversight Board and also by Presi-
282
