Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
protecting consumers within the structure
of the Agriculture Department itself.
She has a major role to play as Assistant
Secretary. She will be certifying to the
homeowners of this country the quality
of major food items. And she has com-
plete freedom and direct instructions from
me to be a strong and able advocate of
consumer progress in the future. And also,
I know that she has a very deep yearning
to represent the farm families as well.
One of the things that I'm very deeply
grateful to her for is being able to achieve
this good balance. She's also provided
some excitement in my life. In the last few
days, once the Paul Warnke as he said-
roadshow died down, Carol Foreman
filled in the gap, and she's now come
through with flying colors. And I guess
the only thing I can do in the future is to
turn back to a few more dam projects to
keep excitement going on around Wash-
ington.
As I told the people in Massachusetts,
my food bill for the first 10 days was $600
in the White House. That's just me and
my family and our personal guests, no
entertainment. And Carol, I'd like for you
to take on the responsibility of helping me
hold down the food bill in the White
House, too.
But I'm very grateful she's willing to
serve, and, I think, she will add a sense
of reassurance to consumers in our coun-
try that their interests are being well cared
for. And the farm families of this country
will also know Carol Foreman as a friend
and a very fine administrator.
The last person I'd like to introduce is
John Reinhardt. He has a major respon-
sibility, and that is to let the people in
other nations of the world know what our
country is and what our country hopes
to be. He's had a distinguished career as
Ambassador to Nigeria, I believe. So, he
knows the diplomatic field very well.
He knows the field of journalism and,
I think more importantly of all, he knows
the American people. He knows our sys-
tem of government. He knows our faults
and our defects, and he knows our
strengths and our potential strengths.
And I'm very glad that these three peo-
ple have been willing to serve in Govern-
ment in these crucial and important posi-
tions.
And now, Mr. Linder will administer
the oath of office.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Following his
remarks, Chief Executive Clerk Robert D. Lin-
der administered the oath of office.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Publishers, Editors, and
Broadcasters. March 25, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that I am very grateful that you would
all come to Washington and particularly
get acquainted with Jody Powell and talk
to the different members of our staff and
Cabinet about matters that are important
to you. I know that you've had a chance
to talk to Dr. Schlesinger and will be
meeting with different people here in the
White House and in other parts of Wash-
ington this afternoon.
It's very important to our administra-
tion to have the people of the country
know what we are trying to do, and also
to have some accurate assessment here in
the White House about how the people
feel about different issues that are so im-
portant to them. And we've seen that
journalistic leaders like yourselves has
been the best avenue for this exchange of
crucial information in a democratic
society.
512
