Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The cumulative total of the cost of
these projects as presently projected is
$5.1 billion. I would guess at the end of
7 or 8 or 10 years, however long the con-
struction takes, because of inflationary
trends and so forth, it would be much
greater than that.
I'm committed to balance the budget
by 1981, and I intend to carry out that
commitment. I don't see how I can pos-
sibly do it by wasting money. And in my
opinion, several of these projects-I'm
not going to single them out-would be
better not built if they didn't cost any-
thing, if they were free-but because of
their enormous expense, I think they
ought to be terminated.
Q. To follow on there, Mr. Presi-
dent-
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. What's the future role of the Fed-
eral Government in the field of water
conservation in the West, and what is the
present feeling of the administration?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be
good. As you probably know, we have 320
projects in all, and my deletions comprise
19 of them, so we're not wiping out water
resources projects. We're not putting out
of business the Corps of Engineers nor the
Bureau of Reclamation in the Depart-
ment of the Interior. We're just reassess-
ing all the projects. And I want to elimi-
nate those that are ill-advised, but I cer-
tainly support those that are useful and
needed.
I recognize the enormous interest of
local Chambers of Commerce, and so
forth, in having that money either spent
or, in my view, wasted in a community.
It creates temporary jobs and it's a mat-
ter of status, and quite often, the status
of congressional Members is at stake.
I recognize all that. I faced this in
Georgia. I canceled about a $200 million
or $300 million project in my own State
while I was Governor. It wasn't an easy
thing to do. But somebody's got to bite
the bullet and say this needs to be done.
The same thing applies to defense con-
tracts. It's very easy to approve every
weapons system that's proposed to me by
the Defense Department, but I think I've
got a good working relationship with the
Secretary of Defense to say these are no
longer needed. They are very costly in
the long run, and we can make substitutes
for them.
I think I have the same relationship
with the Corps of Engineers and with
Cecil Andrus, the Secretary of the In-
terior. But we'll be doing it together. And
I don't have the final judgment. And
there is a 60-day period when these are
being reassessed.
To get back to the original question:
when State officials, congressional Mem-
bers, and others have a chance to present
your side.
Q. May I follow up on one question on
that? As you reassess this, you've listed
the three criteria of safety, cost/benefit,
and environmental damage. Would one
additional criteria be the amount of
money already spent or the degree of in-
volvement already committed to these
projects? Would that be a factor?
THE PRESIDENT. It has been a factor.
I would have insisted on the deletion of
several of the projects had they not been
so far along and had major contracts not
already been completed. But I have to
admit that some of the projects were well
underway, and it was a matter of losing
an investment of $100 million that's
already been committed, with the pros-
pect of saving the other $1.2 billion that
hasn't yet been spent.
Q. Mr. President, could I follow on
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, please.
288
