Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
-Assistant to the President James R.
Schlesinger;
-Soccer player Edson Arantes do
Nascimento (Pelé);
-the Economic Policy Group.
The White House announced that Roy.
Jenkins, President of the Commission of
the European Communities, will visit
Washington April 18-19 for meetings
with President Carter and senior U.S.
officials.
March 29
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers;
-Secretary of the Treasury W. Mi-
chael Blumenthal;
-Vice President Mondale, Adm.
Stansfield Turner, Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski; •
-Representative Phillip Burton of
California;
number of sales, totaling just over $2 bil-
lion, to be transmitted to Congress. Of
these $2 billion which he has directed to
be transmitted, over half of those are sales
involving either construction or follow-on
logistic support for systems already sold.
And the bulk of the remaining cases are
weapons transfers to NATO countries.
The decisions on the remaining cases will
be made when an interagency policy re-
view is completed in April.
March 30
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-the selection committee to recom-
mend a Chairman of the National
Endowment for the Humanities;
-Gov. J. James Exon of Nebraska;
-Dr. Frank Press, Director-designate
of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy.
The President today transmitted to the
-members of the President's Commis- Congress the annual report of the Civil
sion on Mental Health;
-representatives of small business as-
sociations;
-Secretary of Defense Harold Brown.
The White House announced that
Mario Soares, Prime Minister of Portu-
gal, will meet with the President in Wash-
ington on April 21.
The President today transmitted to the
Congress the annual report on the Na-
tional Cancer Program for calendar year
1975 prepared by the Director of the Na-
tional Cancer Institute.
The White House announced that ear-
lier this month, Secretary of State Vance
forwarded to the President $3.6 billion
worth of arms sales proposals for possible
transmittal to the Congress. After person-
ally reviewing each proposed sale, the
President on March 27 directed a selected
Service Commission for fiscal year 1975.
At his regular news conference today,
Press Secretary Jody Powell read a cor-
rection for the record concerning a White
House press release of March 2, 1977
(page 274 of this volume). Mr. Powell
stated, "We indicated on March 2 with
regard to the development of a national
energy policy that the mail would go to
the general public seeking their views on
the energy situation; that the mailing
would be drawn from the census lists.
That was incorrect. It is, in fact, illegal to
draw names from the census lists. So, we
didn't do it. In fact, we did in fact use
mailing lists obtained from the Reuben
H. Donnelley Company. They were ran-
dom samplings based on Bureau of Cen-
sus data. The mailing went forward, but
just from a different list process."
556
