Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 13
1963 to 1965, he was chief of Dominican
affairs at the State Department, and in
1965 and 1966 he was Assistant Director
of the Office of Caribbean Affairs at the
Department.
In 1966-67 Shlaudeman took the senior
seminar in foreign policy. From 1967 to
1969, he was Special Assistant to the Sec-
retary of State, and from 1969 to 1973
he was Deputy Chief of Mission in
Santiago.
Shlaudeman served as Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Inter-Ameri-
can Affairs from 1973 to 1975 and as
Ambassador to Venezuela in 1975 and
1976. In 1976 he became Assistant Sec-
retary of State for Inter-American Affairs.
Baptist Brotherhood Commission
of the Southern Baptist
Convention
Remarks of the President and Glendon
McCullough, Executive Director of the
Commission. May 13, 1977
MR. MCCULLOUGH. Mr. President, this
group
feels a real closeness to you because
of your service on our board, and I would
doubt there's any group in the country
that's more concerned about you and
praying for you and remembering you,
and we appreciate you a lot.
You've taken some good stands. You've
built a good image, and we're proud of
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, and I'd
like to respond.
This is one of the events in my schedule
that I've been anticipating with a great
deal of pleasure. Many of you have been
friends of mine for a number of years,
and I've felt the impact of your concern
and your prayers for me as President. It's
been a very enjoyable experience so far,
and one of the reasons is because of my
sense and realization of your support and
your concern in the partnership that I
have with the American people.
I don't think I could be any closer with
anyone than I am with some of you. Glen-
don and Marjorie were married in my
house. And when they decided to take
this momentous step forward, for Glen-
don-maybe backwards for Marjorie-
[laughter]-I was one of the first ones
they talked to about it, and I obviously
and very quickly gave them my blessing
and
my good will.
I think this morning's ability for me to
speak to you and to renew our friendship
is very constructive. And as you know,
Baptists are among the most fervent advo-
cates of all legal separation between the
church and the state, between religion
and government. But at the same time,
no matter what we do, whether we are
physicists or engineers or farmers or Gov-
ernors or Presidents or full-time workers
in the church, we feel that we have an
obligation to our country to devote our
lives to the furtherance of its finest ideals
and commitments and, at the same time,
when we are concerned about govern-
ment, to try to elevate those standards to
meet the standards set for us by Jesus
Christ.
And I don't see any incompatibility
there. We are strong and independent
people as Baptists; we are strong and in-
dependent people as Americans. We want
to make our own decisions. We seek guid-
ance from above. We don't yield to pres-
sure from others, and I think this is the
essence of our strength.
I'm very grateful that you would come
and meet with me this afternoon, now.
And we have a chance, I think, to make
our country even greater than it has been
in the past. It depends not on the identity
of the President but on the common
thrust and strength of our people. And
877
