Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
relationship between the Btu production
of eastern coal compared to western coal,
compared to the sulfur oxides emissions.
Is it very much different when you meas-
ure it on the basis of Btu's?
MR. HAMNER. There is no question
that there is a great difference. The dif-
ference appears, first of all, in the mois-
ture content. A figure regarding western
coal that has always impressed me enor-
mously: If there is 35 percent moisture
in a coal, a unit train carrying 100 tons
of western coal is carrying 35 tons of
water. In a country attempting to be
efficient in the use of energy, it's a strik-
ing number.
The Btu of coal in West Virginia might
run about 12,500; that of a western coal,
perhaps as low as 6,500, but that would
be a low figure. Now, sulfur dioxide
varies considerably in the East. But we
have I cannot quote the name of the
study-but we have here in West Vir-
ginia approximately 70 percent of the
low-sulfur coal which is east of the Mis-
sissippi. And we are eager that that coal
should be used.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
MR. KILPATRICK. But as long as you
have automatic fuel clauses, the utility
may bring in coal or oil from anywhere
they want to, at any price, pass it on
automatically to the consumer for what-
ever reasons, and the local coal, even
though it may be cheaper or better qual-
ity, does not have to be used.
THE PRESIDENT. The way I understand
the question, and I'd like for Mr. Lloyd
maybe to comment, is that with the auto-
matic provision that you would like to
eliminate, no matter what the energy cost
is, the power companies are automatically
authorized to pass all of those extra costs
on to the consumers if it comes from the
increased cost of fuel, which means that
the power companies don't have as a
major factor, the cost of the fuel they
burn.
MR. HAMNER. This is correct. West
Virginia is an exception to that rule.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lloyd, would you
comment, please?
MR. LLOYD. Mr. President, I think we
have to look at several things. First, the
cost of generating power-50 percent of
your cost at this day and time is in fuel.
The fuel clause is only a purpose of when
the fuel goes up, you have some means to
pass that cost on, because it's a cost you
cannot absorb in your rates. We do not
have a fuel clause in West Virginia, as
Mr. Kilpatrick has said.
The question we are facing here today
is and I think all utilities are going to
use the cheapest coal they can use, the
cheapest fuel. I think you said that 73
percent of our energy was being used
through oil and natural gas. We know
we've got to replace that petroleum with
coal. Now, to me it seems though, that
we're going to have to use all the coal
we can in this country. It's not just West
Virginia coal we're concerned about, it's
just not West Virginia's powerplants or
its generating capacity. We're concerned
about the whole United States. I think
Dr. Schlesinger would agree.
We're going to need all the fuel we can
get. It's just not a matter of saying we're
confining our interests to a State's bor-
ders. We're looking at the entire United
States. I think we're all thinking that
way. We just can't think about one local
area in this problem. And I don't think
any utility is going to try to take advan-
tage of this position in the utilization of
its fuel. We're going to use West Virginia
fuel any place we can get it. We have to
recognize we have to meet certain stand-
ards. In West Virginia, we're dedicated
to West Virginia coal, and we're going to
use it in our powerplants.
407
