Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
callers to limit themselves to one question
or possibly a followup if it is really neces-
sary. But let's limit each caller to one
subject matter, at any rate.
The next call is from Louis Lawson of
Richmond, Virginia.
Mr. Lawson?
MINORITY EMPLOYMENT
MR. RUSSELL LAWSON. Mr. Cronkite,
President Carter, my name is Russell. You
may call me Russell. Unfortunately, I had
two questions before Mr. Cronkite asked
me to limit it to one. But I have one that
is really uppermost in my mind.
I was wondering if you feel if there is
any inequity in passing laws which en-
courage the hiring of members of minor-
ity groups and women while passing such
laws implies resisting hiring equally quali-
fied white males?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I don't like that
concept, either. I think most of the laws
that have been passed have been designed
very narrowly to insure that there is no
continued discrimination against some-
body because they are in a minority group
or women. Now, the courts have inter-
preted this to mean that if a company,
for instance, has historically excluded
men and women from the labor force,
from their own labor force, that they
have to go back and take corrective
action.
But I think all of the laws with which
I am familiar on equal employment op-
portunities just guarantee that now and
in the future there won't be discrimina-
tion and that if there has been a history
of discrimination, that it be corrected.
MR. LAWSON. I hope that is true. I
have been unemployed for a while. I feel
I am the victim of this kind of system.
I want to say though before I go, that
I'm really impressed by your desire to in-
volve Americans more closely in the Gov-
ernment, and I am so pleased to have had
the chance to talk to you.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
SICK PAY
I might say we have a question we can
answer, I think, now, for the man and
his wife in Utah about the exclusion for
disabled people.
This was removed from the income tax
law in the 1976 act; that is, sick pay ex-
clusion for anyone except the perma-
nently disabled. The Congress gave as its
reason, it sounded like a good reason, that
such sick persons could deduct their
medical expenses from the income tax
and would therefore get a double benefit.
When anybody in our society, even if it
is an afflicted person or disabled person,
has a special exclusion, then other people
have to pay their taxes for them. This is
one of the things that will be assessed this
year, and we may or may not put the
double credit back for permanently dis-
abled, but my guess is it would not be put
back in.
MR. CRONKITE. The next caller, Mr.
President, is Ms. Cheryl Quinn of Cleve-
land, Ohio.
GI BILL
MS. QUINN. Yes. Hello, Mr. President.
I want to thank you for doing a great
job and thank you for the Inauguration
tickets.
And also my mom was in the Korean
war and she, after she got out, she was
signed up to take X-ray and technician.
She had to come up, back to New York
from Texas. Then she got married and
had kids. And then she couldn't-when
she did get the VA bill, she didn't give
her what they wanted, what she wanted.
They only gave her 8 months of school.
She has 3 years
and some.
317
