Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
for me through false pretenses, and so I
don't have any apology to make.
I hope I have answered your question
as well.
Q. It's not that I don't believe in the
draft. I was just wondering why you did
say something about the draft if you did
pardon them.
THE PRESIDENT. The question was
asked me earlier, you know, if I thought
we needed the draft to restore enough re-
cruits for the Reserve forces. At the pres-
ent time we don't need a draft. And I
hope that we can get by in the future
without having a draft.
I think the restoration of patriotism and
an eagerness to serve our country will stim-
ulate recruitment in the Armed Forces. I
hope young men and women will consider
as a career the Armed Forces service. This
is very important to our Nation, to its se-
curity. Because of the unpopularity of the
Vietnam war, many young people and
their parents have turned their backs on
military service and have, in many in-
stances, despised even the young people
who went to Vietnam to fight for our
country and, in addition, now look down
on those who serve in the military.
I want to be sure that, as President, the
actions that I take working with the Con-
gress restore the respect that the military
deserves among people and once again
make service in the Army or the Navy or
the Coast Guard or the Air Force or the
Marines a source of pride.
If we can restore that sense of patriot-
ism and pride in serving our country, we
won't need a draft. I believe that's the
best way to avoid the draft in the future.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I was in the Navy 11
years. It was one of the best things that
ever happened to me. And I just hope
that we can correct our problem with the
draft through increased voluntary service.
That was an excellent question, I think.
We only have about 5 more minutes.
And I'll try to keep my next answers
briefer.
MINIMUM WAGE LAWS
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. Danny Chambers, 95 Orange Street.
What would your position be in those
areas of government, State or local, over
which you have control of wages and add-
ing in a cost-of-living?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a question that
will be decided perhaps this year, Mr.
Chambers-is that right?
At the present time the increases in
wages are tracked by the wages paid to
the lowest income people. And I think
that as we consider a new minimum wage
law this year, I don't know yet if it's going
to be passed, we don't know yet what
we'll recommend. But there might very
well be considered a factor in the mini-
mum wage law that says: When average
wages go up a certain amount, that the
minimum wage will also go up a certain
amount. What percentage that is I don't
know.
At the present time it would be about
45 percent, 47 or 48 percent. But that's a
question that might be addressed by the
Congress this year. And that would ac-
commodate the cost of living for those
who work at the lower levels of wage or
employment.
I think that those who do work in well-
organized trade union environments have
their interests protected quite well in
almost every major industry. But those
who work at the minimum wage level
don't get any automatic increases.
So, I don't know yet. I'm not trying to
predict to you what will happen. But I
know that's one matter that will be under
400
