Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 25
determined, for example, to phase in a
workable program of national health in-
surance. But with current inflation, the
cost of any national health insurance pro-
gram the Administration and the Con-
gress will develop will double in just five
years.
Finally, uncontrolled medical
spending undermines our efforts to estab-
lish a balanced health policy. Medical care
is only one determinant of our people's
health. The leading cause of death for
Americans under 40 is motor vehicle acci-
dents. The leading causes of death for
older Americans—heart disease and can-
cer-are directly related to our working
conditions and our eating, drinking, smok-
ing, and exercise habits. We can better
confront these broader health problems if
we can limit the increase in soaring medi-
cal care costs.
Containing hospital cost increases is of
central importance. Hospitals absorb 40
cents from each of our nation's health care
dollars, and the cost of hospital service is
rising faster than the cost of other health
services. As in recent years, our country's
total hospital bill this year will climb 15
percent to $64 billion.
Since 1950, the cost of a day's stay in
the hospital has increased more than 1,000
percent-over eight times the rise in the
Consumer Price Index. Today, the aver-
age hospital stay costs over $1,300; just
12 years ago, a slightly shorter stay cost
less than $300. This relentless increase
places a severe burden on all of us-and
strikes hardest at the poor and the elderly.
To control escalating hospital costs,
some have proposed to cap Medicare and
Medicaid expenditures. Such a federal
spending limit would encourage hospitals
to reduce their services to low-income and
elderly patients and to recoup rising ex-
penses by increasing their charges to all
other Americans. In contrast, the legisla-
tion I am proposing today reduces the
growth in federal Medicare/Medicaid
expenditures without imposing such se-
vere new burdens on other purchasers of
health services.
This legislation is not a wage-price con-
trol program. It places no restrictions on
the hospital's ability to determine its
charges for any particular service. It
places no limit on the size of any wage
demand or settlement. The program
establishes an overall limit on the rate of
increase in reimbursements, permitting
doctors and hospital administrators to al-
locate their own resources efficiently, re-
sponding to local needs and individual
circumstances.
This proposal relies heavily on the
initiatives of the private sector. For it to
succeed, businesses, unions, and insurers,
working with providers, must continue to
pursue innovative techniques for reducing
the cost of high-quality health care. The
private sector's response to the challenges
of cost containment will help decide its
future role in our health care system.
The federal sector must also hold down
the costs of its own hospitals. The Admin-
istration will carefully review the operat-
ing and capital expenditures of federal
health facilities, to insure that unwar-
ranted increases do not occur. Further,
we will eliminate unnecessary federal
regulations which lead to increased costs
for all hospitals.
Our hospital cost containment system is
transitional. It is intended to flow directly
into a long-term prospective reimburse-
ment system, which will not accept a hos-
pital's base cost as given. The long-term
system will be able to analyze and com-
pare base costs and provide greater incen-
tives to those hospitals which are most
efficient. The Congress and the Adminis-
tration are already at work on this long-
range system.
At the same time, I am committed to
strengthening competition in the health
719
