Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
POLLUTION
Q. I'm Professor Benjamin Lynsky of
West Virginia University. Mr. President,
it's a pleasure to see you here and address-
ing our problems. Please excuse my voice.
Part of this is probably nervous tension.
Governor Rockefeller, Senator Ran-
dolph, friends, others: My special inter-
est and my expertise is in the field of
environmental engineering and air pollu-
tion control, especially. I would like to
address one specific problem and bring
two others to your attention.
The specific problem I would like to
address is in looking at any of the air
pollution standards, any of the air quality
standards, that it be recognized that the
Congress, and I hope you, also—and
from your expressions I believe you
agree-have very clearly made it evident
that it is not just health alone but health
and welfare, meaning the amenities, the
things that make West Virginia lovely,
the visibility that allows us to see the
vistas, and the tall stack, unfortunately,
allows the tons of sulfur dioxide to go into
the air and become sulfates. And whether
they go into our lungs and hurt us or
bother the vegetation or not, they still
provide a milky haze even on the bright-
est, most beautiful days, a milky haze that
otherwise would not exist.
A second point-I hope that you can
join me in that expression of feeling that
the Congress has expressed several times;
I hope you share it that is health and
welfare, and not just health alone, not ill-
ness alone.
The two points I would like to bring to
your attention are, one, a missing factor.
The missing factor in all of the discus-
sions and all of the legislation that I know
of thus far, Federal level and at State
levels, is a lack of a perpetual care fund
for water pollution from acid mine drain-
age, from both deep mines and surface
mineage. There is no perpetual care fund
provided for. In many States, there is a
modest surface mining bonding and some
deep mine bonding. But for small
amounts, it might be in the order of $200
or $300 per acre; whereas we learned
from the hilly lands overseas that it takes
$3,000 to $4,000 an acre to preserve and
protect perpetually lands that have been
surface mined for coal. That was my
point of information.
A third point-and this is something
that I think would be most dramatic to
you-these are some charts of the sur-
face of the State that could be stripped
to remove the small percentage of coal
which is strippable in the whole State and
the various counties. You might wish to
look at these.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir. Thank
you very much.
Does anyone want to respond to Pro-
fessor Lynsky's comment?
MR. LIGHT. I'd like to point out that
although we do have on the books pollu-
tion control laws for the active mining,
there is a real problem in that the aban-
doned mines cause hundreds of miles of
West Virginia streams to be degraded.
And the current laws will allow new deep
mines or drift mines into the mountain-
side to be developed so that they will be
impossible to seal after mining. A slight
modification in the mining technique,
such as down-dip mining, is a little more
expensive for the coal companies, but it
would allow this water pollution to be
controlled after the mine is closed.
The alternative is to have centuries,
and scientists have documented that the
acid will continue for centuries after the
mine is closed, even if the treatment plant
is operated while the mine is active.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Don Whitehead,
the Federal Chairman of the Appalachian
Regional Commission, is here, presum-
ably, in the room.
433
