Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ABORTIONS
trol opportunities for those who believe in
them, and also make sure that there is a
Q. Mr. President, I'm Eleanor Filman, government attitude to discourage abor-
tions as much as possible.
156 Main Street.
It's so nice to have a man who will
stand up before us and say he has moral
convictions and he's interested in human
rights. We are, too.
We are very, very happy that you came
out and spoke against Federal fundings
for abortions. And our elected Congress-
men and Senators voted down Federal
funding for abortions. Now, I want to
say, what more can you do for us? Can
you put out an Executive order holding
back the money until this is settled in the
courts?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I have
to abide by the laws of the land as inter-
preted by the courts. Joe Califano, who's
the new Secretary of HEW, feels the
same way I do against abortions. I think
he has done everything possible within
the law to prevent Federal funds from
being used to pay for abortions.
I would like for the Congress to take
whatever steps they can under the Con-
stitution to eliminate this encouragement
for abortions.
I think that this is something that is
more deeply felt by people than any issue
that arose during the recent campaign.
And I don't know what else I can do,
except under the law itself and with the
appointment of my own top administra-
tors, to try to hold down the need for
abortion.
The other thing that we will do is this:
Under the new and revised welfare sys-
tem, we'll do everything we can to provide
a permanent, nationwide system of family
planning, to make sure that as much as
humanly possible to encourage that every
child is a wanted child. And we'll try to
give families a chance to make sure that
they can avoid unwanted pregnancy with
adequate instruction, to provide birth con-
But there is a great deal, as you know,
that we cannot do to prevent abortions
completely. But what we can do under the
law we are doing and we'll continue to do
it.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's the first
time I've ever given an answer on abortion
and got applauded. I always give the same
answer but about half the time I get-
[applause]-
EDUCATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Eleanor
Mikolf, and I am a sophomore student at
Clinton High School. At present the situ-
ation on education is the colleges are con-
stantly raising their tuitions when there
are no jobs available. Is it going to be
worth my while in 2 years to go to col-
lege?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Yes, I believe it
will.
There is a strong trend in our country
now toward more career or vocational
training and away from a college educa-
tion.
Ultimately, in a person's life I don't
think it makes that much difference. This
is a choice that each person has to make.
And I know that the most important con-
sideration is that when you finish a train-
ing program as a licensed practical nurse
or a stenographer or an automobile me-
chanic or a bricklayer or when you get a
Ph. D. in physics or philosophy, the major
thing is to have a way to be employed
when your education is over and to use
your only life that God gives you here on
Earth to a useful and productive way.
And that's why the unemployment rate
in our country concerns me so much. I
392
