Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
whether it's been in effect 20 years or 10
years or whether it's seeing its initiation
for the first time next year. Those pro-
grams will be placed in an order of prior-
ity and financed from the top down.
Also, we'll require that everyone in this
Department at the foreman level or above
fills out an analysis of what you are doing,
so that
you can know with one side of one
sheet of paper how your job is being per-
formed, how many people you have in
the past and need in the future-how
much money you spend.
So, two basic things will be accom-
plished. One is to make sure that transpor-
tation funds are spent in the most effective
way in the future and, secondly, you will
be the one to prepare the basic elements
of the 1979 fiscal year budget. So the next
budget that is prepared will be prepared
using in its entirety, zero-base budgeting.
FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT OF HISPANICS
Q. Mr. President, first of all, buenos
tardes. [Good afternoon.]
THE PRESIDENT. Buenos tardes.
Q. This week's issue of Time magazine
states that after 1 month in office, dozens
of top jobs in your administration still re-
main unfilled.
THE PRESIDENT. Right.
Q. It cites as examples the Agriculture
Department, where there is no Deputy
Secretary, no General Counsel, and none
of its six allotted Assistant Secretaries.
The minority community, Mr. Presi-
dent, in this country and, in particular,
the Hispanic community, is very distressed
over the fact that you have failed to ap-
point Hispanics to significant top-level po-
sitions in your administration, and specifi-
cally in this Department of Transporta-
tion.
Would you comment, please, on the ap-
pointment of Hispanics to top-level posts
in your administration and in this Depart-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. All right.
Secretary Adams just informed me that
one of his top positions was offered to a
Spanish-speaking citizen, and he declined.
We are looking now for another one.
I think in the earlier reports that I got,
we had already tripled the number of top-
level positions being filled by Spanish-
speaking Americans. We had doubled the
number of black Americans, more than
tripled the number of women in the top
levels. But this is a never-ending search
for good people. And I'm aware of the
fact that in the past, these particular
groups have been excluded from positions
not only at the top level but all the way
through the Department.
We are moving slowly. Some positions
that have in the past been filled will never
be filled, because we feel that there was an
excessive number of people at the top
levels or positions in major departments.
Others are being delayed because of FBI
and Internal Revenue Service checks. We
have just sent another batch of recom-
mendations to the Senate for confirma-
tion today.
But I can assure you-and there is no
way I can convince you until you see the
results—that you will be satisfied when
the complete process is terminated on the
selection of Spanish-speaking Americans,
black Americans and women and others,
who have been excluded in the past not
only from the top levels of Government
but for positions like Federal Judges or
U.S. Attorneys or diplomats and other po-
sitions. We will take care of that, and I
think you can trust me to do it.
JUSTICE FOR MINORITIES
Q. Mr. President, I would just like to
speak for all of the minorities, men and
women who are incarcerated throughout
the United States of America. And I'd like
to see some type of affirmative program
established, some type of Federal watch-
233
