Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oil and natural gas make up about 75 percent of our consumption
in this country, but they only comprise about 7 percent in our reserves.
Our demand for oil has been rising by more than 5 percent each year, but
domestic oil supplies have been dropping more than 6 percent.
Therefore, our imports have risen sharply, making us more and more
vulnerable if supplies are interrupted. But early in the 1980's, even foreign
oil will become increasingly scarce. If it were possible for world demand
to continue rising during the next few years at the rate of 5 percent a year,
we could use up all the proven reserves in the entire world by the end of
the next decade.
Our trade deficits are growing. We imported more than $35 billion
worth of oil last year, and we will spend much more than that this year.
The time has come to draw the line.
We could continue to ignore this problem—as many have done in the
past but to do so would subject our people to an impending catastrophe.
That's why we need a comprehensive national energy policy. Your advice
has been an important influence as this plan has taken shape. Many of its
proposals will be built on the legislative initiatives that you've taken in
the Congress in the last few years.
Two nights ago, I spoke to the American people about the principles
behind our plan and our specific goals for 1985:
-to reduce the annual growth rate in energy consumption by more
than 2 percent;
-to reduce gasoline consumption by 10 percent;
-to cut imports of foreign oil to less than 6 million barrels a day,
less than half the amount that we will be importing if we do not
conserve;
—to establish a strategic petroleum reserve supply of at least a bil-
lion barrels, which will meet our needs for about 10 months;
to increase our coal production by more than two-thirds, to over a
billion tons a year;
-to insulate 90 percent of American homes and all new buildings;
and
-to use solar energy in more than 2½ million American homes.
Now, I hope that the Congress will adopt these goals by joint resolu-
tion as a demonstration of our mutual commitment to achieve them.
Tonight I want to outline specific steps by which we can reach those
goals. The proposals fall into these central categories: first, conservation;
second, production; third, conversion; fourth, development; and, of
664
