Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
strength to establish a better world for
the generations to come.
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House after
greeting President Sadat at the North Portico.
The welcoming ceremony was held in the East
Room because of inclement weather.
Community Services
Administration
Nomination of Graciela (Grace) Olivarez
To Be Director. April 4, 1977
The President today announced that he
will nominate Graciela (Grace) Olivarez,
of Albuquerque, N. Mex., to be Director
of the Community Services Administra-
tion. Ms. Olivarez is presently director of
the State planning office in Albuquerque.
She was born in Phoenix, Ariz., on
March 9, 1928. She received a J.D. de-
gree from Notre Dame Law School in
1970.
From 1952 to 1962, Olivarez was
women's program director at Phoenix
radio station KIFN, responsible for writ-
ing, producing, and broadcasting women's
and children's programs in Spanish. From
1962 to 1966, she was a staff specialist for
the Choate Foundation in Phoenix,
where she counseled Mexican American
families and established a program of
after-school study halls for economically
disadvantaged children. During this pe-
riod she also surveyed the living con-
ditions of Mexican Americans in five
Southwestern States on a Ford Founda-
tion grant and served as executive secre-
tary for the National Conference on
Poverty in the Southwest.
In 1966 and 1967, Olivarez was direc-
tor of the Arizona State office of economic
opportunity, and in 1967 she was assigned
for 6 months to represent OEO in a
project in Los Angeles, with the Depart-
ments of Labor and HEW, to develop the
Concentrated Employment Project there.
In 1967 she also worked on a Labor De-
partment task force studying the problems
of the chronically unemployed.
Olivarez worked for the U.S. Civil
Rights Commission in 1968, doing field
surveys of the problems of Mexican
Americans. In 1969 she worked for the
Bureau of the Census, preparing a bro-
chure explaining and promoting the 1970
census for Mexican Americans, and for
Volt Information Sciences, evaluating
various OEO-funded programs.
In 1968 and 1969, she also worked for
the Urban Development Institute at Pur-
due University as a consultant on munici-
pal law, studying the problems of Latin
Americans residing in Gary, Ind. In 1970
she was a consultant on Mexican Ameri-
can affairs to the National Urban Coali-
tion. From 1970 to 1972, she managed an
OEO-funded program to improve Fed-
eral food programs.
She served as a professor of law at the
University of New Mexico Law School
and as director of the Institute for Social
Research and Development at the Univer-
sity of New Mexico from 1972 until 1975,
when she became director of the State
planning office.
She has also served as a consultant to
the National Commission on Rural Pov-
erty, a lecturer on the culture of Mexican
Americans at numerous universities, and
as a public speaker. She is a member of
the National Advisory Council on Eco-
nomic Opportunity and the national
boards of Common Cause and the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union. She was a
panel member at the 1969 White House
564
