Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
the oil companies, the consumers, the coal
producers, the automobile companies,
overseas suppliers, those who are inter-
ested in building up a reserve supply of
oil in the salt dome, would all know how
it fits together because, if we come out,
I think, with one tiny portion of the pol-
icy to be examined on its own merits
alone, it obviously helps some people and
hurts more.
But the comprehensive nature of the
package that we come out with, and with
fairness of it in toto, is the only thing that
I have that might be a basis on which it
can be accepted, because if I just come out
with a conservation package and nothing
else, the people are going to object to it.
If I come out with a deregulation and
nothing else, the consumers are going to
object, and so forth.
I just can't answer your question any
better than that.
Q. Can I follow up on that question?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. This is a followup on that ques-
tion: In the area of Ohio where I'm from,
the big concern is on the price of gas and
oil. The winter has hurt us because we've
lost our supply of gas, and the prices have
reached the point where, as I said earlier
today, they are higher than the mortgage
payments on houses, in some cases-of
gas and oil and electricity. And that's
what
a real concern there. And I was
just wondering how you were going to
address yourself to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can say one
thing in general terms. The price of na-
tural gas, at least in commercial use, is
too low. This encourages the stationary
power generating plants to use natural
gas in preference to oil and coal, which
they should use. I think natural gas has
got two basic future uses-hopefully, as
long as we can have it available: one is
in the heating of homes, and the other
one is as a raw material. And also, it's a
heat source when purity and an absence
of exhaust gases are crucial.
So, I think there is inevitably going to
be an increase, a substantial increase in
the price of natural gas. We're going to
do all we can to hold down or to elimi-
nate the use of natural gas in stationary
power generating plants and also to
minimize the use of oil and shift toward
coal.
I think that as time goes on, the price
of all energy sources is going to go up
even faster than the rate of inflation. But
I'm going to do what I can to minimize
those increases.
The last point is that we've got some
environmental tradeoffs. In most in-
stances an increase in the efficiency of
automobiles and the purity of the auto-
mobile exhausts work at cross-purposes.
There are possibilities for exceptions, and
there is no need for me to go into the tech-
nicalities of it. And to shift toward coal
as a primary heat source in stationary
power generating plants causes us to have
some problem, as you know, with the
sulfur dioxides.
I think that we can resolve both those
questions. In Georgia for a number of
years, long before I was Governor there,
we shifted to coal, and we met the
environmental standards, which in our
State are quite strict, by permitting the
tall stacks. Most of the stacks, for in-
stance, for electric power plants are about
1,100 feet high. And we now generate
about 85 percent of our electricity in
Georgia from coal.
In States like Arkansas, Florida, I'd
say it would be less than 15 percent. We
just lucked up on that particular decision.
But it's such an extremely complicated
subject, as you can see, that it's hard to
talk about it in fragments with any sort
of definite statements on my part. I just
don't want to disrupt the American con-
sciousness about the energy problem by
285
