Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 11
into the public domain for debate. Obvi-
ously, one of them is concerning the
Middle East and another one is nonpro-
liferation, where we've aroused the dis-
pleasure of Germany and France and
Pakistan and Brazil. The other one is
human rights. But I think that if we stand
for something we ought to be forceful
about it. And we might win some and lose
some in the relationships with other coun-
tries, but in general, though, I've been
pleased.
So, in a thumbnail sketch, lasting about
5 or 6 minutes, those are some of the
things that press on my mind.
I've enjoyed being President so far. I've
got a lot to learn, but I'm learning in a
hurry, because I spend a lot of time at it
and I've got superb support.
I talked to Rosalynn this morning.
She's in her sixth country now. She says
she thinks that five countries are enough
on one trip. [Laughter] She's leaving Co-
lombia today and going to Venezuela,
which will be her last visit on this trip.
Her response has been remarkably good
in the countries where she's visited. And
no one can understand how much time
and effort she's spent in preparing for this
trip, and the degree of acceptance she's
had among the leaders.
She was supposed to spend about 45
minutes or an hour with each leader. She
spent 7 hours with the Prime Minister of
Jamaica. She spent 5 hours with the
President of Costa Rica, 5 hours with the
military junta in Ecuador, 3½ hours with
the leader, with President Bermudez in
Peru, about 3½ hours with the President
of Brazil, Geisel. And I think this is a
tribute to their high opinion of our own
country and an eagerness to present their
views directly to me and, also, to the fact
that they found her to be capable of rep-
resenting accurately what our people and
what our Nation are.
She probably has a better sensitivity
about the hopes and dreams and aspira-
tions of the average American than I do,
and I had no trepidation in letting her go
to represent us. She's not a negotiator;
she doesn't have any official position, but
she's been received with open arms and
I am very grateful for it.
I look forward to getting her back Sun-
day. I think five countries is enough.
Perhaps now I could answer a few
questions in the time we have available,
if you have any.
QUESTIONS
AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, my name is Harry
Thompson [To the Point International,
Westport, Conn.]. I wonder whether you
could articulate for us the U.S. policy
toward Africa, both black and southern,
and who really speaks out, Vice President
Mondale, Secretary Vance, or Ambassa-
dor Young?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try. In the south-
ern part of Africa we have three basic
simultaneous problems. One is to deal
with the question in Rhodesia, or Zim-
babwe.
We are working closely with the British,
who just finished a circle of bilateral dis-
cussions with the so-called frontline na-
tions, the leading black nations around
Rhodesia, and with Ian Smith and with
Vorster. We'll now have our negotiators
come back to this country to explain to
me and Secretary Vance, the Vice Presi-
dent, Andrew Young, what the results of
those discussions were.
One of the hopes is we might evolve,
primarily with the British in the leader-
ship role, a constitution that would be
acceptable to the black and whites, future
citizens of Rhodesia who have not been
discouraged. I cannot tell you that we
anticipate any easy resolution.
1089
