Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
In addition to that, we have approved,
as far as my administration is concerned,
a substantial amount of money for public
works projects; that is, to build libraries,
schools, and other facilities in communi-
ties and let the Federal Government help
to pay for it. This work would be done
by those who are employed by private
contractors, and the same thing would
apply in the insulation of homes, in build-
ing recreation areas, and employment in
local and State government, perhaps in
mental institutions, health programs,
teachers' aides, also in the training of,
primarily, young people to hold a full-
time job in the private sector. And the
total cost of this, as I said, is about $31
billion.
I think this is the best approach to it.
The Humphrey-Hawkins bill is pretty
much a philosophical kind of expression
of our Government's commitment to full
employment. The Humphrey-Hawkins
bill has been constantly modified. It's
never gotten out of committee, either in
the House or Senate. And I think some
of the things that we propose this year
are a substitute for some of the provisions
of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
I do feel, in closing, that most of the
job opportunities ought to be generated
permanently and in the private sector of
our free enterprise system, and not in
Government itself. And that would be the
result, I hope, of this 2-year effort to
stimulate an economy which is very dor-
mant now and where the employment
rate and the inflation rate is excessively
high.
MISS CLARK. Okay. Thank you very
much, Mr. President,
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Cheryl.
MISS CLARK.—for public confidence
in Government interests.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
MISS CLARK. Goodby.
THE PRESIDENT. Bye.
MR. CRONKITE. The next call, Mr.
President, is from Nick Kniska of Lan-
ham, Maryland.
MR. KNISKA. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
CHIP CARTER
MR. KNISKA. My question for you is
that I would like to know why your son
Chip and your daughter-in-law and your
grandson are living in the White House
on taxpayers' money and why he is not
out in his own house earning a living in-
stead of living off the taxpayers?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you
might want to know that all of the per-
sonal expenses of our family are paid for
out of my own pocket or the pocket of my
children.
MR. KNISKA. Okay.
THE PRESIDENT. Our food is kept sep-
arate. We pay for all of it, all of our
clothes and so forth are paid for out of
our own pocket. Chip is a hard working
young man and he's a great help to me.
Most of my first year in office will be spent
fairly close to the White House, and when
we have a special problem anywhere in
the Nation, and I want the people there
to know how deeply concerned I am
about it, I would like to have the oppor-
tunity to use members of my family to go
and represent me personally, along with
professionals who serve in the Govern-
ment.
I will give you one quick example that
involves Chin directly. When we had a
very serious problem in Buffalo because of
excessive snowfall, I asked Chip to go up
there to speak for me, and he's a very
knowledgeable young man. And he also
let the Buffalo people know that I person-
ally cared about them. I couldn't take a
full day off and go and spend a day in
Buffalo, but Chip could.
295
