Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 19
a whole lot sooner than we otherwise
would be able to. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. As a completely non-
partisan President, I'd like to point out
that of the six maximum awards that have
been presented in the last 23 years, the
Navy has won four of them. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:55 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
The Federal Incentive Awards Program is
administered by the Civil Service Commission
which provides guidance and assistance to Fed-
eral agencies in encouraging employees to con-
tribute to economy of Government operations
through their suggestions, inventions, and/or
superior performance.
Budget Rescission and Deferrals
Message to the Congress Transmitting
the Rescission and Deferrals.
May 18, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith propose
rescission of $126.2 million appropriated
for the Patrol Hydrofoil Missile program
of the Department of Defense. In addi-
tion, I am reporting a deferral of $31.8
million for the Energy Research and De-
velopment Administration, Clinch River
Breeder Reactor project, and revisions to
two deferrals previously transmitted.
The details of the proposed rescission
and the deferrals are contained in the
attached reports.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 18, 1977.
NOTE:
The attachments detailing the rescis-
sion and deferrals are printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of May 23, 1977.
The message was not issued in the form of
a White House press release.
Conventional Arms Transfer
Policy
Statement by the President. May 19, 1977
The virtually unrestrained spread of
conventional weaponry threatens stability
in every region of the world. Total arms
sales in recent years have risen to over
$20 billion, and the United States ac-
counts for more than one-half of this
amount. Each year, the weapons trans-
ferred are not only more numerous but
also more sophisticated and deadly. Be-
cause of the threat to world peace em-
bodied in this spiralling arms traffic and
because of the special responsibilities we
bear as the largest arms seller, I believe
that the United States must take steps to
restrain its arms transfers.
Therefore, shortly after my inaugura-
tion, I directed a comprehensive review
of U.S. conventional arms transfer policy,
including all military, political, and eco-
nomic factors. After reviewing the results
of this study and discussing those results
with Members of Congress and foreign
leaders, I have concluded that the United
States will henceforth view arms transfers
as an exceptional foreign policy imple-
ment, to be used only in instances where it
can be clearly demonstrated that the
transfer contributes to our national secu-
rity interests. We will continue to utilize
arms transfers to promote our security
and the security of our close friends. But
in the future the burden of persuasion
will be on those who favor a particular
arms sale, rather than those who oppose
it.
To implement a policy of arms re-
straint, I am establishing the following set
of controls, applicable to all transfers ex-
cept those to countries with which we
have major defense treaties (NATO,
Japan, Australia, and New Zealand). We
will remain faithful to our treaty obliga-
931
