Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
fail depends on you and whether or not
we can form a partnership that's tangible
and continuing and mutually respectful.
I think the country is ready for some
substantial changes. I want to be sure that
every one of those changes is an improve-
ment. There is no way that I can sit in rel-
ative isolation in the White House and
decide what's best for our people in the
Treasury Department. You've been here.
You've seen the mistakes. You've seen the
achievements.
The things that are good and proper
and efficient and effective ought to be
preserved and enhanced. The things that
may have been equally adopted for 15 or
20 years, which can be improved, we want
to improve them. And if there are things
that ought not to be here at all, we want
to eliminate them.
We hope to get authority very shortly to
reorganize the structure of Government
in broad generic terms-transportation,
electronic data processing, printing, per-
sonnel management, on the one hand-
internal reorganization within depart-
ments like your own and, in addition, the
shifting of major responsibilities among
departments.
I want to be very, very thorough and
very, very careful. I don't want to make
any mistakes. And the best way to insure
that that hope is realized is to use your
advice and your counsel and your sugges-
tions and your criticisms.
You need not have any fear of the pros-
pective changes that might be brought for-
ward. No one will be discharged in the
entire Federal Government as a result of
reorganization. No one in the Federal
Government will lose seniority or pay
status. We might very well find it neces-
sary on occasion-it would be rare, I
think, relating to the Treasury Depart-
ment to transfer people from one job to
another. If that should occur, any train-
ing required would be fitted in with your
own capabilities and, obviously, would be
paid for by the Government.
We are now embarked on some very
substantial analyses to make Government
better. We've already introduced a brief
economic stimulus package, equally bal-
anced between 1977 and 1978.
We are following that up with a very
comprehensive energy policy. Our Na-
tion is the only one that's developed on
Earth that doesn't have some comprehen-
sive energy policy. By the 20th of April,
we will have completed that study and
we will submit to the Congress then, leg-
islation to implement our recommenda-
tions. Formed today, with former Presi-
dent Ford and Vice President Mondale as
chairmen, will be an organization de-
signed to save energy. And serving in that
group will be members of my Cabinet, key
Members of Congress, and representatives
from different groups around the Gov-
ernment. In addition, we hope to set up
State functions in all 50 States to hold
down the waste of energy.
By the 1st of May, we will have a com-
prehensive study completed on welfare
reform. And later on this year, under the
leadership of Mike Blumenthal, we will
have a comprehensive analysis completed
on income tax reform.
We don't want to do things in a haphaz-
ard way, but the country is ready for some
reanalysis so that we can say what needs
to be kept and what needs to be changed
for the better. Obviously, anything we do
will be carefully scrutinized by the public
and by Congress. That's the way it ought
to be.
But I'd like to conclude my statements
by saying this: I hope that you will par-
ticipate in an active way, that you will
help overcome the weaknesses or short-
comings that might be apparent to you in
my leadership or in the leadership of Mike
Blumenthal and others. It's a time for a
128
