Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
make the decision. There is a one-page
form required, one side of one sheet of
paper. It is filled out by those that are
responsible at the very lowest levels in the
Department for a particular function.
You will describe, just using a ballpoint
pen, if you like, what your role is, how
many people work with you and under
you, how much money is being spent, and
how you could perform your function
better, if certain changes were made.
Sometimes you might want to cut back
on a program. Sometimes you might want
to keep it exactly as it is. Sometimes you
might want to increase it substantially.
But the initiation of changing ideas will
be not from the White House, not from
the Secretary level, not from OMB, but
from you.
If you have had for a long time pent-up
ideas, hopes about a better way to let your
own life be meaningful in Government
service, you will have a chance this year
to show your contribution to the Federal
Government can be of profound signifi-
cance.
Now, I don't know all the answers
about agriculture. I don't know all the
answers about being President. But I will
try to answer some questions for you. If I
can't answer them, I will turn to my good
friend, Bob Bergland.
Does anybody have a question?
QUESTIONS
FEDERAL TRAVEL EXPENSES
Q. An enormous amount of time is
spent filling out travel vouchers and all
these things to confirm travel actually
having been performed. Would it not be
possible to issue a credit card and let the
credit card summary be adequate proof of
travel for which I have been paid?
THE PRESIDENT. The question was a
very good one. It is the kind of question
that I hope you will be asking all year.
The young woman said that an enor-
mous amount of her time-obviously she
has to travel a lot-is spent just filling out
travel vouchers and all the numerous
copies to confirm that she actually per-
formed her travel. And if it would not be
possible to issue a credit card, which could
be used by her on official visits, and let the
credit card summary be adequate proof
that she has actually done the travel for
which she has been paid. Is that correct?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. It sounds great. Sec-
retary Bergland says it sounds like an ex-
cellent idea. So, I think you will be seeing
some changes made about that very
shortly.
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Q. Is there some way that agricultural
research can be improved in its competi-
tion with other research and development
funds, compared to defense and space,
health, and so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is about
agricultural research and whether or not
it can be improved in its competition with
other research and development funds,
compared to defense and space, health,
and so forth.
The answer is certainly yes. This is one
of the questions that came up quite often
when I was campaigning for President
among agricultural groups. I have seen
in
my own farm life the tremendous bene-
fits that were derived from very small ex-
penditures of funds in basic research.
When I was first home from the Navy,
back in the early fifties, the average pro-
duction of peanuts, for instance, was
about 800 to 1,000 pounds per acre. Now
the average in our State is 2,500 pounds
to 3,000 pounds per acre. It is almost di-
rectly attributable to basic research that
discovered that the more you plow pea-
nuts, the lower the production is. So,
when we quit cultivating our crops, we
170
