Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 13
the White House staff is there, also repre-
senting me directly. And Secretary of
Commerce Juanita Kreps will be speak-
ing to you tomorrow.
I think it's very important that these
two Cabinet members and my own staff
representative, Jack Watson, serve not
only in the capacity of speakers but of
listeners. We had a long discussion this
morning in the Cabinet meeting about
the fact that whenever a new idea or a
new problem or a new crisis evolves in our
own system of government, the first place
that it becomes apparent is under your
own administrations, in the cities of our
country. Quite often, this new problem
arises without having been considered at
the State or national level, and there is a
time period of months or even long years
between the crisis becoming apparent to
you and comprehensive legislation being
passed in Washington to address a nation-
wide problem.
So, you are the innovators in working
out answers to the most difficult questions
that face our own American society. I
think this is a good aspect of our system
of federalism because it puts the responsi-
bility for searching for answers as near as
possible to the people who are involved
in the question themselves. But it also
puts on a President the additional burden
of receiving your advice and your counsel,
your support and, on occasion, your criti-
cisms. And I want you to feel that you
have an open line into the White House as
we deal with problems that affect the peo-
ple that you and I both represent. All of
your constituents are my constituents.
As we face these next few months, I
think it's important that we work together
constantly in the proper shaping of a new
energy policy, the evolution of a new De-
partment of Energy, the reorganization of
the Federal Government. I'll be propos-
ing, after close work with you by Joe Cali-
fano and others, a comprehensive welfare
reform program before the Congress re-
cesses in August. And we also have a need
this year to put forward a basic tax reform
proposal, which will be done before the
Congress adjourns for 1977.
We have many items that are a com-
mon problem in certain areas of our Na-
tion. One on which I've devoted a great
deal of time personally is how to deal with
the undocumented worker or illegal alien
problem. We're not only working with the
President of Mexico and other leaders,
with the Congress and with Governors,
but we're also working with mayors whose
cities are especially affected.
As we see a growing cooperation, I be-
lieve that our own judgments will be im-
proved. It is good for you to understand
my special perspective in international
matters and on a nationwide basis that
appear to you to be sometimes quite easy
to resolve. And I know that my own judg-
ments will be more effective and more
proper depending upon how close and
constant a working relationship there
does exist between the mayors and the
President.
Jack Watson, who's with you, has my
full confidence and, of course, my full sup-
port. And I hope that every one of you
will leave the conference with his tele-
phone number so that if you do have a
special need, day or night, you can get in
touch with him and, hopefully, he can
give you adequate assistance or advice or
information. Of course, I'm always avail-
able to you if the Cabinet members and
my own staff can't meet your needs.
adequately.
This is a year when our American peo-
ple are looking for cooperation and not
division between the different levels of
government. I think they've responded
well to the close partnership that has been
formed between the White House and the
Congress, and I think that the result of
this year's congressional deliberations will
1101
