Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
prices. We will have available for public
scrutiny and for congressional action by
April 20, a comprehensive, long-range en-
ergy policy. I have asked Dr. James Schles-
inger—a well-qualified person, strong,
able, intelligent, and, I think, a very dedi-
cated man-to lead the evolution of the
energy policy itself.
Our country has not had such a policy
to guide it, to guide Presidents, Members
of Congress, the public, oil companies,
consumers in what might be expected in
the future. And I believe when this policy
is made public, it will obviously engender
a great deal of debate. It is going to re-
quire substantial sacrifices on the part of
the American people. I am going to try to
make sure that all the natural gas com-
panies and others that produce don't de-
rive unwarranted profits when we cut back
on consumption and when we encourage
production.
This past 2 months, we have imported
over half of the total amount of oil that
we have used-10 million barrels a day
on the average. This has got to stop. We
don't have adequate reserve supplies of
oil stored to meet our needs if we have
another embargo or some other very seri-
ous problem in the future.
So, the oil, natural gas, coal, atomic
power, conservation question has not been
addressed. This is a campaign commit-
ment that I made for 2 years, And my
campaign commitment as far as develop-
ing a policy will be completed by April 20.
But I will try to make sure it is fair and
comprehensive. If it is not fair, if it is not
comprehensive, the American public will
not accept it, the Congress will not, and
I will have failed. I don't intend to fail in
this question.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, House Speaker Tip
O'Neill complained yesterday that some
of your top advisers seem to have an atti-
tude of confrontation regarding Congress,
and this is only the latest of several com-
plaints from the Democratic leadership,
that you haven't consulted with them
enough. Looking back on it, do you feel
that they are overreacting, or do you feel
that you have given them cause for some
of their complaints?
THE PRESIDENT. We have given them
cause for some of the complaints, inad-
vertently. We have made some mistakes.
I have learned in my first 2/2 weeks why
Abraham Lincoln and some of the older
Presidents almost went home when they
first got to the White House. The handling
of personnel appointments, trying to get
the right person in the right position at
the right time is a very, very difficult ques-
tion. We have not been adequately careful
in the initial days in dealing with the
Congress.
It is hard for me to decide which person
to appoint, to have an FBI check, an In-
ternal Revenue Service check, to have the
press constantly trying to get the name be-
fore anybody else knows it, to have a Con-
gressman find out by reading it in the
newspaper. We have really tried to deal
fairly with the Members of Congress, but
we have not been always successful. But I
have initiated now, as you know, a con-
stant series of meetings with the Congress
Members, almost every day. And every 2
weeks, I have a breakfast with the Demo-
cratic leadership, and we have a thorough
discussion of our differences. And I believe
that we have made a great deal of progress
in correcting those early mistakes.
DOUGLAS ROBINSON
Q. Sir, you have a man working on en-
ergy, Douglas G. Robinson. He was for-
merly, I think, Deputy General Counsel
of FEA. He works with Dr. Schlesinger
and Dr. O'Leary. Congressman John
Moss sent you some information down at
98
