Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
mine health and safety research will not
be transferred. This will leave the Depart-
ment of Interior still in charge of leasing
energy resources under Federal control.
We are leaving those functions in Interior
because we believe that the responsibility
for multiple-use of public lands, and for
their environmental protection, belongs in
one department-Interior-that can re-
flect a broad spectrum of concern. The
Energy Department, however, will set
long-term production goals and will have
policy control over economic aspects of the
leases. This will help us foster competition
within the energy industries and encour-
age production of leased resources as ex-
peditiously as possible.
This reorganization will also bring to-
gether our energy data gathering and
analysis capabilities. More than twenty
executive departments and agencies now
operate more than 250 energy data pro-
grams. The FEA, ERDA, FPC and the
Interior Department's Bureau of Mines
together have more than 100 such pro-
grams. This fragmentation is not only un-
economic and frustrating: it can also have
serious consequences. We have seen in
recent weeks that, under our present sys-
tem, we have no single source of informa-
tion about where natural gas shortages
were greatest and where supplies were still
available to help make up those shortages.
Consolidating these major data programs
in an Energy Information Administration
within the new department will now give
us the ability to compile information
which is complete, accurate and believ-
able.
must have a strong, independent voice to
ensure that safety does not yield to energy
supply pressures. Therefore, the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission will remain as an
independent body. For similar reasons, the
Environmental Protection Agency should
remain independent to voice environ-
mental concern.
Even with a new Department of En-
ergy, problems of interdepartmental co-
ordination will remain, since virtually all
government activity affects energy to some
extent. Establishing this department, how-
ever, will give us one government body
with sufficient scope and authority to do
the massive job that remains to be done.
Thus this legislation will abolish the En-
ergy Resources Council. I intend to estab-
lish by Executive Order a non-statutory
interdepartmental coordinating body, with
the Secretary of Energy as its chairman to
manage government-wide concerns in-
volving energy.
This legislation contains no new sub-
stantive authorities. Instead, by eliminat-
ing three agencies and uniting a variety
of existing energy authorities, the legisla-
tion I am submitting today will help reor-
ganize the Executive Branch in a rational,
orderly way. It is long overdue. I hope to
work with the Congress to achieve our
initial goal of a realistic and effective
energy policy.
The White House
March 1, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
There are many things this legislation Department of Defense
does not try to do.
I believe that health, safety and envi-
ronmental regulation relating to energy-
unlike economic regulation-should not
be brought into the new Energy Depart-
ment. Because public concerns about the
safety of nuclear power are so serious, we
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
March 1, 1977
SECRETARY BROWN. Mr. President, on be-
half of the men and women of the De-
partment of Defense, both civilians and
259
