Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 21
that are very important to us. Of course,
what he has asked for is an immediate
termination of the embargo, trade em-
bargo, against Cuba as a prerequisite to
other negotiations, which I think is some-
thing that he is not likely to achieve.
Q. And Guantanamo, too.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry.
of something that's clean and decent and
proper as a rallying point for us in all the
democracies of the world.
And the last thing to say on human
rights is that as we approach the Belgrade
conference where the Helsinki agreement
will be assessed-there are about 35
signatories of that agreement—I think all
Q. Guantanamo was mentioned by the countries are eager to put their best
Raúl Castro.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. Well,
there are several other obviously very
complicated elements in dealing with
Cuba.
Q. You are not going to desist on your
policy of human rights?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not ever de-
sist on my policy on human rights, no,
not only as it relates to Cuba but to all
other countries in the world, and also in-
cluding our own country. I think it's
accurate to say that almost the entire
world leadership is now preoccupied with
the question of human rights. And that
affects me, it affects the European coun-
tries, it affects countries in South and
Central America, it affects those in Africa,
I think it affects the Socialist and Com-
munist countries to the east, it affects
Cuba.
We've had 25 to 30 nations who have
made very substantial moves toward en-
hancing the quality of human rights in
their nations. Almost every time they take
such an action, they will inform me
directly that, "We have done this ac-
tion, and we are very proud of it." And
we have complimented them on it,
quite often quietly through diplomatic
channels.
I think it's something that our country
ought to assume as a permanent clear-cut
commitment of our people. I think it's
compatible with our constitutional stance,
the framework of our societal structure.
It's something that appeals to our own
people. It restores kind of a beacon light
foot forward and to show that we have
made strides toward the enhancement of
human rights.
So, the human rights issue is a very
important issue in the minds of all of us
now, which I think is a good move in the
right direction.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Sir, the resurrection of Richard
Nixon on TV brought out that this coun-
try had made certain commitments to the
Middle East. Do you feel any obligation
to follow those commitments?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it depends on
what those commitments were.
When commitments of that kind were
made in an official capacity, by the Presi-
dent, by the Secretary of State, by the
Secretary of Defense, often with the
knowledge of Congress, I feel it is bind-
ing on me to carry those commitments
out.
I'll give you one illustrative example in-
volving politics. Kissinger promised the
Israeli leaders that there would be no rec-
ognition on our part of the PLO prior to
the PLO's recognition of Israel's right to
exist-right to exist permanently. So, I
would feel constrained by that promise.
There have been other commitments
made on the type and quantity of weapons
sales to Middle Eastern countries. I've
now established a policy of great restraint
on conventional weapons sales, but I still
feel that I am under an obligation to meet
the commitments that were made by my
predecessors.
947
