Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 20
achieve the maximum benefit for domestic
producers or workers while having the
minimum impact on consumers. Con-
sumer costs for an across-the-board tariff
increase are unacceptable at a time when
covering the rate of inflation is essential.
In the particular circumstances of the
color television industry, this purpose is
better achieved with an orderly marketing
agreement than with tariffs.
A further problem is that nothing in the
USITC remedy would have prevented
circumvention of relief by minor design
changes in the television receivers. This
problem is remedied in the agreement.
Another important consideration was
the possible compensatory import conces-
sions that would have to be made by the
United States to affected exporting coun-
tries or the retaliation by those countries
against U.S. exports. Such actions would
have cost American jobs and could have
damaged U.S. exports by exposing our
industrial and agricultural trade to in-
creased barriers in important overseas
markets.
In addition, the higher tariff recom-
mended by the USITC would have been
applied across-the-board on all countries
and would have affected countries not re-
sponsible for the rapid rise in imports.
An orderly marketing agreement with
Japan will considerably moderate the sig-
nificantly increased exports from Japan
which occurred in 1976. Such an agree-
ment will reduce exports to the United
States in the first agreement year to a level
at least 40 percent below the 1976 level
of exports.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
Charles Lindbergh's
Transatlantic Flight
Statement on the 50th Anniversary
of the Flight. May 20, 1977
This year marks the 50th anniversary
of the historic transatlantic flight of
Charles A. Lindbergh. In his solo journey
from New York to Paris on May 20, 1927,
America's "Lone Eagle" inaugurated a
new age of aviation and a new era of
international flight.
Celebrated around the world, this mo-
mentous event established Lindbergh as
one of our country's most heroic figures.
It symbolized the continuing devotion of
our people to the exploration of new
frontiers and demonstrated what can be
accomplished when innovative and prom-
ising technology is guided by a courageous
and determined man.
Linking two continents, the 332-hour
flight of the Spirit of St. Louis was a land-
mark in aviation history. It initiated the
rise to world leadership of the United
States aviation industry. It pioneered in-
ternational air travel that has helped to
bring nations and peoples far closer to-
gether and was the critical first step in
our subsequently brilliant history of space
discovery.
It is most fitting for all of us to join in a
solemn commemoration of the 50th anni-
versary of Charles Lindbergh's flight and
in grateful celebration of the enduring
accomplishments it inspired and made
possible.
addressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Federal Energy Administration
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
The text of the letters and the attached re-
port were not issued in the form of a White
House press release.
Nomination of Robert R. Nordhaus To Be an
Assistant Administrator. May 20, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Robert R. Nordhaus,
939
