Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 24
like to eliminate these tests altogether if
the Soviets will agree.
We are going to try to move toward
demilitarizing the Indian Ocean and, here
again, we'll be consulting closely with our
allies and friends. And we are going to
express our concern about the future of
Africa and ask the Soviet Union to join
with us in removing from that troubled
continent, outside interference which
might contribute to warfare in the coun-
tries involved. And we will start laying the
groundwork for cooperation with the
Soviet Union at the Geneva Conference
which we hope will take place, concerning
the Middle East.
These matters are extremely complex.
We don't know whether or not we will
be successful at all, but we go in good faith
with high hopes. The Soviets have been
very cooperative up to this point, and we
are pleased with their attitude. And I
know that the prayers of the American
people will go with Cy Vance, our Secre-
tary of State, to the Soviet Union, in hopes
that this trip might result in the allevia-
tion of tension and the further guarantee-
ing of peace for our world in the future.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, the pace of inflation
has been picking up a bit. And at least
temporarily, both the consumer and
wholesale price indices, annualized, are
in double-digit range. How do you see the
outlook for inflation, and how are you
coming in fashioning a comprehensive
program to deal with it?
THE PRESIDENT. There is an underly-
ing inflation rate of 5 to 6 percent, which
is generally derived from the rate of in-
crease in wages minus the productivity of
workers. It is one of the best measure-
ments.
I think that the monthly reports that
come in, quite often, are very misleading.
They are transient in nature. We've had a
drastic increase in energy costs during this
winter period because of the unprece-
dented severity of the weather. And we
have also had a very high increase in the
cost of many food items, again because of
damage to crops in different regions of
the country, and because of coffee losses
overseas.
My own guess is that the inflationary
pressures will continue at about the level
that they have historically in the last
couple of years, around 6 or a little bit
better percent. We are now preparing a
very strong anti-inflation package which
will be delivered to the Congress and to
the American people within the next
couple of weeks. We have been working
on it since even before I was inaugurated.
We have begun to exercise constraint
on some of the spending policies of our
own administration, and we also are be-
ginning to assess the impact of many de-
cisions made by Government and the pub-
lic that contribute to the inflationary pres-
sures which quite often are not obvious.
And I hope to both learn myself and to
let the Congress and the American people
learn, in the process, how we can control
inflation.
I think the economic stimulus package
that we have can boost the increase in our
national product up to around 5 percent
or a little better, which is crucial to cutting
down the unemployment rate. It will not
be, in my opinion, a major factor in infla-
tion. But on a long-range basis, I intend
to help control inflation.
I intend to cut down the expenditure
of Government programs well enough to
bring about a balanced budget by 1981. I
am deeply committed to this goal. And I
believe that we will have unveiled, for the
497
