Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 1
no intention at this time to introduce any
legislation of that nature. And whether it
would be constitutional, I don't know.
Q. So you feel, then, at this time, that
such legislation is not necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
NEW YORK CITY
Q. Mr. President, I can recall reading
in the papers a few months ago where
the previous administration congratu-
lated New York officials, Mayor Beame
and Governor Carey, on the strong
measures and controls they had taken
regarding the New York financial crisis,
and it appeared New York was on the
way to recovery. Yet in the last few weeks,
even in today's Washington Post, it
appears to me that New York is on the
brink of bankruptcy. Can you elaborate
on the financial crisis of New York and,
if they are in such dire straits, will the
Federal Government bail them out?
THE PRESIDENT. There is an even
bigger story in the New York Times.
[Laughter]
The Congress has authorized the Fed-
eral Government, in effect, to make tem-
porary loans to the city of New York to
meet its varying financial obligations dur-
ing the course of the fiscal years. As you
undoubtedly know, income to a local or
State government is cyclical. It comes in
at certain times of the year when expend-
itures are fairly uniform. And that's the
limit of the authority that the Federal
Government now has-to tide New York
over for just a few months at the time
when receipts are low and expenditures
are high. But there has to be an assur-
ance under the present law that New
York City is financially sound.
There was a request made over the
weekend by Mayor Beame and others for
the Federal Government to make a tem-
porary loan in excess of $200 million to
tide New York over in a present crisis,
primarily because the New York banks
and the New York labor unions, with
their retirement fund, were not able to
work out an agreement with Mayor
Beame and Governor Carey on long-
range financing.
My own inclination is that New York
City, the State, the banks, and the labor
organizations will have to deal with the
long-range financial problems of New
York first, and without Federal participa-
tion. We will make available a continua-
tion of the temporary loans. And although
this authority expires very quickly, I
would be in favor of extending the time
period for these temporary loans over a
longer period of time, maybe 5 or 6
years.ยน
My own guess is that with tight con-
straints on the city of New York, the
evolution of its budget, and the handling
of expenditures, that this crisis can be
weathered.
We have done several other things in-
directly which obviously helped New
York City and other cities. The economic
stimulus package of $31 billion, roughly,
for a 2-year period, has a major portion
of it allocated for improving the ghetto
areas where poverty exists-better hous-
ing programs, public works projects, pub-
lic service employment, and an overall
economic stimulation.
And I think that the Congress and my
own Executive administration is dedi-
1 Later in the day, the White House Press
Office released the following statement:
The President has stated many times, as he
did today, that he is in favor of the concept of
extending Federal seasonal loans to New York
City beyond the expiration of the present sea-
sonal loan program, which ends June 30, 1978.
The city, of course, must comply with the
terms of the credit agreement concerning each
seasonal loan granted under the present pro-
gram. The President was not referring to the
current city loan request.
263
