Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 9
ment relevant to its responsibilities for
representing the interests of the Western
Sectors of Berlin abroad, to enable the
Western Sectors of Berlin to profit from
the practical benefits of East-West
relations.
The four governments pledged their
cooperation in maintaining a political
situation conducive to the vitality and
prosperity of the Western Sectors of Ber-
lin. The three Powers expressed their ap-
preciation of the efforts of the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Senat of
Berlin to ensure that the Western Sectors
remain an attractive place in which to
invest and to work. They reaffirmed their
commitment to the city's security, which
is an indispensable prerequisite for its eco-
nomic and social development.
NOTE: The Four Power summit meeting was
held at 10 a.m. at 10 Downing Street, London.
Participants were: President Carter, Valéry
Giscard d'Estaing, President of the Republic
of France, Helmut Schmidt, Chancellor of the
Federal Republic of Germany, and James Cal-
laghan, Prime Minister and First Lord of the
Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Brit-
ain and Northern Ireland.
The text of the declaration was released at
Geneva, Switzerland.
Geneva, Switzerland
Remarks Upon Arrival at Cointrin
International Airport. May 9, 1977
First of all, I would like to say that I
am very delighted and proud to come for
the first time to the beautiful country of
Switzerland.
Because of the deep commitment of the
Swiss people over many generations, and
even centuries, to basic human freedoms,
to the pure and idealistic aspirations of
humankind, and because of the historical
independence and insistence upon the
principles of peace, all the nations of the
world have looked upon Geneva and
Switzerland as a place to dispel differ-
ences and to eliminate hatred and to
search for a better common ground on
which we can get along well with one
another.
I come here today from a meeting con-
cerning economics and the future of the
people of our world as we seek a full em-
ployment and a more stable life and a
more equal balance of prosperity. I am
meeting here today with one of the great
leaders in the Middle East, President
Asad of Syria. We feel that 1977 might
be a good year to move forward toward
permanent peace in that troubled region
of the world.
No one can think of a better place to
meet and to explore possibilities than this
beautiful city of Geneva. My first memory
of Geneva was as the homeland for the
search for permanent peace, which didn't
last, in the League of Nations, and as a
birthplace of the Red Cross, and now as a
center for the common effort in the Euro-
pean theater for a mutual search for un-
derstanding and peace.
So, it's with a great deal of hope and
pleasure that I come to this beautiful
country. And I hope that later on this
year we might come back to find a reso-
lution of differences that have separated
one nation from another and one people
from another for many, many years in the
eastern Mediterranean area.
I want to thank these officials behind
me for having made me feel welcome.
Although my visit will be brief, I hope to
acquire here a better understanding of
the problems with which we might deal
later on this year. And I believe that the
natural inclination of the Swiss people
and the atmosphere and influence of Ge-
neva will be conducive to major progress
built upon this visit.
841
