Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 23
they if you refuse to give them any idea
of what you have discovered during this
review about payments, including ones
made in secret?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a value judg-
ment. It's made by the independent In-
telligence Oversight Board which was
established and appointed by President
Ford. This Board has made itself avail-
able to the Inspector General and to any
employee within the CIA or within the
defense intelligence agencies or any other
to receive even rumors of impropriety.
They have assessed these operations. They
made their inquiries in the past, which is
in accordance with the Executive order
issued by President Ford, to the Attorney
General of the United States, and also to
the President.
I have read that correspondence. It's
quite voluminous. And I think that it's
accurate to say that Senator Inouye's
committee in the Senate and the appro-
priate committees in the House have also
received this information in the past. I
have talked to Senator Inouye and he
confirms what I've just told you. And I
think he would also confirm that the
impropriety or the illegality does not exist
on any ongoing CIA operation.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, Charles Kirbo-your
friend, Charles Kirbo-seems to feel that
you are going to be having a continuing
problem with the Congress and that you
will have to go over Congress head to the
people in order to get results. Is this true?
THE PRESIDENT. I think if you read the
whole statement that Mr. Kirbo made,
which is just a private citizen's opinion,
he would say that every President has had
arguments and debates and disagree-
ments with the Congress. And I think
that's inevitable in our system of govern-
ment. That's part of the checks and bal-
ances that's very precious to us all.
I have found up till now a growing
sense of cooperation with the Congress.
I think last week when I was asked
roughly the same question, that the trou-
bles were perhaps underestimated by the
news media. I think now perhaps the
troubles with the Congress are overesti-
mated. I have frequent meetings with the
congressional leaders, both Democratic
and Republican.
And I think that the progress of the
legislation that we consider to be crucial,
which seemed to be moving very slowly in
the past, is now speeding up. So, I don't
believe that we will have nearly the prob-
lems with the Congress that has been the
case in recent years. And I have to say
in summary that I am very pleased with
my relationship with the Congress now.
ELECTION REFORM
Q. Mr. President, in view of your as-
signment to Vice President Mondale re-
garding the election laws, could you give
us your views, sir, on the direct election of
a President versus the electoral college,
and also, do you think that the public
financing should be extended to Congress
as well as the Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. There are three basic
questions that come up. In the first place,
I do favor at least an automatic vote by
Presidential electors, once the general
election is completed. I think the electoral
college, for instance, should be elimi-
nated. Whether the ratio among States of
votes ought to be changed, I am not pre-
pared to comment on that.
As far as the financing of congressional
elections by public funds, as proved to be
succesful, I believe, in the Presidential
election, I strongly favor that, yes. And
the other element of the overall package
would be a simple way for American peo-
ple who are citizens and 18 years old to
register to vote. And I am committed to
that proposition, and the Vice President
221
