May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Minister has a great voice and influence
there.
We have hopes with the position-[in-
audible]-hope for a united nation on
Cyprus and for peace among the Cypriots.
Q. Do
you see the problem of American
bases being solved, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they will be
solved. As I said, we are making progress
on that line.
Q. Can you explain the importance of
the [inaudible]-countries trying to-
[inaudible]-the southern flank of NATO,
and on the other hand applying an arms
embargo to Turkey, one of the southern
flank members?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we recognize
that Turkey is the keystone of NATO
strength in the eastern Mediterranean.
And we are very much concerned about
the temporary embargo that was placed
by the Congress of the United States. But
I believe that very quickly in the next
week or so, you will see a renewed com-
mitment of our own Congress to author-
ize major sales of military equipment to
Turkey. I think that this is an accurate
prediction. So, we're making progress.
And we recognize that we still have more
improvement in the future, but we're de-
termined to see it made.
Q. Is there still a linkage, Mr. Presi-
dent, between the Cyprus question and
the arms supplies?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my own analysis
is that the items should be separated, that
progress on Cyprus is very important to
the Cypriots, to Turkey, to Greece, and
to the rest of the world, certainly includ-
ing the United States. And I'm sure that
the Turkish leaders, the Greek leaders,
the Turkish and Greek Cypriots, and we
all will do what we can to bring about
peace in Cyprus.
I also think that the military coopera-
tion agreement is important. We have
strongly recommended that the Congress
approve it. An immediate approval is not
likely at this point, but I think that is very
likely in the future. That should be a
separate item.
And the third separate item is the sale
of military equipment to Turkey. I think
the Congress will very quickly approve
the $175 million authorizations. So, al-
though we all want all three to be realized,
in our minds they are separate, and each
one is unique in its difficulty, but each
one is unique in its importance to peace
in the eastern Mediterranean and to
world peace.
Thank you.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange with reporters began
at 9:25 a.m. at Winfield House, where the
meeting was held.
NATO Ministerial Meeting
Text of Remarks at the First Session
of the Meeting. May 10, 1977
Introduction
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General,
Excellencies, and members of the
Council:
We meet at an important time in the
development of the international institu-
tions on which our countries rely.
Here in London last week the leaders
of seven nations and of the Commission
of the European Communities pledged
to join others in strengthening these insti-
tutions in the economic field.
Today and tomorrow this Council will
discuss how to adapt the Alliance to meet
the military and political challenges of
the 1980's. Taken together, these meet-
ings should give new impetus to relations
among our industrial democracies.
At the center of this effort must be
strong ties between Europe and North
848
