Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
not possible to get those checks in the mail,
even if everybody was unanimously in fa-
vor of it, until June or July.
So, because of those factors we changed
our plans. But I believe that we will have
now an adequate stimulus package for job
improvements, and the increase in con-
sumer confidence and consumer purchases
that we hope to bring about with the $50
tax rebate has simply already occurred.
And it is not necessary any more.
Q. Mr. President, yesterday when you
dropped the $50 tax rebate, you suggested
that one of the reasons was increased in-
flationary pressure over last November or
December when it was first proposed. I'd
like to ask now, if the Senate had acted
quickly, and as quickly as the House did,
and passed the $50 rebates, would we now
be in the clutches of runaway inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think and have
never thought that the $50 tax rebate
would have any significant impact on in-
flation. I deliberately did not tie the $50
tax rebate withdrawal to the anti-inflation
proposals that I made today. I don't think
it would have. We still have about, I'd say,
a 15- to 20-percent unused capacity in
our industrial production. And, of course,
the unemployment rate is still above 7 per-
cent, which is very severe. But under those
circumstances, I simply don't think that
you can say that a reason for withdrawing
the $50 tax rebate was to hold down infla-
tion. The reason was that it is simply not
needed.
HARKIN AMENDMENT
Q. Mr. President, the House, as you
know, just recently passed the Harkin
amendment to the International Lending
Institutions Act of 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. which stipulates that the
United States representative must vote
no to countries who violate-loans to
countries who violate human rights. Did
the administration actively support-or
why didn't the administration actively
support this amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Harkin
amendment is a mistake. The Reuss
amendment and the Senator Humphrey
amendment, which are the same, provide
me with an adequate authority to deal
with the question of human rights as it
relates to international and regional lend-
ing institutions. To have a frozen manda-
tory prohibition against our Nation voting
for any loan simply removes my ability
to bargain with a foreign leader whom
we think might be willing to ease off on
the deprivation of human rights. But
when the requirement is frozen into law,
there is simply no reason for a foreign
leader to try to comply.
I think we need to have the flexibility
that we proposed. My heart is with the
Harkin amendment because I want to do
everything I can to assure a maximum
amount of human rights commitment
around the world. But I think that to give
us the authority within the lending insti-
tutions to use our best judgment and to
negotiate for an easing off of human
rights restraints before a loan is made is
the best approach to it.
Thank you very much.
BUSINESS INVESTMENT PLANS
Q. Mr. President, the Nation's busi-
nessmen remain reluctant to invest partly,
they say, because of its uncertainty, and
now you've added the uncertainty of
what Government policy is by an abrupt
change on the rebate and removed the
business tax incentive. What can be done
to get businessmen to go ahead and ex-
pand their production, which would
create more jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, another eco-
nomic indicator that I did not mention
636
