May 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. How do you feel about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've said many
times in my public statements and also in
writing, how much Admiral Rickover af-
fected my life and my attitude. He de-
manded a lot more from me than I had
ever thought I could do. So, I think both
in politics and also running a peanut farm,
and also in the Navy, his concept of what
a human being could do, compared to
what they ordinarily do, has been a re-
minder to me. I haven't always measured
up to it. But I have a great affection for
him personally and a great obligation for
what he has meant to me.
So, I'll see you all when I get back from
being on the ship.
Q. Mr. President, one other question:
As an old Navy man, do you remember
what the bow is and what the stern is?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course. [Laughter]
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE:
The exchange began at 8:45 a.m. on
the dock at Port Canaveral.
Port Canaveral, Florida
Remarks to Reporters by the President and
Admiral Hyman G. Rickover Prior to Boarding
the U.S.S. "Los Angeles." May 27, 1977
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. Good morning. The
President has asked me to give you some-
what of a briefing.
I think the best thing to do is to talk
about the program in general. We now
have 108 submarines in commission. We
have 31 more that they are either build-
ing or are authorized. We also have six
(eight)ยน surface ships.
These ships do not have to be refueled
until they have operated for about 400,-
000 miles. An ordinary surface ship going
at full power must refuel somewhere be-
tween 5,000 and 6,000 miles. The ration-
1 Printed in the White House press release.
ale for nuclear surface ships is that you
can steam hundreds of thousands of miles
without being refueled.
Now, in the case of an energy short-
age and you must remember that dur-
ing World War II large numbers of
tankers were sunk by German submarines.
The largest of these tankers was about
16,000 tons at that time. Compared to the
tankers of today, which run two, three,
and four hundred thousand tons, they
were very small targets.
Furthermore, the submarine menace
will be far greater now than it was then
for two reasons. One is the fact that an
atomic submarine has far greater capa-
bilities both for endurance, for speed.
When President Carter was on a con-
ventional submarine, I believe the maxi-
mum speed it could make was about 10
or 12 knots per half hour. A nuclear sub-
marine and I am not permitted to di-
vulge the exact speed, but I can tell you
I am authorized to say it is over 20 knots.
That magic figure, sir, was set by
Harry Truman. He decided that we could
talk to that extent. That will show you
the great power a President has, even
after his death. You ought to bear that
in mind.
THE PRESIDENT. How many years of
ordinary operation will a ship like this
go with an atomic powerplant before it
has to change the fuel?
ADMIRAL RICKOVER. A test of 13 years.
That, of course, is the salient point.
Furthermore, it is a much more potent
weapon.
Another point that should be brought
out was that in World War I, the Ger-
mans only used 15 submarines around the
British Isles. There were ships that could
only make eight knots and stay submerged
for less than an hour. These 15 subma-
rines almost won the war.
At one time in 1917, February 1917,
there was only 4 days' worth of supplies
1036
