Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Bert Lance's department, OMB, and
also a young man on my staff, Greg
Schneiders, is making a study of these In-
formation Centers. Many questions can be
answered without coming to you for a
negative response.
I know that there are some things
that can be done by me, as President, to
acquaint people with the limitations of
government. One of the things that con-
stantly impresses itself on my conscious-
ness is the need to tell the American
people the truth.
There are some things the Government
can do. There are some things the Gov-
ernment cannot do. And we're experi-
menting in the early stages of my own
administration. I've had one fireside chat.
I'm going to have press conferences at
least twice every month. On the 5th of
March, I believe, I'm going to spend 2
hours in the Oval Office with Walter
Cronkite, answering call-in questions from
around the Nation. And we will probably
experiment with a few other things until
we decide what's the best way to let the
American people know what Government
can do.
But it's not fair to put on your Depart-
ment the responsibility of telling people
no, repeatedly, because there is an unwar-
ranted build-up of expectation among
people about services that just can't be
delivered. So, if you could let me have
your suggestions about how this can be
corrected, through Secretary Califano or
directly, I would appreciate it.
But I want to level with the American
people, tell them the truth, tell them what
we can do, tell them what we can't do, in
a continual effort to let them be part of
government.
Maybe one more question.
EDUCATION LEGISLATION
Q. There seems to be a trend right now
to be responsive across the whole Nation.
Would you be in support of new legisla-
tion or present legislation that is now in
support of a culturally responsive educa-
tion process?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not sure if I know
what you mean by culturally responsible.
[Laughter]
Q. When you make references to mi-
norities, I don't like the term "minority."
I would prefer the term "ethnic."
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. What
I said earlier about Kierkegaard's state-
ment that every man is an exception,
every woman is an exception, is obviously
applicable to your question. It's a serious
mistake to treat minority groups as a
homogeneous body. Their ethnic charac-
teristics ought to be preserved. They
ought to be a source of pride. And I think
this is one of the things that makes our
Nation a great one.
As I said many times during the cam-
paign-and I think it's a vivid indication
of what I mean-the United States de-
rives its strength from the diversity of the
people who live here. And nobody could
stand on this stage and look at this audi-
ence without being impressed with that
fact.
But we're not a melting pot. A melting
pot is a place where you put a lot of
different ingredients and eventually they
blend in together and become all the
same. I look on our country as more of a
beautiful mosaic, with different kinds of
people involved in freedom, individuality,
pride, cooperation, understanding, search-
ing for answers to difficult questions in
their own way, each contributing, hope-
fully, the strongest single characteristic of
their background and heritage and spe-
cial sensitivity to a common purpose.
166
