Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 5
Agreement (ISA) which, if successful, Intelligence Oversight Board
would provide some long-term assurance
of greater stability in world prices. Im-
position of import relief now would likely
jeopardize the success of these negotia-
tions. Finally, imposition of import relief
would adversely affect the export earn-
ings of a number of developing countries
which depend on sugar exports for their
economic growth and prosperity.
However, in recognition of the prob-
lems facing much of the U.S. sugar indus-
try due to low sugar prices, I am request-
ing the Secretary of Agriculture to insti-
tute an income support program, for
sugar producers, effective with the 1977
crop, offering supplemental payments of
up to two cents a pound whenever the
market price falls beneath 13.5 cents per
pound. Such a program will help cover
the costs of production of many U.S.
sugar producers, pending the successful
negotiation and implementation of an
ISA. The United States has made a strong
commitment to the negotiation of an ISA
which, if successful, will provide some
long-term assurance of greater stability of
world sugar prices and supplies. The suc-
cessful implementation of an ISA would
also make further consideration of uni-
lateral measures unnecessary.
Finally, I have asked the Special Trade
Representative to continue to follow
closely the sugar import situation and in
consultation with the Secretary of Agri-
culture, to advise me with respect to any
need for consideration of further action.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
Statement on the Appointment of the New
Members of the Board. May 5, 1977
I am announcing the appointment of
Mr. Thomas L. Farmer, of Washington,
D.C., and Gov. William Scranton and
Senator Albert Gore as the new members
of the important Intelligence Oversight
Board. Mr. Farmer will serve as Chair-
man.
This board reports directly and exclu-
sively to me. It is empowered to receive
information directly from individual
members of the intelligence community
and receives periodic required reports
from the Inspectors General and General
Counsels of the community.
In announcing this appointment, I
want to take this occasion to thank Am-
bassador Robert Murphy, Mr. Leo
Cherne, and Mr. Steve Ailes for dis-
tinguished service as members of the first
Intelligence Oversight Board. They have
rendered very important service to the
Nation.
At the same time I am abolishing the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory
Board, which had previously been moni-
toring the quality of intelligence. The Na-
tional Security Council system and the in-
telligence community themselves, as struc-
tured in this administration, plus the crea-
tion of the new Senate Committee on
Intelligence, as well as the contemplated
House committee, can now effectively
review and assess foreign intelligence
activities.
Farmer is a partner in the law firm of
Prather, Seeger, Doolittle, Farmer, and
801
