Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and Germany, and France and other
countries will contribute a certain amount
to an international lending institution
that we will also contribute a certain
amount.
Other countries have kept their word.
We have broken our word so far. So we
are going now to the Congress and say:
"Would you just honor the commitments
that our Nation has made?" I think the
American people that can understand
that will go along with it.
Governor John Gilligan, who has good
experience in management and who has a
great sensitivity, has now come to help us
with this program. And the analysis of
the entire aid program will be presented
to me, looking at it in an overall fashion.
And I believe that it can be, within the
present levels of funding and perhaps
with an expanded level of funding in the
future if it's saleable to the American
people and the Congress, be much more
effective.
So, I think I understand the problem. I
don't understand the answers yet. But I
believe that, with these people behind me
with your help, we can have a compre-
hensive aid program, that will be of great
help to the nations who need it and which
will also be coherent and understandable,
and which will be a source of pride and
not embarrassment to the American peo-
ple and the Congress.
I believe in that way we won't have to
worry in the future about a constant an-
nual fight just to meet our commitments
that have already been made in the past.
PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT
Q. During one of the debates you were
asked how you were going to create more
jobs. You mentioned a program similar
to the Civilian Conservation Corps with
Government funding.
How do you plan to cut Government
spending and streamline the bureaucracy
if you add to it programs such as the
CCC? Do you not think it would be better
to stimulate the private sector by giving
them tax incentives to create more jobs,
especially-[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. The question was that
during the campaign I promised to create
a job opportunity program for young peo-
ple similar to what the CCC did-the
Civilian Conservation Corps during the
depression years. And how can I carry out
that promise without creating an addi-
tional bureaucracy, and wouldn't it be
better through tax incentives and other
means to create new jobs in the private
sector.
I think the answer to that question,
which is quite complicated and of great
concern to me, can best be answered in
our own economic stimulus package that
has been presented to the Congress. This
package, which consists of about $30 bil-
lion over a 2-year period, I think, is care-
fully balanced. It's a program that does
consist of tax reductions. For the average
family in our country that makes about
$10,000 a year, their tax bill for 1976 will
be reduced about 30 percent with a direct
and hopefully quick rebate. This will pro-
vide about $11.5 billion of new spending
capacity in our country which will en-
courage the production of goods, particu-
larly consumer goods, which are highly
labor-intensive and will put a lot of peo-
ple to work, all in the private sector.
We've also pursued good housing pro-
grams. We've added about $15 billion in
our budget which will be spent over the
next 40 years to increase construction of
housing. Of course, houses are all built
within the private sector.
We've increased our allocation of funds
also to things like better water pollution
control. Although part of the money
comes from the Federal Government, the
jobs are created in the private sector.
240
