Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
inflation is going to require a united na-
tional effort. The Federal Government
will take the lead. I have already made
budget decisions to reduce the Federal
deficit and restrain the costs of popular
programs, and have rejected excessive
tariffs and quotas on imports of shoes and
mushrooms. These decisions were diffi-
cult, but necessary to the overall goal of
reducing inflation.
No one should look to government for
easy answers, because there are none.
And government cannot do the job alone.
We face difficult choices ahead in energy
and other areas of national importance.
However, I believe that government,
business, and labor together can, as an
interim goal, reasonably aim at reducing
the rate of inflation by two percentage
points by the end of 1979, while still
vigorously pursuing our commitment to
full employment.
All segments of the American economy
must cooperate if we are to get inflation
under control. In the long run, that is the
only path to more jobs, stable prices, and
greater real income for all our people.
II. SOURCES OF TODAY'S INFLATION
Difficult inflationary problems began
more than a decade ago as large budget
deficits during the Vietnam war led to
excess demand and an overheated econ-
omy. That war was financed, in part,
through the hidden tax of inflation.
Excess demand became a problem
again in late 1972 and 1973, when all the
major industrial countries around the
world experienced a simultaneous boom
in economic activity.
We know, however, that economic
overheating is not the only cause of ris-
ing prices. Since the end of 1973, the en-
tire world economy has suffered from
widespread unemployment and idle ca-
pacity, yet prices have continued to rise
almost everywhere.
Some of the sources of inflation have
been beyond our control, for example, the
1972 crop failures here and abroad.
Those crop failures reduced
failures reduced supplies
which, along with the grain deal with the
Soviet Union, contributed to a 35-per-
cent increase in U.S. consumer food
prices during 1973 and 1974.
World petroleum prices have increased
nearly fivefold since late 1973 because of
the actions of the OPEC countries, result-
ing in a 50-percent rise in the price of
fuel and electricity to American con-
sumers.
Another part of our inflation problem
arises from Government's changing role.
Over the past decade and a half, the
American people have grown less tolerant
of environmental pollution, dangers to
health and safety at work, and inade-
quate pensions and health care for the
elderly. They have properly demanded
that their Government take forceful steps
to fight these ills. In certain cases, the re-
sulting measures, though necessary, add
to costs and prices. Requiring industries
to add new pollution control equipment
or safety devices raises costs. So do in-
creases in payroll taxes which finance
medical care and social security benefits.
We will not go back on our commit-
ments to a better quality of life. But we
must insure that our methods of achiev-
ing this objective involve no unnecessary
costs.
Government also affects prices and
costs in other ways. Restrictions on inter-
national trade may raise prices. The re-
sult of rate and price regulation in many
industries is to cut down competition and
put a floor under prices. Decisions on
farm price supports, minimum wages, and
medical insurance affect prices, too. Diffi-
cult choices face us in these and other
cases.
624
