May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
to tide them over. As I mentioned in
Fresno, there's a total appropriation in
prospect of $1.2 billion-about $400 mil-
lion of that is for direct grants to farmers;
the other $800 million, roughly, would be
for loans. And the decision of how that
money should be used within the broad
framework established by the Department
of Agriculture and the Congress would be
decided by each individual farmer
involved.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, what about your goal
for reducing inflation down 2 percentage
points if this drought continues?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this would have
a serious, adverse impact on inflation be-
cause it would affect the price of food, and
particularly because this is such a bounti-
fully productive region. Of course, my goal
for inflation control is in 2 or 3 years in the
future. And we could take a temporary
setback, I think, and still reach that goal.
But obviously, a food shortage and ex-
tended drought would mean a much
greater pressure for higher inflationary
trends. There's no way to get around it.
WESTERN DROUGHT
Q. Mr. President, you talked to some
of the area farmers for awhile. What im-
pressions are you going to go away with
from this area? What can you do to help
[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the severity of
the drought is something that I didn't
understand until I came here and talked
to the people involved. The surface ap-
pearance, the fact that the trees are still
green, is misleading.
The depletion of the reservoirs, the ab-
sence of replenishment of underground
water supplies, the necessity for a drastic
cutback in the frequency of irrigation, the
dropping of the water level below ground,
the absence of snow in the mountains are
things that accumulatively have made a
great impact on me. And we have pro-
posed already an additional amount of
Federal help, roughly $800 million. The
total amount that's presently to be ap-
proved, as I said, is about $1.2 billion.
And I would say that California would
get a very large portion of this because of
the quantity of food that's produced here
and because the severity of the drought is
greater in California than any other place.
So, a major part of this drought aid would
come to this region.
Q. Mr. President, there are some peo-
ple in this area who feel that an hour or
an hour and a half isn't long enough to
really understand the problems of this val-
ley. Do you think it's been long enough?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't claim to
know all the problems of the valley, and
I wish I could spend more time here. But,
of course, this is my third visit to the Fres-
no area. The last time I was here was at
the Erving Farm, just a few miles up the
road. And Bob Bergland has been here,
the Secretary of Agriculture, and, of
course, we work very closely with Soil
and Water Conservation District Mana-
gers like Red Martin behind me. And we
also, of course, work with the State offi-
cials, including legislators and Governors
and others. So, I think the whole mecha-
nism involved in analyzing the severity of
the drought is adequate, which I think
helps to overcome the very brief time that
I could spend here myself.
But for me to understand it personally,
as a President, as a farmer, I think will
stand me in good stead as developments
take place in the next few months. With
the quantity of rain, I can estimate much
more easily the beneficial effects of it. And
with the extension of the drought, I think
I can estimate very accurately the need
for additional support and help.
920
