Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 14
you that I will do my share of the work if
you will do yours.
We have, I think, a lot of young people
who are watching to see if we can be suc-
cessful. Perhaps, Bill, if there might be
some other point that you would like for
me to make, or Max Cleland? I know that
most of you know each other, but I just
want to express again my deep thanks to
you and my hope that you will even ex-
ceed the fairly modest goals that we have
set for ourselves.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Attending the
conference were members of the President's
Committee on HIRE (Help through Industry
Retraining and Employment), an organization
formed to aid in the training and hiring of
veterans in private industry.
In his remarks, the President referred to en-
tertainers Johnny Cash and June Carter, Max
Cleland, Administrator of Veterans Affairs, and
G. William Miller, Chairman of the President's
Committee.
1977 Inaugural Portfolio
Presentation
Remarks on Receiving the Portfolio at a
White House Reception for the
Artists. June 14, 1977
TOM BEARD. On behalf of the 1977 Inau-
gural Committee, it gives us a great deal
of pleasure to present the 1977 Inaugural
Portfolio to the President and First Lady.
I'll introduce the artists from my right to
the left.
First, Bob Rauschenberg.
MR. RAUSCHENBERG. I couldn't read
Thomas Jefferson's writing. I wanted to
use the part of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence that was censored out.
THE PRESIDENT. I like what you wrote.
I think all of you know that these artists
have made a tremendous contribution, not
only to American art and the cultural sci-
ences but also to the right and the oppor-
tunity of hundreds of thousands of Ameri-
can visitors to Washington during Inaugu-
ration week, to have access to the cultural
events and the museums before and be-
tween the Inaugural ceremonies. And this
series of paintings, I think, is indicative
and proof of the fact that for the last 25
or 30 years, American artists have dom-
inated the visual arts throughout the
world. I am very proud of that, and I
think that is something that I wanted to
point out to you.
I don't know how many of you know
Mr. Rauschenberg's comment up here:
"A new President and a land older than
most volunteer to count, carrying its raw,
scratched, scarred spirit reunited, the peo-
ple are moving, their needs guide the laws
that lead to legal insistence that the people
and the land are inseparable. Change is
not a contest. Change is survival's praise."
I think that's really beautiful, and I'm
proud of the fact that he showed me as a
father. Congratulations.
MR. RAUSCHENBERG. I wouldn't have
written it if I could read Thomas Jeffer-
son's handwriting. [Laughter]
The President. I see. Thank you very
much.
MR. BEARD. Next is Mr. Roy Lichten-
stein.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lichtenstein's
work is indicative-I am not trying to in-
terpret the paintings for him, because I've
never talked to them before about their
own work so I am treading on dangerous
ground here but I think it shows the
symbolism-to me it shows the symbolism
of the oath the fact that I am tied to the
people. And I believe that this is a very
good expression of the vitality of Inaugu-
ration Day. I think it shows very clearly
also a sense of justice, of stability, of age,
but also something coming of age.
Now, I think if he interpreted his own
work, it might be quite different from
1117
