Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
But I'm not trying to predispose our
own Nation's attitudes towards what
might be the ultimate details of the agree-
ment that can mean so much to world
peace.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Q. At the risk of oversimplification, sir,
I believe I understand during the cam-
paign you proposed a gradual withdrawal
of American troops from Korea.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Yet, after your revised budget went
to Congress, the Army has gone to Con-
gress and asked in fiscal 1978, for a dou-
bling of military construction funds for
Korea and in the 3 ensuing years, for
more than $110 million for similar con-
struction. How does that square with your
withdrawal plans?
THE PRESIDENT. My commitment to
withdraw American ground troops from
Korea has not changed. I'll be meeting
this afternoon with the Foreign Minister
of South Korea. This will be one of the
matters that I will discuss.
I've also talked to General Vessey, who
is in charge of our Armed Forces in South
Korea. I think that the time period as I
described in the campaign months, a 4-
or 5-year time period, is appropriate. The
schedule for withdrawal of American
ground troops would have to be worked
out very carefully with the South Korean
Government. It would also have to be
done with the full understanding and,
perhaps, participation of Japan.
I would want to leave in place in South
Korea, adequate ground forces owned by
and controlled by the South Korean Gov-
ernment to protect themselves against
any intrusion from North Korea. I would
envision a continuation of American air
cover for South Korea over a long period
of time.
But these are the basic elements, and
I'm very determined that over a period
of time, as described just then, that our
ground troops would be withdrawn.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to try
to clarify the Israeli situation, if I might.
A moment ago in answering the ques-
tion, you spoke of the possibility of sub-
stantial withdrawal of Israeli control over
territory and then, just a few seconds.
later, spoke of the possibility of minor
territorial concessions by the Israelis.
What is it exactly that you have in
mind here? Are you really talking about
some big withdrawals, or are you talking
only about minor withdrawals?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I would
use the word minor withdrawals. I think
there might be minor adjustments to the
1967, pre-1967 borders. But that's a mat-
ter for Israel and her neighbors to decide
between themselves.
I believe that we will know by, I'd say,
the middle of May, much more clearly
the positions of the interested parties.
I've not yet met nor talked to the leaders
in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Egypt-
Saudi Arabia, to a lesser direct partici-
pation degree.
I will meet with all these leaders be-
tween now and the middle of May. And
I don't want to try to define in any spe-
cific terms the exact delineation of bor-
ders, but I think this is obviously one of
the most serious problems.
There are three basic elements: One
is an ultimate commitment to complete
peace in the Middle East; second, border
determinations which are highly contro-
versial and not yet been defined by either
side; and, third, dealing with the Pales-
tinian question.
And I'm not trying to act as the one to
lay down an ultimate settlement. I don't
know what an ultimate settlement will be.
But these matters will be freely and openly
debated within our own country and with-
343
