Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you very much,
Ms. Allen, for calling.
PRESIDENT'S SCHEDULE
Mr. President, are you finding the work
at the White House more or less burden-
some than you expected?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's about the
same as I expected, Walter. I've enjoyed
it so much so far. It's such an exciting
job. I spend about half the time being
President and about half the time being a
student. I put in an enormous amount of
time, and it's pleasant-I am not com-
plaining-learning about security mat-
ters and defense matters and studying
the Congress and how it operates and
learning about foreign affairs.
I've a big globe in my office next to my
chair, and when I get a dispatch from a
foreign country or when I have a visitor
from a foreign country, like Gabon in the
equatorial region of Africa, or Mexico, or
Canada-Mr. Rabin is coming over here
from Israel on Monday, and later all the
leaders are coming in from the Middle
East, later Mr. Fukuda from Japan, and
the Prime Minister of Great Britain is
coming soon.
I study about those countries and get
ready for their visit. It takes me a lot of
time. But I would say that the number
of hours that I put in and the difficulty
of the job is about the same as it was
when I was Governor of Georgia, but in
addition, it's more interesting because
you have the foreign affairs questions to
address.
MR. CRONKITE. Your next caller, Mr.
President, is Bob Mitchell of Philadel-
phia. Mr. Mitchell?
MR. MITCHELL. Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, Bob.
MR. MITCHELL. How are you?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
FRANKFORD ARSENAL
MR. MITCHELL. I would like to say
that this is truly an honor to be speaking
to you on this historical occasion.
I live in Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania, but
I work at the Living History Center in
Philadelphia which I am calling you from
today.
While visiting Philadelphia just before
Election Day, Mr. Mondale pledged to
keep the Frankford Arsenal open. The
arsenal employs many people in this area
and is an important part of our defense
system. How can you justify the Army's
insistence on closing down this institu-
tion, which is both a national necessity
and a necessity to this area, which is
already overburdened by the economic
depression?
THE PRESIDENT. Bob, I might say that
if there's one question that the Vice Presi-
dent has talked to me more about than
any other thing since I've been in the
White House it has been the Frankford
Arsenal. And he and I have a deep, per-
sonal interest in the Frankford Arsenal.
Under the previous administration the
decision had already been made final to
close down Frankford, and we are re-
assessing the possibility of keeping it open,
at least in some form. If it is a final de-
cision by the Defense Department that
the arsenal be closed, I will do everything
I can to honor the Vice President's com-
mitment and to try to orient some other
kind of Federal project into the Frank-
ford Arsenal area so that the people will
not suffer any more than necessary eco-
nomically.
But we're doing the best we can on
that. The closing down had gone so far
305
