Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
this approach, then the burden on the ordinary citizen, who is not orga-
nized into an interest group, would be crushing.
There should be only one test for this program-whether it will help
our country. Other generations of Americans have faced and mastered
great challenges. I have faith that meeting this challenge will make our
own lives even richer. If you will join me so that we can work together
with patriotism and courage, we will again prove that our great Nation
can lead the world into an age of peace, independence, and freedom.
Thank you very much, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8 p.m. from the Oval Office at the White House. His
remarks were broadcast live on radio and television.
Oil Portraits of Cabinet
Secretaries
Memorandum for the Heads of the
Cabinet Departments. April 18, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secre-
tary of Defense, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce,
the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, the Secretary of Transportation
The Office of Management and Budget
has informed me of an outdated practice,
that I believe should be discontinued.
As I understand it, past Cabinet Secre-
taries have commissioned oil portraits, at
Government expense, as a method of
maintaining an official, historical record
of the line of succession of Cabinet Secre-
taries. Although the practice has existed
for over a century, these portraits have
become an unnecessary luxury costing
anywhere from $6,000 to $12,000.
While this practice might have been
justified in the past, color photographs
to record the line of succession of Cabinet
Secretaries appear more appropriate now.
This alternative is consistent with my
commitment to save the taxpayer's
dollars.
I am sure you will agree that this is
another excellent opportunity to convey
to the American people our sincere desire
to revise wasteful spending practices.
Therefore, I ask that you discontinue this
practice and in the future use color
photographs to record the line of
succession.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on April 19.
Depository Institutions Bill
Announcement of the Signing of H.R. 3365
Into Law, With a Statement by the President.
April 19, 1977
The President has signed H.R. 3365,
amending regulatory authority pertaining
to depository institutions.
The bill extends the authority to regu-
late interest rates paid by depository in-
stitutions; reinstates, until October 31,
1978, the Federal Reserve banks' author-
ity to purchase United States obligations
directly from the Treasury; and provides
broader powers for credit unions covered
under the National Credit Union Act.
662
