Apr. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
there is a major emphasis there on youth
employment.
During the campaign, I put forward the
idea that you have just discussed. And
Ray Marshall, our Secretary of Labor, has
now put this proposal before the Congress
for, I hope, approval; that we would have
a program similar to the CCC, but it
would be oriented toward the urban
areas, is the way I expressed it during the
campaign.
It is an excellent idea. And I think that
some of the programs in the past that have
not been effective because the participants
couldn't see what tangible things they
were accomplishing, like the original Job
Corps, will be strengthened.
Q. Naturally, you couldn't spend a lot
of time with one group in one neighbor-
hood.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. But these groups could be mobile,
just like they are in the forests and public
parks and that sort of thing.
THE PRESIDENT. One other point that
we are pursuing is something they have
done in Baltimore, which worked very
well, and that is to let relatively poor fam-
ilies buy some of the dilapidated row
houses, put a modest amount of Federal
money in, and let the family who bought
the house themselves do the manual labor,
the sawing of boards, and so forth. I have
been there and visited those places on two
different occasions. And I think it works
out very well.
But I think the more people can see that
their own government-supported job is
productive, whether it is a transient bene-
fit or a permanent profession, to that ex-
tent we can make these programs more
meaningful.
POLICY ON AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, I am Vince Sanders
from the National Black Network, and I'd
like to know if your administration has
got to the point where it's developed a
policy toward Africa, that gives you a
course of action rather than reaction to
trouble spots like Zaire and Rhodesia. Do
you have a definitive policy toward Africa
as of yet?
THE PRESIDENT. We are evolving one.
I have spent an awful lot of time on the
African question.
I don't think I have announced this pre-
viously is the reason I am hesitating, but
I have asked the Vice President particu-
larly to concentrate on the African ques-
tion. And he's been doing a lot of detailed
analysis of each country, its history, back-
ground, leadership, and how it relates to
its neighbors, and so forth. And I meet
with him frequently. We had a meeting,
just before lunch, on Africa.
I think that we do have a good policy
evolving. We have deliberately decided as
part of that policy, though, to let the
British Government retain the leadership
role for the time being.
On David Owen's present trip, the
Foreign Minister of Britain, we authorized
him to say that we backed his proposal and
that we were prepared to participate for
the first time in a Geneva conference, if
one could be called.
There are three interrelated items, as
you know. One is what to do with Rho-
desia. And we think that the Smith gov-
ernment should step down very shortly
and permit majority rule in Rhodesia. My
own preference is that the people of that
country have a right to vote on who their
leader should be.
Obviously, the only country outside
Rhodesia which has a major influence on
the Smith government is South Africa.
And we are maintaining communications
with the South African leadership.
The second question, that's related, is
what to do about Namibia or Southwest
Africa. Here we again favor majority rule
646
