May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
either influential or dominant. And I
would hope that the democratic parties
would prevail during the coming years in
the struggle for political authority.
I believe that the best way we can pre-
vent the enhancement of Communist po-
litical strength in Europe is to show that
democratically controlled governments
can function effectively and openly and
with humaneness and a genuine and con-
tinuing comprehension of what people
need and expect from government.
To the extent that we fail as democra-
cies, as democratic leaders, to live up to
the ideals that exemplify our own com-
mitments, to that extent we open the op-
portunity for Communist parties to be
more successful.
So, to summarize, I think each coun-
try has to make its own decisions in the
electoral process. I am pleased at the en-
hanced degree of commitment to the
democratic governments. We certainly
prefer that the democratic parties pre-
vail in the future. And we can encourage
that process not by interfering in electoral
procedures within countries themselves,
but making the system work ourselves.
FOREIGN POLICY
HORST-ALEXANDER SIEBERT [Die Welt,
Bonn]. Mr. President, the economic sum-
mit is only a couple of days away. The
meeting of the heads of state shows clearly
how interdependent the economies are,
and that this interdependence is rapidly
growing. How much sovereignty is the
United States willing to give up in the
decisionmaking process?
THE PRESIDENT. None. [Laughter]
MR. SIEBERT. None?
THE PRESIDENT. Not to give up sover-
eignity. I think within the bounds of sov-
ereignty to be maintained by all the na-
tions, though, cooperation is very
important.
As I search for a proper way to exem-
plify the sovereignty and independence
of our own Nation, I want to make the
right decisions that are best for our own
people. I don't think there is any doubt
that our own people are best served when
we do cooperate with our allies, when we
have open and free trade, when we have
a proper concern about the less-developed
nations, when we do have military secu-
rity, when we have international lending
institutions like the World Bank that can
function effectively, when we have a
proper and multilateral approach to solv-
ing the chronic and rapidly deteriorating
energy circumstances-all those things
that are multilateral in nature and re-
quire cooperation and unselfishness can
enhance, I believe, the legitimate sover-
eignty of nations and the protection by
leaders of the sovereignty.
So, with the exception of your use of
the word "sovereignty," I think that we
need to be sure that our actions are un-
selfish and predicated on proper consulta-
tion and a sharing of both opportunity
and the resolution of problems.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
MR. SIEBERT. The American economic
growth has accelerated, and you, Mr.
President, recommended a sharply re-
duced stimulus, fiscal stimulus, for 1977.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. SIEBERT. Has the focus of the sum-
mit altered? Will you still press for higher
internal deficits and lower external sur-
pluses by Germany and Japan?
THE PRESIDENT. We have left intact
an economic stimulus package for the
1977-1978 years, the 18-month period, of
a little more than $20 billion, which we
consider to be adequate.
It still is a substantial amount of stim-
ulus effort, and I would hope that the
countries that are relatively affluent and
778
