June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
The second question, of course, is how
to deal with what was formerly known as
Southwest Africa, now known as Namibia.
This is a nation that is, to a great degree,
under the purview or control of the
United Nations as far as legalities go.
The South Africans have not been will-
ing to relinquish their tight control over
the future of Namibia. And we have tried
to induce Mr. Vorster to join with us in
establishing an interim government that
is broadly representative, to lead to demo-
cratic elections for a permanent, inde-
pendent governing structure for Namibia.
As you know, he had put his eggs in
what you might call a turnhalle basket-
a turnhalle is a school gymnasium. That
is a kind of a hand-selected group by
Vorster to deal with the future of Na-
mibia. This has not been acceptable to
the rest of the countries in south Africa,
nor to the United Nations members, in-
cluding ourselves.
Under Andy Young's leadership, we've
joined with Canada, England, France,
and Germany and have now concluded
two detailed importunities or requests or
discussions with Vorster, asking him to
resolve the Namibian question without
delay.
The other question, obviously, is related
to some degree; and that is, the future
attitudes of South Africa itself. We don't
feel an inclination to intrude into their
internal policies, but we are commited as
a nation to having equality of treatment
of citizens.
As you know, South Africa is in very
bad repute in many regions of the world.
We are not trying to overthrow their gov-
ernment, but we do feel that there ought
to be some equality of hiring practices,
equality of pay for the same kind of work
done, promotion opportunities for black
citizens-which is not there-an end to
the highly discriminatory pass system that
exists in Africa.
These are the kind of things that the
South went through 15, 20, 25 years ago,
and just some demonstration of good
faith on the part of the South African
officials is what we would like to see.
We're not in the position to make
them do this. But we've been trying to let
South Africa know that we are not abu-
sive, that we recognize their value as a
stabilizing influence in the southern part
of Africa to the extent that they work
with us and resolve these other questions.
There is actually no disparity of opin-
ion or responsibility among myself, Cyrus
Vance, the Vice President, or Andy
Young. We communicate freely. We have
open and unrestricted debates with one
another. When Andy Young goes to
South Africa or to any of the other many
countries that he can now go-which Kis-
singer could not go into-and when he
speaks for our country, he speaks with my
full authority and my complete support.
I had a meeting with Andy this past
week to point that out to him. I think that
one of the things that Andy presented to
me with which I did agree is that there's
been too much of a concentration of at-
tention on his interest in Africa; that this
needs to be spread more widely to the
Caribbean, for instance, to the develop-
ing countries in South and Central Amer-
ica, perhaps to some of the Asian
countries. And I approved that change in
his emphasis.
And the other thing is that it's very hard
on our country and on Andy, in partic-
ular, for him to spend 17 days on a broad
scale, very successful trip-and I think in
some instances very courageous trip
through Africa—and then on the way
back home to make a statement about the
Swedish Government being racist and
having that being the focal point of what
he is about and what he is. It was
unfortunate. And he recognizes the fact
1090
