Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 6
I'll do everything I can to minimize the
need for abortions.
Q. Thank you for the certificates.
They're beautiful.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. Thank
you.
RELATIONSHIP WITH CONGRESSIONAL
LEADERS
Q. Mr. President, how do you view
your relationship with the leaders up on
the Hill, such as the Speaker, Tip O'Neill,
and Senator Byrd?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think they
could be any better. This past week, for
instance, Tip O'Neill came over and had
supper with me, and we spent several
hours just talking about matters that re-
late to politics and Government, specific
legislation, committee relationships. And
I have an equally good relationship with
Majority Leader Byrd, who has been over
with his wife to eat supper with me.
But in addition to that, I've tried to
schedule as frequently as I could meetings
with individual Members of Congress. I
have two more 50-Congresspersons meet-
ings here at the White House. I meet with
them 50 at a time in this room, as a mat-
ter of fact, and I spend about an hour just
answering their questions.
In addition to that, this past week alone
I met with the Commerce Subcommittee
under John Dingell, who are now mark-
ing up the energy bill, and I think Friday
morning met with the Ways and Means
Committee under Chairman Ullman.
Wednesday morning of this week I'll be
meeting with about 30 key Members of
Congress who are interested in foreign
affairs. And I'll try to spell out in an hour-
and-a-half session with them, a private
session, my own hopes and concerns about
international matters.
As you know, before Cy Vance got to
Europe to meet with Gromyko on SALT,
I had the key Members of the Senate
who'll have to ratify an ultimate SALT
agreement over and gave them our
position.
So, I think that this relationship has
been good. It's a new era, really, in prior
consultation with Congress. It's been
absent for many years. And I hope to con-
tinue that. It's been very beneficial to me.
LIFE IN THE WHITE HOUSE
Q. What was one of the adjustments
you and
your family had to make in mov-
ing into the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard for me to
compare that with the previous 2 years
because it was just completely different.
I never saw any of them except just rarely
on the weekends, even my wife. But when
we were in the Governor's Mansion in
Georgia from 1971 through 1974, we did
have a close family relationship.
My family members are very close to
one another. We have strong, hard, tough
constant debates about domestic and for-
eign affairs, about politics and govern-
ment, and we've had this ever since I can
remember.
I think it's accurate to say without be-
ing excessively proud that I can send Chip
to India to represent me when the Presi-
dent of India dies, or send Chip to Buffa-
lo, New York, when the snow is 7 or 8 feet
deep and they need some presence from
me, or send him to China with a congres-
sional delegation, or send him to repre-
sent me at the Queen's Silver Jubilee cele-
bration with no fear that he will make a
mistake and no doubt that he understands
the attitudes and the hopes and dreams
and aspirations of the American people. I
feel the same way about my wife and
about my other children.
The fact that we did campaign at the
grassroots level for 2 solid years and
answered thousands and thousands and
thousands of questions, makes us have a
unity of understanding and spirit that
1063
