Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
stance at all. I am convinced it can be
worked out.
On the reflation issue, I think it was very
helpful. I think there is substantial con-
sensus and agreement now among the
stronger economies in the world that it is
necessary for our economies to stimulate,
to help share the burden of increasing in-
ternational economic activity-exports
and the other and to help head off pro-
tectionism, and to resume progress on the
multilateral trade talks, and so on.
I think the talks are very helpful in un-
derstanding each other's economic pro-
grams. I found some misunderstanding,
for example, about just how we intended
to proceed. Well, it was helpful to clarify
that. And we've begun the process of con-
sulting and monitoring economic progress
to make certain that we reach the eco-
nomic targets that are generally agreed to
be necessary.
Now, it's hard to be specific in terms of
percentage points, but one of the things
we found out when we talked to the other
nations was that there was understandable
disagreement and doubt as to what certain
economic programs would produce in
terms of economic stimulation. OECD, for
example, has a lower expectation about
what our programs will produce than our
own Government does. We think we are
right. They think they are right.
So that as we go along, we will monitor,
carefully calibrate the growth of our econ-
omies, based on new information that will
come forth on the statistical base that's
developed in our nations. So that I think
we made a good deal of progress, and it
may be a somewhat unbelievable-I came
away very, very pleased with the trip, and
there were no substantial disappointments.
ECONOMIC SUMMIT MEETING
Q. Mr. Vice President, I don't think the
President has set a firm date for a summit.
He said some time after the 1st of May.
Based on your findings, did you recom-
mend to him anything about timing, as to
whether it would be sooner or later? What
are your views on that?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I want this to
be off the record. Mid-year. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. Vice President, what can you
say on the record? [Laughter]
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Don't dare file it.
No international explosions.
We now have to consult. We had two or
three different suggestions. We now have
to consult through diplomatic channels
and
agree on a summit, but it will be mid-
year.
PRESIDENT CARTER
Q. Mr. Vice President, what was Presi-
dent Carter's reaction to your trip? Was
there one specific area where he was more
excited or enthused about the results you
achieved than others?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. No. I would say
he was thrilled with all of it. [Laughter]
He has some new countries he wants me to
go to. But he was disappointed in the press
corps that followed me. That was his ma-
jor [laughter]
ITALY
Q. Mr. Vice President, what impression
did you bring back from Italy, not only
on the economic situation there but on
the short-range prospective of European
Communists?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. That was very
briefly discussed. Our talks were almost
entirely on economic matters and on our
plans for economic growth. They were
interested in our discussions with the lead-
ers of the German Government and the
Japanese Government.
We talked about the multilateral trade
negotiations. We talked about their plans
to slowly phase out some of the deposits
that were developed to try to discourage
imports and encourage exports, as a part
of their contribution to a more open inter-
63
