Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
4. Industrial conservation (legislative) :
Legislation will be proposed for a 5-year,
10-percent investment tax credit for in-
vestment in approved energy-saving in-
dustrial equipment, including solar
energy equipment, that could be incorpo-
rated in existing plants. This credit would
be in addition to the present 10-percent
tax credit.
5. Cogeneration of electricity and proc-
ess steam (legislative) :
-In order to utilize effectively the
enormous quantities of heat wasted in the
production of electric power, legislation
will be submitted to encourage cogenera-
tion-production of electric power and
other useful forms of energy (such as heat
or process steam) from the same facility.
-An exemption from Federal and
State public utility regulations would be
available to industrial cogenerators.
-The Federal Power Commission
would be required to establish procedures
to assure fair rates for both sale of power
by cogenerators and for purchase of back-
up power.
-Industries using cogeneration would
be entitled to intertie with utility trans-
mission facilities to sell surplus power
and buy backup power at fair prices.
-A tax credit of 10 percent, in addi-
tion to the current 10-percent tax credit,
would be provided for the purchase of
cogeneration equipment. Those indus-
tries which invest in equipment could be
exempted from the requirement to con-
vert from oil and gas in cases where an
exemption is necessary to stimulate co-
generation.
6. District heating (administrative/
budget):
-State public utility commissions will
be encouraged to use district heating as a
criterion in siting certification and rate-
making for new generating facilities.
-The Adminitsrator of the Energy
Research and Development Administra-
tion will initiate in FY 1978 a new dem-
onstration program to make use of waste
heat generated by ERDA's uranium en-
richment plants at Oak Ridge, Tenn.,
Paducah, Ky., and Portsmouth, Ohio.
The recovered waste heat would be used
on site and by nearby households, indus-
try, and farms.
7. Utility rate reform (legislative) :
Conventional utility pricing policies dis-
courage conservation. The smallest users
commonly pay the highest per unit price
due to practices such as declining block
rates. Rates often do not reflect the costs
imposed on society by the actions of util-
ity consumers. The result is waste and
inequity. The President will therefore
submit legislation which contains the fol-
lowing provisions:
-State public utility commissions must
require their regulated electric utilities to
phase out and eliminate promotional, de-
clining, and other rates for electricity that
do not reflect cost incidence.
-To shift energy use from peak to
nonpeak periods, electric utilities would
be required to offer daily off-peak rates
to each customer who is willing to pay
metering costs and to offer lower rates to
customers willing to have their power
interrupted at times of highest peak
demand.
-Master metering for electricity would
generally be prohibited in new structures.
-State public utility commissions
would require gas utilities to eliminate
declining block rates and to implement
such rules as FPC may prescribe with re-
spect to master metering, summer-winter
rate differentials, and interruptible rates.
-By amendment to the Federal Power
Act, the Federal Power Commission
would be authorized to require intercon-
nection and power pooling between util-
ities even if they are not presently under
FPC jurisdiction, and to require “wheel-
ing" (the transmission of power between
677
