Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 30
know what we are proposing. And I'm
not in any hurry; it's important enough to
proceed methodically and carefully. But
I hope that the Soviets will agree with us
to drastic reductions and strict limitations
in the future which have never been part
of previous agreements.
Q. Mr. President, could I follow that?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. When you say you intend to con-
tinue negotiations, is there a chance that
you might go to Geneva in May since you
will already be in Europe in the early
part of May anyway?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
I'm already scheduled to go to Europe,
not just to meet with the allies in London
but to meet with President Asad of Syria.
And where that meeting will be taking
place, I don't know. But I have no inten-
tions at this time to meet with any Soviet
leaders on that trip.
Q. Mr. President, how will this data
base work? Will that include all conven-
tional armaments as well?
THE PRESIDENT. That would be a sep-
arate matter of discussion. The data base
has been, for a long period of time, a mat-
ter of dispute in the mutual and balanced
force reductions talks taking place in
Vienna, where we've asked the Soviets to
give us an inventory of their arsenal
among the Warsaw Pact nations. These
are conventional weapons, primarily.
But the data base to which I was refer-
ring this afternoon is an inventory of nu-
clear weapons that have been included in
the SALT talks-the strategic nuclear
weapons. So far, we have a fairly good
way on both sides of inventorying weap-
ons that are actually deployed. But we
would like to have a free and accurate
exchange with the Soviet Union about
how many weapons they have and how
many we have, so that we can monitor
much more closely any deviations from
those figures in the future.
Q. If I could follow, would that include
any kind of verification?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We would like to
have the subject of verification opened
up dramatically. For instance, in a com-
prehensive test ban, we would like to have
onsite inspection. The Soviets have never
agreed to this principle, but they have
mentioned it a couple of times in the dis-
cussions. Foreign Minister Gromyko last
year filed a statement at the United Na-
tions that mentioned the possibility of
onsite inspections. But we feel that veri-
fication is a very crucial element in a com-
prehensive arms limitation agreement.
Verification obviously includes an ab-
sence of concealment, and verification to
a lesser degree also includes the data base
to which I just referred.
One more question.
Q. May I ask, please? Has the break-
down of these talks in any way influenced
your thinking on development of future
U.S. weaponry; that is, will you be now
more inclined to go for full production of
the B-1 or any other advanced weapon
systems?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, if we feel
at the conclusion of next month's discus-
sions that the Soviets are not acting in
good faith with us and that an agree-
ment is unlikely, then I would be forced
to consider a much more deep commit-
ment to the development and deployment
of additional weapons. But I would like
to forego that decision until I'm convinced
the Soviets are not acting in good faith. I
hope they will. Let me answer one ques-
tion from Wes [Wes Pippert, United Press
International].
Q. I was going to offer the "thank you."
THE PRESIDENT. Okay; fine.
Q. Mr. President, one question about
the deep cuts. Because the Soviets seem
to have more delivery systems today than
we do, is there objection that they would
have to destroy more weapons than we
543
