Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 24
for the Labor Relations and Civil Rights
Division of the Department.
From 1968 to 1970, Elisburg served as
special assistant to the Solicitor and
Deputy Solicitor at the Labor Depart-
ment, and in 1970 he was also Assistant
Counsel for Manpower.
Elisburg was associate counsel to the
Subcommittee on Labor of the U.S.
Senate Committee on Labor and Public
Welfare from 1970 to 1974. In 1974 he
became general counsel and staff director
of the Committee and counsel of the Sub-
committee. In 1974-75 Elisburg was an
adjunct lecturer in law at Antioch Law
School.
Elisburg is a committee chairman for
the American Bar Association and for the
Federal Bar Association. He is a member
of the Steering Committee of the District
of Columbia Bar Association.
He is married to the former Nancy
Meyers. They have two children and re-
side in Potomac, Md.
the Abacus Fund, Inc., a New York in-
vestment company. In 1972 he joined
Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis.
Weil is chairman of the tax committee
and a member of the New York State
Economic Development Board. He is also
chairman of the New York State Board
of Equalization and Assessment.
Weil is a trustee and past president of
the Educational Alliance in New York;
trustee and past chairman of The Harvey
School; trustee and secretary of the Fed-
eration of Jewish Philanthropies of New
York City; and trustee and chairman of
the Cooperative Assistance Fund, a
Washington-based minority enterprise in-
vestment company.
He holds directorships in Dorr-Oliver
Inc., Stamford, Conn.; Hamburg Sav-
ings Bank, New York City; J. B. Lippin-
cott, Philadelphia; and Government Re-
search Corporation, Washington, D.C.
Weil is married to the former Denie
Sandison. They have four children and
reside in New York City.
Department of Commerce
Nomination of Frank A. Weil To Be an
Assistant Secretary. February 24, 1977
The President today announced that
he will nominate Frank A. Weil to be an
Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Do-
mestic and International Business). Weil
is presently officer, director and consult-
ant to Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis
in New York City.
He was born in Bedford, N.Y., on Feb-
ruary 14, 1931. He received a B.A. from
Harvard College in 1953 and an LL.B.
from Harvard Law School in 1956.
From 1956 to 1960, Weil practiced
law in New York City. From 1960 to
1971, he was a general partner with
Loeb, Rhoades & Co. in New York, and
from 1968 to 1972 he was president of
Council on Environmental
Quality
Nomination of Charles Hugh Warren To Be a
Member. February 24, 1977
The President today announced his
intention to nominate Charles Hugh
Warren to be a member of the Council
on Environmental Quality. The Presi-
dent indicated that if the Senate confirms
Warren as a member of the Council, he
will designate him to be Chairman.
Warren is presently a California State
legislator.
Warren was born in Kansas City, Mo.,
on April 26, 1927. He received a B.A. in
economics from the University of Cali-
fornia at Berkeley and a J.D. from Hast-
ings College of Law. He served in the
229
