Mar. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
nership in a peaceful and equitable world
order.
The White House,
March 17, 1977..
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was released on
March 18.
Oil Pollution of the Oceans
Message to the Congress. March 17, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
The recent series of oil tanker acci-
dents in and near American waters is a
grave reminder of the risks associated
with marine transportation of oil. Though
we can never entirely eliminate these
risks, we can reduce them. Today I am
announcing a diverse but interrelated
group of measures designed to do so.
These measures are both international
and domestic. Pollution of the oceans by
oil is a global problem requiring global
solutions. I intend to communicate di-
rectly with the leaders of a number of
major maritime nations to solicit their
support for international action. Oil pol-
lution is also a serious domestic problem
requiring prompt and effective action by
the federal government to reduce the
danger to American lives, the American
economy, and American beaches and
shorelines, and the steps I am taking will
do this.
The following measures are designed to
achieve three objectives: First, to reduce
oil pollution caused by tanker accidents
and by routine operational discharges
from all vessels; Second, to improve our
ability to deal swiftly and effectively with
oil spills when they do occur; and Third,
to provide full and dependable compen-
sation to victims of oil pollution damage.
These are the measures I recommend:
• RATIFICATION of the International
Convention for the Prevention of Pollu-
tion from Ships. I am transmitting this
far-reaching and comprehensive treaty to
the Senate for its advice and consent.
This Convention, by imposing segregated
ballast requirements for new large oil
tankers and placing stringent controls on
all oil discharges from ships, represents an
important multilateral step toward reduc-
ing the risk of marine oil pollution. In the
near future, I will submit implementing
legislation to the Congress.
• REFORM of ship construction and
equipment standards. I am instructing the
Secretary of Transportation to develop
new rules for oil tanker standards within
60 days. These regulations will apply to
all oil tankers over 20,000 deadweight
tons, U.S. and foreign, which call at
American ports. These regulations will
include:
-Double bottoms on all new tankers;
-Segregated ballast on all tankers;
-Inert gas systems on all tankers;
-Backup radar systems, including col-
lision avoidance equipment, on all
tankers; and
-Improved emergency steering stand-
ards for all tankers.
These requirements will be fully effec-
tive within five years. Where technologi-
cal improvements and alternatives can
be shown to achieve the same degree of
protection against pollution, the rules will
allow their use.
Experience has shown that ship con-
struction and equipment standards are
effective only if backed by a strong en-
forcement program. Because the quality
of inspections by some nations falls short
of U.S. practice, I have instructed the
Department of State and the Coast Guard
to begin diplomatic efforts to improve the
present international system of inspection
458
