May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
And I want to say, Mr. President, that
I'm proud to be part of this. And I hope
that we readily get on to the enactment of
this legislation which will conform with
the 4th amendment rights of all indi-
viduals to be protected from unreason-
able searches and seizures.
Thank you.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Members of
the press may wonder how this group was
selected. This is the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, a good portion of the House Judi-
ciary Committee, and the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence. Every person
here has a deep interest in what we are
trying to do and all, we hope, are going to
join in the movement. Not all will speak,
but I want to have several other speakers
say something because they are sort of
speaking in a representative capacity.
Senator Eastland is chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, and I hope
he'll give us a few words.
SENATOR EASTLAND. Mr. President,
General Bell:
I think that this bill is vitally needed in
this country, and I'm glad that all sides
have gotten together. Some of you might
know, I'm very partial to the FBI, and
they tell me they are supporting this bill.
Thank you. [Laughter]
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Senator
Inouye was not able to be here this morn-
ing, and I'm sorry he could not be here.
He wanted to be. Senator Thurmond is
the ranking member of the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee and has a deep interest
in intelligence matters, military matters,
and I want to hear from him now if he'll
say something.
SENATOR THURMOND. Mr. President,
Mr. Attorney General, my colleagues in
the Congress:
I am convinced from my service on the
Armed Services Committee, the Judiciary
Committee and the Intelligence Commit-
tee last year that we need legislation of this
kind. There is no question that our na-
tional security demands that we collect
foreign intelligence. Electronic surveil-
lance is one of the best ways to do that.
On the other hand, we must protect
the rights of citizens. Under this bill, the
citizens' rights will be protected. A war-
rant will have to be obtained from a judge
and there will have to be a showing that
it is needed and then if the showing is
proper, it will be granted. I join in this bill
because I think it is necessary to protect
our national security and that it will pro-
tect the rights of American citizens.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Thank you,
Senator. Senator John McClellan from
Arkansas is an expert in the Senate on
criminal law, constitutional rights, and
he's had a chance to look at this bill and
he's with us this morning. I was not sure
he would be able to be here. He came, and
I appreciate it very much. Senator Mc-
Clellan, we'd like to hear from you.
SENATOR MCCLELLAN. Mr. President,
General Bell, my colleagues:
I had the opportunity in the last Con-
gress to cosponsor a similar bill, not iden-
tical, so I'm not a new convert to this
proposition. I think it is incumbent upon
the Congress to provide the executive
branch of the Government, the Justice
Department, with every tool under the
Constitution that is needed to help protect
this Government, to gather foreign intelli-
gence, and in any other respect to enforce
the laws of the land-of course, without
jeopardizing in any way or trespassing
upon the liberties of the citizen.
Thank you.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Thank you,
Senator. Senator Birch Bayh is chairman
of the Subcommittee of the Intelligence
Committee on Rights of Americans. He's
made a careful study of this bill. He's
agreed to be a cosponsor or co-introducer,
and we'd like to hear from him now.
Senator Bayh.
924
