Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cated to the proposition that these bene-
fits, which are financial, ought to be con-
centrated to a maximum degree in areas
that are in greatest financial need.
So, whenever we do anything to help
urban America or poverty-stricken Amer-
ica, we do help New York City. But the
financial structure that I've described is
primarily one of responsibility for the city,
the State, the New York banks, the New
York labor unions. The Federal Govern-
ment's role will necessarily be minor, but
ought to be extended over a longer period
of time than the previous commitment.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. That's all I know
about the subject. Maybe a little more
than that, you know.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
Q. I have a question you can answer.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am.
CIVIL SERVICE; JOB DISCRIMINATION
Q. Can we look forward to a more
honest and aboveboard merit promotion
system for the lower grades, GS-8 and
below?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes. I
have spent a good bit of time the last 2
weeks looking over the civil service leader-
ship problems. I've read the testimony
that's been presented to the congressional
committees, and we are now in the
process of choosing the Civil Service
Commission board of directors. And I
think I can assure you that one of the
primary prerequisites for my selection of
anyone to serve on those boards will be
honesty, integrity and, also, a willingness,
even an eagerness, to let the civil service
employees know what present and future
plans for personnel management might
be. I also have a responsibility, as you can
well understand, to be sure that we have
professionally competent people.
I'm particularly concerned about the
concept of equal employment opportuni-
ties. In many instances in the past, civil
service tests or regulations have either
deliberately or inadvertently been part of
the discriminatory obstacles that women
and minority groups have to overcome.
So those are the factors that will be in-
volved. But I think integrity and open-
ness, as you've described, would be two
of the major ones as I make these appoint-
ments.
I will not delay the appointments any
longer than necessary for me to choose
the right people. I've already decided the
ones that I will interview and, after I've
talked to them about these issues, the
nominations which are my responsibility
will be made.
Q. Thank you, sir.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
CRITICISM OF MILITARY
Q. We have one Member of Congress
who is, in my opinion, perhaps a little
overzealous in his attacks on the military
establishment.
THE PRESIDENT. You're lucky if it's just
one. [Laughter]
Q. Just one that is overzealous.
THE PRESIDENT. I see.
Q. I'm referring, of course, to Repre-
sentative Les Aspin. I'm tired about read-
ing in the newspapers, with all due re-
spect, about his latest charges and findings
about military inefficiency and its abun-
dant benefits.
Is there anything you can do in your
office, Mr. President, to perhaps counsel
the Representative from Wisconsin, that
he might find other avenues of communi-
cation? [Laughter]
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I want to
thank you for that question [laughter]—
264
