May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
called the CIEC meetings. And what it is,
is a fund which will be available to meet
the needs of some of the poorest countries
which are having balance of payments
problems and specific needs of that kind.
That, in general, is what the nature is.
Q. Outside the IMF?
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes, outside.
Q. Outside of the common fund as
well?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. Yes. That is
unrelated to the common fund. May I
just add one or two others in the area of
special initiatives of new initiatives.
I would think that one ought to add
the decision in the trade area, that there
has to be a new-of the heads of govern-
ment-to pledge themselves to a new im-
petus in the trade negotiations, against
the background of a rejection of protec-
tionism and with the commitment to
make substantial progress by the end of
this year.
SALE OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL
Q. Mr. Secretary, you mentioned the
2-month nuclear study and the 1-year
study to set terms of reference. Was there
any agreement here that during that
period, either the 2-month or the 1-year,
that there would not be the sales of nu-
clear grade materials?
SECRETARY VANCE. NO. No such agree-
ment was reached at this time. Each
country will take care of that decision
which it will have to make according to
its own views of the matter. The discus-
sions of these issues will continue in the
London suppliers group as they have in
the past.
Now, I just want to correct one thing
which you said. The 2-month study will
be a study which will include recommen-
dations with respect to the terms of refer-
ence. So, after that 2-month study, one
should have the terms of reference. And
then a decision as to how to proceed on
the actual study itself, which could last a
year or more.
Q. Mr. Secretary, how would the nu-
clear suppliers be brought into the study,
if at all?
SECRETARY VANCE. In the initial study,
the 2-month study, the nuclear suppliers
group as such will not be involved in it.
As one moves on to international fuel
cycle evaluation, then the London sup-
pliers group and the individuals involved
in it would undoubtedly become a part of
that broader study.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Q. Mr. Secretary, would the special
action fund be within the framework of
any existing organization such as OECD,
G-10, or something entirely new?
SECRETARY VANCE. That decision has
not yet been made as to where it would
be placed.
Q. Mr. Vance, how does your special
action fund differ from the decisions made
at the Washington Energy Conference in
1974?
SECRETARY VANCE. I can't answer that.
Q. Can Mr. Blumental?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. No, I really
can't. I do not know what happened with
that conference with regard to the special
fund.
Q. Mr. Blumenthal, most of the coun-
tries involved here have not been able to
fight inflation and reduce unemployment
in the recent past. Now, apart from say-
ing that they're going to do it now, what
is it that they have done here that's going
to enable them to do it then?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. Well, I can
only repeat again that what I think is sig-
nificant is that the countries have agreed
that they will do what is necessary to
meet their growth targets. Meeting their
growth targets and, at the same time,
meeting the stabilization targets for those
countries who have been deficit countries
832
