Apr. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
line the operations of the Federal Gov-
ernment.
In order to insure closer economic con-
sultation within the Government, we are
initiating regular monthly meetings be-
tween myself, the Federal Reserve Board
Chairman, and some of my economic
advisers.
The course of fiscal policy I have out-
lined should permit the Federal Reserve
to provide an expansion of money and
credit consistent with moderate interest
rates and a steady and noninflationary
growth of employment and output.
B. SPECIFIC ACTIONS BY GOVERNMENT
Besides well-conceived monetary and
fiscal policies, there are a number of spe-
cific steps the Government can take to re-
duce our vulnerability to new inflationary
pressures and to slow the current rate of
inflation. I am proposing actions in 11
areas:
(1) Council on Wage and Price Stabil-
ity. Our anti-inflation strategy will em-
phasize efforts to identify specific inflation
problems as they begin to occur and to
develop effective countermeasures. To
achieve this objective:
-The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility will expand its activities in the area
of providing detailed and timely analysis
of economic conditions in those industries
and markets which are important to price
stabilization. In many cases the informa-
tion required for the Council's analysis is
available from existing Government
sources. In some instances the Council
will ask individual business firms and la-
bor groups to provide, on a confidential
basis, data which would not otherwise be
available.
-The Council will continue its previ-
ous practice of publishing factual infor-
mation on wage, price, capacity, and other
developments in particular sectors or in-
dustries. It will also continue to hold oc-
casional public hearings on major infla-
tion developments, as a means of improv-
ing public understanding and providing
the public with an opportunity to make its
views known.
-The Council will provide to the rele-
vant agencies analyses of the inflation im-
plications of specific Government regula-
tory and legislative actions.
The statutory authority of the Council
expires on September 30, 1977. I am ask-
ing the Congress to extend its life for 2
more years. I am also requesting a modest
increase in appropriations for the Council
so that it can fulfill its enlarged analytical
role in the price stabilization effort.
(2) Early Warning System. I will in-
struct the Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility to develop detailed industry studies
to detect emerging bottlenecks, capacity
shortages, and other problems that, if left
unattended, would lead to significant
price increases. The Council will pay spe-
cial attention to the basic materials indus-
tries, to markets with potential future
shortages, to markets of major economic
importance, and to markets where Gov-
ernment policy can have significant effects
on domestic supply.
(3) Commodity Reserves. When prices
of raw materials and food fluctuate up-
ward, the effects tend to spread through-
out the economy, raising prices and wages
generally. Downswings in raw material
prices, however, do not have correspond-
ing effects on prices and wages. Reducing
fluctuations in commodity prices, there-
fore, helps to reduce inflation. To assure
adequate commodity supplies, several ac-
tions will be taken:
-The Secretary of Agriculture has de-
veloped within existing legislation a pro-
gram that provides for an orderly buildup
of farmer-held reserves of food grains dur-
ing periods of high production and low
prices. Under specified conditions, those
reserves will be made available as a means
626
