Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 12
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I did.
Q. It looked like it.
Q. Somebody said Hamilton Jordan
was doing voter profiles. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that was really
a good trip, I think.
Q. Where did you get the "Ha'way-
tha-lads" line? Who told you about that?
THE PRESIDENT. The Prime Minister.
Q. Did he? On the way up?
THE PRESIDENT. After we got up there.
Q. And it was your idea to use it.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Ham Jordan was quoted as saying
that he was surprised, even knowing the
power of the Presidency, how much im-
pact it had abroad. Did you find that
same reaction?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I really think it
was really more of an expression of friend-
ship and confidence in our Nation and
its position as a bulwark that's unchanged
within the Democratic societal structure.
There's a great doubt and a lack of con-
fidence among many of the European
communities.
The USIA does public opinion polls
and I have access to them. And I think
just the fact that the people see that our
own country is so strong and so perma-
nent and so able and so deeply committed
to European friendship was the cause of
the outpouring of expression of support.
Also, Newcastle is an area that's quite
often ignored in the political processes.
And I think the fact that a President did
go up to that relatively isolated commu-
nity was appreciated by them. So, I was
really pleased with it. But the main sense
I had was one of intensely strong feelings
of appreciation, of friendship and kinship
among them and us.
Q. We thought it had something to do
with the fact Callaghan-that was one of
the few areas he hung onto or his party
hung onto. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as a matter of
fact, I think the Labor Government lost
every county in Great Britain except Tyne
and Wear, which is where Newcastle was.
If I had gone there a week earlier, he
might have lost it, too. [Laughter]
Q. For those of us who sit in the rear,
I wonder if you would raise your sights
the next time?
Q. Yes, please.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I promise.
Q. Hold on there.
THE PRESIDENT. I really need to go.
Q. Mr. President, would you please
comment about your meeting with Prime
Minister Demirel? Did you find any
solutions in achieving some proposal to
the strained Turkish-American relations
in the last few years?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have time to
get into that subject deeply. But I can say
this: Both Demirel and Caramanlis, with
whom I met the same morning, expressed
their complete commitment to seek and
to find a peaceful solution of the differ-
ences between them and the Aegean Sea.
When I left those meetings at the
American Embassy residence and arrived
for the NATO conference, I found Prime
Minister Demirel and Prime Minister
Caramanlis talking to each other with
their hand on one another's shoulder, as
though they were trying to resolve their
differences. So although Turkey has been
very disappointed at our inability to have
passed in the Congress the mutual de-
fense agreement, I do believe that they
appreciated the increase in the authori-
zation for military sales by $50 million.
And I think I let Mr. Demirel and also
Caramanlis understand that to the Amer-
ican public, a resolution of the Cyprus
question is of supreme importance to us
and interest to us.
They feel that the Aegean Sea is the
more important of the two questions, be-
869
