Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 18
United States-Canada Treaty
on Penal Sentences
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. April 18, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty between the
United States of America and Canada on
the Execution of Penal Sentences which
was signed at Washington on March 2,
1977.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Treaty.
The Treaty would permit citizens of
either nation who had been convicted in
the courts of the other country to serve
their sentences in their home country; in
each case the consent of the offender as
well as the approval of the authorities
of the two Governments would be
required.
This Treaty is significant because it
represents an attempt to resolve a situa-
tion which has inflicted substantial hard-
ships on a number of citizens of each
country and has caused concern to both
Governments. I recommend that the Sen-
ate give favorable consideration to this
Treaty together with the similar treaty
with the United Mexican States which I
have already transmitted.
The White House,
April 18, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Finland
Extradition Treaty
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. April 18, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty on Extradi-
dition between the United States of Amer-
ica and Finland, signed at Helsinki on
June 11, 1976.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Treaty.
The Treaty is one of a modern series
of extradition treaties being negotiated by
the United States. It adds to the list of
extraditable offenses the offenses of air-
craft hijacking, narcotics, and conspiracy
to commit listed offenses and, upon entry
into force, will terminate and supersede
the existing extradition treaty relationship
between the United States and Finland.
This Treaty will make a significant
contribution to the international effort
to control narcotics traffic. I recommend
that the Senate give early and favorable
consideration to the Treaty and give its
advice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
April 18, 1977.
JIMMY CARTER
655
