Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
My expectation and hope is that I will
make that decision on time. We are ob-
viously considering the North Slope and
other northern oil and natural gas sources,
even including some of those in Canada,
in evolving the energy policies that will be
revealed on April 20.
I think that we now have an improving
relationship with Canada. As you know,
in the central northern part of Canada,
they have substantial supplies of natural
gas which are surplus to them and will be
for
many years in the future. And whether
they'll bring the natural gas route down
through that field in Mackenzie Bay
area the Mackenzie Valley area, so that
we can use our North Slope natural gas
plus theirs, as well, in the same pipeline, is
something that I'll have to decide.
We have environmental questions, as
you well know, on the western coast, par-
ticularly in California.
So, my answer is that we are consider-
ing all those options. We have a good re-
lationship with the Canadians. They share
with us that responsibility if it becomes
necessary to do so, and we'll make-I'll
make my judgment on all the alternate oil
and natural gas pipeline routes by Sep-
tember 30.
ENERGY SOURCES AND COSTS
Q. Mr. President, what would be your
attitude toward a fairly modest-you
mentioned-well, there was some talk
about a 25-percent increase in the gas
tax. What would you think about a fairly
modest increase of, say, 5 cents a gallon
with [inaudible]-revenues for the al-
ternate energy sources, development of
alternate energy sources?
THE PRESIDENT. The figure that you
referred to was in a question which I
didn't answer.
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. But I'll try to answer
your question as best I can.
I'm faced with a need to, first of all,
encourage and require conservation. And
that's by far the preeminent considera-
tion in the new energy policy that will be
forthcoming.
Second, we are faced with the inevita-
ble depletion of the source of oil and na-
tural gas in our own country. It's been
dropping at about 6 percent per year for
the last number of years.
Third, we are now faced with the fact
that we are importing about 50 percent
of our total oil supplies. And we have ade-
quate supplies of coal, and we have prob-
lems with atomic power. I'm not sure
that we need to greatly expand the rate
of production of natural gas and oil in
our own country. Whether it's better to
leave those supplies in the ground and
have a continuation of the present rates
of production increase or decrease may be
the optimum. I don't know that yet.
We do need to make sure that the con-
sumer prices are not excessive and that the
oil companies have an adequate amount
of capital to continue their explorations.
But I'm not as dedicated to a crash pro-
gram for exploration of the extraction of
oil and natural gas as some others that
have been involved in the process.
So, the last point that I'd like to make-
and I'm speaking in some generalities—
is that deregulation of natural gas is
something that I'm committed to for a
limited period of time. I would like to
combine this with a prohibition against
excessive profits by the oil companies that
I don't think the consumers would stand
for.
So, the reason I can't answer your
question specifically is I don't know the
answers yet. I would hope that by the end
of April, the 20th of April, which I've
set as a deadline, that I would have a
complete package put together so that
284
