Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 16
from American people. And I would like
for all of you to join with Secretary Cali-
fano in deciding which ones of those re-
ports are still needed, which ones can be
simplified, which ones can be combined
with other departmental reports, and give
me that analysis by the end of March. And
I hope that you will be very aggressive in
doing this.
I think that if we can get rid of the un-
necessary paper work and division and
compartmentalization of your lives, we
can all let the people have more confi-
dence in us and make sure that our public
service is more effective for them.
Perhaps now you'd like to ask me a few
questions. I'll try to be brief with my
answers.
QUESTIONS
HANDICAPPED PERSONS
Q. Do
your efforts, obviously to reach
the people, include a personal commit-
ment for the Federal Government to re-
move architectural and transportation
barriers?
THE PRESIDENT. The question was
about removing architectural or transpor-
tation barriers. I presume you mean to
handicapped people.
Yes. We did this in Georgia. As you
know, it's a very difficult thing and an ex-
tremely expensive thing to try to undo the
existing structural characteristics of build-
ings. But I think that within the bounds
of common sense and, certainly, with tight
constraints on future designs, we could
make major steps forward, far exceeding
what has been done in the past.
We did this in our own State of Georgia.
We were recognized as, I think, the out-
standing State in this respect.
And the answer is yes, but within the
bounds of common sense. I can't go down
and tear out all the elevator shafts and all
of the structural arrangements that exist in
public buildings all over the Nation. I
don't think you'd want me to do that. But
within those bounds, we will.
Q. We could start making them now if
we design for the future.
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely.
CIVIL SERVICE
Q. The role of the Federal worker, I
would think, would be very important in
carrying out the program. One thing that
keeps depressing us is a continuing policy
of downgrades and RIF's [reductions in
force]. Is this going to be stopped? [Laugh-
ter]
THE PRESIDENT. I see. I'm not familiar
with the question but I presume—and you
correct me if I am wrong-Joe points out
to me there is an analysis going on now,
within the Civil Service administration, of
increasing proportions of civil servants
who occupy the higher grade levels, kind
of grade creep. Is that what you're talking
about?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't give you
the answer. I would guess, though, that
there would be a constant reassessment of
the percentage of people who occupy the
different pay-grade levels. And if there has
been an abuse in the past, it will be cor-
rected in the future. I can't promise you
that nobody will be changed in their
temporary status down to a lower status
as we make these adjustments.
The reason I feel very easy about saying
that nobody will be fired or reduced in
grade level or pay status because of reor-
ganization is that I intend to do it through
normal attrition. And I don't know if you
realize it or not, but on an average in our
Government, we have about a 10-percent
attrition rate per year. In other words, at
the end of every year, we've had at least
10 percent of our people who have re-
signed or retired or who have been trans-
ferred because of their own initiative. And
how to make flexible the assignment of
161
