Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 13
of Secretary Kreps or the mayors and
Governors, but because of a reaffirmation
of the American people's confidence in
our own system. And I believe that this
has shown up in the public opinion polls.
It has also shown up in a better attitude
of consumers and business investments in
the future.
Recent analyses done by independent
private groups have shown that the busi-
ness plans for investment in the next 12
months are 18 percent-discounted for
inflation, more than 10 percent. This is a
very good indication of both consumer
and business confidence in the future of
our country.
I would like to ask our Secretary of
Commerce to say just a word.
SECRETARY KREPS. I'm not sure I'm
comfortable in this chair. [Laughter]
I think the only thing that needs to be
added is the fact that in addition to cre-
ating jobs in the private sector, the local
public works legislation will give to the
people in the towns and cities throughout
the Nation new facilities, new public fa-
cilities, libraries, municipal buildings,
water treatment plants, which they very
much need. And this legacy, this long-
term legacy, is as important a part of the
legislation as is the job creation.
Thank you,
Mr. President.
NOTE:
House Resolution 4876 is the appro-
priations bill for the stimulation of our
economy. It involves $630 million-
$631 million, I believe, to be exact-in
countercyclical allocations. That legisla- spectively, approved May 13.
tion has not been passed yet, but it will be
voted on today; $8 billion for public serv-
ice jobs, which will help to put people
The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at
the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 11 and H.R. 4876 are
Public Law 95-28 and Public Law 95-29, re-
back to work who are difficult to employ, Swearing-In Ceremony
and an additional 200,000 jobs for young
people.
When I met with the other leaders of
the Western World in Europe this past
week, the most uniform concern expressed
was for jobs for young people, and I think
this is a move in the right direction. We've
still got a long way to go, but the en-
lightened attitude of the Congress in pass-
ing this legislation with sound principles
involved and with no delay is something
of which the American people can be
proud.
So, I am very glad to sign now House
Resolution 4876 that provides more than
$20 billion in general revenue sharing
funds and opportunities for the American
people to go back to work.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 4876
into law.]
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Director of
the Community Services Administration, the
Commissioner of the Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service, the Administrator of
General Services, and a Civil Service
Commissioner. May 13, 1977
Some people said that this group meet-
ing was because I got accustomed to meet-
ing with large numbers of heads of state
in Europe. But that's not the case.
I particularly wanted to have this morn-
ing, an opportunity to demonstrate as
vividly as possible the interrelationship
between competence in government and
the humane concern about people in our
country.
We have two men who will be sworn
in this morning who are responsible for
the public employees-head of the Civil
Service and head of a General Services
871
