Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Oval Office to begin long discussions
about many items that are of mutual
benefit and interest to our countries. And
before and after that meeting, President
L贸pez Portillo and his Cabinet officers
will be meeting with the leaders of our
own country, other than myself.
Recently, we had a very serious prob-
lem with an energy shortage, and in an
almost unprecedented demonstration of
concern, President L贸pez Portillo called
and offered to us an extra allocation of
oil and natural gas to tide us over a tem-
porary energy crisis. I've expressed to him
already my personal thanks for this dem-
onstration of sensitivity and friendship
and concern.
Our problems are mutual. Our future
must be shared. And I pledge to you,
President L贸pez Portillo, that in the com-
ing months and years, I will go even fur-
ther than is required through diplomatic
courtesy to work closely with you on a
personal and an official basis to tie our
countries together in an unprecedented
and continual demonstration of common
purpose, common hope, common confi-
dence, and common friendship.
Welcome to the United States, one of
my close friends. I look forward to
strengthening this friendship in
in the
future.
President L贸pez PORTILLO. President
Carter, I know that it is a great honor to
be the first official visitor to be received
in this country. I know that there is recog-
nition of the circumstances that are
brought about by our neighborly position.
To be neighbors means to share every-
thing the good things and the bad
things, too.
We are absolutely convinced that it
would not contribute to enhance the bad
things that life brings on its own. On the
other hand, friendship makes it possible
for us to make progress by deepening and
enhancing all good things. Therefore, it
is advisable for good neighbors to be good
friends. And we, the Mexicans, wish to
be very good friends of the American
people.
We had the great privilege of receiving
Mrs. Carter in Mexico on the occasion of
the inauguration of the President of Mex-
ico. I wish to thank you deeply for this
personal gesture of friendship in sending
to us such a distinguished visitor.
I also wish to thank you for the many
kindnesses you dispensed my wife when
she came to Washington to be present at
all the events of the inaugural session for
the inauguration of President.
These are some of the many coinci-
dences that prevail in our two adminis-
trations. I, too, for the first time am on a
state visit. I would like to deepen our co-
incidences and, therefore, our friendship.
During our coming meetings, no doubt,
we shall analyze many subjects. I am ab-
solutely convinced that if these conversa-
tions take place within a framework of
good faith, we shall be able to overcome
and transcend and solve many of the
problems which it is natural should exist
between neighbors.
The prudent, wise, and good men of
our two countries, no doubt, want us to
pose our problems in an adequate manner
and solve them well. I am sure that it
depends on us for the men that are awk-
ward and are not good intentioned not to
avoid the possibility of solving our prob-
lems. That is why I am greatly interested
in cultivating our mutual and good
friendship.
I wish to win your respect in order to
be able to bring up our problems as they
are, and I want for us to find solutions
to these problems together. My country
accepts and expects a great deal from
this visit. We want to make progress in
the solution of the problems, and these
are problems that will affect one side and
the other.
150
