Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 8
FOREIGN ARMS SALES
HELEN THOMAS [United Press Inter-
national]. Mr. President, you cited arms
reductions as the prime tenet, one of them,
of your foreign policy. Under the circum-
stances, as a first step, will you block the
sale of concussion bombs to a foreign
country?
THE PRESIDENT. The sale of concussion
bombs to a foreign country is an item that
concerns me very much. Within the next
week, after this review that has already
been undertaken is completed, I will have
an announcement to make about that.
The previous announcement that concus-
sion bombs would be sold was not cleared
with the State Department nor with the
Defense Department. I have asked them
to analyze the political and military con-
sequences of the sale. I am concerned
about it but have not yet decided whether
to cancel that sale.
Q. Does that mean, sir, that you are
considering blocking the sale?
THE PRESIDENT. That is one of the op-
tions that I have, and I will make a deci-
sion within the next week.
THE PRESIDENT'S VETO POWER
you
MR. CORMIER. Mr. President, could
give us your general attitude toward vetoes
which were quite popular with your pred-
ecessor, and more specifically, might you
consider vetoing an economic stimulus
package if it came to you in a form sig-
nificantly different than you had pro-
posed?
THE PRESIDENT. I, of course, reserve
the constitutional right to veto legislation
that I think is contrary to the best interests
of our county. But I think the best way to
avoid vetoes is to work intimately with the
Congress in the initial stages of the devel-
opment of legislation.
My own economic stimulus package,
which was presented to the Congress, was
very carefully worked out, is well bal-
anced, is well considered. It has a steady
predictable aspect of it; it's equally bal-
anced between 1977 fiscal year and 1978;
it is fair, I think, to the American people;
and I think it is adequate. It also was dis-
Senate leaders, both those who were elec-
cussed thoroughly with the House and
ted and those committee chairmen who
are responsible for economics, before it
was ever announced publicly and before it
was introduced.
If such drastic changes were made in it
that would cause me to doubt its effective-
ness or its advisability, I would of course
veto it. But my sense of the Congress atti-
tude is that although some amendments
might very well be appended to it, that I
can accept the congressional changes. But
I will reserve the right, of course, to veto
legislation when necessary.
I might say that in every instance-in
the preparation of a package of reform
that will set up a new energy department,
which will be available to the Congress by
the first of March, and major energy pol-
icy legislation, which will be completed-
the study of it-by April 20; and the evo-
lution of welfare reform, which will be
completed by May 1, and so forth-I am
working very carefully, very closely with
the Congress, quite a departure, I think,
from the experience under the Republi-
can administration with the Democratic
Congress.
So, vetoes where necessary, yes. The
number of vetoes in prospect would be
very small.
PAUL WARNKE
Q. Mr. President, your nominee to
head the Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency, Paul Warnke, wrote about
a year and a half ago that the U.S.
"should try a policy of restraint while call-
ing for matching restraint from the So-
viet Union." But Mr. Warnke didn't seem
93
