Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Nation to assess, a comprehensive pack-
age against inflation within the next 2
weeks.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, in terms of bringing
the American people in on the dialog, you
spoke of arms reduction. Does that mean
that Vance will take a new set of pro-
posals on SALT? And two, you spoke of
the cooperative attitude of the Soviets.
Does that mean that you don't think that
any of Brezhnev's statements in the past
week will have any bearing in terms of
your human rights stand on the SALT
negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the first
question is easily answered. Yes, we will
take new proposals to the Soviet Union.
We are not abandoning the agreements
made in the Vladivostok agreement. As
you know, all previous SALT agreements
have been, in effect, limitations that were
so high that they were, in effect, just
ground rules for intensified competition
and a continued massive arms growth in
nuclear weapons.
We hope to bring not only limitations
for-to continue in the past, but also ac-
tual substantial reduction that the Soviets
will agree. That will be our first proposal.
I spelled this out briefly in my United
Nations speech.
And the second fall-back position will
be, in effect, to ratify Vladivostok and to
wait until later to solve some of the most
difficult and contentious issues. We hope
that the Soviets will agree to the substan-
tial reduction.
The other part of your question was,
what, Helen?
Q. It was in the question of this new-
this cooperative attitude.
THE PRESIDENT. About Brezhnev's atti-
tude?
Q. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I study Mr.
Brezhnev's speeches in their entirety. And
I think the speech made this past week to
their General Trade Union Conference
and one made previously at Tula—I con-
sider them to be very constructive.
There was a delineation in his speech
between human rights-which he equates
with intrusion into their own internal af-
fairs, and I don't agree with that assess-
ment-that has been divided in his
speeches from the subject of peace and
arms limitation, including nuclear arms.
So, I have nothing that I have heard
directly or indirectly from Mr. Brezhnev
that would indicate that he is not very
eager to see substantial progress made in
arms limitations.
U.S. NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, in your opening
statement you said you thought it was a
good thing for you to speak out on nego-
tiation details, but you didn't say why. As
I understand the criticism, sir, it is that it
impedes negotiations when you put out on
the table, just in a range of thought,
things that the parties haven't privately
been able to work out. Why do you think
it does not impede negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think if any-
one would analyze the details of the state-
ments that I have made so far, they are
not so narrowly defined or specific that
they would prevent both parties to a dis-
pute from negotiating in good faith with
a fairly clean slate ahead of them. The
Middle East is one example.
I think, in many instances, the propo-
sitions that I have promulgated publicly
are generally conceded to be very im-
portant and legitimate, but the public
498
