Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 8
about-Japan's trade surplus with the
European countries?
SECRETARY VANCE. Japan was inti-
mately involved in all of the discussions.
There was a free-flowing discussion be-
tween the heads of state which flowed
back and forth, the Japanese participated
very actively and in a very constructive
way during these discussions. The ques-
tion which you specifically referred to did
come up as one of the items in the
discussion.
Q. How was it resolved?
Q. Mr. Secretary?
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. The other day Secretary Blumen-
thal was talking to us about the human
rights issue, said that the leaders uni-
versally praised President Carter's posi-
tion. And Mr. Callaghan tonight indi-
cated the same thing. The German
sources are saying that during the con-
versations, while praising President Car-
ter's position, Chancellor Schmidt
pointed out that continuation of a too-
vocal human rights policy might deter
the ability of the Germans to get Germans
out of Eastern countries. Did Chancellor
Schmidt make such a statement during
the meeting?
SECRETARY VANCE. He did make such a
statement during the meeting. I don't
want to go into details on what indi-
viduals said, but that was one of the issues
which was raised in general terms, that
some countries had different problems
with respect to how they would handle it
--but not with the basic principle. There
was no difference at all with respect to
the basic principle.
FOREIGN TRADE
Q. Do you believe-
SECRETARY VANCE. I can't hear you.
Q. Do you agree with the idea of or-
ganizing free trade and do you think
SECRETARY VANCE. I still can't hear all
of the questions.
Q. Do you agree with the idea of or-
ganizing free trade, and to which extent
do you think it can be organized?
Q. Free trade, as the French have
suggested?
SECRETARY VANCE. Did you get that,
Mike?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. I think I got
the question. I hope I understand the sig-
nificance of it. [Laughter]
Yes, we do agree that indeed we are
happy with the conclusion that comes out
of this meeting, which rejects protection-
ism and therefore, by implication and also
very explicitly, comes down in favor of
negotiating and having a new impetus, so
that this year there will be a lot of prog-
ress toward a rapid conclusion of a ne-
gotiation which will represent freer trade.
We certainly believe that it can be
done. There was reference to the fact that
there are structural changes in the world
economy that have to be taken into
account.
We welcome that because it will allow
all of us in the context of the trade nego-
tiations to take into account not only tariff
problems but also non-tariff barrier prob-
lems and agricultural problems, internal
taxation, subsidies, the many matters that
exist in the world of trade that have to be
dealt with if freer trade, which we desire
and which we all want to achieve, is to be
brought about.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. Secretary, how do you see to-
morrow's meeting with President Asad of
Syria and your coming meeting with
Mr. Allon?
SECRETARY VANCE. How do I feel?
835
