Jan. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
In Nigeria, Ambassador-designate
Young will attend portions of the Second
World Black and African Festival of Arts
and Culture in Lagos and Kaduna, on
February 8 and 9. Ambassador Young
will leave the United States on February
1 and return February 11.
Ambassador-designate Young plans to
meet with the leaders of Tanzania and
Nigeria and other African leaders at the
celebrations to hear their views on Afri-
can problems and U.S.-African coopera-
tion at the United Nations.
Ambassador-designate Young will be
accompanied by his assistant, Stoney
Cooks, and Dennis Leogh, Deputy Direc-
tor of the Office of Southern African
Affairs in the State Department.
Mr. Young, who was confirmed by the
Senate on January 26, will be sworn in
on Sunday, January 30, in ceremonies in
the East Room.
The Energy Shortage
Remarks at a Meeting With the
Cabinet. January 29, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. I'm sorry to have to interrupt your
weekend, but I've been getting an in-
creasing number of very serious reports
about the impact of the energy shortage
and the weather on the different States
in our country.
We have 11 States that I believe are
in some degree of crisis. Six of them are
because of the recent blizzard—the
weather, snow, extreme cold-and all of
them, to some degree, with a
energy shortage. We have between 8,000
and 8,500 factories that have been closed
down already, and this has put out of
work about a half million people. That's
the best estimate we can get.
I've asked all the Governors in these
11 States already-by telephone and by
telegram-to give me an immediate as-
sessment of the degree of severity of the
problem in their own State so we can
accumulate information, see what uni-
formity of problems exist, and try to get
regional approaches to the problem.
As you know, we've already introduced
emergency legislation in the Congress.
There might be some few amendments to
that legislation necessary. For instance,
we would like to shift to perhaps a 4-day
workweek with 10 hours per day, but
there are legal prohibitions against this
now. We could save a great deal of fuel
both in Government buildings and also
in commercial buildings if we could just
heat the buildings 4 days a week instead
of 5 days a week. But so far, we are pre-
vented from doing that without extraor-
dinary extra cost. And I think there is a
legal prohibition; we're investigating that
now.
I would like very much to have as
many of the commercial establishments
as possible shift away from the use of
natural gas and toward the use of either
oil or coal, and to modify their own
workweek arrangements so that they can
minimize the use of natural gas.
I'm going to declare New York and
Pennsylvania, under the Federal Disaster
Relief Act, eligible for emergency assist-
ance immediately because of the snow
and ice and the extreme cold. I have got
requests from other States for emergency
declarations, and we are processing those
now. But I believe this is important for
us to do this immediately.
I'd like for all the Cabinet members to
be quite innovative in assessing what your
own Departments can do to help with
these problems, even before you are
asked. I've asked Jack Watson to coordi-
nate the entire effort, so you can work
through him.
34
