Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
a major degree it will be because I failed
to tap the tremendous capabilities, intelli-
gence, experience, and commitment that
exists among you all.
I also consider myself responsible for
your happiness and for your well-being
and for your realization of a fruitful ca-
reer expended. And I want to be sure
that we have that sense.
I want to also spend this next few min-
utes answering your questions about my
own responsibilities to you, and how we
might share those responsibilities. And if
you have questions now, we have 5 or 10
minutes. If I can't answer them, I'll ask
Patricia Harris to do the answering for
me.
QUESTIONS
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, in
my reorganization plans for the Federal
Government, do I see the creation of any
super-type Cabinet agency that might
change the existing status?
No. The only agency that I can see at
this point that might be created new
would be a department of energy. This
would not come under the reorganization
authority that we've already asked the
Congress to give to me. The creation of a
new energy department would be initi-
ated by full-type legislation. It will be
presented to the Congress before or by
the 1st of March, and many of the func-
tions that presently exist in other agencies
of Government-possibly the FPC, pos-
sibly EPA, possibly ERDA, some elements
within Interior-will be transferred into
the new department of energy. But that
would require separate legislation that
would not come under the reorganization
authority that I've asked the Congress to
give to me.
ZERO-BASE BUDGETING
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, the
Secretary of Agriculture, Bob Bergland,
has asked all his employees to justify their
jobs by describing to him what their func-
tion is and what they achieve while serv-
ing the Government.
I did not instruct him to do that. I have
no complaint against his proposal. That
would be something for Pat Harris to de-
cide in your Department. But let me say
this: Along with government reorgani-
zation will come another mechanism
which will, in effect, do what he has pro-
posed in a generic way. And that's the
creation of a new kind of budgeting.
While I was Governor of Georgia for
4 years, we had what we call zero-based
budgeting. The 1979 fiscal year budget,
which is the next one, will be prepared
using zero-based budgeting. What it does
is to start from scratch every year, and
whether a program has been in existence
50 years or 5 years or for the first time
next year, those programs will be put in
an order of priority.
Every program will be reassessed every
year. Not only that, but the process uses a
one-page form, one side of one sheet of
paper. It's filled out by people deep with-
in the department at the supervisory level,
maybe sometimes having only 5 to 20 em-
ployees. They describe, or you describe—
you can use a ballpoint pen if you want
to, or you can type it; it's a very simple
form "This is what I have to contribute.
This is the number of people who work
under me. This is the amount of money I
spend every year. This is how much I will
need next year and in the year after next.
These are my suggestions for a better and
more fruitful performance in govern-
ment."
And then that proposal comes in to
their supervisor, and it works all the way
135
