Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
I wonder if you could tell me what the
Carter administration is doing now to try
and resolve that problem.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Just coinciden-
tally, this morning I signed a special mes-
sage to the Congress covering the entire
subject of oil spills and how we might
prevent them in the future and how,
when they do occur, they might be quickly
corrected and how damaged people might
be provided with insured compensation
for the damage that they suffer.
As you know, on the first day of March
we began our 200-mile limit control of
fishing waters. And that will provide us,
I think over a 4- or 5-year period, with a
good chance for American fishermen to
have an increasing supply of fish, rather
than a decreasing supply. But in the mes-
sage to the Congress that I sent today is
proposed a wide range of corrective ac-
tions. One would be mandatory insurance
coverage by vessels that come in and out
of our waters.
The second one is to join other coun-
tries in requiring that new oil tankers con-
structed have double bottoms and other
very secure construction features, so that
if they do strike a reef or something, then
the oil spills will be minimized.
Another one is to have the Coast Guard
go on every single oil tanker which comes
into our country ports, after this week, to
inspect that tanker, to see if it complies
with international safety standards, navi-
gation standards, and to see if the crew
are adequately trained to bring that ship
in and out of our own ports safely.
Following that first inspection, a com-
plete record by the Coast Guard will be
maintained. Annually, that same ship will
be inspected by the Coast Guard when it
makes subsequent trips to our shores. But
I think the Congress is ready to move on
this subject. And I think that it will mean
in the future that we'll have much less
damage to our beaches and much less fear
among the American people of the dam-
age that comes from oil spills to fish, wild-
life, and the quality of the oceans.
Does that answer your question?
Q. It does. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. John, if you would see
one of my staff members, I'll have them
mail you a copy of my message to Con-
gress, which goes into that subject in a
little more detail.
ARMED FORCES RESERVES
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. Where are you?
Q. Right here. Raymond Doleman, 16
Elm Street.
Have you had a report on the in-depth
study of the Armed Forces Reserve pro-
gram, and if so, is a future draft into the
Reserves being considered?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had a fairly
good report on the problem with the
present volunteer recruiting program. We
are meeting our quotas on the regular
Armed Forces-the Navy, Marines, Air
Force, and the Army. We are falling short
on recruitment for the Reserve forces.
Out of about 7 or 800,000 members who
are supposed to be in the Reserve forces,
we are now about, I think, 80,000 short.
This is of concern to us. We are trying to
make sure that the Reserve forces that
are there are more highly trained and will
be given equipment, ammunition, and
more closely trained to fit in well with the
regular forces if an emergency should
arise.
We are not yet planning in any way
on restoring the draft. But this is some-
thing that's constantly under assessment.
If I consider, as President, that a restora-
tion of the draft is necessary for the se-
curity of our Nation, I will not hesitate
one day to recommend it to the Congress.
We are monitoring the problem. We
hope by better recruiting methods and by
388
