Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
I've just gotten an answer, by the way,
that I'd like to give, Walter, if I can, to
Mike McGrath from Warsaw, Indiana,
regarding the GI bill.
President Ford had recommended ter-
minating benefits under the GI bill for
all persons who entered military service
after January 1, 1977. He wanted to cut
the period of eligibility for veterans who
had entered military service before this
time from 10 years to 8 years.
During the campaign I came out
against these actions and supported
strengthening of the GI bill and to hold
to the 10-year period of eligibility. In the
budget that I just put into the Congress,
I added the extra 2 years of benefits. So
the 10-year period will remain for Viet-
nam veterans for the GI bill.
So, the answer, I think, is a good one
for Mike, and I hope that he is still on
the air to listen to it.
MR. CRONKITE. We remind you that
to reach the President here in the Oval
Office of the White House the number to
call is 900-242-1611. In some areas there
is an access code for long distance. If
there is, you use it and then you dial
900-242-1611.
And having successfully done that, Mrs.
Opal Dehart of Trinity, North Carolina,
is on the phone, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, Mrs.
Dehart.
LAETRILE
MRS. DEHART. Good afternoon, Presi-
dent Carter. I'm proud to have the op-
portunity to speak with you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's nice to talk
to folks from North Carolina. You got a
question for me?
MRS. DEHART. Well, I really had more
of a favor to make than a request. My
father has terminal cancer. He found out
a month ago. He's a hard-working man
all his life, never made much money and
doesn't have much now and for several
years I have been reading about vitamin
B17, Laetrile.
And I feel that the people in this coun-
try should be permitted to use this treat-
ment in this country. I realize that the
AMA says it's not been proved safe, but
for a terminal patient, who is not going
to live and has a chance to live with it, I
don't see how it could be dangerous. And
hospital insurance does not cover treat-
ment not authorized by the AMA, and
most hard-working people in this country
cannot afford treatment that's not paid
under insurance benefits.
And if a person has money available to
leave the country for treatment in one of
the 17 countries where the cancer spe-
cialists use this successfully, they have a
chance of recovery. And a lot of people
even from my area have done this.
What I want to say is that we need
your help and the Government's help in
taking this vitamin out, that it's made
available to the American people.
THE PRESIDENT. All right. Mrs. De-
hart, I might let someone from the De-
partment of HEW give you a call Mon-
day and talk to you about it further. And
you didn't ask me a question, but I have
heard about the controversy. I know that
in some of our neighboring countries, I
think Mexico, you can buy the Laetrile
and be treated with it.
MRS. DEHART. That's right.
THE PRESIDENT. Why don't you let me
have someone call you Monday, if you
don't mind. It wouldn't help much if I
called you, because I'm not a medical
doctor and I'm not familiar with it.
Would that suit you okay?
MRS. DEHART. Yes, sir, it would. I just
wanted you to be aware and maybe, sir,
something could be done. There's an in-
vestigation needed. I know that right now
it is banned because of the 1953 ban from
the State of California.
307
