Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
ginia. We do have stricter air regulations.
I watched that cloud, as I drove up to-
ward the mining area that I was going up
to inspect, go for 5 miles over my head at
about 35 miles an hour along with my car
and not dissipate.
I think there needs to be some rather
careful look. It was raining. I didn't have
a chance to test the pH of that rain, but
it would have been interesting to do So,
I
think. That cloud didn't dissipate the way
we are always told that this stuff just dis-
perses around. I think that needs to be
looked at carefully.
You know, the last thing in this is, with
the use of the scrubber-we have a power-
plant in this State, Allegheny Power Sys-
tem, Monongahela Power, spending
$200 million on a scrubber to build a new
plant in Pleasants County, West Virginia.
Now, I just don't believe, contrary to the
suggestion by the questioner, that the en-
gineers at Monongahela Power are in-
competent. I don't believe they would be
spending $200 million if the scrubber
didn't scrub.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we probably
ought to move on to more questions unless
somebody has an urgent comment to
make.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President,
give me 10 seconds. Talking about Ohio
and West Virginia, we took care of that
matter yesterday as we marked up the
amendments to the Clean Air Act, when
an amendment was offered, and I offered
it, that stops the so-called dirt moving over
from Ohio into West Virginia. That is
stopped under the amendment, absolutely.
NATURAL GAS PRICES
Q. My name is Virgil Matthews, a
Charleston city councilman. I, too, want
to thank you, Mr. President, for coming
here. I was very active in your campaign,
by the way. I'm also very happy to see our
senior Senator, Mr. Randolph, who I am
sure is going to be very helpful to you, as
he has been to other Presidents in the past,
and to the State of West Virginia.
It would seem to me that the elements
of
any energy policy must call first for con-
servation, as you say, elimination of waste.
It is certainly true that we do waste a lot
of energy. It goes right up the stacks.
We have to try to save our gas and oil
reserves actually as a base for the petro-
chemical industry, which is one of our
most important industries. Otherwise, we
don't have any gas or oil. We're not going
to be able to make petrochemicals. We
have to move to convert large power-
plants, large industries to burning coal, as
has been the emphasis here today.
Then in the long run, looking further
down the road, we've got absolutely to
develop solar energy, because as somebody
said, and as I read in the newspaper yes-
terday, Secretary Adams, the new Secre-
tary of DOT, indicated that, you know,
all of the fossil fuel is eventually going to
run out. I think Mr. Schlesinger made
that point today.
We are going to have to do something
like the Manhattan Project, a crash pro-
gram to develop solar energy.
The question that I have got is, at the
present rate structure of natural gas,
which really gives quantity discounts, that
is, the more you use the lower the price
per cubic foot, it does not encourage large
plants, utilities, et cetera, to switch from
gas to coal, or to stop wasting energy by
installing equipment to burn fuels more
efficiently. The reason is that buying more
gas and burning more gas is cheaper than
doing these other things.
Do you intend in your energy policy to
recommend changes in the rates for nat-
ural gas usage so that the use of more and
more gas is penalized, that is, the rate goes
up
instead of down as you use more ener-
gy? In my mind, I think this is one of the
431
