Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
minority groups and women in the Gov-
ernment. And it is not an easy thing to do,
even if your heart is in the right place.
As I said in my press conference yester-
day, that I am sure none of you saw be-
cause you were on the job, in the previous
administration at the executive level in
the major departments, we only had nine
women. Although we are not nearly
through with the selection process, we al-
ready have 29 women in those top posi-
tions, and we have got more than twice as
many black senior executives in the entire
Government structure now, at the top
levels I am talking about, not in subordi-
nate jobs. And I think we have three times
as many Spanish-speaking Americans as
we have had before. And we still have a
long way to go. But I hope that you will be
constantly aggressive, which I am sure you
will be, in pointing out any defects that we
still have remaining.
Yes, over on the right aisle.
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
Q. My name is Sonia Maged, and I am
a systems accountant in the Office of the
Secretary. I would like to know what your
plans are for the Department of Com-
merce in the reorganization of the Federal
Government.
that are assigned to Washington and those
that are out in the field, a better interre-
lationship among people who work at the
regional or community level among dif-
ferent departments so that we don't have
the separation anymore between the EDA
program in Commerce and the training
and job placement program in Labor, or
the provision of day care center services
from HEW and so forth. We want to be
sure there is a much greater relationship
among departments than there has been
in the past.
The second major thing is on matters
that relate to your own Department itself.
And there your input and your superiors'
input will be kind of a generic thing that
starts at the bottom and builds up, with
recommendations being made about, per-
haps, some restructuring of existing sub-
department functions in your own agency
here.
And the last point, of course, will be the
transfer of major entities from one de-
partment to another. Offhand, I would
think that the Commerce Department
would be affected very slightly by that
last component part. Other agencies might
be strongly affected.
Under the Government reorganization
THE PRESIDENT. Juanita says she does, authority, we could not abolish or create
too.
I don't know yet, I really don't know.
We will make two or three different kinds
of reorganization attempts, I think, all of
which will be successful. One is a generic
kind of approach to things like electronic
data processing, how to make sure we have
the most effective use of existing computer
systems that cover all departments.
Secondly, better personnel manage-
ment, better training programs, and so
forth, more equitable hiring practices, the
elimination of inadvertent or deliberate
discrimination, how to use personnel more
effectively, proper balance between those
a major department. I do intend to create
a new department of energy and mineral
resources and a lot of those functions will
come from agencies like ERDA, FEA, and
so forth. Others will come out of the pres-
ent Department of Interior. I have got
Dr. James Schlesinger and Secretary Cecil
Andrus from Interior working very closely
with each other now and with the con-
gressional committees to decide how those
divisions should be made.
This last provision, by the way, since it
creates a new department, has to be done
with special legislation. Under the reor-
ganization authority, any change that I
114
