Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
singling out a particular part of it and
saying that this is going to go up in price,
this is going to go down in quantity. It's
hard for me to answer your question any
better.
ST. LOUIS AIRPORT
Q. Mr. President, the Nation, and St.
Louis in particular, where they're cele-
brating Charles Lindbergh's 50th anni-
versary this year—and there is an irony
involved in this, because the State of Illi-
nois is in the process of skyjacking St.
Louis airport—I'm sure you are familiar
with the situation.
THE PRESIDENT. The people from Illi-
nois didn't express it exactly the same
way.
Q. I understand. [Laughter] In any
event, Secretary Adams has under review
a decision by the Ford administration to
go ahead and approve this unwanted, un-
needed, billion-dollar boondoggle airport
rather than to keep St. Louis airport and
the Spirit of St. Louis where it belongs.
Now, considering your concern for un-
necessary spending and your interest in
cutting back various public works proj-
ects, could we count on you to use your
influence to celebrate Lindbergh's flight
in the proper manner by keeping St. Louis
airport where it belongs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me make two
affirmative statements. Your question,
which reconfirms my assessment of the
objectivity of the press―[laughter] is
well expressed and doesn't presuppose an
answer, nor bias my answer, I'm sure.
And I might say that my own home
county in Americus, Georgia, shares with
you an interest in Lindbergh. He bought
his first airplane at Sutter Field in Ameri-
cus. I don't know what the decision will
be about the airport yet. I will probably
go along with the recommendation made
by Brock Adams.
He and I have discussed it a couple of
times. I'm not familiar with the merits on
both sides. I have heard the argument
that you've just expressed in your ques-
tion. But I can't answer the question yet.
Q. You are aware of the bipartisan
support for the position as I expressed it?
THE PRESIDENT. I am. And I've heard
it explained very clearly to me during the
campaign, primarily from the St. Louis
point of view. It's not nearly so burning
an issue in Illinois as it is in Missouri, as
you know, but primarily, I guess, because
they came out on the good end of the de-
cision. I don't know how to answer your
question yet. I am not being evasive. The
decision just has not been made.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, back to energy just
for a second. Without asking you to
fragment things, Senator Jackson and
others have talked about the conservation
side of it by saying that any conservation
would have to have some mandatory side
or it really wouldn't be a program at all.
Are you far enough along with your
thinking to talk about at all whether there
would be some mandatory conservation
measures?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. There would be
mandatory conservation measures. We're
trying to concentrate in the new Energy
Department, an adequate amount of co-
hesion and authority to carry out the
energy policy that will be put forward on
April 20. And there will certainly be a
continuation of mandatory constraints on
the use of energy.
As you know, the Congress passed al-
ready a time schedule for mandatory ef-
ficiency of automobiles, whereas, I think,
by 1985 the average miles per gallon of
all automobiles produced in this country
has to equal 27½ miles a gallon. That
rate of improvement in efficiency might
286
