Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
national trading economy. And while we
did discuss it, it was very brief, and we
barely touched on the subject.
U.S. ECONOMIC POLICY
Q. Mr. Vice President, a number of
European governments, I think, have sug-
gested that the present administration's
economic package isn't big enough. Based
on your findings, is the $31 billion figure
flexible? Could it move upwards or is it
now fixed?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. The size of our
economic package is approximately 1 per-
cent of our gross national product. That's
almost identical with the size of the Japa-
nese package. We feel that it will achieve
the real economic growth rates that will
stimulate our economy, increase employ-
ment, increase international economic ac-
tivity, and will do so short of that, that
point that's hard to decide on,
where you
might reignite inflationary forces.
There was general agreement and satis-
faction with that package in other govern-
ments. However, OECD, as I mentioned
earlier, in their projections doubt they
think that the United States, the German
Government, and the Japanese are all be-
ing too optimistic in what their stimulative
packages will accomplish. And that's why
we've agreed to monitor this very closely
as we go along, to make certain that our
projections are fulfilled.
Q. Mr. Vice President, does your mon-
itoring allow the possibility that this year
you might restimulate, when you talk to
the Japanese and West Germans more, or
will that only be left until next year?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. The nature of
the understanding was to simply monitor,
based on our own economic indicators,
how well we're doing. There was no dis-
cussion about what follows, but that we
all wanted to reach these targets of growth
that we've described officially.
U.S. FORCES IN SOUTH KOREA
Q. Mr. Vice President, what were you
able to learn about the attitude of the
Japanese Government toward the Presi-
dent's expressed intention to undertake a
phased withdrawal of American ground
forces in Korea?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I think we were
able to reassure them that in pursuit of our
announced policies of withdrawing U.S.
ground forces from Korea, that we in-
tended to do so on a phased basis; that we
intended to do it only after the closest con-
sultation with the Governments of Japan
and Korea; that we intended to pursue
that objective in a way which in no way
destabilized the credibility of the security
interests of all of the nations involved in
the Pacific area; and that we intended to
help improve the combat effectiveness of
the Korean ground forces; that we in-
tended to retain our Air Force presence in
the area; and that we intended com-
mitments to Japan.
pletely to fulfill our standing treaty com-
It was my impression that the Japanese
leaders were reassured by that presenta-
tion, and it helped increase understand-
ing on that objective. As you know, I
carried an invitation from President Car-
ter to Prime Minister Fukuda, and he
will be visiting the United States, and no
doubt those matters and others will be
on the agenda of that discussion.
Q. If I could ask a brief followup, in
your talks generally, did you detect a high
level of interest in what would be the de-
fense and deterrence policies of the ad-
ministration and any lack of certainty
about that?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. No. I think they
were quite reassured by my statement
64
