Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 26
have an agreement with our negotiating
partners to refrain from public state-
ments, of course I will do so. But that
will be an individual judgment to be
made.
WELFARE REFORM
Q. Mr. President, during the campaign
when you discussed welfare reform, it was
an attractive political incentive for the
people of big cities to vote for you, sir.
Yesterday Joseph Califano outlined your
welfare reform proposals, and there seems
to be a lag in time, number one, for the
effective implementation of the program,
and number two, very little relief for the
cities of the Nation.
Do you think that you're conforming
with your pledge during the campaign to
help relieve the welfare burden from the
big cities of this Nation?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. You can't
isolate welfare, though, and just say that
stands on its own, it's not related to other
aspects of programs.
When we put forward multi-billion dol-
lar programs for public works, for coun-
tercyclical aid, which goes directly to local
and State governments for tax reduction
for people who live there, for increased
transportation funds, and so forth, all
these things relieve financial burdens
from local and State governments.
We are proposing before the August
recess by the Congress our welfare pack-
age. A lot of work has been done on it.
It's shaping up into a very attractive and,
I think, very good proposal.
The basic premise on which this pro-
posal has been evolved has been no addi-
tional cost above and beyond what we
presently spend on welfare plus training
and employment programs for those who
might go on welfare.
Later if we see that we have additional
money, we can expand the program or
directly reduce the amount paid into the
program by local and State governments.
But in the evolution of the program itself
one of the requirements that I have laid
down which is a tight constraint and a
necessary discipline, is no additional cost
above what we have now. So, I think we
are carrying out our promises.
And the other aspect of your question
was the late implementation of it. This is
a very expeditious schedule. There is no
way that Congress can act on welfare early
this
year.
It will be submitted before Au-
gust. And then the Congress can start
debating this very complicated subject.
But Congress right now has all it can
handle in major proposals, with social se-
curity reform and tax reform coming up,
and with the energy program.
But I think if it was passed immediately,
it would take 3 or 4 years to fully imple-
ment it. But as soon as it is passed by
Congress, the implementation will com-
mence without delay and will be imple-
mented as expeditiously as possible.
MENAHEM BEGIN
Q. Realizing that the Israeli govern-
ment is not in place yet, but assuming that
Mr. Begin will have a dominant role in it,
and based on his initial remarks about
withdrawal of the sector, do you see him
as a potential obstacle to the peace
process?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't.
I don't yet have any way to know who
will put the government together. Obvi-
ously, Mr. Begin leads the Likud govern-
ment which came in first. And we are
waiting now for the Israeli election results
to be confirmed and for the President of
Israel to designate the leader of that party
to put the government together. Follow-
ing that time and before the government
is completely evolved, I intend to congrat-
ulate Mr. Begin, if it is he, and to invite
him or whoever is designated to come over
here for discussions with me.
1023
