May 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and me, we are akin to an awful lot of the
people in Plains. But I feel at home when
I am here. This is my home.
Q. Mr. President, yesterday you hinted
at some positive movements in our rela-
tions with Cuba. Can you be more spe-
cific? And does that movement include
the possible exchange of ambassadorial
representatives?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see any pros-
pect immediately in the future, within the
next number of months, of full diplomatic
recognition which would involve the ex-
change of Ambassadors. But we have
made, I think, good progress, primarily as
a result of negotiations and discussions on
the part of Mr. Todman,ยน representing the
State Department.
I'm not prepared now to make any an-
nouncements. We have an agreement with
the Cuban officials that we'll keep the dis-
cussions about the private negotiations
without revealing them to the public.
But I have been encouraged. As I said
yesterday, we still have a lot of differences
between us. And the basic ones are the
ones that I mentioned at the airport: the
inclination on the part of Cuba to send
military troops and advisers to Africa,
which I think is a destabilizing factor, and
also the large number of political prison-
ers that are being held in Cuba for a num-
ber of years.
But I believe that there is an inclina-
THE PRESIDENT. Not directly. Through
intermediaries, we have communicated.
But I've never had a chance to communi-
cate through an Ambassador since we
don't have relations with Cuba.
I've never sent him a personal letter,
but I've sent him my best wishes for a suc-
cessful conclusion of our negotiations by
representatives, directly from the State
Department. And he has responded
accordingly.
Q. Mr. President, one more question.
Did Jody tell you he "out-fished" you
yesterday? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Thank you.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session be-
gan at 12:30 p.m. at the depot.
Swearing-In Ceremony
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Director
of the National Science Foundation, the
Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, and the Director
of the Office of Drug Abuse
Policy. June 1, 1977
This morning we have another one of
those ceremonies that gives me a great
deal of pride in being able to introduce
to our Nation people of distinguished
tion on the part of the American people qualifications and deep dedication to their
to continue to move toward a full friend-
ship with Cuba, and I have that as an ul-
timate goal. But I can't report any specific
additional progress at this point.
One more question.
Q. Mr. President, have you ever com-
municated directly with Mr. Castro,
either through letter or diplomatic com-
munications?
1 Terence A. Todman, Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs, and U.S. Co-
ordinator, Alliance for Progress.
own professions, who at some sacrifice to
themselves have agreed to come in and
serve our country.
Dr. Richard Atkinson, who has been
the Acting Director of the National Sci-
ence Foundation for the last year, is a
person who brings to this tremendously
important organization a background that
is somewhat unique. He's trained in psy-
chology and the humanities and in sci-
ence, and I think it is significant that we
are now departing from the physical sci-
1046
