Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
diplomatically and, I hope, effectively, to
search out a way to reduce dependence
on weapons without damaging at all our
Nation's own security.
We have problem areas around the
world, as you know, in the Middle East,
in southern Africa, in the Horn of Africa,
in the eastern Mediterranean around Cy-
prus. We're not trying to impose our will
on other people. But when we can add
our good offices and the strength of our
country to bring potential warring na-
tions together, we'll do this. And I think
the American people have enough intelli-
gence and enough judgment to be told
what's going on.
In the past we've had too much of top
Government officials going off in a closed,
locked room and evolving a foreign policy
for our country and negotiating in secret
and then letting the American people
know about it when it's all over. I want
you to know about it ahead of time, and
you can depend on that when I tell you.
In closing my talk, before I answer
questions, I want to say this: I really
thank you
for making me feel so welcome.
There are literally thousands and thou-
sands of people who live in the Clinton
area who have lined the streets outside
to wave at me and to hold up signs that
said "Welcome, Jimmy" or "Hi, Jimmy"
or "We love you in Clinton." It means a
lot to me.
you
And I thank you for being willing to
come here tonight to talk to me and to
ask me questions so that I can learn and
so that you can learn. And many people
will know what you ask tonight, and they
will know about my answers. And if
ask me questions that I can't answer, and
that's sure to happen, I'll get the answer
for you and send it to your local news
media, so that it can be published in the
next couple of days, because I do have
people working with me that can answer
the questions for me.
This is a learning process. I'm very
eager now to take the first question. If
you would just tell me what your name is,
and then I'll try to answer as best I can.
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. My name is Reverend Richard
Harding, and, President Carter, it's a
pleasure to welcome you to the number
one Everytown, U.S.A.-Clinton, Massa-
chusetts.
I would like to ask you, Mr. Presi-
dent-it seems that world peace hinges
greatly on the Middle East.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. What do you personally feel must be
done to establish a meaningful and a last-
ing peace in that area of the world?
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I think all of you
know that there has been either war or
potential war in the Middle East for the
last 29 years, ever since Israel became a
nation. I think one of the finest acts of the
world nations that's ever occurred was to
establish the State of Israel.
So, the first prerequisite of a lasting
peace is the recognition of Israel by her
neighbors, Israel's right to exist, Israel's
right to exist permanently, Israel's right
to exist in peace. That means that over a
period of months or years that the borders
between Israel and Syria, Israel and Leb-
anon, Israel and Jordan, Israel and Egypt
must be opened up to travel, to tourism,
to cultural exchange, to trade, so that no
matter who the leaders might be in those
countries, the people themselves will have
formed a mutual understanding and com-
prehension and a sense of a common pur-
pose to avoid the repetitious wars and
death that have afflicted that region so
long. That's the first prerequisite of
peace.
386
