May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
It wouldn't be fair. It is like a contract,
for our country's word of honor, where
our country's word of honor is involved.
Others, though, I don't feel any obliga-
tion to honor.
For instance, there is a letter that has
been recently published, I think, with the
permission of President Nixon where he
promised $3 or 4 billion in aid to the
Vietnamese. That's one that I certainly
would not honor.
I think now even President Nixon has
renounced it, saying that it was abrogated
by the fact that the Vietnamese broke
their word on nonintrusion into South
Vietnam. But I like to use my own judg-
ment. But when I felt that the agreement
at the time it was reached was compatible
with the wishes of the American people
and was confirmed, my inclination would
be to honor it.
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
your
Q. Mr. President, as I understand
proposed Food Stamp program, it calls
for a flat grant living subsidy. This sub-
sidy is planned as an average cost of liv-
ing per family. But doesn't it seem un-
fair to the North, and especially New
England, with our high oil prices, that
these high utility prices will hurt the
northern poor families more while being
less demanding on the southern poor?
THE PRESIDENT. I think when looked
at in the full framework of the welfare
concept, looking at welfare as a generic
term, there are compensatory allocations
made.
For instance, the housing allowances
and others are quite often based on the
cost of living in a particular community.
I think the proposal that we presented to
the Congress on food stamps is adequate.
And I think it's fair.
SPACE EXPLORATION
Q. Mr. President, the majority of my
readers work at the Johnson Space Cen-
ter in Clear Lake City, Texas. They are
concerned over budgeting for NASA in
the future. Right now, the only manned
program budgeted is the space shuttle.
What plans does your administration have
for manned exploration of the space fron-
tiers in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't answer
that beyond the present recommendations
to Congress. I think it's unlikely that we
would mount a new effort for manned
space flight to the moon or to the planets,
for instance. We will continue the evolu-
tion of the space shuttles with additional
vehicles already approved by me and the
funds recommended to the Congress.
I think at this point there's a great deal
of analysis being conducted by NASA and
by both private and publicly employed
scientists about how the space shuttle it-
self might be used to the greatest
advantage.
We have many recommendations along
that line, but I think until the space shut-
tle is fully used, both in a conceptual way
and in a practical way, it would be un-
likely to embark on a new and different
kind of major space effort.
FEDERAL URBAN PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, in view of the criti-
cism of national neglect of cities, what
kind of a national urban policy would you
like to see the Federal Government
develop?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've done a
great deal on that already. For instance,
the basic change in the formulae for al-
locating Federal funds has been modified
for public works projects, for the block
grant programs for housing and invest-
ment. The formulae for allotting funds for
948
