Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
is deeply concerned about the conse-
quences for all nations of a further spread
of nuclear weapons or explosive capabili-
ties. We believe that these risks would be
vastly increased by the further spread of
sensitive technologies which entail direct
access to plutonium, highly enriched
uranium, or other weapons usable ma-
terial. The question I have had under
review from my first day in office is how
can that be accomplished without for-
going the tangible benefits of nuclear
power.
We are now completing an extremely
thorough review of all the issues that bear
on the use of nuclear power. We have
concluded that the serious consequences
of proliferation and direct implications
for peace and security as well as strong
scientific and economic evidence-re-
quire:
-a major change in U.S. domestic nu-
clear energy policies and programs;
and
-a concerted effort among all nations
to find better answers to the problems
and risks accompanying the increased
use of nuclear
power.
I am announcing today some of my de-
cisions resulting from that review.
First, we will defer indefinitely the com-
mercial reprocessing and recycling of the
plutonium produced in the U.S. nuclear
power programs. From our own experi-
ence, we have concluded that a viable and
economic nuclear power program can be
sustained without such reprocessing and
recycling. The plant at Barnwell, South
Carolina, will receive neither Federal en-
couragement nor funding for its comple-
tion as a reprocessing facility.
Second, we will restructure the U.S.
breeder reactor program to give greater
priority to alternative designs of the
breeder and to defer the date when breed-
er reactors would be put into commercial
use.
Third, we will redirect funding of U.S.
nuclear research and development pro-
grams to accelerate our research into al-
ternative nuclear fuel cycles which do not
involve direct access to materials usable
in nuclear weapons.
Fourth, we will increase U.S. produc-
tion capacity for enriched uranium to
provide adequate and timely supply of
nuclear fuels for domestic and foreign
needs.
Fifth, we will propose the necessary
legislative steps to permit the U.S. to offer
nuclear fuel supply contracts and guaran-
tee delivery of such nuclear fuel to other
countries.
Sixth, we will continue to embargo the
export of equipment or technology that
would permit uranium enrichment and
chemical reprocessing.
Seventh, we will continue discussions
with supplying and recipient countries
alike, of a wide range of international ap-
proaches and frameworks that will permit
all nations to achieve their energy objec-
tives while reducing the spread of nuclear
explosive capability. Among other things,
we will explore the establishment of an
international nuclear fuel cycle evaluation
program aimed at developing alternative
fuel cycles and a variety of international
and U.S. measures to assure access to nu-
clear fuel supplies and spent fuel storage
for nations sharing common nonprolifer-
ation objectives.
We will continue to consult very closely
with a number of governments regarding
the most desirable multilateral and bilat-
eral arrangements for assuring that nu-
clear energy is creatively harnessed for
peaceful economic purposes. Our intent is
to develop wider international coopera-
tion in regard to this vital issue through
systematic and thorough international
consultations.
588
