Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 9
ture of the Department. By using a one-
page written form, which you can fill out
not even with a typewriter but a ballpoint
pen, you analyze what you are presently
doing, about how many people work on
that project, how much money you spend
every year, how you think our own func-
tion can be enhanced or made more effec-
tive, and then those recommendations,
filled out by you, come up slowly but
inexorably to the head of the Department,
your Secretary, and then eventually to me.
We also will evolve structural changes
in the entire government process. We
might even shift an entire function from
one department to another on occasion. I
would think there would be few of those
that would affect the Commerce Depart-
ment.
But in addition to that, we will try to
analyze structural changes within the de-
partments. We hope to have authority for
that from the Congress without too much
delay. I think the Senate has already com-
pleted their hearings on the reorganization
bill, and it will be passed, I think, in the
Senate quite shortly. There will be some
additional time required in the House.
But I think this will come through.
And the last thing that would give you
a chance to expand upon the management
improvement concept is in the evolution
of written goals and policies to be pursued.
We will try to set down not only what we
hope to accomplish at the end of the fiscal
year 1979 but what we hope your De-
partment and your lives will accomplish
at the end of 2 years, 5 years, 10 years, and
in some instances, 15 or 20 years.
I want to be sure that you have an input
into the evolution of a better way to ana-
lyze weather concepts, an input into better
ways to strengthen the ties between the
maritime forces and the Navy forces in
time of peace and war. When we evolve
by the end of April a comprehensive en-
ergy policy for our Nation—it has very
serious interrelationships with transporta-
tion and commerce and environmental
consequences. I want to be sure you have
an input into that.
So, I will depend upon my Cabinet offi-
cers to make sure that President Ford's
initial proposals are not only carried out
but expanded.
I will try to keep my other answers
shorter.
MINORITY APPOINTMENTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is D. J.
Spencer. I am with the Maritime Admin-
istration. I am also the chairperson for the
Commerce Committee for Women, Ad-
Hoc Committee for Minority Women.
I am very pleased with the status of
women in key positions in the Depart-
ment. I would like to personally thank you
also for the appointment of Dr. Kreps.
However, as of today, I am unaware of
the appointment of any minority women
or men, and I would like to know if that
is under consideration.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question. I think in this Department, there
are now about, I think there are exactly
5 men and 5 women in the 10 senior posi-
tions, which is the best achievement I
have in any department.
Secondly, I think in the entire Depart-
ment itself, about 20 percent or more of
the employees are representing minority
groups, which is substantially higher than
the total population percentage; and I
think among the total Department em-
ployees, about 35 percent are women,
which, as you know, is not an adequate
amount to represent the 51.3 percent of
women in our society.
I can't answer your question about the
other.
The answer is yes.
Let me add one other point because this
is important: We have really tried to cor-
rect a longstanding discrimination against
113
