Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
view. What I'm finding, and the evidence
that I am seeing is that there is, if any-
thing is to happen in the future, in all
probability the additional health evidence
that we're gathering will force us in the
future to ratchet down those standards.
We don't have enough knowledge at this
point to set standards for some pollutants
that are sulfur-related, like sulfates, and
are not likely to have that kind of data
until probably around 1980.
But if anything, the growing weight of
the evidence suggests even more caution
and prudence on the sulfur standard. One
of the things we absolutely have to be sure
we're doing is that when we set ambient
standards, then when we move the next
step to decide what emissions limitations
to apply to individual sources in order to
meet those ambient standards, that we
don't overregulate, that we set the emis-
sion standards at precisely that amount
necessary to meet that health standard
and to provide for an opportunity for ad-
ditional growth in the region. But we will
have those standards under continuing
review.
THE PRESIDENT. One of the questions
that I have had asked me several times,
Georgia a long time ago decided to set its
standards at the ground level where peo-
ple live, and we authorized the construc-
tion of very tall stacks, I think an average
of about 1,100 feet. As a consequence of
that, we produced about 85 percent of our
electricity using coal.
Florida, for instance, uses, I'd say, 15
percent coal to produce their electricity. I
think Arkansas would probably be in the
neighborhood of 15 percent. I'm not sure
about exact figures, but that's one possi-
ble solution for it.
And I think you are right. We need to
have a much clearer concept of how peo-
ple's health can be protected, but not set
standards so rigid that they rob the con-
sumers of money that can be used to con-
tribute to their own health and quality of
life as well.
Mr. Reichl?
MR. REICHL. Mr. President, I guess one
of the points that was touched on really by
the question was that we don't set stand-
ards which are physically not attainable
and that the issue here is, is it true or is it
not true that you can build a power sta-
tion with scrubbers today? I think the
facts are that there are some. There are
quite a few more than have been com-
mitted.
So, it is obviously not a uniform view
on the subject. There are some utilities
that say they can and some say they can-
not. But I will say again what I did earlier.
I think that in the Federal research pro-
gram this subject has been singularly un-
attended, and I hope we can see a real
drive towards better scrubbers. As a mini-
mum, I think we must admit the scrub-
bers available that are all based on lime,
essentially, are really a disaster, and they
are transferring an air pollution to a water
pollution problem.
MR. KILPATRICK. Mr. President, three
brief things. I'm not sure where the ques-
tioner gets the idea that the majority of
West Virginia coal is high-sulfur, as I
think he implied. It isn't. We are the larg-
est reserve of low-sulfur coal in the East-
ern United States, and our neighboring
States of Virginia and Kentucky share in
that.
Raising sulfur standards to 2, 3, 4 per-
cent is not the way to increase West Vir-
ginia coal production.
Secondly, I was in Ohio Sunday. I saw
a powerplant with tall stacks emitting, and
the EPA in its goodness has allowed this
plant to emit or to use 4 percent sulfur
coal, which happens to be what they mine
in the Ohio area without cleaning it. And
I watched a cloud of yellow smoke come
out of that stack, and I have never seen
that type of cloud produced in West Vir-
430
