Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
cent of the 1976 income taxes paid by a
family making about $10,000 a year.
NUCLEAR POWER POLICY
The second point I'd like to make be-
fore I answer questions is concerning our
Nation's efforts to control the spread of
nuclear explosive capability. As far back
as 30 years ago, our Government made a
proposal to the United Nations that there
be tight international controls over nu-
clear fuels and particularly those that
might be made into explosives.
Last year during the Presidential cam-
paign, both I and President Ford called
for strict controls over fuels to prevent
the proliferation-further proliferation of
nuclear explosive capability.
There is no dilemma today more diffi-
cult to address than that connected with
the use of atomic power. Many countries
see atomic power as their only real op-
portunity to deal with the dwindling sup-
plies of oil, the increasing price of oil, and
the ultimate exhaustion of both oil and
natural gas.
Our country is in a little better position.
We have oil supplies of our own, and we
have very large reserves of coal. But even
coal has its limitations. So, we will our-
selves continue to use atomic power as a
share of our total energy production.
The benefits of nuclear power, particu-
larly to some foreign countries that don't
have oil and coal of their own, are very
practical and critical. But a serious risk
is involved in the handling of nuclear
fuels the risk that component parts of
this power process will be turned to pro-
viding explosives or atomic weapons.
We took an important step in reduc-
ing this risk a number of years ago by the
implementation of the nonproliferation
treaty which has now been signed by ap-
proximately a hundred nations. But we
must go further.
We have seen recently India evolve an
explosive device derived from a peaceful
nuclear powerplant, and we now feel that
several other nations are on the verge of
becoming nuclear explosive powers.
The United States is deeply concerned
about the consequences of the uncontrol-
led spread of this nuclear weapon capa-
bility. We can't arrest it immediately and
unilaterally. We have no authority over
other countries. But we believe that these
risks would be vastly increased by the
further spread of reprocessing capabilities
of the spent nuclear fuel from which ex-
plosives can be derived.
Plutonium is especially poisonous, and,
of course, enriched uranium, thorium, and
other chemicals or metals can be used as
well.
We are now completing an extremely
thorough review of our own nuclear
power program. We have concluded that
serious consequences can be derived from
our own laxity in the handling of these
materials and the spread of their use by
other countries. And we believe that there
is strong scientific and economic evidence
that a time for a change has come.
Therefore, we will make a major
change in the United States domestic nu-
clear energy policies and programs which
I am announcing today.
We will make a concerted effort among
all other countries to find better answers
to the problems and risks of nuclear prolif-
eration. And I would like to outline a few
things now that we will do specifically.
First of all, we will defer indefinitely
the commercial reprocessing and recycling
of the plutonium produced in U.S. nuclear
power programs.
From my own experience, we have con-
cluded that a viable and adequate eco-
nomic nuclear program can be maintained
without such reprocessing and recycling
of plutonium. The plant at Barnwell,
South Carolina, for instance, will receive
582
