Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 11, 1977
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Publishers, Editors, and
Broadcasters. March 4, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I just about got myself
adopted by all of your States, not all the
newspapers, unfortunately, in the last
election.
ASSESSMENT OF FIRST DAYS IN OFFICE
I'd like to say, first of all, that I'm very
grateful to initiate an effort to let the
editorial leaders of our country get
acquainted with me and my White House
staff and, particularly Jody Powell and
his group, so that we might have the kind
of relationship that's easy and natural
and personal as the next 4 years and the
events unfold.
We've been in office now for about
6 weeks, I think, and I've learned an
awful lot. I've enjoyed the job so far, and
I think that we've now got a fairly good
working relationship among the White
House staff members. Although it's much
smaller, as you noticed, than it has been
in the past, it's much more intimate and,
I think, hopefully much more homoge-
neous in their pursuit of common goals.
Secondly, I think we've got a superb
and a very strong Cabinet. Each person
that I've chosen in this early 6-weeks'
test has shown that he or she is able to
manage the major department which is
their responsibility. And I don't feel there
is a single one that has disappointed me
in that respect. I don't feel that now or
in the future I have to go into their
department and help them manage the
complicated responsibilities that are on
their shoulders.
I might say, too, that we've got a fairly
good relationship now with the Congress.
We started off on shaky ground. They
were accustomed-the Democratic ma-
jority was, at least-to have a combative
relationship with the White House in-
stead of a cooperative one. We have now
put together, after some considerable de-
lay, congressional liaison people with all
the major departments, so that they can
work with Frank Moore, my own con-
gressional liaison leader to deal with
the Congress.
We've learned the Members-their
special interests and capabilities and sen-
sitivities, and I think we've worked out
now an increasingly good relationship
with them.
Obviously, there are going to be many
times in the future when we'll have strong
disagreements about my proposals to
them. But their early approval of the
natural gas emergency legislation, the
281
