Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
On May 1, Joe Califano, a tough,
knowledgeable administrator, who now is
trying to bring order out of chaos in the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, will come forward, after work-
ing with Mike Dukakis and many other
Governors and local officials, and propose
to the Congress a comprehensive revision
of the entire welfare system. This has
needed to be done for many years. It
hasn't been done. We've had too many
people who are able to work drawing wel-
fare, and we've had an inadequate
amount of attention given to those who
cannot work. We've had homes divided
because of silly welfare rules.
We're going to do everything we can
to bring our families back together and
have a welfare program that's humane,
that's efficient and economical and which
forces people into jobs who are able to
work.
Next September 30, we will complete
an analysis of the entire income tax struc-
ture. As I said many times during the
campaign, and the last time in my ac-
ceptance speech, the income tax laws in
this country are a disgrace to the human
race. The people who are not powerful,
who are not influential, who don't have
full-time, paid lobbyists to carve out
special privilege in the tax laws, have suf-
fered too long. And I give you my prom-
ise that next September 30, after long,
detailed, laborious analysis of the horribly
complicated income tax laws, we will
come out with a simpler system, so that 75
or 80 or 85 percent of all of you in this
country can fill out your own income tax
returns without anybody helping you,
and so that you will feel that you are not
getting cheated and you will feel that
everybody is paying their fair share.
Those are our goals. And I don't in-
tend to lose. I don't intend to lose that
struggle.
I think the Congress has been eager to
correct problems in energy and correct
problems in environmental quality and
correct problems in employment and
have a fair tax structure and bring order
out of chaos in welfare. The Congress is
eager to do it, and I am eager to meet
them halfway.
In the field of foreign affairs-and this
is the last thing I want to talk about—
I've done a lot of studying. I trust the
American people. I've been criticized by
some in the news media in the last 8
weeks about telling the American people
too much. I've removed the restrictions
on American travel overseas. I believe
that an American citizen ought to be able
to go wherever that person wants to go
without the Government telling him.
We're going to try to open up our bor-
ders for a change so visitors can come to
our country. They may not be popular
people, but I think our system of govern-
ment is strong enough to have someone
come into our Nation and make a speech
at Yale or Harvard or here in your own
town, with whom you may not agree.
I want to see our country set a standard
of morality. I feel very deeply that when
people are
people are put in prison without trials
and tortured and deprived of basic hu-
man rights, that the President of the
United States ought to have a right to
express displeasure and to do something
about it.
I want our country to be the focal point
for deep concern about human beings all
over the world. I am trying to search with
the Soviet Union for a way to reduce the
horrible arms race, where we've spent
billions and billions and billions of dollars
on atomic weapons. We are no more se-
cure now than we were 8 years ago or 12
years ago or 16 years ago. We're much
more deeply threatened by more and
more advanced weapons. So, we are deal-
ing with the Soviet Union, quietly and
385
