May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
and assist member countries in adopting policies which will limit payments deficits
and warrant their financing through the private markets. These resources should be
used with the conditionality and flexibility required to encourage an appropriate
pace of adjustment.
This IMF proposal should facilitate the maintenance of reasonable levels of
economic activity and reduce the danger of resort to trade and payments restrictions.
It demonstrates co-operation between oil-exporting nations, industrial nations in
stronger financial positions, and the IMF. It will contribute materially to the health
and progress of the world economy. In pursuit of this objective, we also reaffirm
our intention to strive to increase monetary stability.
We agreed that the international monetary and financial system, in its new
and agreed legal framework, should be strengthened by the early implementation
of the increase in quotas. We will work towards an early agreement within the IMF
on another increase in the quotas of that organization.
Trade
We are committed to providing strong political leadership for the global effort
to expand opportunities for trade and to strengthen the open international trading
system. Achievement of these goals is central to world economic prosperity and the
effective resolution of economic problems faced by both developed and developing
countries throughout the world.
Policies on protectionism foster unemployment, increase inflation and undermine
the welfare of our peoples. We are therefore agreed on the need to maintain our
political commitment to an open and non-discriminatory world trading system. We
will seek both nationally and through the appropriate international institutions to
promote solutions that create new jobs and consumer benefits through expanded
trade and to avoid approaches which restrict trade.
The Tokyo Round of multilateral trade negotiations must be pursued vigorously.
The continuing economic difficulties make it even more essential to achieve the
objective of the Tokyo Declaration and to negotiate a comprehensive set of agree-
ments to the maximum benefit of all. Toward this end, we will seek this year to
achieve substantive progress in such key areas as:
(i) a tariff reduction plan of broadest possible application designed to achieve
a substantial cut and harmonization and in certain cases the elimination of tariffs;
(ii) codes, agreements and other measures that will facilitate a significant reduc-
tion of non-tariff barriers to trade and the avoidance of new barriers in the future and
that will take into account the structural changes which have taken place in the
world economy;
(iii) a mutually acceptable approach to agriculture that will achieve increased
expansion and stabilization of trade, and greater assurance of world food supplies.
Such progress should not remove the right of individual countries under existing
international agreements to avoid significant market disruption.
While seeking to conclude comprehensive and balanced agreements on the basis of
reciprocity among all industrial countries we are determined, in accordance with the
aims of the Tokyo Declaration, to ensure that the agreements provide special benefits
to developing countries.
822
