Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 10
fully carry out its statutory responsibili-
ties.
I urge early enactment of this measure.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill,
Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and the Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Presi-
dent of the Senate.
The text of the draft bill was also included
in the White House press release.
Visit of Prime Minister
Callaghan of Great Britain
Toasts of the President and the
Prime Minister at a Dinner Honoring
the Prime Minister. March 10, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say, first
of all, that we are very delighted that all
of you could be with us tonight to wel-
come our distinguished visitors from
Great Britain.
We have had a knowledge, through the
study of history, of many guests who come
here to visit the White House from Eng-
land. The first ones, I believe, were in
1814. [Laughter] And I think it is accu-
rate to say that the hospitality has in-
creased steadily since that time.
I don't believe I have ever met anyone
who was a distinguished political leader
with whom I immediately felt more at
home and a greater inner sense of genuine
and personal friendship.
When I have had a chance to meet with
a few leaders of foreign governments, I
have always tried to get the better of them
in our get acquainted session. I haven't
succeeded at all tonight. [Laughter]
First of all, I said, "I am a farmer."
Prime Minister Callaghan said, "So am
I." [Laughter] I said I knew I had them
the next time I said, "I am a Baptist."
He said, "So am I." [Laughter] I said, “I
met my wife in the churchyard." He said,
"So did I." [Laughter] I said, "I have a
very interesting sister, who's a Carter,
who is deeply involved in religion." He
said, "Well, I have a sister who is very
deeply involved in religion. She is also a
Carter." I said, "We have had a lot of
trouble in our country with inflation." He
said he didn't have to say anything.
[Laughter] Unemployment-he didn't say
anything. And I said, "Well, we have a
majority of my party in the Congress."
He didn't say anything. [Laughter] Then
he said, “But I have complete control of
a Parliament." And I didn't say anything.
And then he said "I represent a nation
that has historically believed in human
freedom," and I didn't have to respond.
And he said, "I represent a country that
believes in the purest principles of democ-
racy." And I didn't have to respond. And
he said, "I represent a country that has a
close friendship with your own," and he
knew that I didn't have to respond.
I said in my welcoming address that
we have many friends around the world,
but I think it is accurate to say that
the closest friends we have are in Great
Britain.
And I am very delighted tonight to
have Prime Minister Jim Callaghan and
his wife, Audrey, come and visit with us.
I think we have reestablished, in a per-
sonal way, the genuine reasons for this in-
timate tie between the United States of
America and our mother country.
We share common problems. We share
common ideals. We share common his-
tory. We share a common future, and we
are mutually supportive. We are partners.
When we have happy times, so does Eng-
land. When our economy suffers, so does
theirs. And when we are challenged from
359
