Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
of Labor and held that position until
1969.
Between 1961 and 1963, Peterson
served as Executive Vice Chairman of
the President's Commission on the Status
of Women. In 1964 President Lyndon B.
Johnson appointed her to the newly cre-
ated post of Special Assistant to the Pres-
ident for Consumer Affairs. She also
served as Chairman of the President's
Committee on Consumer Interests. She
held these posts until 1967.
Peterson joined Giant in 1970, and
since that time has spearheaded numer-
ous consumer-related projects. She has
her own professional staff, which devel-
ops consumer programs.
She is on the board of directors of many
consumer, educational, and civic associa-
tions, including the Institute for Public
Interest Representation at the George-
town University Law Center, the Wom-
en's National Democratic Club, the Cen-
ter for Science in the Public Interest, and
the National Center for Resource
Recovery.
Cancer Courage Award for 1977
Remarks on Presenting the Award to
Minnie Riperton. April 4, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. I can't match the ad-
miration that people have for you, but I
will try to make this presentation because
it means so much to me.
I think within the framework of health
care for our Nation and the world as a
constant combined fear and hope involv-
ing cancer, it touches almost every family.
My own father died with cancer in 1953.
My wife's father died with cancer when
she was 13 years old.
We have a national commitment to try
to solve for our own people and for the
rest of the world the health aspects of pre-
vention of cancer or cure of cancer once
it occurs. This may be in the near future
or it may be in the distant future, we don't
know. But in the meantime, there is
needed another aspect of human com-
mitment, and that is the demonstration
of courage and concern among those who
are afflicted with cancer and who have a
responsibility for those who suffer.
Minnie Riperton is one of 80 million
women throughout the world, each year,
who suffer from cancer of the breast.
Quite often this is a concealed affliction.
But when someone who is a famous per-
son like she is approaches this confron-
tation with a terrible disease, with cour-
age and concern for other people, it is
inspirational to us all.
It is with a great deal of pleasure that
I present this commemorative plaque to
Minnie Riperton for her frank approach
to a problem in her own life and for the
inspiration that she has provided for oth-
ers who might have to face this prospect
in the future.
I know that I, as a public official, will
join with the distinguished members of
the American Cancer Society Board of
Directors, and professional workers who
stand behind me, in renewing our com-
mitment to search for some way to pre-
vent cancer and its many forms of attack
on the health and well-being of our people
and other people around the world.
So, Minnie, it is with a great deal of
pleasure that I present to you this plaque.
And I want to thank you for coming in
today to receive it. You have meant a lot
to us all.
MISS RIPERTON. Thank you. I am
deeply moved and honored, and I do ac-
cept this award on behalf of cancer pa-
tients everywhere. I hope that by sharing,
I have somehow made it easier for people
to live with a similar experience. I thank
you very much.
566
