Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
achieved our ambient air quality goals.
My Administration has already submit-
ted to the Congress certain amendments
to the Clean Air Act. I support:
Strong provisions to prevent the de-
terioration of air quality in already clean
areas;
• A program to protect visibility in our
national parks and wilderness areas;
Strong enforcement tools, including
economic penalties to eliminate the bene-
fits of delay or noncompliance;
• The use of "best available control"
technologies in all new facilities;
Strict controls on coal-burning plants
to insure that they meet air quality
standards;
• Emission limitations for automobiles
which help meet clean air goals but allow
achievement of strict fuel economy stand-
ards;
• State implementation of inspection
and maintenance programs in seriously
polluted areas to ensure that automobiles
continue to meet emission control require-
ments while in use.
In addition, I have instructed the
Administrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency to review his agency's reg-
ulations controlling new industrial growth
in areas now violating air quality health
standards and to recommend to me and
to the Congress a fair and effective policy
for meeting these standards in the future.
Adoption of new legislative provisions in
this area should await the results of this
review.
WATER QUALITY
The nation has made considerable
progress in cleaning up its waters under
the program set forth in the 1972 amend-
ments to the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, but much remains to be done
in order to achieve the Act's goal of fish-
able and swimmable waters. Three areas
deserve particular attention:
(1) To help control pollution from
municipal sewage systems—an effort that
currently involves 10,000 projects in plan-
ning or under construction—we need
substantial additional funding. I have al-
ready asked the Congress to authorize the
expenditure of $4.5 billion in each of the
next ten years for municipal waste water
treatment facilities and to allow a one-
year extension in the September 1977
deadline for the obligation of construction
grant funds. But at the same time we need
to be sure that sewage projects supported
by federal money do not create additional
environmental problems, and that they
are designed to encourage water conser-
vation as well as water treatment. We also
must ensure that the systems are operated
properly once they have been built; that
there is an effective pretreatment pro-
gram to remove harmful industrial wastes
from these systems; and that we are care-
fully considering alternative solutions,
particularly in smaller communities, so
that we can be sure of building the proj-
ects which are economically and environ-
mentally most effective.
(2) I have already asked the Congress
to increase the funds available for the
Section 208 Planning Program, which
helps place water quality management in
the hands of state and local government,
where much of the job of prevention and
abatement must actually be done. This
Section of the 1972 Amendments provides
a means for addressing the increasingly
serious problem of pollution caused by
runoff from agriculture, mining, forestry,
and urban streets. To make it operate
effectively, tough state and local plans
addressing these problems must be com-
pleted and implemented as soon as
possible.
(3) Finally, I will be submitting fur-
ther water quality amendments for your
consideration in the current session. They
will include provisions to make pollution
971
