Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 23
agement techniques which emphasize the
use of natural biological controls like
predators, pest-specific diseases, pest-re-
sistant plant varieties, and hormones,
relying on chemical agents only as needed.
II. ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
In countless ways, our environment is
affected by the production, distribution,
and use of energy. Some of these for ex-
ample, the need to control oil tanker pol-
lution and the need to restrict plutonium
technology-I have already discussed in
specific messages to the Congress. Others
are implicit in my energy proposals, since
the act of reversing our present wasteful
energy practices will itself have many ben-
eficial consequences for the environment.
The transition to renewable energy
sources, particularly solar energy, must be
made. But it will take time. Meanwhile we
should satisfy our energy needs from exist-
ing sources, both fossil and nuclear, in a
safe and environmentally acceptable way.
In particular, my Energy Plan outlined a
number of steps this Administration will
take to deal with domestic nuclear safety
and spent fuel storage: an improved in-
spection program; mandatory reporting
of all mishaps and failures; development
of improved siting criteria; a review of the
entire licensing process; and a review of
the Energy Research and Development
Administration's radioactive waste man-
agement program. The decisions we make
about energy in the next few years will
influence the environment of our country
for generations.
THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
The oil and gas under federal owner-
ship on the outer continental shelf must
be developed in an orderly manner, recon-
ciling the nation's energy needs with
the fullest possible protection of the
environment.
Amendments to the OCS Lands Act
now being considered by the Congress,
with provisions proposed by the Adminis-
tration, will provide important new au-
thority to the Secretary of the Interior. I
urge expeditious passage of legislation to
regulate the outer continental shelf, and
in particular I favor provisions which
would:
• Permit full evaluation of the effects
of oil production, and cancel leases or
terminate operations when harm or dam-
age to the environment outweighs the
advantage of continued operations;
Improve consultation with states and
communities to assure that they have a
real role in decisions which affect them;
Require industry to use the best avail-
able economically achievable safety and
pollution control technology in operations
on the outer continental shelf.
In addition to new legislation, certain
administrative steps should be taken in
this area. The first is to assess the size and
scheduling of the OCS program. The Sec-
retary of the Interior has already revised
this program through 1978 to reflect rea-
sonable production objectives as well as
the various environmental considerations
in each OCS region.
As the Secretary now proceeds to re-
evaluate the longer-term OCS program,
I have directed him to work closely with
the Governors of affected coastal states to
guarantee that proposals for the timing
and sequence of offshore lease sales are
reasonable, not only in a technological
sense but also in economic, social, and en-
vironmental respects. Because the Alaskan
outer continental shelf is particularly sen-
sitive and controversial, I am directing
him to give special emphasis to it. I have
also asked him to work closely with the
Secretary of Commerce as she identifies
potential marine sanctuaries in areas
where leasing appears imminent.
973
