Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 28
no more intelligent, no more experienced
than I was the day before election.
The advantage that I have, though, as
President, in addition to our great form
of government, is the relationship that I
can maintain with you and others like you
around this country who believe as I do
in the past, present, and future greatness
of the United States.
We have come through some trying
times, as you know, in the last few years
when the very fabric of our political struc-
ture of society was tested and it was found
to be strong and whole. And it provides us
with a basis on which we can predicate
the realization of future dreams and where
we can heal our disharmonies and our lack
of communication and lack of understand-
ing, where we can reestablish the people
of our country and our own deep commit-
ments as kind of a beacon light for the rest
of the world, based on basic human rights
and on the free enterprise system and on
the right of individuals to make our own
decisions and to control Our own
government.
I've been in office now a little over 3
months. I've enjoyed being President.
I've had a few surprises. The diversity of
questions that come to me has been sur-
prising. The good reception of the con-
gressional leaders has been a pleasant
surprise. But I would say the most grati-
fying has been the overwhelming support
that I have had from the American peo-
ple, expressed in an outpouring of letters
and telegrams and telephone calls, but
also in the public opinion polls, which
show that although they recognize that
we haven't accomplished our goals yet,
that we have a mutual commitment to do
our best.
The responsible party in this country,
the Democratic Party, has shown again
our willingness to tackle difficult chal-
lenges which have been ignored or cov-
ered up or circumvented for the last 8
years. It's time for you and me and the
Congress to evolve and to implement a
comprehensive energy policy that's fair,
that's far-reaching, and that's adequate.
It's important for us to bring order out
of chaos in the bureaucratic jungle in
Washington, which in the past has made
it very difficult for well-meaning people
to adequately serve our own constituents
in an effective and an efficient way. And
the Congress has moved on this to give
me the authority for reorganizing the
structure of Government.
We have a means now to put into effect
a new budgeting system which I have de-
scribed many times in the last 2 years,
called zero-based budgeting, that will let
us go deep within the Government as the
1979 fiscal year budget is prepared to
eliminate unnecessary programs and to
reexamine those things that are now ac-
cepted as impervious to criticism and
scrutiny and analysis, and to bring them
to the surface and look them over again
and see which ones need to be continued,
which ones enhanced, which one reduced
or abolished.
On Monday, I'll spell out to the Amer-
ican people my own concepts of what the
American welfare system ought to be. I
think when you listen to this relatively
brief statement you will be pleased and
you will see that for the first time in many
years we are addressing one of the most
difficult and challenging responsibilities of
government to hold families together,
to encourage people to go to work who
are able to work, to give adequate support
and help to those who are necessarily de-
pendent, and to restore a sense of pride
both to the public servants, to private
citizens who pay taxes on a regular basis,
and those who are dependent to some
degree.
I have been surprised at the difficulty
of it. But shortly thereafter, we will begin
to consult with Governors in all 50 States
735
