Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
of providing a more stable supply of farm
commodities. This reserve will also help
promote export sales of agricultural com-
modities by showing that we can meet
supply commitments even when we have
poor crop yields.
-My administration will enter into
negotiations for international agreements
for grains and sugar to reduce fluctua-
tions in prices. We will also consider with
an open mind other commodity agree-
ments that concentrate on moderating
price fluctuations.
--We will work with Congress to assure
that raw materials from our strategic
stockpiles are made available to meet sup-
ply disruptions during peacetime. To aid
industry in evaluating future market con-
ditions, these efforts should exclude the
use of the strategic stockpile for purposes
of general price stabilization.
(4) Incentives for Increased Invest-
ment and Expanded Capacity. The rate
of expansion of productive capacity must
be stepped up to head off possible
shortages:
-Effective investment incentives will
be a key element of this administration's
comprehensive tax reform.
-I have asked the Secretary of Com-
merce to work with other Government
agencies to investigate the general prob-
lem of delays in construction permit is-
suance by Government agencies and to
recommend new procedures which will
simplify and speed up the permit issuance
process.
(5) Government Rate Setting Regula-
tions. In the past, Federal regulations have
often done more to protect regulated in-
dustries than to promote efficiency and
cost reductions. There is much we can do
to reverse this situation. The redirection
or elimination of regulations that no
longer serve national needs can lower
prices for consumers.
This administration has already indi-
cated its strong support for reform of air-
line regulations. We will be looking at
the potential for increased competition in
other regulated sectors of the economy.
An Agency for Consumer Advocacy,
which I have urged the Congress to es-
tablish, can play a useful role by inter-
vening in regulatory procedures on behalf
of the consumers who ultimately pay the
bills.
(6) Other Regulation. Actions can be
taken to improve the environment and to
protect consumers and workers against
health and safety hazards without exces-
sive costs or red tape.
-I have initiated efforts to eliminate
unnecessary Government regulations and
to simplify and promulgate regulations
with less delay.
-A review procedure will be estab-
lished to encourage regulators to give
proper weight to the economic impact of
the regulations they write.
-An interagency group now at work
will suggest ways for regulatory agencies
to emphasize incentives and performance
standards, rather than detailed specifica-
tions of the means by which the goals
should be achieved.
(7) Employment and Manpower Pro-
grams. We can reduce both unemploy-
ment and inflation by measures which
improve job skills, increase the efficiency
of the labor market, and target job oppor-
tunities to groups suffering from very high
unemployment rates.
The public works and employment
programs contained in my economic stim-
ulus proposals are targeted on groups and
areas with high unemployment.
-We have proposed a major expansion
of
programs to provide job opportunities
and skill training for youths.
-We will work through the schools
and other community organizations to
strengthen job placement and employ-
627
