Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
when I became President it's almost im-
possible to reverse it. But we are aware
of your problem and we'll just have to do
what I think is best for the country, and
at the same time try to honor the promise
that the Vice President made to do the
best he can to keep it open.
pointed out to me that the number one
drug that causes death is heroin, and the
second is barbiturates, which is a medi-
cation that's used quite frequently by
medical doctors.
So, the two are mixed in the people's
minds, and I think that "medication," as
MR. MITCHELL. Okay. Well, thank you have suggested, is a better word. I
you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Bob.
MR. CRONKITE. Mrs. Phyllis Rogers of
Albuquerque, New Mexico, is on the
phone, Mr. President. Mrs. Rogers?
MRS. ROGERS. Good afternoon, Presi-
dent Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, Mrs.
Rogers.
MRS. ROGERS Thank you again for
the invitation to the Inauguration.
THE PRESIDENT. Did you come?
DRUG ADVERTISING; SOLAR ENERGY
MRS. ROGERS. Two questions: Would
it be possible to eliminate the word
"drug" from drug store advertising? Also,
when new drugs are invented, they
always use the word "drug." Why not use
the terminology “medication?" Maybe it
would discourage drug abusers. What do
you think?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's a good
idea. I was talking yesterday, just coin-
cidentally, Mrs. Rogers, to Dr. Peter
Bourne, who is now the head of my en-
tire drug control effort, and he will be
working with foreign countries, including
your neighbor of Mexico, and with the
Congress and others, to try to hold down
the abuse of drugs, and as you know, this
applies not only to the illegal drugs like
heroin and cocaine and marihuana, and
others, but it also applies to some of the
medications that you've described.
The barbiturates, for instance—there
is a developing question about whether
they are necessary at all, and Dr. Bourne
am not sure if you could name the dis-
pensers of that, though, "medication
stores." They might object to that. May-
be there's a better word. Maybe "phar-
macy" would be best. But I don't have
any authority over what they name it.
But that's a good idea, to separate the
two, the illegal drugs from the legal medi-
cations would be a good distinction.
MRS. ROGERS. Thank you. And the
other question is, we are very concerned
about the solar energy program here in
the State of New Mexico.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MRS. ROGERS. And we're hoping it will
go through for us. Can you comment?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know what
the decision will be. I don't intend to get
involved in the decision personally. I
would like to see the research and de-
velopment programs for solar energy be
decided on a merit basis and where the
installations are best.
I would say, though, that New Mexico
has a head start on many of the places
around the country because of the long
history of research and development and
because of your climate. But I think we
will have several places around the coun-
try where we will be doing an increasing
amount of research and development on
solar energy in the future.
MRS. ROGERS. We love you, President
Carter, and thank you very much.
GI BILL
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very
much yourself.
306
