Mar. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
shows the age and the strength of the
Japanese society and also the beauty
which has always been characteristic of
the arts that exist in the minds and hearts
of the Japanese people.
We appreciate this closeness and we
look forward to great and increasing re-
lationships with our friends in Japan.
In closing, let me remind the audience
that in May, Prime Minister Fukuda and
I will go to London to discuss mutual
Two years have passed since we first
met in Tokyo, President Carter, but we
really haven't been out of touch since
then. I have seen a great deal of you, your
photographs carried widely throughout
Japan, on television and in the pa-
pers. And I personally followed with great
interest your campaign during the Presi-
dential elections. We had a very enjoy-
able talk on the telephone about 2 months
problems and mutual hopes and policies ago. So, I do not feel that it is only the
to be established for the future, among
the major developed nations of the world,
our relationships with one another, our
approach to alleviating tensions with
potential adversaries, and our policies in
dealing with nations that are still devel-
oping and which have not enjoyed the
bounties of nature as well as we have in
our two countries.
But we'll go there in a spirit of coopera-
tion and partnership, as equals, and the
discussions between myself and Prime
Minister Fukuda, my Cabinet officers
and his, today and tomorrow, will ensure
that the friendship that we now enjoy
will be even more greatly enhanced in the
months and years ahead.
So, it's with a spirit of appreciation,
confidence, and friendship, that the
American people welcome to our Capital
City one of the great leaders of one of
the greatest nations on Earth-Prime
Minister Fukuda of Japan.
Thank you very much for coming.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, distinguished guests:
Thank you very much for your gra-
cious comments, President Carter, on this
White House Lawn, and this beautiful
weather with the cherry blossoms in full
bloom. I was deeply moved by your gra-
cious words, Mr. President.
I would like to convey to you my deep-
est thanks on behalf of the Japanese
people.
second time that I am meeting you today
I feel as I have known you for many
years.
Since taking the office as Prime Min-
ister late last year, I looked forward to
the earliest opportunity to exchange
views with you, Mr. President, who on
January 20 was given the mandate of the
American people as their President. And
I appreciate very much today's oppor-
tunity to have the meeting with you.
Mr. President, the United States is
number one as an industrial democracy.
A little behind you as number two-ranks
Japan. And together, I believe that we
could cooperate for the future of man-
kind.
Three years ago, since we experienced
the oil shock, the world economy has
faced a very difficult situation.
We also have to grapple with the
North-South questions and Indochina,
the repercussions since Indochina has
given still concern to the Asian nations.
I believe that our two countries as major
industrial democracies and as specific na-
tions can identify our common responsi-
bilities and what we can do to contribute
toward world peace.
Since assuming the Prime Ministership
of Japan, I have told our Japanese people
that a spirit of cooperation and solidarity
should be the principle of citizenship of
Japanese. I believe the spirit of coopera-
468
