Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
June 1
ences to some degree in seeking a broader
scope for research and development in de-
termining how best we can deal with the
complicated world that we face in years
to come.
There are about $800 million that are
channeled into innovative thought proc-
esses to decide how our world might be
shaped by human beings in these trying
times. And I am very grateful to him for
being willing to serve in this capacity.
This is a position that must have the
trust and confidence of the scientific com-
munity-all its disciplines and I am
grateful to have a man of his stature and
ability and reputation serve in this posi-
tion. He comes from Stanford originally.
And we have also this morning, coming
to be introduced to you and to be sworn
in officially, Dr. Frank Press from MIT.
We considered all kinds of people and
backgrounds and experiences in being my
own adviser within the White House on
scientific matters.
Dr. Harold Brown is well qualified in
physics, and I particularly wanted some-
one to help me who had a broader scope
of understanding. And as you know, Dr.
Frank Press is an expert on Earth sciences.
He's one of those who has been able to
form a very close working relationship
with the scientific community in the So-
viet Union. He's been very widely re-
spected throughout the world for his
work in seismographic determinations
and did the basic planning for the method
that we've now used to monitor compli-
ance with nuclear explosives set off be-
neath the Earth's surface.
In the few weeks that Frank Press has
been here in the White House working
with me, I've really been favorably im-
pressed and gratified at the broad range
of his understanding on scientific matters.
And he will be sworn in this morning, too,
as an integral part of my own admin-
istration.
He attends the Cabinet meetings. He
attends the senior staff meetings. And
whether it might be new weapons systems,
scientific aspects of SALT negotiations,
problems with defense experimentations
that might lead to new opportunities
there, or whether it involves problems
with weather determination or, in many
instances, problems involving social sci-
ences, he's been very helpful in helping
me to make the right decisions.
The other man who will be sworn in
this morning is one of the best personal
friends I have in the world, Dr. Peter
Bourne. Dr. Bourne came to our country
when, I think, he was about 17 years
old-I may not be exactly right about
that from England. His father, Dr.
Geoffrey Bourne, is in charge of the
Yerkes Primate Center at Emory Univer-
sity where advanced work is done in the
testing of primates to determine how their
characteristics might help human beings
live a better life.
Dr. Bourne is a psychiatrist. He's be-
come perhaps, I think, the world's fore-
most expert on drugs-their origin, their
processing, their distribution, their sale,
their use, the effect on the human body,
how they might be controlled. He's writ-
ten perhaps a similar work on alchohol-
ism, and he's a scholar who has a great
commitment to the humane aspect of
science.
Dr. Bourne is also an expert on medi-
cine and gives me and Joe Califano a
great deal of help in determining the poli-
cies for the future in that field. He's a
good diplomat. Because of his special
knowledge, Dr. Bourne over a number of
years has been invited to go into countries
with whom we have no diplomatic rela-
tions and which on occasion have been
very bitter enemies of ours. But he's been
invited to come in to understand their
particular problems in health, alcoholism,
drug problems, and has helped to open up
1047
