June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
plans in being that they may have to stim-
ulate their production?
THE PRESIDENT. You come from the
Johnstown area?
Q. No, I come from Hazleton.
THE PRESIDENT. Hazleton. I see.
Well, there's no doubt about the fact
that many mines that have been aban-
doned in the past and even oil wells and
natural gas wells that have been aban-
doned in the past because of economic
circumstances are now being reexplored
for exploitation because of the increasing
cost of energy.
As the cost or value of coal goes up,
there is inevitably going to be a reassess-
ment of opening those same mines. We
have set tremendous goals for increased
coal production in our country. We have
coal supplies that are equal to any in the
world, as you know.
We have also a commitment on research
and development for new kinds of coal
combustion-the fluid bed boilers, for in-
stance, is one that I was discussing yester-
day and the assurance that we can burn
coal now of any quality with the minimum
adverse effect on air pollution.
I might say that we now produce about,
roughly, 600 million tons of coal per year.
Our goal by 1985 is to increase that
almost 90 percent, about 85 percent. So,
I would guess that in the anthracite re-
gion, and also in the other coal regions,
that the likelihood is that those coal mines
will be reactivated.
I can't answer your question any more
specifically than that. But as you know,
the value of coal per ton in the last 3 or
4 years has tripled or quadrupled. And
this makes it much more effective as a
source, even on marginal mined areas,
than it was in the past. I think the trend
of increasing prices is going to continue
upward very rapidly.
Maybe one more question.
ADMINISTRATION PRIORITIES
In addition to energy, what are
some of your other priorities for the
country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have a series
of those priorities, I think, in the domestic
field. We had four or five that were im-
portant that I outlined to Congress be-
fore they convened and before I was
inaugurated.
One was to establish rigid standards of
ethics in the legislative and executive
branches of Government to make sure
that there were no inherent, undetected
conflicts of interest. I think the House and
Senate have moved aggressively on that.
So have I.
Another one was giving me authority to
reorganize the executive branch of Gov-
ernment. The Congress moved expediti-
ously on that.
Another one was the establishment of
the new Department of Energy. Although
it took Lyndon Johnson, with very strong
influence in the Congress, 2 full years to
get approved a new Department of Trans-
portation-which was quite dissimilar
from his original proposal-I think it's
accurate to say that in not much more
than 3 months, the Congress will have
acted expeditiously on a Department of
Energy. That's good.
We now have put to the Congress the
question of how to deal with the rapidly
depleting reserves on social security. We
only have 2 more years to go before the
disability reserves are depleted, and 4 years
after that, we'll lose another major source
of payments to retired people. This has to
be corrected.
We will present to the Congress before
their August adjournment session to go
home for the summer a comprehensive
welfare proposal. And before the end of
this year, in October, when the Congress
adjourns before that time, we'll present a
comprehensive tax reform proposal.
1146
