Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 20
standards development, certification,
training, information gathering, and pub-
lic education.
b. Business investment tax credit (legis-
lative): The solar industry will be aided
further by the inclusion of investments in
solar equipment for industrial and com-
mercial purposes among the approved
conservation measures eligible for the
proposed 10-percent tax credit for
energy-
saving investments.
c. Federal Energy Management Pro-
gram (administrative/budget): The
Federal Government will demonstrate its
confidence in solar technology by under-
taking a 3-year solar program for Fed-
eral buildings with up to $100 million.
d. State support: States are urged to
amend their property tax laws to exempt
solar installations from assessments, to
enact legislation to protect access to the
sun and to promote consumer education
in the solar field. State public utility com-
missions would be required to develop
guidelines, to prevent utilities from dis-
criminating against users of solar energy
or other alternative energy sources.
2. Geothermal energy
a. Tax deductions (legislative): To
stimulate geothermal drilling, the Presi-
dent will propose a tax deduction for in-
tangible drilling costs comparable to that
now available for oil and gas drilling.
b. Procedural streamlining (adminis-
trative): The Departments of Interior
and Agriculture will streamline their
leasing and environmental review proce-
dures to remove unnecessary barriers to
development of geothermal resources.
I. RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT AND DEMON-
STRATION OF DECENTRALIZED SYSTEMS
1. Reorganization (administrative/
budget): A new Office of Small-Scale
Technology is proposed within the De-
partment of Energy in order to tap more
fully the great potential of the Nation's
individual inventors and small business
firms.
2. Solar, geothermal, and other tech-
nologies (budget): The Government will
provide increased funding for photovol-
taic systems, solar space cooling and other
solar buildings technologies, small wind
energy conversion systems, and demon-
stration projects on wood-derived bio-
mass. The Government will also fund pro-
grams for additional work on gas-fired
heat pumps and small fuel cells for resi-
dential and commercial heating and cool-
ing. Additional funding will be provided
to identify new hydrothermal sources
which could be tapped for near-term gen-
eration of electricity and for direct ther-
mal use. The Government will also sup-
port demonstration of direct, nonelectric
uses of geothermal energy for residential
space conditioning and industrial and
agricultural process heat in area where
this resource has not previously been
exploited.
J. TRANSPORTATION STUDY
During the era of cheap energy, the
United States developed a national en-
ergy transportation system principally for
moving oil and natural gas from the
South and the Texas Panhandle to the
North and Northeast. With growing pros-
pects for increased supplies of oil and gas
from Alaska and the Outer Continental
Shelf, as well as the possibility of increases
in Western coal production, the Nation
urgently needs to reassess its energy trans-
portation system. The President will es-
tablish a commission to study and make
recommendations concerning the national
energy transportation system.
687
