Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 26
to 1961, and master of the North Carolina
Grange from 1961 to 1963.
Scott served as Lieutenant Governor of
North Carolina from 1965 to 1969, and as
Governor from 1969 to 1973. He was
executive vice president of the North
Carolina Agribusiness Council from 1973
to 1975. Since 1973 he has been a con-
sultant to the North Carolina depart-
ment of community colleges. He is also
president of the Governmental Relations
and Assistance Group, Inc., and of Scott
Enterprises, Inc.
Scott was chairman of the Democratic
National Governors' Caucus in 1970-71
and vice chairman of the Democratic
National Committee in 1971-72. He
served as chairman of the Southern Re-
gional Education Board in 1970-71.
Treaty of Tlatelolco
Remarks on Signing Protocol I of the
Treaty. May 26, 1977
I am very pleased this afternoon to par-
ticipate in what I believe is an historical
occasion. This is a ratification by the
United States of Protocol I of the Tlate-
lolco Treaty, the deliberations for which
were begun in November of 1964 follow-
ing the Cuban missile crisis, when Brazil
and 10 other Latin American countries,
through the United Nations' auspices,
began to evolve a commitment against
the deployment or use of atomic weapons
in the Latin American part of this
hemisphere.
In 1971, our own country ratified Pro-
tocol II with the distinguished representa-
tive of our Government, Senator Hubert
Humphrey, having signed that on behalf
of the United States.
The ultimate hope of this commitment
by all the nations involved is a complete
prohibition against the ownership or de-
ployment or use of nuclear weapons in
the southern part of this hemisphere and
complete international safeguards for all
nuclear materials that are owned by all
those countries.
So far, only two countries have not
signed [ratified] this treaty. One is Argen-
tina and the other one is Cuba. France
has not yet signed Protocol I, which we
are signing this afternoon, and the Soviet
Union has not signed Protocol II.
This is a commitment of worldwide
significance. As I said in my own Inaugu-
ral Address, our ultimate hope is that we
can eliminate completely from the Earth
any dependence upon atomic weapons,
and I think it is significant and typical of
our Latin American neighbors and those
countries in the Caribbean that 10 years
before that time they had already made
this worthy commitment, which sets an
example for the world.
So, at this time I would like to, on be-
half of the American people, to sign Pro-
tocol I of the Tlatelolco Treaty, which
means that we will not deploy nuclear
weapons in the Caribbean or in the Cen-
tral or Southern American Continents.
[At this point, the President signed the
protocol.]
We are very proud of the leadership
role that the nation of Mexico has played.
Tlatelolco is in the suburbs of Mexico
City, and if I had my preference I would
have chosen a place that has a little bit
easier pronunciation but [laughter]—I
have practiced, and with the help of many
people I have now learned how to say it,
I believe. The Mexican Foreign Office is
in Tlatelolco.
Could Senator Humphrey come up and
stand here by me, if you don't mind.
The reason for signing four documents
is that they are in four languages-Eng-
lish, French, Spanish, and Portuguese.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:05 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
1027
