Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Now I want to discuss one of the most controversial and most mis-
understood parts of the energy proposal-a standby tax on automobile
gasoline. Gasoline consumption represents half of our total oil usage.
We simply must save gasoline, and I believe that the American people
can meet this challenge. It's a matter of patriotism and a matter of com-
mitment.
Between now and 1980, we expect gasoline consumption to rise
slightly above the present level. For the following 5 years, when we have
the more efficient cars on the road, we need to reduce consumption each
year to reach our targets for 1985.
I propose that we commit ourselves to these fair, reasonable and
necessary goals and, at the same time, write into law a gasoline tax of an
additional 5 cents per gallon that will automatically take effect each year
that we fail to meet our annual targets in the previous year. As an added
incentive, if we miss one year, but are back on the track the next year,
then the additional tax should come off. Now, if the American people
respond to this challenge, we can meet these targets. And under these
circumstances, this gasoline tax will never have to be imposed. I know
and you know that it can be done.
As with other taxes, we must minimize the adverse effects on our
economy-we must reward those who conserve and penalize those who
waste. Therefore, any proceeds from the tax-if it is triggered by exces-
sive consumption—should be returned to the general public in an equi-
table manner.
I will also propose a variety of other measures to make our trans-
portation system more efficient. One of the side effects of conserving
gasoline, for instance, is that State governments who have a limited
amount of tax per gallon collect less money through gasoline taxes. To
reduce their hardships and to insure adequate highway maintenance, we
should compensate States for this loss through the Highway Trust Fund.
The second major area where we can reduce waste is in our homes
and buildings. Some buildings waste half the energy used for heating and
cooling. From now on, we must make sure that new buildings are as
efficient as possible and that old buildings are equipped, or "retrofitted,"
with insulation and heating systems that dramatically reduce the use of
fuel.
The Federal Government should set an example. I will issue an
Executive order establishing strict conservation goals for both new and old
Federal buildings-a 45-percent increase in efficiency for new buildings
and a 20-percent increase in efficiency for old buildings by 1985.
666
