May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
THE PRESIDENT. Compared to what we
have done in the past, we have lowered
the barriers altogether, almost. This was
an exception, and I was not involved in
the decision. But I certainly support it.
There are no prohibitions now against
American citizens traveling anywhere in
the world, initiated by us. For the first
time, Americans can go to North Korea,
to Vietnam, to Cambodia, to Cuba. They
couldn't a couple of months ago. We have
removed the constraints in our own Na-
tion on travel as well as from aliens.
There will be a need to change the
basic American law that was written dur-
ing the cold war. I would be in favor of
removing all restrictions on travel, except
those that have to be; that would be
minimal.
As far as the human rights effort is
concerned, this is a position that is com-
patible with the character of the Ameri-
can people. It is one that is almost
overwhelmingly supported by the Ameri-
can people. It is one that will be perma-
nent. And it is one that has to be pursued
in a very sensitive way.
We can't change the structure of
gov-
ernments in foreign countries. We can't
demand complete compatibility in a sys-
tem of government or even basic philoso-
phies with our own, but we reserve the
right to speak out freely and aggressively
when we are concerned.
So, I think that although there has been
some temporary adverse reaction to our
position on human rights, perhaps in the
Soviet Union, in Brazil, and maybe a few
other countries, I don't intend to back
down on it.
ZAIRE
MR. EMERY. This is a very brief ques-
tion. We are struck by the fact that you
are willing to coordinate your policies
with Britain in seeking to avert a race war
in southern Africa; and yet, in the case
where there has been an invasion, appar-
ently, across the frontier into Zaire from
neighboring Angola, you appear to wish
to stay out of any involvement and-
how shall I say it-leave it to the French?
Is that a fair characterization, and can
you tell us what your policy is?
THE PRESIDENT. We have an aversion
to military involvement in foreign coun-
tries. We are suffering, or benefiting, from
the experience that we had in Vietnam. It
would not be possible for the American
people to support an invasion force with
the United States into the Shaba region of
Zaire.
We have continued to send Zaire aid
and supplies, C-130's, ammunition, fuel,
medical supplies, parachutes, and so
forth.ยน
We obviously did not interfere in the
decisions made by the Egyptians, Moroc-
cans, the French Government, to give
Zaire more direct aid. We certainly don't
disapprove it.
I think when the European countries or
the African nations, because of close po-
litical and historical ties with Mobutu and
his government, are inclined to be more
active in their help for him, we, you know,
would certainly approve of that, of their
prerogative.
So, we would like to see the boundaries.
of the African nations honored. We are
friendly with Mobutu and the Govern-
ment of Zaire.
ยน On May 5, the White House Press Office
released the following clarification of the Presi-
dent's statement:
The President was referring to the fact that
previous administrations have supplied ammu-
nition to Zaire. This administration has not sent
any ammunition to Zaire and is not sending any
during the present crisis. Zaire has a total of
five C-130's provided by previous administra-
tions and will shortly be receiving an additional
C-130. We have continued to supply spare
parts for C-130's.
782
