May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
First, we have reaffirmed America's commitment to human rights
as a fundamental tenet of our foreign policy. In ancestry, religion, color,
place of origin, and cultural background, we Americans are as diverse a
nation as the world has even seen. No common mystique of blood or soil
unites us. What draws us together, perhaps more than anything else, is a
belief in human freedom. We want the world to know that our Nation
stands for more than financial prosperity.
This does not mean that we can conduct our foreign policy by rigid
moral maxims. We live in a world that is imperfect and which will always
be imperfect—a world that is complex and confused and which will al-
ways be complex and confused.
I understand fully the limits of moral suasion. We have no illusion
that changes will come easily or soon. But I also believe that it is a mistake
to undervalue the power of words and of the ideas that words embody. In
our own history, that power has ranged from Thomas Paine's "Common
Sense" to Martin Luther King, Jr.'s "I Have a Dream."
In the life of the human spirit, words are action, much more so than
many of us may realize who live in countries where freedom of expression
is taken for granted. The leaders of totalitarian nations understand this
very well. The proof is that words are precisely the action for which dis-
sidents in those countries are being persecuted.
Nonetheless, we can already see dramatic, worldwide advances in
the protection of the individual from the arbitrary power of the state.
For us to ignore this trend would be to lose influence and moral authority
in the world. To lead it will be to regain the moral stature that we once
had.
The great democracies are not free because we are strong and pros-
perous. I believe we are strong and influential and prosperous because we
are free.
Throughout the world today, in free nations and in totalitarian
countries as well, there is a preoccupation with the subject of human
freedom, human rights. And I believe it is incumbent on us in this coun-
try to keep that discussion, that debate, that contention alive. No other
country is as well-qualified as we to set an example. We have our own
shortcomings and faults, and we should strive constantly and with cour-
age to make sure that we are legitimately proud of what we have.
Second, we've moved deliberately to reinforce the bonds among our
democracies. In our recent meetings in London, we agreed to widen our
economic cooperation, to promote free trade, to strengthen the world's
monetary system, to seek ways of avoiding nuclear proliferation. We pre-
958
