Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 23
Presidential Commission on
Americans Missing and
Unaccounted for in
Southeast Asia
Remarks at a News Briefing on the Results
of the Commission's Trip to Vietnam
and Laos. March 23, 1977
I'd like to make a brief report on what
I consider to be a superb mission to Viet-
nam and Laos on the part of Leonard
Woodcock and Senator Mike Mansfield,
Marian Edelman, Ambassador Yost, and
Congressman Montgomery, to inquire
about the accounting for American serv-
ice people who were missing in action,
and also to lay the groundwork for future
normalization of diplomatic relationships
with those two countries.
Every hope that we had for the mission
has been realized. The Commission mem-
bers and the staff were received with
great friendship. The Vietnamese deliv-
ered to the Commission 12 bodies. Eleven
of them have been identified as American
servicemen. One body is not an American
serviceman and will be returned. We have
notified the Vietnamese Government
about the error and it was an honest
mistake.
Positive identification procedures are
continuing in Hawaii. And we feel that
without delay-this is a very careful and
meticulous process-that we can notify
the families when positive identification is
assured. The other 11 bodies are Ameri-
can service people and we think we know
who they are, but before the families are
notified, we want to be absolutely certain.
The one body that was in error, the fam-
ily is being notified about that error.
The Vietnamese have not tied together
economic allocations of American funds
with the MIA question. We believe that
they've acted in good faith. They have
promised to set up a permanent study
mechanism by which the United States
Government can provide information that
we have about the potential whereabouts
or identity of servicemen who were lost,
and the Vietnamese have promised to co-
operate in pursuing the evidence that we
might present to them in the future.
They've also suggested that we reiniti-
ate diplomatic discussions in Paris with-
out delay, to resolve other issues that
might be an obstacle to peace between
our two countries, and friendship between
our two countries, and normalization of
relationships within our two countries.
I will respond immediately to Premier
Pham Van Dong, that we accept their
invitation and that these discussions will
commence. There are no preconditions re-
quested, and there will certainly be no pre-
conditions on our part for these talks in
Paris.
I'd like to express on behalf of the
American people, my sincere thanks to
Chairman Leonard Woodcock and to the
Commission members. They met with al-
most every conceivable interested group
before they departed from the United
States, including representatives of the
families of servicemen who are missing in
action, congressional leaders, and others,
remarkable concert and performed their
and they formed a team which worked in
assignment in an absolutely superlative
way.
At this time, I would like to introduce
to the group Chairman Leonard Wood-
cock, who will be available to answer your
questions about the trip.
Later on this afternoon, a complete
written report by the Commission to me
will be made public.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House, follow-
489
