Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 9
Later on this year we'll go to Belgrade
to assess the component parts of the Hel-
sinki agreement. And I want to be sure
that we don't violate those rights. So I've
instructed the Secretary of State to re-
move any travel restrictions on American
citizens who want to go to Vietnam, to
North Korea, to Cuba, and to Cambodia.
And these restrictions will be lifted as of
the 18th day of March.
I would like to point out that we still
don't have diplomatic relationships with
these countries. That's a doubtful pros-
pect at this time. So, there will be some
necessary precautions that ought to be
taken by citizens who go there, since we
don't have our own diplomats in those
countries to protect them if they should
have difficulty.
I'd be glad to answer any questions that
you might have.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
QUESTIONS
HUMAN RIGHTS AND CHILE
Q. Mr. President, an American dele-
gate to the U.N. Human Rights Commis-
sion has said that he believes and he
hopes that his allegations concerning ter-
ror, suffering in Chile today, coincide with
your human rights policy. Do they?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't know
which delegate this is or what his con-
cerns are. But we are still concerned about
deprivation of human rights in many of
the countries of the world. I think Chile
would be one of those where concern has
been expressed. And I want to be sure that
the American people understand that this
is a very sensitive issue.
We've tried to be broad-based in our
expression of concern and, also, respon-
sible. At first, our policy was interpreted,
I think, improperly, to deal exclusively
with the Soviet Union.
I've just pointed out how our own coun-
try has been at fault in some instances.
Torture has been reported to us from some
of the nations of the world. We are pre-
senting these items to the Congress as re-
quired by law. But throughout the entire
world, in Latin America, in our own coun-
try, in the Communist nations in Eastern
Europe, and in the Soviet Union, we are
very much aware of the concern about
human rights.
I think it's entirely appropriate for our
own country to take the leadership role
and let the world say that the focal point
for the preservation and protection of hu-
man rights is in the United States of Am-
erica. I'm proud of this. And I intend to
adhere to it with the deepest possible per-
sonal commitment, and I believe I speak
accurately for the American people on this
subject.
Q. Well, then, does that mean, Mr.
President, that you don't object to the re-
marks that were made by our delegate?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the re-
marks made by the delegate concerning
our past involvement in Chilean political
affairs was inappropriate. I didn't know
about it ahead of time. It was a personal
expression of opinion by that delegate.
I think that the Church committee in
the Senate has not found any evidence
that the United States was involved in the
overthrow of the Allende government in
Chile. There were some allegations made,
I think, perhaps accurate, that we did
have financial aid and other-I think fi-
nancial aid to be restrictive-to political
elements in Chile that may have contrib-
uted to the change in government. But I
don't think there has been any proof of
illegalities there. And the statements made
by our delegate were his own personal
statements, not representing our Govern-
ment's.
341
