Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
We will also seek to establish Soviet willingness to reach agreement
with us on mutual military restraint in the Indian Ocean, as well as on
such matters as arms exports to the troubled areas of the world.
In proposing such accommodations I remain fully aware that Ameri-
can-Soviet relations will continue to be highly competitive but I believe
that our competition must be balanced by cooperation in preserving peace,
and thus our mutual survival.
I will seek such cooperation with the Soviet Union—earnestly, con-
stantly, and sincerely.
However, the effort to contain the arms race is not a matter just
for the United States and Soviet Union alone. There must be a wider ef-
fort to reduce the flow of weapons to all the troubled spots of this globe.
Accordingly, we will try to reach broader agreements among pro-
ducer and consumer nations to limit the export of conventional arms, and
we, ourselves, will take the initiative on our own because the United States
has become one of the major arms suppliers of the world.
We are deeply committed to halting the proliferation of nuclear
weapons. And we will undertake a new effort to reach multilateral agree-
ments designed to provide legitimate supplies of nuclear fuels for the
production of energy, while controlling the poisonous and dangerous
atomic wastes.
Working with other nations represented here, we hope to advance
the cause of peace. We will make a strong and a positive contribution at
the upcoming Special Session on Disarmament which I understand will
commence next year.
But the search for peace also means the search for justice. One of the
greatest challenges before us as a nation, and therefore one of our greatest
opportunities, is to participate in molding a global economic system which
will bring greater prosperity to all the people of all countries.
I come from a part of the United States which is largely agrarian and
which for many years did not have the advantages of adequate transpor-
tation or capital or management skills or education which were available
in the industrial States of our country.
So, I can sympathize with the leaders of the developing nations, and
I want them to know that we will do our part.
To this end, the United States will be advancing proposals aimed
at meeting the basic human needs of the developing world and helping
them to increase their productive capacity. I have asked Congress to
provide $72 billion of foreign assistance in the coming year, and I will
448
