Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 3
tee Chairman Charles Diggs, as an oppor-
tunity to focus Federal attention on the
needs of the District.
Vice President Mondale's
Trip to Europe
Statement on the Vice President's Trip.
May 3, 1977
I leave for London later this week for
summit talks of the very greatest impor-
tance to this Nation's international politi-
cal and economic interests. These talks
are central to the priority steps I am tak-
ing in the first year of my administration
with our friends and allies to ensure the
greatest possible understanding, coopera-
tion, and progress in
in our
interests.
common
I am very pleased to announce today
that I am asking Vice President Mondale
to undertake an important overseas mis-
sion in my behalf later this month.
The Vice President will be traveling
to Portugal, Spain, Austria, Yugoslavia,
and the United Kingdom on a mission
that will enable this administration to
pursue as effectively as possible additional
foreign policy objectives that are also cen-
tral to the goals of my administration. In
Lisbon and Madrid, the Vice President
will continue the important consultations
we have begun with the Portuguese and
Spanish Governments. I believe I speak
for the American people when I say how
very deeply encouraged we are by the re-
turn to democracy in Portugal and by the
steps Spain is taking to build a true and
just democracy. We value the closest pos-
sible consultations with these governments
at this important time in their histories—
consultations which will enable us to build
on our cooperation in all fields of mutual
interest.
The Vice President's visit to Vienna,
Austria, will have two prime objectives.
We view Austria as a good friend of the
United States. I have the highest respect
for the Austrian Chancellor, Bruno Krei-
sky, whom I regard as an important inter-
national statesman. And I have asked the
Vice President to meet with the Chan-
cellor and other leaders of the Austrian
Government not only for bilateral consul-
tations but also so that we may have the
benefit of their views on a number of im-
portant international issues.
A few weeks ago, I mentioned that I
had asked the Vice President to play a
key role, in close coordination with Sec-
retary Vance and Ambassador Young, in
the development of the administration's
policy toward Africa. In keeping with
that role, the Vice President will meet
with Prime Minister Vorster of the Re-
public of South Africa while he is in
Vienna. Prime Minister Vorster, like our-
selves, has an interest in meeting to dis-
cuss developments in southern Africa. We
have been working closely with the British
Government on Foreign Secretary Owen's
efforts to make progress on Rhodesia.
Separately, we have been working closely
with the British and other governments
on the issue of Namibia. The talks in
Vienna will enable the Vice President, in
my behalf, to discuss these complex issues
with the South African Prime Minister
and to state our views on the crucial role
which can be played by the South African
Government in bringing the needed
changes in southern Africa.
In this regard we are very grateful to
Prime Minister Kreisky for the hospitality
being given by the Austrian Government.
The Vice President's visit to Yugo-
slavia for talks with President Tito and
members of the Yugoslav leadership will
mark the first high-level U.S.-Yugoslav
consultations under my administration.
The U.S. places importance on Yugo-
785
