Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
consideration. I can't give you a good
answer to your question yet. I don't know
the answer yet.
Q. Thank you.
THE NATION'S SPIRIT
Q. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say this will
have to be the last question. I'm sorry.
Q. Again, good evening, Mr. President.
At first I wish not to offer you another
welcome to Clinton from Clintonians,
but a thank you from Americans all over
America for bringing back to us a sense
of integrity, pride, and love of our
Government amongst ourselves and our
Nation.
Now, my questions is as follows: As it
becomes more apparent that we as Ameri-
cans are now engaged in a new era that
is one of awareness, self-pride, and in-
volvement, what do you consider to be
the greatest aids for the advancement in
growth of these areas which should lead
to a better America?
THE PRESIDENT. The greatest aid?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt that anyone
in politics at least in the last 2 years has
traveled more than I have or seen more
parts of our country or met with more
groups or made more speeches or an-
swered more questions or gotten more
free advice. I've learned a lot in the
process.
And although we do have serious prob-
lems, when I took office we had about an
8 percent unemployment rate. We had a
very high inflation rate. I think there
was a great deal of distrust of the Federal
Government.
We had a confused welfare system, an
improper income tax system, and many
other things. We were still suffering from
the aftermath of Watergate and Vietnam
and Cambodia, and the revelations about
illegal actions of the FBI and the CIA.
There was an opportunity there for us
to make great progress. I believe that the
most important aid for solving these
problems is the natural and unchanged
strength of our country. Economically,
we're the strongest nation on Earth. God
gave us great blessings of open fields and
adequate water supplies and access to the
oceans. We've got mineral deposits. We've
got the economic strength. No other coun-
try has as broad based an opportunity for
economic prosperity as we do.
We've got the best system of govern-
ment on Earth. In spite of its defects, it's
still an opportunity for a clean, decent,
prosperous, democratic government where
people can control it. It hasn't been made
dirty except just temporarily. So, our
Government is the best on Earth, and our
people are our greatest strength of all. So,
the aids that the Congress has, the aids
that the President has, are not in the
offices in Washington; the resources of
our country that can help us correct our
mistakes and reach for greatness exists
among people like you who live in Clin-
ton, Massachusetts, or Plains, Georgia, or
Los Angeles, or Washington, D.C., and
who are hungry for something of which
we can be proud once again in domestic
affairs, in foreign affairs.
I want to see our Government so strong,
so good, so open, so competent, so decent,
so humane that all of us will be proud of
it.
And I want the American people, after
3 or 4 years at least, not to look on the
Federal Government as an enemy, or an
obstacle to be overcome, but as a friend
that's constantly probing for better ways
to let your own life be meaningful. And
if you have a problem of unemployment
or too much inflation, or not enough edu-
cation, or not enough health care, or in-
401
