Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
Virginia for recreation and public water
supply.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. I think
that this whole discussion today, with a
wide range of opinions expressed around
the table, is not only healthy, but it shows
our own interest, particularly Dr. Schles-
inger's interest, in having input from dif-
ferent interest groups. It is not an easy
thing for the coal operators, the coal
miners, the leaders of the unions, the
citizen groups, the environmental groups,
and others to have a chance to commu-
nicate with one another.
I think that if you wanted to go to
Washington now-I am not criticizing
anyone—it would be hard to put this kind
of group together. You wouldn't know
where to go to meet. But I think in the
future, just having one agency respon-
sible for most of the questions that have
been raised this afternoon will give us a
remarkably good way to exchange ideas
and to work harmoniously, rather than at
cross-purposes.
We are a little bit early in getting
through with the panel. I did it deliber-
ately. I hope nobody minds. I thought we
might go now to the audience, if there
are questions from the audience. I think
there are some microphones here, and
you kind of line up. I am not going to try
to answer the questions. I am going to
refer the questions to these experts in
front of you. But if you would, please,
identify yourself in each case, and then
state your question as briefly as possible.
QUESTIONS
COAL
willing to risk your popularity as we talk
about this issue.
Mr. President, the experts now believe
that coal is the answer to our energy sal-
vation and our economic well-being. I
think that's been verified here today
rather amply and that we're going to
have to increase in the next 10 to 15 years
coal consumption by perhaps two- or
threefold what it is now.
Much of the coal we have in this State
is currently not usable because of the sul-
fur content and the prohibitions we have
imposed upon discharges into the air.
Contrary to the new director of EPA, I
do not believe that any reputable engi-
neering firm believes we have the tech-
nology to remove SO₂ from large dis-
charges on modern powerplants such as
our John Amos Plant here, nor can we
remove it by treating all of the coal that
is burned. The technology simply does
not exist on a proven, reliable scale.
Therefore, if you will accept that for
the moment, one important step that we
could do to increase coal consumption is
to take a more realistic look at the current
ambient air standard of .02 parts per mil-
lion SO2. President Carter, can we count
on your administration to adopt a higher
SO₂ standard, perhaps one or two parts
per million?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. This
is something that we would approach with
a great reluctance, but I'll have to learn
more about it before I can answer that
question. Perhaps I can ask Doug Costle
to respond, and also Mr. Reichl, and then
perhaps let any other members of the
panel who want to see whether or not it
is advisable or necessary to move to a
Q. My name is Richard Bernard. I'm higher, or, rather, a lower air quality
with the West Virginia College of Grad-
uate Studies here in Charleston.
I thank you, Mr. President, for coming
to Charleston and saying to us you are
standard in order to meet those needs.
MR. COSTLE. Mr. President, I have un-
der review right now the existing sulfur
standards, and that will be an ongoing re-
429
