June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
be limited to levels well below their rec-
ord high of 156 million pairs in 1976. The
agreement, signed by Ambassador James
Shen of the ROC, and Robert S. Strauss,
President Carter's Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations, was announced
by Ambassador Strauss.
Negotiation of a similar agreement be-
tween the United States and the Republic
of Korea is nearly complete and is ex-
pected to be announced next week, Am-
bassador Strauss reported.
In announcing the OMA with Taipei,
Ambassador Strauss commended the Gov-
ernments of both the Republics of China
and Korea for their "cooperative states-
manship" in developing "fair and equit-
able negotiated solutions" to pressing in-
ternational shoe trade problems.
"Any agreement such as the one we
have just concluded," Ambassador
Strauss noted, “represents a temporary
trade restriction which the President has
said he is very reluctant to take. These
[Orderly Marketing] Agreements are not
the ideal long-term solutions to our trade
problems."
"Our agreement with Taipei, however,"
Strauss said, "is a useful, effective, and
acceptable way of giving one of our basic
domestic industries a reasonable tempo-
rary period in which to adjust to severe,
sudden, short-term market disruptions,
and to become more competitive which
is essential in the long run. As such, it
comes to grips with an immediate eco-
nomic problem, which if allowed to con-
tinue to fester, could cause injury to our
workers and industry to reach such pro-
portions as to fuel the fever of protection-
ism. In this total context," Strauss ob-
served, "we have just administered an
emergency antiprotectionist prescription."
Ambassador Strauss also noted that "in
accordance with President Carter's in-
structions, the Departments of Commerce
and Labor and my Office are working on
a newly designed Federal Trade Adjust-
ment Assistance program which will de-
liver much more effective help to trade
impacted domestic firms and workers.
Details of this proposed new program will
be announced before the end of this
month."
The OMA with Taipei provides that
in the first year, from June 28, 1977,
through June 30, 1978, ROC exports to
the United States of three categories of
nonrubber footwear-leather, plastic, and
"other"-will not exceed 122 million
pairs. This quota will be increased by 3
million pairs in each of the succeeding
years, 1978-79, 1979-80, and 1980-81, up
to a limit of 131 million pairs in the final
year of the agreement. Each of the three
footwear categories has a separate sub-
limit. Exports of felt footwear liners under
the international Multifiber Arrangement
(MFA) are not included in these quotas.
The Republic of China has assured the
United States in side letters to the agree-
ment that it will not permit disruptive
shifts in the type, material, or price range
of footwear that it exports, and that it
will not circumvent the agreement by dis-
ruptively shifting into lines of footwear
that technically are not covered by the
OMA, but that in fact compete with lines
of shoes that are covered.
The OMA also provides that if other
U.S. footwear export suppliers should
move to take advantage of Taipei's export
limitations by unduly increasing their
shipments to the United States, the
United States may take unilateral action
to correct the inequities.
This OMA, and a similar draft agree-
ment with Korea, were approved by Pres-
ident Carter as appropriate import relief,
in the national economic interest under
the Trade Act, to remedy serious injury
to domestic footwear makers and workers,
which was found by the U.S. International
Trade Commission (USITC) to have
1114
