Mar. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Now, we are trying now to hold down
the cost of both medicine, treatment, and
also hospital care. But I can't answer your
question yet.
MR. RANKIN. All right.
THE PRESIDENT. The first part of the
answer, though, will be forthcoming May
1 with a welfare reform package; the sec-
ond part, September 30, with income tax
revision proposals. And the comprehensive
health care would probably have to wait
until next year. There's just so much we
can do the first year, Sam.
MR. RANKIN. I appreciate that.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry.
MR. RANKIN. Then, the second part of
my question, Mr. President, with many of
our young people so involved in the past
and presently with Vietnam, I would like
to respectfully suggest that possibly you
appoint a young person, preferably a Viet-
nam veteran, to accompany the mission
headed by Leonard Woodcock and includ-
ing my State's most distinguished Mem-
ber of the Senate, Senator Mansfield, go-
ing to Vietnam in the near future. I be-
lieve this would help many of us, myself
included, who felt hesitant in going to
Vietnam and would now like to feel that
we are helping rebuild that country.
And I respectfully request that my
name be on that list if and when you do
decide to include a young member.
My wife wants me to be sure and say
that if you are ever in Billings, Montana,
that we would more than like to have you
stay at our home.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a very nice in-
vitation for me. My roommate at the
Naval Academy back in ancient days was
from Butte, Montana. His name was Blue
Middleton, and I hear a lot about Mon-
tana from him. And, of course, Senator
Mike Mansfield is one of the most distin-
guished Members of Congress that has
ever served in our country.
The five members who will go to Viet-
nam have already been chosen. Leonard
Woodcock will be the chairman. As you
have said, Mike Mansfield would go. A
woman, Marian Edelman, will also be on
the trip, and a professional diplomat will
go along, and also one Member of the
House of Representatives as well.
Unfortunately, we won't have a veteran
of the Vietnam war. I thought about this,
Sam, and I also thought about sending a
member of an MIA family.
MR. RANKIN. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. But my judgment was
that we probably ought not to get people
there who are so deeply and emotionally
involved in the process. We've been en-
couraged so far—nobody can predict what
is going to happen in the future—at the
response of the Vietnamese Government.
I think they want to reestablish relation-
ships with our own country. They need
help in exploring for oil and in other ways.
They need to trade with the outside world
and not be completely dependent upon
the Communist countries, like China and
Russia.
Of course, we want to get an account-
ing for the more than 2,500 Americans
who still are not completely accounted
for in Vietnam. So you have a good sug-
gestion. But I have already chosen the
five people, and they are now getting
ready to go.
They'll arrive in Vietnam, if the plans
go through, I think, the 16th of March.
So it is well underway.
MR. RANKIN. I think your proposal,
your counterpoint to mine, was well
taken. I can understand, you know, your
thinking behind choosing someone who
isn't necessarily a Vietnam veteran.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you, Mr. Ran-
kin. Thank you, sir, for calling.
I am going to suggest, Mr. President,
that because we only have 35 minutes
left, that from here on out we ask the
316
