Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
stood up before, and I'm sure are willing
to stand again. But we're kind of like that
proverbial horse that keeps getting led to
the water; we have got to know what
we're going to have to drink. And at this
point, the most fantastic or astonishing
thing to me is that the fallout of the oil
embargo, 3 or 4 years ago, was that the
Federal Government had no independent
or objective, or very little independent or
objective information as to what the ener-
gy status was in this country.
That is almost astonishing. And unfor-
tunately, up until the last month or so,
there hasn't been any change in that pol-
icy. And I was very happy to see that you
came out strong a few weeks ago, and said
that your administration was dedicated to
the task of getting to the bottom of the
natural gas crisis. And a report to the peo-
ple—that is necessary and that is impor-
tant-not only facts for you, as President,
and your advisers to create policy for this
country, but the public has got to know.
Otherwise, we can't follow.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
MR. KILPATRICK. Mr. President, there
is a point in the area of utility reform
which Interior Secretary Andrus has pro-
posed to be studied. I'd like to say to Dr.
Schlesinger, if I might, that I think it's
extremely vital. Right now, there are some
specific cases that people concerned with
conservation, with efficiency and using
domestic fuels, feel generally are almost
insane in their extreme. I'll give you an
example. Baltimore Gas & Electric Com-
pany is about to open a 1300-megawatt
powerplant in the Baltimore area, using
foreign oil, despite the fact that West Vir-
ginia low-sulfur coal has been offered to
them, and the plant can burn coal.
The Southern Company is in the proc-
ess, and has already signed at least one
contract, to bring western coal to Georgia,
Alabama, and Mississippi. Detroit Edison
is in the process of bringing western coal
to Detroit. And Niagara Mohawk, in west-
ern New York State, that has always
bought Appalachian coal, is considering
buying western coal through Detroit Edi-
son's transportation affiliate for use in
western New York.
I have here, and I'd like you and your
staff to have a chance to look at this, an
example of a Federal Power Commission
report by Ohio Power Company-not by
the Federal Government, but by Ohio
Power Company-that shows that they
have converted a plant in Ohio predom-
inantly to western coal or coal that they
mine from their own mines, despite the
fact, as this report shows, that low-sulfur
coal from Kentucky, Virginia, and West
Virginia is being delivered to that plant
cheaper, total cost-wise, than the western
coal they're bringing in. The western coal
is being moved on their own barge lines,
whose costs are not regulated by the Ohio
Public Utilities Commission.
So, what I would propose your adminis-
tration consider is a flat ban on the auto-
matic feature of fuel adjustment clauses
in every State in the country. This is the
only way I can see to require utilities to
buy the cheapest possible fuel, consistent
with whatever environmental regulations
are involved. And I would add that this
State has both the legislature and the
Public Service Commission have abolished
the automatic feature of the clause here.
After we did it, surprisingly enough, our
largest powerplant in this State, which
was using predominantly out-of-State
coal, was suddenly converted back to pre-
dominantly West Virginia coal, and the
total cost went down to the consumer.
COAL
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to ask Dr.
Hamner, if he would, to comment on the
406
