Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Jan. 30
at least temporarily, utilize the briefing
room here? And then the press will know
that if you, Pat, have a statement to make,
that you will come over here to make it.
And I think just a half-hour notice would
be enough for Jody to make the announce-
ment.
Anybody else have anything? I'm going
to leave and, Jim, if you would just kind
of outline some of the things that out-
you
lined to me and just have a brief conver-
sation and then, if need
you
me, I will be
available over in my office.
REPORTER. Mr. Schlesinger, can you
tell us where this new gas has been lo-
cated, and is it going to move or not?
MR. SCHLESINGER. The first question,
I think, was the 11 States. And I should
point out that the list of the States changes
every day, depending upon weather con-
ditions, supply availability. But the latest
list that we have from the FPC [Federal
Power Commission] are Georgia, Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky, New York, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennes-
see, Virginia, and West Virginia. The
States that are suffering from the severity
of weather are a belt, basically, from Illi-
nois through New York State-Illinois,
Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia, Pennsyl-
vania, and New York.
With respect to gas supplies, I think
that there is an understanding in the in-
dustry about which pipelines have rela-
tively abundant supplies. And assuming
that we get the passage of the President's
emergency natural gas bill, those supplies
will be able to flow. There are also some
present during this portion of the Cabinet
meeting.
Natural Gas Emergency
Text of a Telegram to the Governors of 12
States. January 29, 1977
I am deeply concerned about the hu-
man suffering and economic problems be-
ing caused by the energy shortages.
To help deal with these problems, I
would appreciate your providing me spe-
cific information on energy related prob-
lems in your state, and your views as to
how these problems could be mitigated or
resolved. I have asked Jack Watson, Sec-
retary to the Cabinet and the Assistant to
the President for Intergovernmental Re-
lations, to coordinate the efforts of an
interagency group that will collect such
information and oversee the federal re-
sponse to this serious problem.
Please telegraph your response att:
Jack Watson/Coordinating Group/White
House, D.C.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical telegrams
sent to the Governors of Georgia, Illinois, Indi-
ana, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vir-
ginia, and West Virginia. The text of the tele-
gram was made available by the White House
Press Office on January 30. It was not issued
in the form of a White House press release.
supplies that could flow are available The Energy Shortage
today and could flow over intrastate lines
if we had adequate legislative authority,
and we are looking into arrangements by
which we can provide that legislative
authority.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at the Westinghouse Plant in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. January 30, 1977
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. White
House correspondents and photographers were
THE PRESIDENT. I think the reason for
my being here is exactly your reason for
being here to keep this Westinghouse
Plant open, productive, with an assur-
37
