June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
what I said. But I think it's really great.
Is that okay?
Thank you very much. I am really
proud of you. I was intrigued with the
little cactus which kind of looks like a
hand upraised taking the oath of office.
MR. BEARD. Next is Mr. Jacob
Lawrence.
THE PRESIDENT. The one thing that I
like about this beautiful painting is that it
shows the most important ingredient of
an election, an inauguration, and a nation,
and that's a people. And I think it shows
the kind of a bright, clear spirit that did
exist on Inauguration Day. Now, I have
to admit that I had a biased viewpoint on
Election Day, but to me everything looked
clear and rosy and beautiful and hopeful,
and I hope that all of you felt the same
way. But this painting, I think, very accu-
rately describes how the people reacted to
the inauguration.
Thank you very much. I am proud of
you.
MR. BEARD. Next is Mr. Jamie Wyeth.
THE PRESIDENT. Jamie, how are you
doing?
Although I haven't known the other
three artists personally, Jamie Wyeth is
one of my friends that I have known for a
long time.
He has been helpful to me in many
ways. He came down to Plains and got to
know my friends and my relatives and my
home when I was selected as the Man of
the Year by Time magazine. I was very
proud that they chose Jamie Wyeth's
painting of me before the Plains water
tank to go on the cover of Time.
I think that this-it's the first experi-
ence with this kind of art, is it not, Jamie,
this printing? But I think it shows again
the great interrelationship between differ-
ent events that took place during the
Inauguration Day and leading up to it,
and I am very grateful, Jamie, that you've
helped again in this way.
I think this symbolizes also a very good
sense that people do participate in all the
aspects of politics and government and
what a nation is now and what a nation
can be in the future.
I am very proud of you.
MR. BEARD. And last, but certainly not
least, Mr. Andy Warhol.
THE PRESIDENT. Andy, how are you
doing? Who said he wasn't least? [Laugh-
ter]
Andy Warhol is also a very good friend
of mine. He came down to Plains to visit
us, and when he left, I have to admit I
was very disappointed. He had about a
$25 camera and he was going to help us
raise an enormous amount of money dur-
ing the campaign-enormous amount to
us then, and it turned out to be very suc-
cessful. And his first painting of mine,
which was distributed in a very limited
edition and which has magnified over and
over in value already, was one of the
turning points in the financing of our
campaign.
He did it to help me and to help the
Democratic Party, and I think that his
painting of me, based on that photograph,
was superb. It kind of grows on you.
[Laughter]
I do think that this new one is differ-
ent. The first one was frowning and
scowling and worrying because I was
broke, I had lost some primaries, I didn't
know where I was going to go next, and
the fact that Jamie Wyeth and Andy
Warhol were willing to help me kind of
turned the tide.
And now I think it's very significant
that this picture is smiling. And I am go-
ing to try to keep myself smiling and
maybe all of you smiling for the next
4 years.
But Andy, I do really thank you for it.
I particularly want to thank Tom
Beard for making all of this possible and
also is Joan Mondale here? I didn't see
1118
