Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Apr. 15
On top of these causes is the persistent
spiral of costs and prices that takes hold
once people begin to expect continued in-
flation. Individuals and businesses try to
raise their incomes to protect themselves
against rising prices and costs. The end
result of this process is more inflation.
This cycle is not the fault of labor or of
business or of any one group. But we
must find ways to break out of it.
Our economy has been depressed since
1974. Despite inadequate demand-de-
spite unemployment, unused plant ca-
pacity, increased poverty, inadequate
growth rates-inflation persists. High un-
employment is a morally unacceptable
and ineffective way of combating infla-
tion, and I totally reject that approach.
Inflation must not be attacked by causing
additional human misery.
III. DESCRIPTION OF ANTI-INFLATION
PROGRAM
The anti-inflation program I outlined
at the beginning of this message-and
which I discuss in more detail below-is
tailored to the nature of the problems we
face.
It has three basic parts: Federal eco-
nomic and budgetary policies that pro-
mote growth while avoiding overstimula-
tion; specific governmental actions to
fight inflation; and a voluntary effort
by business, labor, and government to
achieve our common objectives of pro-
viding jobs, promoting steady growth,
and controlling inflation.
A. ECONOMIC AND BUDGETARY POLICIES
By any objective measure, the economy
has ample room to expand without run-
ning into excess demand. Yet many peo-
ple fear that current budgetary policies
will lead to renewed inflationary pres-
sures. I want to address those fears
directly.
Inadequate tax revenues from a stag-
nant economy-not legitimate Federal
spending programs are the principal
source of the deficits. We have large
budget deficits today because recovery
from the worst recession in 40 years is
still incomplete. As the recovery proceeds,
the deficits must shrink and eventually
disappear. The combined total of private
and public demands on the economy
must not be allowed to exceed our pro-
ductive capacity, or inflation will surely
be rekindled. I have made a firm com-
mitment to have a balanced budget in a
normal economy by FY 1981, and I in-
tend to do everything I can to honor that
commitment.
Two steps are essential to balancing the
budget. The first is a durable expansion
in the private economy that will generate
steady growth of jobs, incomes, and Fed-
eral tax revenues. My proposals for direct
job creation and permanent tax reduc-
tion for low- and middle-income taxpay-
ers will get us moving in that direction,
and I again urge the Congress to enact
them.
The second step is to discipline the
growth of Federal spending in the years
ahead. The budgets that I will submit will
contain responsible expenditure ceilings,
and I will work continuously within the
executive branch and with the Congress
to ensure that we stay within them.
The budgets that I approve will reflect
zero-based review of all Federal programs.
The Congress, in carrying out the proce-
dures established in the Budget Reform
Act, has shown its concern for responsible
budget policies. I believe that we can work
together to meet our country's needs yet
stay within responsible fiscal limits.
I made Government reorganization and
managerial efficiency a keystone of my
campaign for the Presidency. I intend to
use the new reorganizational authority
granted to me by the Congress to stream-
625
