Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
just analyze the new proposals for next
year; you analyze all the functions that
have been there for a long time. That's
important.
But the second thing is this: It lets the
people deep within the department, the
supervisors, maybe, of just 8 or 10 people,
prepare an analysis of what you are doing,
how many people you have working for
you, how much money you are spending,
the ultimate service that you are supposed
to be delivering, and your own suggestions
on how your performance might be
improved.
Now, this would result in tremendous
savings, obviously. It would give you an
automatic way to express a pent-up hope
for more efficient delivery of services that
you might have had for 5 or 10 years, and
it will let your superiors know that you
are striving to do a good job. Ordinarily
in government-I know State govern-
ment; I'll just speak for it—if somebody
does have a good idea, they are very afraid
to propose that idea because they might
be rocking the boat or changing the status
quo and they feel that they might suffer.
But if there is a standard report, a
budgeting form, which is one side of one
sheet of paper-that's all-you can fill it
out with a ballpoint pen, you don't even
have to type it, and those contributory,
beneficial suggestions work their way up
to the top. And then your department
heads arrange those suggestions in an or-
der of priority. We start at the top and
fund down as far as we can. It will make
sure that the money that is allocated to
you goes further, and it also makes sure
that you have a voice in the preparation
of the next year's budget.
Those kinds of changes help to weld
together in a cohesive way the newest
and most junior employee with the Cabi-
net officer who's the head of your De-
partment, and ultimately to me.
So, I'll do everything I can to make
sure that we do have a way to make your
own lives more meaningful, to make your
own Department more effective. And my
success or failure, as I say, depends almost
directly on how much you trust me, how
much I trust you, and how closely we are
tied together in a common purpose that
can't be severed.
And I believe we have the hope among
the American people that we succeed.
There is a good sense of new confidence
and good will that exists around our Na-
tion now toward all of us. And I just want
to be sure that in no way we ever betray
that hope and betray that confidence.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:38 p.m. in the
Cash Room at the Department of the Treasury.
Department of Housing and
Urban Development
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Department Employees.
February 10, 1977
SECRETARY HARRIS. Mr. President, wel-
come to HUD.
I've been here slightly under 3 weeks,
and this is a great group. We are delighted
that you share our commitment to revi-
talizing the cities and the housing of the
low and moderate income in this country.
We hope, Mr. President, that this is but
the first of many visits during your 8 years
in office.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Thank
you. Well, Pat, just coincidentally, I've
been here a little less than 3 weeks, also.
[Laughter] We're going to need all of you
to help us newcomers do a good job in
Government.
I think this is an agency which is one
of the newest, but which also has the
greatest potential to let people in our Na-
132
