Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 16
The second one is very important and
very, very difficult, and that is the estab-
lishment of permanent borders for Israel.
The Arab countries say that Israel must
withdraw to the pre-1967 borderlines;
Israel says that they must adjust those
lines to some degree to insure their own
security. That is a matter to be negotiated
between the Arab countries on the one
side and Israel on the other.
But borders are still a matter of great
trouble and a matter of great difficulty,
and there are strong differences of opin-
ion now.
And the third ultimate requirement for
peace is to deal with the Palestinian prob-
lem. The Palestinians claim up 'til this
moment that Israel has no right to be
there, that the land belongs to the Pales-
tinians, and they've never yet given up
their publicly professed commitment to
destroy Israel. That has to be overcome.
There has to be a homeland provided
for the Palestinian refugees who have
suffered for many, many years. And the
exact way to solve the Palestinian prob-
lem is one that first of all addresses itself
right now to the Arab countries and then,
secondly, to the Arab countries negotiat-
ing with Israel.
Those three major elements have got
to be solved before a Middle Eastern solu-
tion can be prescribed.
I want to emphasize one more time, we
offer our good offices. I think it's accu-
rate to say that of all the nations in the
world, we are the one that's most trusted,
not completely, but most trusted by the
Arab countries and also Israel. I guess
both sides have some doubt about us. But
we'll have to act kind of as a catalyst to
bring about their ability to negotiate suc-
cessfully with one another.
We hope that later on this year, in the
latter part of this
of this year, that we might get
all of these parties to agree to come to-
gether at Geneva, to start talking to one
another. They haven't done that yet. And
I believe if we can get them to sit down
and start talking and negotiating that we
have an excellent chance to achieve peace.
I can't guarantee that. It's a hope.
I hope that we will all pray that that
will come to pass, because what happens
in the Middle East in the future might
very well cause a major war there which
would quickly spread to all the other na-
tions of the world; very possibly it could
do that.
Many countries depend completely on
oil from the Middle East for their life.
We don't. If all oil was cut off to us from
the Middle East, we could survive; but
Japan imports more than 98 percent of all
its energy, and other countries, like in
Europe Germany, Italy, France-are
also heavily dependent on oil from the
Middle East.
So, this is such a crucial area of the
world that I will be devoting a major part
of my own time on foreign policy between
now and next fall trying to provide for a
forum within which they can discuss their
problems and, hopefully, let them seek out
among themselves some permanent solu-
tion.
Just maybe as briefly as I could, that's
the best answer I can give you to that
question.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
OCEAN OIL SPILLS
Q. Mr. President, my name is John
Olgan. I live at 31 Norman Street, here
in Clinton.
In recent months we've had a large
number of oil spills off the eastern coast,
some that have done lots of damage to our
fishing waters and our beaches. I've heard
that a lot of the oil spills have been caused
by old foreign vessels that are often over-
loaded.
387
