Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
up to Pat Harris, and she arranges those
proposals or functions in an order of
priority. That is the way the budgets
function. But it does two things: Every
year, it reassesses what the Government
does, and every year it gives you a chance
to participate in the preparation of next
year's priority programs and next year's
budget.
It also gives you a good opportunity,
almost a required opportunity, to give
your suggestions for which phases might
be eliminated, which ones might be in-
creased, which ones might be changed in
form to make them more efficient.
HOME INSULATION
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the re-
quirements, first of all, from the Govern-
ment, on the quality of housing, would
be a major contribution to the required
insulation of homes.
Secondly, the giving of benefits and
low interest rates would be another con-
tributing factor to better insulation of
homes. That would exist in Government
loans and also in loans from private
banks within which the Government was
not even involved. Some banks in this
country now, particularly in the State of
Washington and others, have already be-
gun to give loans to homes with lower
interest rates if they would implement
very simple, energy-saving commitments
in the construction of a new home or the
repair of an existing home.
This has not, obviously, been worked
out in detail. As I said before, James
Schlesinger will be working with me, with
Pat Harris and many others, including
yourselves, to evolve a comprehensive
policy.
But I would say that the major thrust
of a new energy proposal will be conser-
vation. We now import about 10 million
barrels of oil a day. We now waste energy
equivalent to 10 million barrels a day.
That can be eliminated. And this is a
very serious problem for us all. Just re-
ducing the thermostat 65 degrees, which
I notice [laughter]-I know, I know.
Just reducing the thermostat to 65 de-
grees will save enough natural gas in our
Nation to meet half the shortage that
we've experienced in the last 2 or 3 weeks.
So, conservation will be the keystone of a
new energy policy.
But it will be fully debated and fully
distributed to everyone by April 20, at
which time we'll also have legislation
being prepared to go directly to the
Congress.
LOW-INCOME HOUSING
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Do you want to
ask the other question, too? I will answer
both.
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I am probably going
to have to go to someone else. Is that your
favorite? I will answer one. The question
was, am I going to pursue the concept
that was very important in previous years,
of trying to provide low-income housing
to people both for ownership and for
rent-I guess, both single-family dwell-
ings and multiple-family dwellings. The
answer is yes. I see this as a very great
need.
We also, of course, want to continue
with section 8 and other programs, and
also the 202 programs for senior citizens.
I think it needs to be a broad-based
approach to enhancement of housing
ownership and rent.
When I resigned from the Navy, for
instance, in 1953, I had three sons. The
oldest one was just starting in the first
grade. I didn't have any money. I came
back to Plains, Georgia, and I lived in a
Government housing project. My rent
was $31 a month. [Laughter] I started a
136
