Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 10
It's a case in State government, because
most of the entrance examinations for
service in government, most of the exami-
nations required for promotion are pre-
pared by white men for white men. And
quite often-I didn't believe this when I
first became Governor, but they came and
brought me some of the entrance exami-
nations, for instance, for Georgia State
Patrol. And just because of the wording
of the questions, it made it almost im-
possible, for instance, for a young black
man to qualify to serve in the Georgia
State Patrol.
And you see what is inadvertent or
accidental discrimination, then you start
searching for a way to be fair. We want
to be fair.
If you have an occasion to witness an
actual incident where it might be im-
proved to eliminate discrimination, I hope
you'll bring that to the attention of Pat
Harris, and I'm sure she'll bring it to my
attention. She's very forceful about doing
that.
Maybe one more question.
TAX REFORM
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. The question was,
would I favor withdrawing the tax deduc-
tions and substitute tax credits? Yes, I
favor that move. In the economic stimulus
proposal that we presented to the Con-
gress, there is a permanent change in the
Tax Code that will give a standard de-
duction. That will provide simplicity
quite different from your 1976 income tax
return, which you've already seen. It will
provide a very simple, single computation
for 75 percent of all the taxpayers in the
Nation.
The next move will be comprehensive
income tax reform. This will be headed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, Mike
Blumenthal. And before the end of this
year, we will be ready to recommend to
the Congress a comprehensive, overall tax
reform proposal. Surely, one of those pro-
posals will be to give a standard credit on
your income tax to be paid, and not the
standard deductions. As you know, the
difference is that the standard deduction
helps much more the very high-income
families, while credit-this is where you
deduct so many dollars for the income tax
you owe-is of much more benefit to those
who make low incomes. So, this will cer-
tainly be part of the overall tax package.
We thought about doing it in the eco-
nomic stimulus package, but we couldn't
afford it. The standard deduction costs
about $4 billion. If you are a family that
earns about $10,000 a year, that will be
about a 30-percent refund to you with
that saving, and a $50 refund. And the
permanent tax reductions that I referred
to will be almost that much on a perma-
nent basis. Yes, we are going to shift away
from the regressive tax structure to a
much more fair one for the low- and
middle-income taxpayers in this country.
Let me say this in closing-I don't have
time for other questions-it's a great
honor for me to have a chance to come
and meet with you. I have the highest
respect for you, and I have the deepest
appreciation for what you've meant to
our Government. I believe that I have
had a chance in the last 3 or 4 months, to
search through tens of thousands of peo-
ple that I thought were the best qualified
persons in this Nation to serve with me in
the Cabinet. There is no doubt in my
mind that I've chosen the best person
I know to serve as Secretary of HUD.
that
She's going to make some mistakes, and
so am I. And I hope that you, who have
been here a long time, who know more
about this Department than I will ever
know, will assess my weaknesses and even
Pat Harris' weaknesses and not take ad-
vantage of your knowledge to criticize
139
