Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
May 7
THE PRESIDENT. I think most of them
see the need for reducing our imports of
oil and for continuing to use atomic
power in an expanding way. But we're all
determined to hold down on the prolifera-
tion of nuclear weapon capability, and
how to resolve this problem with so many
different kinds of nations' needs is one that
will probably be our most difficult un-
dertaking. But we will continue to work
on it tomorrow, and I was very pleased
with today's discussion.
Q. How do the Germans seem to feel
about this problem of spreading nuclear
power?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we're all
unanimous in not wanting to see the
weapon capability expand. As you
know, Germany signed a nonproliferation
treaty years ago and so has Japan and so
have we, and I think we all feel the need
to control the explosive capability, but to
let people have adequate fuel.
Thank you for waiting for me.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:40 p.m.
upon his return to Winfield House, following
the first full day of the summit meeting.
International Economic Summit
Meeting
Exchange With Reporters Following a State
Dinner at Buckingham Palace. May 7, 1977
REPORTER. Mr. President, how about tell-
ing us about Buckingham Palace?
THE PRESIDENT. What are you doing
waiting so late?
Q. In the rain!
THE PRESIDENT. I know, I'm sorry you
had to do that.
Q. Did you have a good time?
THE PRESIDENT. I really did. It's one
of the most beautiful places I've ever seen.
And I think the whole royal family was
there. I had a good place to sit. I was be-
tween the Queen and Princess Margaret,
and across the table was Prince Charles
and Prince Philip, and the Queen Mother
was there, too. So, the whole family was
very gracious to us tonight.
Q. Can you tell us what you talked
about, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the things
I told Queen Elizabeth was how much
the American people appreciated her
coming over last year to celebrate our
200th birthday. And she said that it was
one of the warmest welcomes she'd ever re-
ceived. I told her that I got a similar
welcome in northern England yesterday.
But we just talked about the need for
world peace, and how much it meant to
the other countries when she came in to
visit, and how close together our own na-
tion is to England because of our com-
mon historical background and heritage.
All of the foreign heads of state were pres-
ent too, and we had a very enjoyable eve-
ning, getting to know them and some of
the foreign ministers and the finance
ministers even better on a personal basis.
I thought it was a very productive meet-
ing as well as a very enjoyable occasion.
First time I've ever been inside of Buck-
ingham Palace. I was through as a tour-
ist several years ago, my only previous
visit to London, and I saw it through the
fence.
Q. Those kings really know how to live.
THE PRESIDENT. They really do. But
it's beautiful.
Q. We understand from the Germans
that there was some sort of an agreement
to set up a panel to report back within 8
weeks on ways to safeguard the curbing
of nuclear proliferation. Is that-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the basic ques-
tion, of course, is how to have adequate
supplies of nuclear fuel-which is derived
mostly from ourselves, the Canadians, and
817
