Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 5
FOREIGN ARMS SALES
Q. You spoke of the arms procurement
as part of one of these bullet-biting oper-
ations. There has been a good deal of
controversy about American arms sales
abroad to other nations. The argument
has been made repeatedly by supporters
of that, that it is necessary to maintain
the balance of payments and maintain
our defense industry. What kind of look
are you taking at that $12 billion a year
annual rate of sales?
THE PRESIDENT. A hard look. Here,
again, I think that if there is one person in
the Government that ultimately has the
responsibility to take a position and to
make a decision and then explain the con-
sequences of that decision to the American
people, it's the President, not just because
it's me. Somebody has got to do it. And
it has to be the President.
When Cy Vance visited all the Middle
Eastern countries early this month, there
was one unanimous statement made by
every head of state, and that was that we
are spending too much of our money on
weapons.
Now, it's hard for one of those coun-
tries, for instance-I'm singling out that
part of the world-unilaterally to stop
buying weapons. But every one of them
unilaterally said they would like to stop.
And I think that this puts a responsibility
back on our country, the major arms sup-
plier of the world, to try to induce Iran
and Egypt and Saudi Arabia and Syria
and Israel and Jordan to cut down on the
quantity of arms they buy.
Now, I've also been in touch with the
Soviet leaders, with the French leaders,
with the German leaders, and with the
British to join with us in an effort to cut
down on the quantity of arms sold
throughout the world. And they've re-
sponded favorably so far. We've not
reached any tangible agreement, and I
agreement, and I
can't, I don't want to claim that we have.
But there is a general concern around the
world that the arms sales are excessive,
and I think that our country can take
some unilateral action. We can take a con-
siderable amount of action bilaterally,
when we get the buyer or the purchaser
of arms to agree to cut down the quantity
of their orders, and on a multilateral basis,
it's going to be slower to come. But I think
we can get our own allies and our poten-
tial adversaries to minimize or to reduce
their previous arms sales rates.
So, I feel very strongly about this. And
I believe that in the long run, our own
economy and the world peace will be en-
hanced by shifting production and ex-
penditure of funds to other services or
goods.
I'll just add one other thing: When you
look at it on a job/cost ratio basis, how
many jobs do you get for a million dollars
spent? One of the most inefficient indus-
tries is the defense weapons industry. And
I think that we need not continue with a
supposition that in the long run the ex-
penditure of the limited amount of finan-
cial resources of the whole world and of
our own country is going to be increased
or decreased. When you spend money for
defense, you don't spend it on education
or health or other services or goods. And
I think the shift away from weapons to-
ward peaceful goods and services in the
long run is favorable for world peace, and
also you get more jobs per dollar spent.
DRUG TRAFFICKING
Q. Mr. President, I am from the Rio
Grande Valley in Texas. And there is a
problem there that affects the people that
live in that area, but it also affects every-
body else in the country. And that's the
drug problem. A day doesn't pass when
there are not arrests made for the drug
289
