Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Mar. 17
That's pretty clear delineation of au-
thority. But now when the Federal
Government sets standards for the pres-
ervation of land areas, that's where you
start running into, sometimes, a dishar-
mony between the local or State govern-
ment on the one hand, and the Federal
on the other.
I don't know how to answer that ques-
tion.
Q. I just wondered if you felt like you
could encourage that action a little more
than has been done in the past?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so, yes.
Q. I'd certainly appreciate that.
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that's an ac-
curate thing to say, that we can. Perhaps
Dr. Schlesinger would like to respond to
the last part of your question.
MR. SCHLESINGER. I think that the
main point to keep in mind, Mr. Presi-
dent, is that the water projects that were
authorized were authorized in a period of
much lower interest rates, in many cases
before there were environmental consider-
ations.
The energy projects of the Government
have by and large gone through the envir-
onmental review, some of them will in-
deed be reviewed on that basis, including
the breeder program.
THE PRESIDENT. I think you might have
noticed that in our budget amendments
that we recommended a substantial reduc-
tion in research and development funds
for nuclear power, particularly in the
breeder field, and a substantial increase in
funds for coal production. I think that
would be a pretty good preview of what's
going to happen in the future.
I'd like to ask all those that are standing
in line that haven't had a chance to ask
your question-if you'd write your ques-
tion down, Tim Kraft, on my staff, with
a beautiful green carnation in his lapel,
will take up the questions.
And I'd like to ask Dr. Schlesinger or
Doug Costle or Secretary Andrus to write
you the answer to your questions. We
don't want to have them unanswered.
SUMMARY
But I'd like to take this last 6 or 7 min-
utes that we have left and go around the
table and ask you to be very brief and just
give me one or two sentences to sum up a
point that you'd like to make.
I'll start down at the end with Norman
Kilpatrick.
MR. KILPATRICK. Mr. President, 2 years
ago the head of the Customs Bureau-
then head of Customs Bureau, I hope-
wrote President Arnold Miller a letter say-
ing that it was all right to import South
African coal to gulf coast and New Eng-
land utilities, because no low-sulfur coal
was available to utilities from United
States sources. I hope that your adminis-
tration will be able to quickly correct that
misunderstanding of the coal situation in
the Customs Bureau.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I think you can rest assured that that will
be corrected.
Mr. Reichl, any comment?
MR. REICHL. Very briefly, Mr. Presi-
dent. We have heard a lot of things here
today about the impacts of the energy sup-
ply and use in this country. I would like to
submit that the greatest potential impact,
social impact related to energy, is not hav-
ing it. And I would hope that your policy
will secure us against that opportunity.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Mr. Hamner?
MR. HAMNER. Mr. President, in this
century, for 50 years, the coal supply
was greater than the coal demand. And
for 50 years West Virginia suffered. I hope
that our energy policy causes the demand
for coal to grow more rapidly than the
supply of coal.
441
