Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
Feb. 2
security and well-being of each of our
peoples, the health of our economies, and
our common goal to reduce tensions and
to increase the prospects for a more stable
international environment.
ECONOMIC SUMMIT MEETING
Q. Mr. Vice President, has it finally
been decided that the summit will be de-
voted entirely to economic issues and not
political and, if it has been, is that in def-
erence to France? And what about our
other allies and our own objectives which
go beyond economic?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. We have re-
ceived several different suggestions from
the various nations about what should
be on the agenda. And I have reported on
those matters by nation—that is, sugges-
tions offered by each nation-to the Presi-
dent, and now through normal diplo-
matic channels we will be developing the
agenda, undertaking the crucial prepara-
tion work that's essential to an effective
summit, agreeing through diplomatic
channels on the location and the timing.
And that will be announced jointly by
the nations involved at the time the agree-
ment is reached.
It is our hope that the agenda will in-
clude economic matters, to be sure, but
other crucial matters of political and se-
curity significance. Just what those mat-
ters will be has not yet been decided;
what the modalities for those discussions
might be has not yet been decided.
ECONOMIC POLICIES
Q. Mr. Mondale, with Europe now
moving, or at least indicating its willing-
ness to dump the dollar and move to a
new economic system, in order to avoid
the kind of austerity and fascism and war
policies that the IMF is now imposing on
Egypt, weren't you embarrassed to have
to represent-coming from the United
States-to have to put forward the most
backward energy policies and the most
backward economic policies of hyper-
inflation for Japan and West Germany
and deflation for the rest of Europe?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Due to a break-
down in my briefing, we did not see our
positions in quite that light.
FOREIGN NUCLEAR SALES
Q. Mr. Vice President, do you have any
hopes that West Germany and France,
post your discussions there, may recon-
sider the sale of nuclear reprocessing ap-
pliances to Brazil and Pakistan?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. What we asked
in each case was, first, to be heard on the
concern of the Carter administration
about the dangers and the risks involved
in the distribution of sensitive nuclear
technology from which weapons-grade
material could be developed. We made
that point at each of the capitals. And we
asked that consultations commence on
that matter and on the broader issues of
nuclear proliferation at the earliest pos-
sible moment. It was agreed that that
should occur. It will occur. Arrangements
are already being made to do so. And that
was what we sought to accomplish and
accomplished in those talks.
Q. Do you have an agreement then,
tentatively an agreement that they will
hold up on those sales until you have a
chance to talk specifically?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. All we discussed
was the importance of having intensive,
early consultations on the matter. There
has been no agreement beyond that
point.
FUTURE MISSIONS
Q. Mr. Vice President, did you discuss
with the President what sort of foreign
missions you might undertake in the fu-
ture and what sort of role you might play
in American foreign policy in the future?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. No, we did not.
The meeting today involved a report on
59
