June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
man rights.” I think in almost every in-
stance when Andy has said something that
was criticized, if someone read the entire
text, how he defined racism, there is no
criticism involved. But when you extract
the one word, it implies a much heavier
condemnation than Ambassador Young
meant. I read the transcript of his com-
ments about former Presidents Nixon and
Ford. He explained that when he used
the word "racism" as it applied to them,
that it was not a condemnation, but it
was an assessment that they were not
familiar with the special problems of
black people or minority groups who
did not have an opportunity to be vivid
in their own consciousness as former
Presidents.
I think that, in general, what Ambassa-
dor Young is accomplishing for us in deal-
ing with Third World nations, those who
are struggling for recognition, those who
are struggling against oppressive hunger
and disease and poverty, is very good.
They now look on the United States as
having at least one representative-I hope
more—but at least one who understands
their problem, who speaks their language,
who will listen to them when they put
forward their woes and their hopes for
the future.
I think we have a new sense in the
minds of those kinds of people of caring
about them, and to a major degree it's
because of their trust in Andy Young.
I'm disturbed that after he spent 17
days in Africa, sometimes at some con-
siderable danger to his own self, that a
remark about Sweden was a major head-
line that derived from that entire, very
fruitful visit on his part to that continent.
Andy is concerned also. He pointed out
to me in a private meeting this past week
that he thought it was time for him to
shift his emphasis more toward other
developing nations outside of Africa, in
Asia, in this hemisphere, and so forth. I
agree with him on that. But, in general,
think that Andy Young has been a superb
representative of our country. And I think
that his use of the word "racism" has
clouded the issue and has brought perhaps
undeserved criticism on himself.
RETIREMENT SYSTEMS
Q. Mr. President, you have taken a
pretty strong position on double-dipping.
I want to ask a question about single-
dipping. [Laughter]
How do you justify a system under
which a million and a half government
workers retire, take full-time jobs, and
draw full pensions, whereas 30 million
social security retirees, if they work, don't
get any pension?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't try to justify it.
I don't think it's right, and I don't think
it's fair. We've had two meetings recently
concerning the retirement system and a
need for it to be reassessed and perhaps
changed. I think there's a wide difference
in the retirement benefits that can be
expected among Americans who have
done the same work as a background and
who have contributed widely varying
amounts of money into their own retire-
ment system. I think it's time for a Presi-
dential level blue-ribbon commission to
look at this whole question, the single-
dipping, the double-dipping, triple-, some-
times quadruple-dipping into retirement
benefits.
There is another question that's been
addressed, at least as far as private retire-
ment systems is concerned, and that's
whether or not they are financially sound.
Many government retirement programs
are unsound, particularly at the local
level of government, some at the State
level of government. And this is a very
dangerous thing for the security of many
public servants in our country, presently
and in the past.
1108
