May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
escaped into our environment, our pri-
mary objective must be to prevent them
from entering the environment at all.
At least a dozen major federal statutes,
implemented by seven different agencies,
address this problem in various ways.
With the enactment last year of the Toxic
Substances Control Act, no further com-
prehensive federal legislation should be
necessary. Now we must inaugurate a co-
ordinated federal effort to exclude these
chemicals from our environment.
I am therefore instructing the Council
on Environmental Quality to develop an
interagency program (1) to eliminate
overlaps and fill gaps in the collection of
data on toxic chemicals, and (2) to co-
ordinate federal research and regulatory
activities affecting them.
The Toxic Substances Control Act en-
ables the federal government, for the
first time, to gather the information on
chemical substances needed to determine
their potential for damaging human
health and the environment, and to con-
trol them where necessary to protect the
public. My FY 1978 budget provides
nearly $29 million-a threefold increase
over Fiscal 1977-for the Environmental
Protection Agency to implement this im-
portant Act.
I have instructed the Environmental
Protection Agency to give its highest pri-
ority to developing 1983-best-available-
technology industrial effluent standards
which will control toxic pollutants under
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
and to incorporate these standards into
discharge permits. My Administration
will be seeking amendments to this Act,
including revision of Section 307(a), to
permit the Environmental Protection
Agency to move more decisively against
the discharge of chemicals potentially in-
jurious to human health.
Finally, I have instructed the Environ-
mental Protection Agency to set standards
under the Safe Drinking Water Act which
will limit human exposure to toxic sub-
stances in drinking water, beginning with
potential carcinogens.
THE WORKPLACE
Each year, environmental hazards in
the workplace cause at least 390,000 new
cases of disease and perhaps as many as
100,000 deaths. Regulation of toxic chem-
icals will reduce this toll, but other steps
are also necessary to protect worker
health and to assure adequate compensa-
tion to those who suffer from occupa-
tional diseases.
In the past, implementation of the
Occupational Safety and Health Act of
1970 has emphasized safety and too often
resulted in unnecessary and burdensome
regulations. Yet at the same time the fed-
eral response to health problems has been
unconscionably slow. Under my Adminis-
tration OSHA will develop and enforce
effective standards for occupational
health without repeating the excesses of
the past. We will continue to work with
the Congress to strengthen the Coal
Mine Health and Safety Act and the
Metallic and Nonmetallic Mine Safety
Act, and we are now implementing ad-
ministrative reforms to improve standard-
setting procedures, enforcement, and
penalty collection.
In addition, my Administration will
explore and develop proposals to supple-
ment federal occupational health regula-
tions, and will examine the full range of
reforms that might be undertaken by the
appropriate levels of government to assure
adequate compensation for occupation-
ally-induced diseases.
AIR POLLUTION
Clean air is essential to the health and
welfare of all Americans. Although we
have made considerable progress, much
remains to be done before we have fully
970
