Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1977
ple of this Nation to require them to face
the brutal facts that we all are going to
have to work together to deal with the
impending crisis that's going to come re-
gardless in future years as energy runs
out. And if we start making plans now on
how to deal with it, then the shock to our
societal life will be much less 5, 10, 15, 20
years from now when oil and gas is
much more scarce and also much more
expensive.
There is no way to keep the price from
going up. There is no way to keep from
running out. But we are long overdue in
this country in having someone come for-
ward, the President of the United States
or others, and say this is what we've got to
face; these are the steps that we're going
to have to take. And I believe to the ex-
tent that we can put together a compre-
hensive package that the American peo-
ple can understand, that through patriotic
motivations, they will say, "I'm willing to
do my share."
There is one other thing that we've al-
ready moved on, and the Congress has
been very helpful with this already, and
that's a reorganization of the energy agen-
cies in the Federal Government. In the
past this has been so fragmented and so
confused that nobody knew where to go
to get the answer to a question or register
a complaint or give a suggestion or give a
criticism.
But if we can put into effect the reor-
ganization proposal that has been worked
out by Secretary Andrus and by Dr. Schle-
singer-and the Congress, I believe, will
do this without delay-we can have in
one major agency in the Federal Govern-
ment the concentrated authority and re-
sponsibility for dealing with the energy
crisis now and in the future. And I think
this in itself will be a major step forward.
So, those two things-a new energy de-
partment and a new energy policy-I
think will help us acquaint the American
people with the facts. And if we can do
this as we should, without misleading any-
one and without anyone getting a selfish
advantage, my belief is that the American
people will respond well.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Twenty seconds,
please.
The President, I think, can bring about,
if he will have the Secretary of Commerce
or the Federal Highway Administrator
see to it that the 55-mile-an-hour speed
limit is enforced, that people observe it.
At the present time, we have approxi-
mately 90,000 barrels of oil saved daily by
the 55-mile-an-hour speed limit. We can
have 200,000 barrels of oil saved daily if it
actually is observed and the people sub-
scribe to it.
Now, I believe that you, working with
the Secretary of Commerce and the Fed-
eral Highway Administrator, can give the
leadership, because it's very important for
me to add that we have by law given to
the administration the right to with-
hold highway funds if that law is not
observed.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. REICHL. Mr. President, I might
comment on the matter of time with re-
gard to these measures. I think we should
recognize that the energy system is enor-
mously complex and massive, and any
change that a new policy brings about will
take significant time to show effect.
For instance, it takes 10 years to change
the fleet of cars. It will take years to in-
sulate all the homes that can be insulated.
And just to give you an idea about the
low-sulfur coal in the East versus West, if
we have to shut down northern West Vir-
ginia high-sulfur mines and open them in
southern West Virginia, this is not neces-
sarily a good thing for the State to happen.
I think there are other items we should get
to after we talk about coal. But I want to
410
