April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
interest and consumer organizations-which summarizes FCC decisions and
invites comments on our rulemakings.
Just last month, in a significant action, we announced the opening of a Con-
sumer Assistance Office whose function is to provide personalized aid to the
average citizen in finding his way through the bureaucratic maze.
Number four, economic impact analysis of regulations. A basic principle
of regulatory reform is to ensure that necessary regulation be as effective and
efficient as possible, both in terms of the resources consumed by regulatory
agencies and the economic consequences which these rules may have on the
public.
The FCC is now implementing a program review analysis to give the Com-
mission detailed information on the resource impact of major policy decisions
and to review existing programs and operations from a cost-benefit perspec-
tive. The ultimate result of this project should be significant budgetary savings,
a better recognition of the Commission's regulatory mission, and a greater
understanding of the specific economic implications of our regulations.
Five, remaining problem areas. Despite our efforts, we cannot suggest, Mr.
President, that the FCC has overcome all obstacles to optimum efficiency. One
significant problem that has received a good deal of recent notoriety is citizens
band radio. The principal difficulty here is the veritable explosion of consumer
demand in the last year.
THE PRESIDENT. How did Mrs. Ford get that?
MR. WILEY. We are now instituting, I might say, an operation where every
citizen can get a temporary permit, so it won't only be the First Lady.
In early 1975, we were receiving about 50,000 applications a month. This year
the figure is over 550,000 per month. Associated with such a phenomenal rise
are the problems of application backlogs, unlicensed and illegal operation,
interference to broadcast and other home entertainment services, and spectrum
overcrowding.
We have moved to deal with this situation by simplifying our rules and
forms, automating our licensing program, investigating alternative licensing
procedures, and considering additional spectrum space for the service.
We don't have all the answers to CB as yet, but if members of the public
enjoy using this service—and apparently they do, including, I note, the First
Lady, better known to her fellow CB'ers as KUY-9532, and I might say other
members can also use that, we will be listening for you—the Commission must
find new ways to permit them to do so without impairing other communi-
cations services.
1003
