January 19
[19]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to offer more middle-income families high quality health services at prices they
can afford and shield them also from their catastrophic illnesses.
Using resources now available, I propose improving the Medicare and other
Federal health programs to help those who really need protection—older people
and the poor. To help States and local governments give better health care to
the poor, I propose that we combine 16 existing Federal programs, including
Medicaid, into a single $10 billion Federal grant.
Funds would be divided among States under a new formula which provides
a larger share of Federal money to those States that have a larger share of low-
income families.
I will take further steps to improve the quality of medical and hospital care
for those who have served in our Armed Forces.
Now let me speak about social security. Our Federal social security system for
people who have worked and contributed to it for all their lives is a vital part
of our economic system. Its value is no longer debatable. In my budget for fiscal
year 1977, I am recommending that the full cost-of-living increases in the social
security benefits be paid during the coming year.
But I am concerned about the integrity of our Social Security Trust Fund that
enables people—those retired and those still working who will retire-to count
on this source of retirement income. Younger workers watch their deductions
rise and wonder if they will be adequately protected in the future. We must
meet this challenge head on. Simple arithmetic warns all of us that the Social
Security Trust Fund is headed for trouble. Unless we act soon to make sure the
fund takes in as much as it pays out, there will be no security for old or for young.
I must, therefore, recommend a three-tenths of 1 percent increase in both
employer and employee social security taxes effective January 1, 1977. This will
cost each covered employee less than 1 extra dollar a week and will ensure the
integrity of the trust fund.
As we rebuild our economy, we have a continuing responsibility to provide a
temporary cushion to the unemployed. At my request, the Congress enacted
two extensions and two expansions in unemployment insurance which helped
those who were jobless during 1975. These programs will continue in 1976.
In my fiscal year 1977 budget, I am also requesting funds to continue proven
job training and employment opportunity programs for millions of other
Americans.
Compassion and a sense of community-two of America's greatest strengths
throughout our history-tell us we must take care of our neighbors who cannot
37
