January 14
[16]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sound set of policies and organization for the Department of Labor have been
both extensive and effective. You have attracted to the Department a strong
cadre of top quality administrators, and as you leave, you can take great pride in
the fact that the Department is well equipped to deal with the complex prob-
lems that confront it daily.
Your role in my Administration, however, has encompassed far more than
just leadership of the Department of Labor. Your deep involvement in the
deliberations of the Economic Policy Board and your untiring and diligent
efforts with the Labor-Management Committee have been of enormous value
not only to me but to your colleagues in those endeavors. You will be greatly
missed by all who have had the privilege of working with you.
As you leave the Administration, I want you to know you do so with my
deepest gratitude for your dedicated service to me and to the Nation. You have
richly earned the admiration and respect of your fellow citizens.
Betty joins me in wishing you and Dorothy the very greatest personal happi-
ness and good fortune as you return to private life.
With warmest personal regards,
Sincerely,
[The Honorable John T. Dunlop, Secretary of Labor, Washington, D.C. 20210]
NOTE: Secretary Dunlop's letter of resignation read
as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
This letter records my resignation as Secretary of
Labor and Coordinator of the President's Labor-
Management Committee. I have appreciated the
opportunity once again to try to be of service to
the country and to you, Mr. President, to the best
GERALD R. FORD
of my ability. Your willingness to listen to divergent
views and numerous courtesies to me, I shall always
cherish.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN T. DUNLOP
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
16
Remarks Announcing Intention To Nominate Anne L.
Armstrong To Be United States Ambassador to the
United Kingdom. January 14, 1976
LET ME say just a word, if I might. I am extremely pleased and very, very
happy about the fact that Anne Armstrong is going to Great Britain to repre-
sent the United States as our Ambassador to the Court of St. James.
I can add that Secretary Kissinger likewise feels that she will do a superb job,
as I do. And I should add a postscript. Anne, you will have to give some of the
27
