[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
better, but in this current economic problem, I think we ought to continue
CETA. It is not the best program, but it is a stopgap on a temporary basis.
I have recommended for next summer, this coming summer, the full funding
for the summer youth program. That, I think, is a good stopgap during this
period when we need to help the youth in this country, particularly minority
youth, in summer employment. So you have to have a combination. But the
prime emphasis should be on the private sector with tax incentives, improving
the economy, good public works projects plus the CETA program plus unem-
ployment insurance for those who want a job but, unfortunately, can't get one.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Richard Linn, mayor of West Palm Beach. You
recently vetoed the $6.2 billion public works program.
THE PRESIDENT. I did it this morning.
Q. Right. If the Congress does not override the veto—and this is a program
that greatly affects the construction industry in our area—as you know, we
have a tremendous amount of unemployment in that area—if they don't over-
ride that veto, how would you feel about transferring the approximately $6.2
billion in CETA which you have just alluded to into a public works program
of the same, or similar to the nature of the one that was vetoed?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there is the flexibility under the law for
CETA to transfer it from CETA to a public works program.
Q. Perhaps I should rephrase that—not transfer it, but stop CETA, which
only has another 18 months to go, and move that money into the public works
program.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me tell you what the basic problem is with that $6.2
billion so-called jobs program. In the first place, the Federal expense for the
jobs in that project is $25,000 for every job. It is an abnormally high cost.
What it would do would be to add $6.2 billion to the Federal deficit, because
it is a program over and above the budget recommendations that I made.
And if you add that much more in a deficit, you are undoubtedly helping
to reignite inflation forces, whether it is wholesale or consumer price index.
As I was saying to the gentleman that spoke just before you, we have got
the biggest public works-EPA and Bureau of Reclamation and Army Corps
of Engineers and the highway program-that we have had for the last 3
years, to my knowledge. And I think those projects and those programs that
are already on the drawing board or in the process of construction are a
better way than some programs or projects that are pulled out of a hat at a
high cost of $25,000 a job. I just don't think it makes sense.
282
