[165]
February 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
165
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Tampa,
Florida. February 29, 1976
THIS IS a great stop in Tampa. We have had two fine, full days. The response
has been really tremendous-good crowds, excellent enthusiasm. Everything
we have seen so far down here has been strongly on the plus side, and Betty and
I are very, very enthusiastic. We had some momentum when we came. Just like
in that soccer game, when you have the momentum going, you are awfully
tough to beat.
REPORTER. Are you going to come back next week?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not had time to evaluate it. We will come back if
there is time because we have some big problems in Washington, and we will
also take a look to see whether the momentum is still going. I think organiza-
tionally speaking, under Lou Frey¹ and the others, I have never seen so many
enthusiastic workers. We have got everything going in the right direction, so
at the moment, with the things we have to do in Washington, we just can't make
a decision.
Q. What are those things you have to do?
The President. We have a few problems with the Congress. We have got
some legislative matters. We have some matters concerning, particularly, the
budget. Congress has to make some decisions early in the new budget process.
And we are going to do our utmost to keep the Congress from going hog wild
in spending, and the first step to hold them on line is, I think, March 15.
Q. Why do you think the Florida Republicans will vote for you over Ronald
Reagan in the Republican primary?
The President. I think we have a proven record, a record that seems to appeal
to a very substantial number of Republicans in Florida and, I think, fortunately,
a substantial number of Democrats.
Q. Do you think you will beat Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will do very well, and I think we will win.
Thank you all very, very much. It is nice to see you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:02 p.m. at Tampa International Airport.
1 Representative Louis Frey, Jr., chairman of the Florida President Ford Committec.
492
