[20]
January 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
disappear; they are the necessary result of the unsettled state of the world and
of our role as a world power.
Nevertheless, in recognition of the expressed sense of the Congress, I have, in
preparing the 1977 budget and legislative program, reexamined the policies,
purposes, and scope of the military assistance program with a view to reducing
or terminating any country programs no longer essential to the security and
foreign policy interests of the United States. As a consequence of this review, the
1977 military assistance budget request will reflect a 28 percent reduction below
the 1976 request, the termination of grant materiel assistance to Korea, and
elimination of five small grant programs in Latin America. Furthermore, our
preliminary estimate of the 1978 requirements indicates that additional reduc-
tions and some additional program terminations should be feasible in the
absence of unfavorable security or economic development in the countries
concerned.
I must emphasize, however, that offsetting increases in foreign military sales
credits will be required in most instances to meet the legitimate military needs
of our friends and allies at a time when much of their military equipment is
reaching obsolescence and prices of new equipment are increasing drastically.
Moreover, the capacities of many of these grant military aid recipients to assume
additional foreign exchange costs because of reduced military aid are limited
by the necessity to cope with higher oil prices as well as the impact of the reces-
sion in the developed countries on their exports. In these circumstances, I believe
the interests of the United States in the continued security of these countries are
better served by a gradual reduction of grant military assistance attuned to the
particular circumstances of each country than by an arbitrary termination of all
such assistance on a given date.
Finally, I must emphasize that in this uncertain and unpredictable era we
must maintain our national strength and our national purposes and remain
faithful to our friends and allies. In these times, we must not deny ourselves the
capacity to meet international crises and problems with all the instruments now
at our disposal. I urge the Congress to preserve the authorities in law to provide
grant military aid, an instrument of our national security and foreign policy
that has served the national interest well for more than 30 years.
The White House,
January 20, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
44
