March 20
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
One agency that is almost strangling to death in its own redtape is EPA [En-
vironmental Protection Agency]. Ours is a State of beautiful streams and lakes,
and many of our rivers are becoming open sewers for the lack of sewer plants.
Here in Hickory, we have done everything a small city can do. We have passed
a bond referendum several years ago. They asked for study after study, and we
are just getting nowhere, it seems. We are polluting our lake and our rivers here,
and that condition exists everywhere, nearly.
If there is something you could do to get EPA to release some money for
sewers to improve our water quality, it might be the best thing we could do in
America.
The President. Let me answer it this way: I obviously don't know the facts
in their entirety, but I can give you some factual information that is a matter
of record. EPA has all the money it can spend. There is no limitation on it. As
a matter of fact, in the fiscal year budget for 1977, they will spend roughly
$6,900 million all over the United States. There is no excuse whatsoever as to a
lack of money, none whatsoever. So I don't understand what the problem is.
I can assure you that I will work with Jim Broyhill. It is incomprehensible
to me, because money is not the problem. Isn't that right, Jim? Jim says it is
redtape. Well, if it is, we will cut some, and we will get that taken care of.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
[5.] Q. I can't tell you how happy I was when I heard you say a little while
ago that America can defend itself. I am really sick and tired of these Commu-
nists pushing us around. I tell you what really burns me up is when these Cubans
think they can push us around in all these places like Angola and Africa. And
I want to know what your ideas are, your policy is to contain the Commu-
nists and all these enemies of ours?
The media keeps bombarding us with all these things, like NATO is falling
apart, the Communists are taking over in Italy, and all this stuff. And young
people like me—we just get so pessimistic. And they are even getting on Dr.
Kissinger. And we just don't know what to think, and people get so pessimistic.
So, just tell me, what can you do with this mess?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer that question very specifically. You should
be optimistic, not pessimistic, because the United States is the leader in the
world, whether it is economically or whether it is militarily.
And may I add this: The only place that the Communists have made any
inroads are when the Soviet Union and Cuba went into Angola. In that case,
I, as President, and Secretary of State Kissinger said to the Congress, we have
775
