January 21
[22]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
As I see it, the budget has three important dimensions. One is the budget
as an element of our economic policy. The total size of the budget and the
deficit or surplus that results can substantially affect the general health of our
economy-in a good way or in a bad way. If we try to stimulate the economy
beyond its capacity to respond, it will lead only to a future whirlwind of infla-
tion and unemployment.
The budget I am proposing for fiscal year 1977 and the direction I seek for
the future meet the test of responsible fiscal policy. The combination of tax and
spending changes I propose will set us on a course that not only leads to a
balanced budget within three years, but also improves the prospects for the
economy to stay on a growth path that we can sustain. This is not a policy of the
quick fix; it does not hold out the hollow promise that we can wipe out inflation
and unemployment overnight. Instead, it is an honest, realistic policy—a policy
that says we can steadily reduce inflation and unemployment if we maintain a
prudent, balanced approach. This policy has begun to prove itself in recent
months as we have made substantial headway in pulling out of the recession
and reducing the rate of inflation; it will prove itself decisively if we stick to it.
A second important dimension of the budget is that it helps to define the
boundaries between responsibilities that we assign to governments and those
that remain in the hands of private institutions and individual citizens.
Over the years, the growth of government has been gradual and uneven, but
the trend is unmistakable. Although the predominant growth has been at the
State and local level, the Federal Government has contributed to the trend too.
We must not continue drifting in the direction of bigger and bigger govern-
ment. The driving force of our 200-year history has been our private sector. If
we rely on it and nurture it, the economy will continue to grow, providing new
and better choices for our people and the resources necessary to meet our shared
needs. If, instead, we continue to increase government's share of our economy,
we will have no choice but to raise taxes and will, in the process, dampen
further the forces of competition, risk, and reward that have served us so well.
With stagnation of these forces, the issues of the future would surely be focused
on who gets what from an economy of little or no growth rather than, as it
should be, on the use to be made of expanding incomes and resources.
As an important step toward reversing the long-term trend, my budget for
1977 proposes to cut the rate of Federal spending growth, year to year, to
5.5%-less than half the average growth rate we have experienced in the last
10 years. At the same time, I am proposing further, permanent income tax
47
