January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I decided to conduct this briefing myself in order to emphasize how impor-
tant the new 1977 budget is to the future of the United States.
We are at a critical point in our history, a point where we can either allow
Federal spending and Federal deficits to mushroom and allow our economic
foundations to erode, or, on the other hand, we can decide to restrain the
growth of Federal spending and restore the vitality of our private economy.
This is what I meant when I spoke last night about striking a new balance
within our economy.
Let me call your attention to a few passages from this budget message that
I regard as particularly important for all of us: "The combination of tax and
spending changes I propose will set us on a course that not only leads to a
balanced budget within three years, but also improves the prospects for the
economy to stay on a growth path that we can sustain."
This is not a policy of the quick fix. It does not hold out the hollow promise
that we can wipe out inflation and unemployment overnight. Instead, it is an
honest, realistic policy, a policy that says we can steadily reduce inflation and
unemployment if we maintain a prudent, balanced approach.
In formulating this budget, I have tried to achieve fairness as well as balance
between the taxpayer and those who will benefit from Federal spending,
between national security and other pressing needs, and between the desires
to solve our problems quickly and the realization that for some problems,
good solutions will take more time.
The American people know that promises that the Federal Government will
do more for them every year have not been kept. I make no such promises. I
offer no such illusions. Notwithstanding these hard choices, I believe this budget
reflects a forward-looking spirit that is in keeping with our heritage as we begin
our Nation's third century.
With those introductory comments, I would like to turn to your questions.
As you can see, the members of the Cabinet, along with the Vice President and
the heads of the major independent agencies, are here. You should feel free to
direct questions to them specifically. I will, of course, reserve the right to add
to or, if necessary, even subtract from their answers. [Laughter]
With those comments, I will be glad to call on Dick Growald [Richard
Growald, United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, we understand that one individual is to be named with
authority and the scope of authority to handle welfare matters for the adminis-
51
