March 19
[229]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Convention launching States would be required to submit certain information
to the U.N. Secretary-General regarding objects which they launched into outer
space. The Convention builds on the foundation of a voluntary system of noti-
fication to the Secretary-General of the United Nations by U.N. Member States
of objects they have launched. That voluntary system has now been observed for
more than a decade.
The Registration Convention is an appropriate addition to the Outer Space
Treaty, the Astronaut Rescue Agreement, and the Liability Convention. The
Senate gave its consent to these earlier treaties in the field of space activities by
unanimous vote. I hope that, at an early date, the Senate will also give its strong
endorsement to this latest Convention.
The White House,
March 18, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive G (94th Cong.,
2d sess.).
229
Remarks Announcing Designation of Thomas S. Gates, Jr., as
Chief of the United States Liaison Office, People's Republic
of China. March 19, 1976
I WOULD like to announce this morning the designation of former Secretary
of Defense Tom Gates as our representative to the People's Republic of China.
This is a very, very important post. We feel, of course, that our relations with
the People's Republic is one of the most important relations that we have with
any country throughout the world. And the fact that a former Secretary of
Defense is to be assigned to that position, I think, reflects our conviction that
this relationship is of vital importance.
I have known the new representative to the People's Republic of China since
about 1943. We served in the Navy together on the same ship. I had many con-
tacts with him when he was Secretary of Defense-first, Secretary of the Navy-
when I was in the Congress and he was in the Pentagon. So I have known Tom
Gates for a good many years.
I know that he did a superlative job in the Pentagon. He has been a good
friend ever since. And I am delighted, Tom, that you are undertaking this
737
