[38]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
38
Remarks to Members of the United States Conference
of Mayors. January 29, 1976
Members of the Cabinet, distinguished mayors from around the country, ladies
and gentlemen:
I am delighted to see all of you here. I have had the opportunity to meet with
many of the officers of your organization, representatives of the mayors through-
out the country. But it is nice to have an opportunity to say a few words to a
group that represents so many people and a group that on a day-to-day basis,
works trying to solve the problems that we have through the country in munic-
ipal or other local areas.
I know you are going to meet with some of the Cabinet members and others
to discuss specifics. So, I will try to stay away from some of the details.
I like to talk very frankly about the things that I see as most important from
your point of view and from the point of view of the government and the
people as a whole. And let me be very categorical. I think general revenue shar-
ing is in very deep trouble, and unless the mayors and the county officials and
Governors get to work, working with us, you are going to end up with no
general revenue sharing bill before Congress quits.
This has to be a massive, joint effort. The present law, as you know, expires
December 31. Under that law, some $30 billion will have been made available to
States and to local units of government. In the message that I sent up to Congress
last year, 8 months ago—there has not been any forward movement in the Con-
gress on the legislation.
And if Congress adjourns sometime in the fall without acting on it, there won't
be any authorization for the $6,500 million I put in the budget for States and
local units of government.
I was talking to some Governors the other day, and they were asking me about
it. They have to make up their budgets some time in 1976 for the calendar or
fiscal year that begins January 1. And if Congress quits without acting on it,
they can't make up a budget to include this kind of general revenue sharing
money. And I suspect the same thing happens with municipalities.
So, if you want a general revenue sharing bill, you have to move-working
with us, with the Governors, and with county officials. Time is getting very
short. Congress has two or three recesses between now and when they are going
to adjourn, and the days for affirmative legislative action are getting smaller and
102
