[106]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Second, I proposed that the 17 percent of all migratory waterfowl hunters
who do not currently need to buy stamps be required to have them. I refer to
hunters under the age of 16, who are already required by 36 States to purchase
hunting licenses.
Enactment of both proposals would not only have generated more revenues,
enabling us to buy wetlands sooner, but would have made the acquisition pro-
gram more nearly self-financing.
I, therefore, urge the Congress to reconsider these proposals and enact them
into law.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 5608 is Public Law 94-215 (90 Stat. 189).
107
The President's News Conference of
February 17, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening. Won't you all sit down, please.
REORGANIZATION OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
[1.] For over a year the Nation has engaged in exhaustive investigations
into the activity of the CIA and other intelligence units of our Government.
Fact, hearsay, and closely held secrets, all have been spread out on the public
record. We have learned many lessons from this experience, but we must not
become obsessed with the deeds of the past. We must act for the future.
Tonight I am announcing plans for the first major reorganization of the
intelligence community since 1947.
First, I am establishing by Executive order [11905] a new command structure
for foreign intelligence. Henceforth, overall policy directions for intelligence
will rest in only one place-the National Security Council, consisting of the
President, the Vice President, the Secretary of State, and Secretary of Defense.
Management of intelligence will be conducted by a single new committee.
That committee will be chaired by the Director of Central Intelligence, George
Bush. To monitor the performance of our intelligence operations, I am creating
a new independent [Intelligence] Oversight Board to be made up of private
citizens. Former Ambassador Robert Murphy will chair the Board and two
other distinguished citizens-Steve Ailes and Leo Cherne will be the members.
All of these units—the National Security Council, the Committee on Foreign
348
