[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The members of the two committees in the House and in the
Senate, in consideration of a number of employee or personnel matters, did
consult with some of the members of my staff. And that is a very responsible
thing for those members, both Democratic and Republican, in the House and
the Senate to do, and they should have done it. And the members of my staff
ought to provide information to those individuals from the House and the
Senate that want information. But there was no conniving, and any charge to
that effect is inaccurate and completely without fact or foundation.
But now let me tell you the good thing about what happened after that. Under
the existing law all Federal employees get a cost-of-living increase predicated on
the increase in the cost of living. But because of the financial problems that the
Federal Government has, I recommended a 5-percent pay increase instead of the
8.6-percent pay increase, and the Congress sustained it. And I think it was the
result of the coupling of pay increases for judges, for executives, and for Con-
gressmen and Senators with all other Government employees. So, we saved
$1,200 million, and that's not bad.
EMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, I am Bob Page, I am a student at Monadnock Regional
High School. Mr. Stanley Arnold, a Democratic opponent, says that he can
reduce unemployment from 8.3 percent to 3.3 percent just about overnight. How
would this drastic change affect our economy and why?
The President. Well, any allegation to that effect cannot be proven. A lot of
politicians have tried it in a number of countries. It has never worked, and the
net result every time it has been tried is that those countries go broke. And if
anybody were to try and do that by priming the pump with a lot of make-work
jobs at a cost of some $25,000 a job, this country would broke.
go
Therefore, the better way to do it, in my opinion, is to increase the incentive
for the private sector of our economy where five out of six jobs exist today so
that our private sector will expand and provide jobs. The proposal that you
indicate won't work, it never has worked in the history of any country, and the
proposals that I have suggested are working, so I strongly support them.
Q. Mr. President, I wish I could shake your hand, because I think you are
one of the greatest Presidents that has come along in recent history.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much, sir.
Yes, ma'am.
Q. I was waiting for him to shake your hand.
[The President shook hands with the previous questioner.]
378
