[16]
January 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
credit for this appointment to Betty, who keeps persistently reminding me that
we need the most qualified and extremely able women representing us, whether
at home or abroad.
So, I think we have unanimity that you will do a superb job. I know that you
will be well received in Great Britain. And I think what you will do will be a
credit to you, as well as to our country.
MRS. ARMSTRONG. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Betty. Thank you,
Henry.
I am very pleased. I am very grateful to you, Mr. President, for this honor,
which I consider the greatest one of my life. And if I merit the confidence of
the Senate, as I have yours, I think I have a double opportunity. I want to do a
good job as a person in strengthening the ties between our two countries, which
are unique both historically and in the present, and secondly, I don't downplay
the fact that I am a woman. I think it is just great that an American President
is the first one to nominate a woman to be Ambassador to the Court of St.
James. And because of that, I am going to work doubly hard to be a credit to
all women, and to American women in particular.
And finally, I am particularly looking forward to this position, because my
other jobs in government have caused me to be separated from my family a
lot. This time most of our children will be with us at least part of the time,
and my husband has arranged so that he can go with me. I think that he is
going to be an asset to our country, and I know that he is going to be a joy
and a help to me.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
MRS. ARMSTRONG. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try and drop over and see you one of these days.
MRS. ARMSTRONG. I will count on that.
Now, I would be delighted to answer some questions.
The President. Henry has got a press conference of his own. And I know
he is almost late, so if you will excuse him.
MRS. ARMSTRONG. I will see you later.
You realize that I can't get into matters of substance out of respect to the
Senate, but I would be delighted to answer any questions that don't have
to do with my views on foreign policy at this time.
REPORTER. Have you ever been to London before?
MRS. ARMSTRONG. When I was 21 years old, Fran [Frances Lewine, Asso-
ciated Press]. But luckily, Great Britain is part of our bones as Americans. We
28
