[278]
March 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
278
Remarks at the Annual Republican Party Senate-House
Fundraising Dinner. March 31, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Ted, my good friend Guy, my old colleagues in the
House as well as in the Senate, all of you very distinguished guests:
Let me say that it is a great privilege and a very high honor for the opportu-
nity of Betty and myself to see so many good friends at this annual Republican
Senate-House dinner.
I could not help but notice when Betty and I came up that she seemed to get
much more applause than I. I am getting used to that, I might say. [Laughter]
In fact, we are lucky to have her here tonight-she is out doing a lot of cam-
paigning. The sole objective is to get my votes up to her polls. [Laughter] I
thank you, and I can prove it that she does.
So, it is nice to be here. Let me speak on behalf of both of us that we are deeply
grateful for all of you, as friends and supporters of our distinguished Senators
and Members of the House, for coming here this evening and helping to make
this a very successful affair.
All of you, I know, from knowing most of you, are very faithful friends
of the party and certainly the philosophy. And I thank you extremely—very,
very much for the continuing commitment to all that our party stands for and
the philosophy that I think all of us represent.
Of course, as I looked around the room and met some of the people that I have
known in the House and the Senate for a good many years, it is great to have
an opportunity in a friendly and warm atmosphere to see them.
As John Rhodes and as Barry Goldwater ¹ ticked off the Members who were
leaving at either end of the Capitol, I can tell you from personal experience there
will be a great void. And I wish them all well even though I wish all of them
were going to stay.
Let me say to the Members of the House and Senate who are here that I am
deeply grateful for the outstanding work that they have done since I have been
President, particularly in the 94th Congress where the odds were infinitely worse
than they were even in the preceding Congress.
The record shows that despite the overwhelming odds against you—those in
the House as well as in the Senate, Republicans primarily—you have built an out-
standing record of innovation, farsightedness, restraint, and responsibility in
¹ Representative and Senator, respectively, from Arizona.
872
