[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
up there, anybody with any common sense would want to make some changes.
And I happen to believe there are quite a few people in the Congress who have
some common sense. Look at those mess charts up there. It is unbelievable. And
I think Congress, when they look at it, and the public sees it, will respond.
Q. Mr. President, going back and following up on the medical catastrophic
illness. You said there were 3 million out of 25 million with catastrophic ill-
nesses. What have you done, sir, to provide more money for medical research?
Last year the NIH medical research funds were cut. What do you provide for
research in medicine for these catastrophic illnesses?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that-let me say this. Overall research in this
budget-this is across the spectrum—is $24 billion-plus, an 11-percent increase
in Federal funds for research, including an 11-percent increase in basic research.
It is the largest Federal budget for research in our history-an 11-percent growth
factor. I believe if you take all of the NIH proposed funding, that we are roughly
the same as we have recommended for fiscal 1976.
David, do you want to comment on that?
DAVID MATHEWS [Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare]. To be con-
cise, Mr. President, is that your budget recommends an increase of $185 million
for all of the institutes under NIH. That is roughly a 10- or 11-percent increase.
Q. Mr. President, now that Congress has attached its salaries to inflation and
it has also attached the Government pay raises to inflation and the Government
pensions to inflation, isn't it true that this guarantees we are going to have
inflation and also guarantees a continuous erosion of private pensions and private
salaries which are not attached to inflation?
The President. The experience we had this last year worked out very well in
getting some restraint on the growth of pay increases in the Federal Govern-
ment, including the congressional pay increases. The cap was 5 percent. The
proposed increase was 8.6. So, yes, there will be some growth, but I think the
connection between the two gives us a better handle on doing it responsibly
than the way it was before. I think Government employees should not have their
pay frozen ad infinitum. The way it worked last year worked out quite well.
Q. Mr. President, I have a two-part question. One, a lot of people—poor peo-
ple, rightly or wrongly-are depending upon Medicaid to pay their doctor bills.
What will happen in States without that social responsibility that Governor
Rockefeller talks about when they decide not to match the Federal payment
with the State money? And, secondly, in States such as New York, when the
Medicare gives out, people go over onto Medicaid and this is a de facto cata-
strophic illness plan. What is the improvement here.
62
