[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
peace and security simultaneously. And that is how our day-to-day operations
of foreign policy operate. It is not favoring one against the other or vice versa.
It is pragmatic; it is practical to protect our ideology and those deep beliefs that
we have in freedom, liberty, and individual opportunity.
ABORTION
[6.] Q. You stated in Champaign on Saturday, that you personally felt that
the Supreme Court decision on abortion went too far. I am wondering how far
do you feel it should have gone?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me give you the whole answer for the benefit of
those who were not there.
In my opinion, the Supreme Court decision did go too far. It, in effect, per-
mitted what can be categorized as abortion on demand. On the other hand, the
proposals that are made by some for a constitutional amendment, I think, are far
too restrictive.
My own view, and this is a view that I hold very deeply, is that the question
of where we should go or how we should handle it is a deep moral issue. And I
don't believe that you should have ironclad decisions by a Supreme Court or an
ironclad constitutional amendment on the other side. It is my feeling when these
deep moral issues are involved, that you shouldn't be rigid in what is sought
to be done by either the courts on the one hand, or the Constitution on the other.
I think that people who have moral convictions and beliefs can handle the
problem of abortion in the right way, and I have faith in people that they will.
And I don't think they should be bound on the one hand by a certain decision
of a Supreme Court or by a rigid constitutional amendment on the other.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[7.] Q. Since your nomination in August seems almost certain-[laugh-
ter]-who would you consider for Vice President with you in November?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, David, I am delighted to hear your optimism. But I
have been in enough political contests and enough athletic competitions to know
that you don't win until the final whistle. And we are going to be working at
that to make sure that your forecast is accurate.
But to answer the substantive question, I have said, and I am delighted to
repeat, we have a wealth of fine Republican potential candidates for Vice Presi-
dent. We have some outstanding Governors. We have some outstanding Mem-
bers of the Congress. We have some other people who have held public office or
672
