April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
was hoping he would introduce it before he left. Your advisory committee
headed by Dr. Raymond and Dr. Baker are aware of it. I would suggest if that
court were in existence today, it might influence the nuclear initiative in
California.
The Westchester County Board of Supervisors unanimously recommended
such a science court be convened to investigate Plant 3. I have discussed this with
people not only pronuclear or involved in it but involved in the same group are
the environmentalists, the antinuclear forces from academia, and they also sup-
port such a concept. I think it would improve the decisionmaking process by the
agency and, if the citizen is to vote, make it an informed vote.
Mr. Schmults. I think that is a very interesting proposal, and we are looking
at that. It has been extremely helpful.
John, may we hear from you?
MR. ROBSON [John E. Robson, Chairman, Civil Aeronautics Board]. Very
quickly, Mr. President, in the area of procedural reform and education. We
created last summer a procedural forum, an outside advisory group to which we
gave a 6-month deadline, and they met it and gave us recommendations. The
committee then went out of business.
We have their reforms under consideration and have implemented some of
them; for example, imposing on ourselves a deadline of a number of days in
which we have to act in rulemaking petitions filed before us.
Second, we have underway a system under which we will be able, through use
of our computer, to log in and chart through the Agency every single action that
is filed with us and to set a deadline up the ladder so that, if it hasn't gone from
point A to point B by the time it should have, we want to know why and move
it out.
Third, in the area of burdensome reporting, we have had underway for several
months a review of all our reporting requirements. I will mention a couple.
One, we have reduced for the airfreight forwarders by 14 forms a year and by
75 percent the reporting requirement. Most are small businessmen. Second, we
are working with the Federal Aviation Agency [Administration] to have a
single reporting to satisfy both agencies so they need file only one report to
satisfy both of us.
We are trying to reduce extensively the burden on people to get a charter pro-
gram started. In the last several months we have made some great strides in the
charter areas. We introduced two brand new charter forms and proposed an-
other. Each significantly liberalizes the opportunities for cost of charter transpor-
tation for the American people.
1023
