April 3
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, we are seventh graders from St. Jude's School. My question
is, what led you to becoming President?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what led me to become President. [Laughter]
Well, I got to be a Congressman, and then Vice President, and on August 9 of
1974 I had the opportunity to serve the American people, and we have tried
hard to do a good job for 19 months. I would like the opportunity to serve
another 4 years to do a better job.
MILITARY BASE CLOSINGS; EMPLOYMENT OUTLOOK
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Marquette, Michigan. I would like to
know why the Congress and you are closing these air bases and also the Govern-
ment cutting down on them and the unemployment?
THE PRESIDENT. The Department of Defense has made a number of recom-
mendations for studies to close down certain military installations, including
Kinchloe Field in Michigan; including Fort Devens, an Army installation in
Massachusetts; including a number of other military installations. The reason
is very simple. As the weapons system use changes, as you go in the Air Force
to more missiles and less aircraft, you have to change how you use your facilities,
and as the numbers in the Army go down, you have to close the number of Army
forts, camps, or stations. In other words, you have to tailor the use of facilities
to the men and the weapons that you have and the mission.
At the time of the war in Vietnam, we had 3,300,000 Army, Navy, Marine
Corps, and Air Force personnel. We now have 2,100,000. We, therefore, don't
need as many bases. We don't need as many installations. So, in a responsible
way we are trying to adjust, or the Department of Defense is, to adjust the men
and weapons to the installations that are needed.
I should say in the case of Michigan, because I know it well, there are three
SAC [Strategic Air Command] bases up there-Kinchloe, K. I. Sawyer, and
Wurtsmith. One of the three was closed. K. I. Sawyer and Wurtsmith were
kept open. K. I. Sawyer is up in the Upper Peninsula. Kinchloe is in the Upper
Peninsula, it was closed. It is just that you can't keep a base open if there is not
a mission for it. It is just that practical.
Now, as I said, these are studies and there is a provision of law that says if
a base is closed, the Department of Defense and the Department of Com-
merce and all of the other departments have to maximize their effort to try
and adjust the adverse economic conditions that inevitably result from the clos-
ing of a base.
963
