February 23
[126]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have no less need of an abiding faith than did the Pilgrims, who established a
new life in the American wilderness. We have no less need of faith than the
American colonists when they flung their challenge of independence in the face
of the world's most powerful empire. We have no less need of faith than the
pioneers, who conquered a vast and dangerous continent.
The faith of our Fathers is living still in America today. It will live as long as
freedom rings in this sweet land of liberty. Tonight, let us say in the stirring
words of "America," "Long may our land be bright, with freedom's holy light,
protect us by Thy might, great God our King."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:32 p.m. in the
Regency Ballroom at the Shoreham Americana
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Dr.
Thomas F. Zimmerman, first vice president, Dr. Abe
N. Van Der Puy, president, National Religious
Broadcasters, Dr. Paul E. Toms, president, National
Association of Evangelicals, and Rev. Billy Zeoli,
president, Gospel Films, Inc.
126
Remarks at the Winter Meeting of the National Governors'
Conference. February 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Bob Ray, Governors, guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
Let me say it is a great privilege and a very high honor to be here among all of
you distinguished Governors and esteemed fellow candidates. [Laughter] Betty
and I are, of course, looking forward to having you for dinner tonight. I think we
will have a pleasant and, I trust, a very enjoyable evening.
I am delighted to greet all of you on this very historic Bicentennial winter
meeting of the National Governors' Conference. This is a very memorable year
in which to give new balance and meaning to relations between the Federal
and State governments. And I eagerly anticipate working with you to achieve
better government at all levels for all of our people.
It has been said by some that Federal-State relations are the most deadly boring
of all political issues. I do not agree. As a matter of fact, I feel a sense of excite-
ment and eager anticipation at the progress we are making to restore to you and
to your States more say in decisions affecting the daily lives of all of our citizens.
This process does not bore me. It really turns me on, especially the prospect of
working more closely with all 50 States to restore, during this national Bicenten-
nial, the necessary balance among us that was first conceived by our Founding
Fathers 200 years ago. George Washington warned against the danger of the
415
