[139]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
possible within existing authority. The need now is for congressional action.
I am announcing today a significant new legislative proposal which would
establish a clear procedure, as well as a timetable, for bringing needed natural
gas supplies from the North Slope of Alaska to the lower 48 States.
After months of debate on energy, the Congress has completed action on only
one major piece of energy legislation. My 18 other major legislative proposals
which are absolutely essential to achieve our national energy goals still await
action by the Congress. Legislative action to deregulate the price of new natural
gas is the most essential of these legislative proposals if we are to achieve energy
independence.
The bill passed by the Senate would increase 1985 production by over 25 per-
cent-25 percent more, I emphasize-than under current regulations, cutting
oil imports by almost 3 million barrels per day. Unfortunately, the House of
Representatives has not shown the same foresight and the legislation that it has
passed would further speed the decline in domestic natural gas production.
In the long run, the American people will pay more under current regulations
than if we act to stimulate domestic production in natural gas.
Naturally, I hope that the Congress will show some wisdom and do some
affirmative action in trying to increase our domestic production, and the best
way they can do it is to pass the bill that I recommended, or the version passed
by the United States Senate.
At this time, I will sign the message which will go to the Congress urging
the Congress to act, and act promptly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:11 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Secretary of Commerce El-
liot L. Richardson and Secretary of the Interior
Thomas S. Kleppe.
140
Special Message to the Congress Urging Enactment of Proposed
Energy Legislation. February 26, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
A little over two years ago, the Arab embargo proved that our Nation had
become excessively dependent upon others for our oil supplies. We now realize
how critical energy is to the defense of our country, to the strength of our
economy, and to the quality of our lives.
446
