[14]
January 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
14
Remarks Upon Receiving the National Education Association's
Bicentennial Commemorative Plaque. January 9, 1976
LET ME thank you, Dr. Wise and Jim Harris, for the Bicentennial commemo-
rative plaque which we will appropriately put in one of my little study rooms
in the back here. It is very beautiful, and it is very greatly appreciated by me.
I was thinking this morning about the NEA. I have had a lot of contact with
the MEA in Michigan, of course, and it is a very fine organization. I feel very
strongly that we are fortunate in this country, some 200 years, of having adopted
almost from the very outset a universal education. And we are the beneficiaries,
you and myself along with millions of others, of that concept. I think it is some-
thing we have to maintain and expand. I believe it is good for the students. I
think it is good for teachers. I think it is good for the country.
And I might just switch a bit on the Bicentennial. I can imagine teachers
have a real inspiration in the Bicentennial Year to talk about 200 years of history,
but at the same time to talk about the next century and what it can do to make
that next 100 years an even more fruitful experience for 215-plus million people.
We have got a lot to talk about, both in the past as well as in the future, and I
should think teachers should have an exciting year in 1976.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:34 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. He received the
plaque from Helen D. Wise and James A. Harris,
past presidents of the National Education Association.
15
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Secretary of Labor
John T. Dunlop. January 14, 1976
Dear John:
It was with the deepest regret that I received your letter of January 13, 1976,
indicating your decision to resign as Secretary of Labor and Coordinator of the
President's Labor-Management Committee.
Although I understand your reasons for making this decision and accept your
resignation, you should know that I do so with very great reluctance.
During the eleven months you have served as Secretary of Labor, you have
demonstrated your strong devotion to public service and your deep understand-
ing of labor issues in the country. Your contributions to the development of a
26
