March 13
[213]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
who died here, we must strive for responsive self-government that they were
willing to sacrifice their lives for and that they sought.
A self-governing republic requires responsible citizens. They must have the
traditional virtues of self-discipline, self-reliance, and a patriotic concern for
the public good. These qualities must be nurtured and rewarded. They must
not be penalized or exploited.
I believe, as you do, in America and the capabilities of all 215 million Amer-
icans. North Carolina provides us with a showcase of progress. You have made
great breakthroughs in industry, in agriculture, in education, in harmonious
rural and urban development in helping all citizens achieve their highest
human potential.
Southerners, including Tar Heels, must be doing something right, and I com-
mend you and congratulate you for it. You know it, and I know it. A lot of
others must know it, too, as we watch the trend of people moving toward the
South rather than away from it. Your region is growing much more rapidly
than any other part of the United States. In North Carolina, the rate of high
school graduates has increased faster than in most of our States. There are
significant increases in students attending your excellent institutions of higher
learning. I should say with some pride, but some humility, that two genera-
tions of the Ford family have come here to study.
Back in about 1937 I went to the University of North Carolina Law School
in Chapel Hill and stayed in Carter Carr Dormitory. I never dared to go
back
and look at the grades I got, but I am sure some of the press will. [Laughter]
I also attended the Naval Pre-Flight School at the University of North Carolina
for 9 months during World War II, and my oldest son attended and gradu-
ated from Wake Forest University. I wish we had a few more that we could
spread around. [Laughter]
But we all share with you an affinity for the enlightened spirit of your great
State. I can say without qualification the patriotism, the dedication, and the
willpower of the Thirteen Original States still burns brightly throughout the
Old North State.
Two hundred years ago some individual said that it was unwise to make a
stand here against the enemy. They said that we lacked adequate experience,
that we were short of weapons, and that we would be wiped out, but there
were many, many more who said we are North Carolinians, we are Ameri-
cans, we can do it. They did it, and we can do it.
Our challenge, yours and mine, is to foster new courage and realism at home,
695
