February 28
[159]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
why do you think he will be the nominee? And, secondly, every time you get a
chance to mention that name, it would suggest you would kind of like to run
against Hubert. Do you think he would be easy to beat?
The President. I think we are going to win in November. And it's just a
matter of judgment on my part, Wally [Walter Rodgers, Associated Press], that
I think when you look at the 11 Democratic candidates and Hubert, who makes
the 12th unannounced candidate, I just think he is going to end up getting the
nomination.
Q. Why?
THE PRESIDENT. I will sit down and take a little time with you some time,
Wally.
Q. Mr. President, for the last two weekends, we have heard you attack Ronald
Reagan, and rather harshly today——
THE PRESIDENT. I have not attacked him today at all.
Q. That is right. That's my question. Why not this weekend, sir? Your pace
seems to be a little different.
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I think your basic premise is not entirely
correct. As I recall, last weekend, the last time I was campaigning, I didn't men-
tion any individual's name, but if you wanted to construe that without the name
being mentioned, of course, that is literary license. [Laughter]
Now what we are trying to do is to point out to all these fine people in Florida
that we have a good program both at home and abroad. We have the mo-
mentum going. It is the kind of a program that we think is good for America
in the next term, and we aren't really concerned about what other candidates
are doing or saying at the present time. We will sell our program affirmatively,
and I think we have done quite well.
Q. Mr. President, if you win here and if you win in Illinois, do you think
Governor Reagan should withdraw rather than carrying it on to the convention,
seeing it is three in a row?
THE PRESIDENT. I really don't think I should give any advice. That is a matter
of judgment for himself, and I think it would be presumptuous for me to involve
myself.
Q. Would you consider him less of a threat if that were to happen?
THE PRESIDENT. It would mean that we would have, what, three more States,
and those delegate numbers add up pretty fast, Ann.
Q. Mr. President, could you announce the qualities that you would like to see
in the man you choose as Vice President?
The President. I don't think at this point I am ready to sit down and define
481
