January 29
[37]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
maintained. Title I concessional sales programs were continued in such coun-
tries as Bangladesh, Israel, and Pakistan, and in Indochina. New Title I pro-
grams were started in Egypt, Syria, and Chile.
The Food for Peace program continues to be a major portion of the overall
U.S. foreign aid effort. Concessional sales programs encourage recipient coun-
tries to establish self-help objectives, and provide valuable support to economic
development. Most of these programs contain provisions for agricultural market
development activities, which are being used as conditions warrant, although
the need for such activities has lessened because of strong commercial demand.
The Title II donation program continues its emphasis on improving the nutrition
of pregnant and nursing mothers, babies, and preschool children.
As this report indicates, the Public Law 480 program completed its 20th year of
operation continuing to perform its vital role in rendering humanitarian assist-
ance to the disaster-stricken, promoting economic development in the poor
nations, contributing to the development and expansion of foreign markets for
U.S. agricultural commodities, and supporting our foreign policy objectives
around the world. It remains a key element of our foreign assistance program
and a vital link in the improving economic relations between this country and
the developing world.
The White House,
January 28, 1976.
NOTE: The 170-page report is entitled "The Annual
Report on Activities Carried Out Under Public Law
GERALD R. FORD
480, 83d Congress, as Amended, During the Period
January 1 Through December 31, 1974."
37
Remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast. January 29, 1976
Congressman Preyer, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Our Nation was born 200 years ago poor and very weak. Our leaders were
untested and our land remote from much of the world. This continent was
mostly a virgin wilderness.
Yet our new Nation displayed extraordinary determination and near limit-
less capacity for discovery about ourselves and about our future. Our Declara-
tion of Independence surpassed all worldly doctrines in its enlightened
pronouncements on human rights and individual liberty.
Our leaders showed that the inspired will and raw courage of our ragged
99
