[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Thank you very much. Now, let's get to the part that I enjoy the most—
those good hard questions that always seem to
QUESTIONS
Q. I am a producer of raw materials—I am a little strange to the mike yet.
It is a known fact that pseudo-money to stimulate our economy will also cause
inflation. Why can't it be known by our lawmakers that our raw materials are
our real wealth, and the more we pay for them, the more we have to employ
the unemployed, stimulate our economy, and pay our debts? Or to put it short,
why does our Government insist on monetizing debts rather than wealth which
ties in with the takeover of our freedom?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I understand the question, you are in effect say-
ing, why do we have Federal deficits, and why do we have the Federal debt
that we have? Is that correct, sir?
Q. Well, partly, but if the farmers were paid for their product, that money
would multiply and help the whole Government. In the years that the farmers
were paid, we had no deficit in Government. And if the farmers were paid
for their product, then we could employ the unemployed, and everybody would
have more money.
The President. Well, I totally agree with you, sir, that in order to have a
healthy, prosperous economy in the United States, we must have a healthy agri-
cultural segment of our economy.
Q. That is right.
THE PRESIDENT. Now, as I indicated in my prepared remarks, the last 3
years we have had the highest 3 years of net farm income in the United States.
That does not mean that every segment of agriculture has profited as well as
others. This year the cotton farmers are doing very well; the previous year or
two, they did not do well. A year or so ago, some other segments of our agri-
culture were doing well; they have had a fall-off. The cattle producers are now
having a difficult time. What we have to do is try to get some basic stability
so that all agriculture does well. And, if it does, then the farm machinery
producers will do well, the banks will do well, the American people will be well
fed. But we have gone through a traumatic period in the last 20 months. For
example, our economy was seriously upset by the oil embargo. We had a three
times increase in petroleum costs, because we were so dependent on foreign
imported oil.
We have got to get this imbalance rectified so we have an economy which is
936
