[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing what if it isn't successful? Will you possibly come back here before the 24th,
and what would determine that trip? And also, taking it a step further, suppose
you lose in New Hampshire and a couple of the early primaries, will you take
the campaign trail more yourself or will you decide that perhaps being Presi-
dent is more important and drop out of the race?
THE PRESIDENT. We are analyzing whether we will or will not come back
before the 24th. No final decision has been made. I have been very encouraged
by the warm reception, the good results, I think, that have come from this trip,
but we have made no final decision. Yet, we have another trip as a possibility.
I do expect to first concentrate on being President of the United States. That
is a rather full-time job, and I will make that the most important responsibility I
have. But on weekends, a time that I think can be taken from that job and do
whatever campaigning seems to be desirable, seems to be necessary—it will be
extra, over and above the responsibilities I have as being President.
Let me reiterate something I have said before. I expect to do well in New
Hampshire. I think we will do well in some of the other primaries. But I have
an old adage that I follow—prepare for the worst because the best will take
care of itself.
Now, let me say this. I expect to be a candidate for the nomination of the
Republican Party in August in Kansas City. I will be there. And whatever
happens will have no impact on that. I love a good fight. I will be there repre-
senting the viewpoints and the record that I have, and I think we are going to
win before as well as there.
Q. Sir, to follow that up, please. You say you will be preparing for the worst,
but suppose you do lose New Hampshire and Massachusetts, and some of the
others that will have some bearing, of course, on what your campaigning
further on will be. Will you go out and campaign more on your own?
THE PRESIDENT. Since I don't anticipate the dire results you are speculating on,
I really haven't made any plans to meet that contingency.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
[6.] Q. Cathy Wolf from the Associated Press.
I would like to follow up on that Seabrook question that was asked earlier.
Governor Thomson said he was told many, many months ago that one of your
top aides had told him that a decision to go ahead for the plant would be made
by September. At that time, the NRC Board was still reviewing the entire
proposal. Do you know who that aide was, and was such a promise given?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not know who the aide was that gave that alleged infor-
202
