March 20
[233]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
233
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Charlotte,
North Carolina. March 20, 1976
IT IS great to be in Charlotte again, along with Jim Holshouser and Jim Martin.
Saturdays are always nice after you've gotten more good news on the economy
like we got last Friday. It must be a Democratic plane trying to drown out that
good economic news that we have been getting. [Laughter]
But anyhow, the increase in the cost of living was the lowest in 4 years. If we
annualize that, it means that it is going to be 1.2 percent for a 12-month period.
That is too much to expect, but we certainly are greatly encouraged because, as
all of you know, when I came in it was about 12 percent or more. And to get it
down to this area, certainly, will have an impact on consumer confidence, and
that is a real key to the overall recovery which is well on its way. I think the peo-
ple in North Carolina will like that good news, just like they have in the other
49 States. So, it is just nice to be here.
Reporter. Mr. Ford, you have been talking about Ronald Reagan pulling out
of the race, yet this trip was relatively hurriedly scheduled. Your trip last week
to central North Carolina was changed politically to a campaign swing. Are
you afraid Ronald Reagan is going to take your momentum away in North
Carolina?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we have momentum on our own, and I have no
apprehension that it will be stopped by any forces that I see at all.
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to continue your campaign against Ronald
Reagan of asking or pestering him to get out of the primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't personally suggested, nor have I authorized anybody
on my staff to suggest to my opponent that he ought to get out of the race.
Q. Did you suggest it would be divisive to have him continue in the cam-
paign?
THE PRESIDENT. I said it had some potentiality if the campaign continued, but
I have not myself, nor authorized anybody on my staff to contact the Reagan
people for that purpose.
Q. Do you wish he would get out?
THE PRESIDENT. I really don't care, because our campaign is predicated on
going to Kansas City and getting the nomination and that being, of course, the
forerunner to a victory in November of 1976.
Thank you all very, very much.
747
