February 13
[84]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
-Tax incentives to encourage more low and middle income Americans
to invest in common stock;
-More than $21 billion in outlays for important public works such as energy
facilities, wastewater treatment plants, roads, and veterans' hospitals repre-
senting a 17 percent increase over the previous fiscal year;
-Tax incentives for investment in residential mortgages by financial insti-
tutions to stimulate capital for home building.
I have proposed a Budget which addresses the difficult task of restraining
the pattern of excessive growth in Federal spending. Basic to job creation in
the private sector is reducing the ever-increasing demands of the Federal gov-
ernment for funds. Federal government borrowing to support deficit spend-
ing reduces the amount of money available for productive investment at a
time when many experts are predicting that we face a shortage of private
capital in the future. Less investment means fewer new jobs and less production
per worker.
Last month, under our balanced policies, seasonally adjusted employment
rose by 800,000. That total is almost three times as large as the number of jobs
that would be produced by this legislation and the jobs those men and women
found will be far more lasting and productive than would be created through
another massive public works effort.
I ask the Congress to act quickly on my tax and budget proposals, which I
believe will provide the jobs for the unemployed that we all want.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 13, 1976.
NOTE: The House of Representatives overrode the President's veto on February 19. On the same day, the
Senate sustained the veto.
84
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate on a Nuclear-Powered Navy. February 13, 1976
IN DEVELOPING the budget for FY 1977, the Navy and the Secretary of
Defense have reviewed the requirements for surface combatants and recom-
mended a program to me. I approve that program. In approving that program,
it was clearly understood that, on a ship for ship basis, a nuclear powered ship is
257
