[235]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
I regret that some people in this country have disparaged and demeaned the
role of the homemaker. I say—and say it with emphasis and conviction—that
homemaking is good for America. I say that homemaking is not out of date,
and I reject strongly such accusations. Every American who chooses to be a
homemaker can take pride in a fine, fine vocation. You should never be embar-
rassed to say anywhere on the face of this Earth, “I am an American homemaker,
and I am proud of it." And then, if you add for emphasis that you are a Tarheel
homemaker, you can be doubly proud.
When we think of the Bicentennial and the heroes of some 200 years ago, we
think of the Minutemen and George Washington and other men who struggled
to win liberty for America. But we seldom hear of Minutewomen and Martha
Washington and other women whose contribution to the cause of independence
was just as essential. These were the women who maintained a home, who
nursed the sick, tilled the fields, fought the fires, prepared the food, repaired the
clothes, and even defended the home itself. Modern homemaking grew from a
model that must not be forgotten in this Bicentennial Year, and you come
from that heritage.
I look to the future and see a very family oriented society in America. I see
people becoming more mature, especially in how men and women understand
themselves and achieve their fullest human potential. I see freedom without
anarchy and with no exploitation of one person by another. I see love and respect
nurtured by the family and generated by individual self-confidence. Yes, there
will be different styles of living in the new age, but the mainstream will be
exemplified by the kind of homes you will make and the families that you will
raise.
By building the American home, you are building America. All the power of
the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines will not deter our enemies
if they suspect that the American home and the American family have disinte-
grated, that our communities no longer function, that every individual cares only
about himself or herself.
By joining in such groups as FHA-HERO, you serve America. I thank you,
and I congratulate you. You build for tomorrow's dream.
There are new perceptions of life and new discoveries that have transformed
homemaking, but one thing has not changed-it still takes a lot of living to
make a home. The old values of caring and sharing have not gone out of date. I
share your strong belief that every individual counts and that we are all involved
in each other's lives.
When you discourage the use of drugs and alcohol, you help yourself and in-
756
