[104]
February 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
we have had to use the helicopters. I must say that the U.S. helicopters have
been a Godsend and I am sure that that is the way the people of Guatemala
look at them, too.
There is another value to them besides the specific measurable value, and
that is the psychological value. Their presence makes it known that somebody
is there, the United States is there helping.
THE PRESIDENT. Where is our emergency hospital located?
Mr. Parker. It is located in the area of Chimaltenango and it has done its
job. It has done a heroic job and we are commencing its phase-down and with-
drawal at this time. We are also, Mr. President, beginning the phase-down of
some of the helicopters, the heavy helicopters in particular. Trucks are now
able to get through into these areas and with that we believe that is the proper
way to service it.
THE PRESIDENT. What is the impact on the economy?
MR. PARKER. Well, it is more a disaster of people than it is economics. Now
this is not to say that there is not a real economic problem but it is more in
the economy of the individual family than it is of the overall national economy.
The industrial establishment was not much damaged and it is probably going
to get back into production, but that is only 6 percent of the gross national
product.
The farms and, of course, the farm buildings were destroyed, but the fields
were not and they have had a good harvest. Their export crops-coffee, which
mainly goes out through the Pacific ports, bananas, cotton, and sugar, which
come out this way—the economic effect will depend on how quickly this road
is opened.
THE PRESIDENT. This is that highway where the principal-the population
lives?
MR. PARKER. That is correct. It is also the geographic fault line. The prin-
cipal damage is really in this area right along in here, and we are doing a
quick but, I think, very thorough engineering assessment of this.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:43 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House. Mr. Parker toured the
disaster area February 12-13.
342
