[48]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
MIDWEST REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE
[9.] Q. Mr. President, to stay on politics, you are returning to Michigan to-
morrow to address a meeting of the Midwestern Republican Conference. Could
you give us something on what you are going to tell them or what you hope
that meeting will accomplish?
The President. Well, I think I might undercut the speech I am going to make
tomorrow if I gave you a preview of it. So, I think we will have to wait until I
give it tomorrow morning.
GEORGE WALLACE
[10.] Q. Mr. President, you commented on your own campaign a moment
ago, and I thought it was very interesting. I wonder if you would care to
comment on the campaign of George Wallace. Some people seem surprised at
the kind of crowds he has been drawing in Massachusetts-CBS did. Were you,
and would you comment on his importance in this campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Quite frankly, I haven't had time to survey the campaigns of
the 10 or 11 or maybe 12 Democratic candidates, or the one other candidate
in the Republican Party. I am fairly well preoccupied trying to be President and
make sure that our own campaign runs effectively.
PRESS SECRETARY NESSEN. Did you want to get the refreshments, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. We will take another question or two.
FAIRNESS DOCTRINE IN BROADCASTING
[11.] Q. Mr. President, do you feel that the fairness doctrine is still a construc-
tive force as it applies to broadcasting?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, generally, yes. I quite frankly haven't gotten into the
details of it recently. We don't have any complaints. I haven't heard of any
great complaints. So, generally, I would say it seems to work all right.
HEALTH INSURANCE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, under your catastrophic health insurance plan, what
help might there be for the family or the elderly couple who is above the poverty
line and, therefore, not eligible for Medicaid, but who would be wiped out by
the $500 in medical payments?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under the program of social service, I believe there is a
program that would take care of that, but I can't be absolutely certain. Under the
Medicare, we do take care of the 25 million who participate. We would ask that
they pay the first day of hospitalization. Then they pay 10 percent of the next
124
