[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
supplies and the tractors. Probably three-quarters of us can hardly afford any-
more to buy a new tractor; they start at $10,000, and they run up.
The President. Well, first let me thank you for mentioning the vetoes. I
vetoed 46 bills in 19 months. Thirty-nine of those vetoes have been upheld by the
Congress. And as a result of those vetoes, and 39 of them being sustained by a
third of the Members of either the House or the Senate, we have saved the tax-
payers $13 billion.
We are engaged right now in a very difficult negotiation between the truckers
and the Teamsters. It is a tough negotiation, and I got word this morning that
there had been a settlement of approximately 60 percent of the trucking industry.
And there are several other segments of it that have not yet settled, but they are
optimistic that that will take place.
This is the kind of a negotiation that I think has to take place between labor
and management, and only as a last resort should the Government get in and
use the legislation that is available. But it is far better, from our national point of
view and the philosophy that I think most of us have, that the parties themselves
should settle their differences.
We are trying to hold down to the extent that we can, indirectly. We don't
want to go back to wage and price controls. I don't think agriculture wants a
wage and price control policy; it was disastrous. And the gentleman that I talked
to a minute ago probably was thinking of the 90-day freeze that we had on cattle
prices in 1971, as I recall. It was disastrous and caused some of the problems that
later took place.
We have got to make sure that labor and management understand that they
have to act in the national interest as well as in their own interest. And here is
what the Secretary of Labor, Bill Usery, is trying to do-to convince both parties
as they negotiate, they just can't get a bigger piece of the pie. They have to under-
stand that all of us will suffer, including themselves, if they are too selfish in
their negotiations. We are trying to keep down some of these costs, the labor
costs, in a responsible way. But for us to put wage controls on, I think, would
not be the answer. I think it would be the wrong approach, just like it was the
wrong approach on food prices 2 or 3 years ago.
Q. I am a Winnebago County dairy farmer. I guess I am considered a young
farmer. I would like to add that I am pretty happy with dairy farming the way
it is. I think the efficient farmer who is doing a good job is making a pretty good
living right now.
My question is, I am kind of at a loss as to who to support for President. I think
you are very sincere in being here, but I wonder how much emphasis we have
942
