[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
contribute very little. And our energy supplies can be significant if we get a
breakthrough through research in 5 years from now or certainly 10 years.
I can assure you, we have literally given to the scientific community all of the
money that the experts tell me we can responsibly spend. They won't produce it
overnight, but the potential is there, and with the funding that the Federal Gov-
ernment is putting in, I think we will have a breakthrough in those exotic fuel
areas.
FEDERAL ESTATE TAX EXEMPTIONS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Rantoul, Illinois. Would you care to further
comment on the status of your proposals concerning the increase in Federal
estate tax exemptions?
THE PRESIDENT. Back in the 1930's, by law, the estate tax exemption was set
at $60,000. It has not been increased since that time. And if you just take the
escalation in the cost of living, it ought to be considerably higher.
In order to retain the stability and the strength and the contributions of the
family farm and the family-owned business, I have recommended that the
Secretary of the Treasury submit to the Congress in the regular procedure two
things that ought to be done. One, to increase that exemption from $60,000 to
$150,000. And, in addition, I have asked the Secretary of the Treasury to testify
and recommend to the Congress that there be a moratorium in the payment of
estate taxes for a period of 5 years and then a period of 10 years where the remain-
ing estate tax would be paid on a graduated basis with a 4-percent interest rate.
So, the net result is we increase the exemption and we also spread out the pay-
ment of whatever taxes are still left.
The net result is we can retain the ownership of a family-owned farm within
the family, and we can retain the ownership of a family-owned business within
the family. I think this is wholesome for America, and I hope the Congress
responds affirmatively.
U.S. POLICY AT THE UNITED NATIONS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student at U of I. Lately the Third World
nations have been pushing in the U.N. for more power. And we have had Patrick
Moynihan, and I thought he did a great job in the U.N. He reversed the position
of the United States that we had taken in the U.N. in the last few years. I wonder
if you expect Governor Scranton to keep this up or go back to the conservative
way we have been doing things?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me remind you that I appointed Pat Moynihan to be the
U.N. Ambassador. I gave him the instructions to do as he did at the United
570
