[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
181
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Farm
Forum in Springfield. March 5, 1976
Paul, Secretary Butz, my former colleagues in the House of Representatives,
Congressman Michel, Congressman Railsback, Congressman Madigan, former
Governor Ogilvie, members of Illinois farm organizations, ladies and gentle-
men:
I am extremely pleased to be here in Illinois, the land of Lincoln, to meet with
all of you, to respond to your questions. And I commend you and congratulate
you as leaders of the various agricultural organizations in this great State.
Let's talk today about where this great corn heartland of America is headed.
We have made some very solid gains in agriculture in the last 2 years, as Paul
Findley pointed out. The last 3 years have been the 3 highest net farm income
years in history. That is the way it should be, and that is the way it is going to be.
It took hard work on your part; it took the right kind of farm policies. I want to
keep that good climate going, and I know that you do as well. You and all of the
farmers must have a fair return for your hard work, 365 days a year, and as far as
I am concerned, you always will.
But let me take a minute to analyze or examine another area. I refer to farm
surpluses and the restrictive farm programs that went with them. We no longer
today have heavy farm surpluses hanging over the market. I want to keep it
that way, and I think you do, too. We must sell grain, not pile it up in storage.
That is the program of this administration.
We don't have an administration in Washington dumping surpluses to force
down the farm price and force you to sign up to some government-controlled
farm programs, and we don't want one of that kind. The Nation's grain reserves
are now in your own hands. Today, you who raise the grain can decide the best
time to sell, and you are.
I think you ought to know what I am for and what I am against in some other
matters. I am firmly opposed to the Government holding your reserves in a
Government bin or in a Government warehouse. I am firmly against the policies
that would have farmers producing again for a Government storage bin and a
Government check.
I am firmly opposed to a Government board selling your exports. I want our
export trade to stay in private hands. I am firmly opposed to any international
reserve that would put your farm products under the control of an international
body where this country could be outvoted 50 to 1 or even by 100 to 1.
526
