[304]
April 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Standing here and looking out over the vista of our Capital, I believe this
memorial also helps to capture something else, something more-the excite-
ment and the inspiration that moved Lyndon Johnson when he first came to
Washington, D.C., fresh from teaching school, to begin work in a Congress-
man's office.
From this vantage point, visitors can absorb the city as a whole, including
the Capitol and the great monuments to Washington, Lincoln, and Jefferson,
before visiting the shrines of America's democracy in this great Capital.
I would especially urge young people to come to this spot to ponder the site
that has quickened the pulse of many young Americans starting out on their
careers in government, just as it did for Lyndon Johnson. It is the very heart
of democracy that fresh, vital ideas continue to be infused into the body politic.
No doubt young people must do their own thing, but I would say to them, as
Lyndon Johnson often said, “Consider serving your Nation and Government,
whether at the local, State, or Federal level." Let this place, this living memorial
to a life devoted to public service, be the inspiration for such a decision.
Let me add one word of thanks, thanks from Betty and myself, to express the
gratitude of the Nation to a great and gracious First Lady, Mrs. Johnson. We all
know of her tireless efforts on behalf of a more beautiful America, and in large
measure she made this spot come alive with nature's blessings. Her work for
beautification all across the land, as well as for perennial springtime beauty in the
Nation's Capital, has changed the face of America for a better place.
I, along with many others in the House as well as in the Senate, had an oppor-
tunity to work with Mrs. Johnson in the formative stages of this memorial grove.
To all of those who played some part in its conception as well as its implementa-
tion, this dedication today is a dream become reality. And it is a very fitting
tribute not only to the former President but to his First Lady to whom we all owe
so very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. at the
Lyndon Baines Johnson Memorial Grove, the of-
ficial national memorial to President Johnson, located
in Lady Bird Johnson Park. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Secretary of the Interior Thomas S.
Kleppe, Lady Bird Johnson, widow, Lynda Johnson
Robb and Luci Johnson Nugent, daughters of the
former President, and Charles S. (Chuck) Robb,
Lynda's husband.
980
