April 2
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
However, this was shortlived. And right after the 1972 election, our group not
only became disenchanted with the national recovery and the plight of our people
but it became bitter over the fact that it was denied the few band-aids, promises,
and the minimum tokenism, too.
Consequently, Mr. President, something specific by you and through your
administration must be done to win back this allegiance which was so shortly
held by Nixon. Surprisingly, very little needs to be done. Specifically, the con-
sensus I gather, talking to various ethnic groups around the country, number a
few things.
Number one, the ethnic heritage studies. We ask the administration to give
this full support. We, the ethnics, have paid our taxes, have supported the United
States Government and the Armed Forces. And the highest number of enlist-
ments in the First and Second World Wars have been silent, have manned the
factories, and so on and so forth, and we ask very little in return. This was the
first gesture by the United States Government towards the ethnic groups.
First, $100 million was supposed to be funded. They cut it down to $20 million,
and finally they cut it down to $1.8 million, and this was also supposed to be
eliminated until a last ditch stand. Now, we are not going to march in protest
to Washington, D.C., but the ethnics will show it at the voting polls and, con-
sequently, I ask that this administration give consideration.
Secondly-
THE PRESIDENT. Can I answer-
Q. Wait.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say first, on the question of appointments and recogni-
tion, I think we have in our presence here now Mitch Kobelinski, who is in
charge of the Small Business Administration.
Number two, on the ethnic education matter, about a week ago, the Office
of Management and Budget and myself were discussing this with the head offi-
cials in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. And they are seek-
ing a way, within the funds that have been appropriated, to continue the $1.5
million for that program. So, I can't say today that it is accomplished, but there
are people in the top of HEW and in OMB who are working on it, and I am
confident that they will find a solution.
Ask one more, and then I want to answer questions from some others.
Q. The second point I want to bring out—and I will be all through in a
minute and a half-and that is the affirmative action program. We strongly
request that the President, by Executive order, include Eastern and Southern
Europeans in the affirmative action program if this is possible.
895
