March 22
[247]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Federal support of basic research. I urge Congressional approval of the proposed
budget increases in the National Science Foundation.
The White House,
March 22, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science Foundation Annual Report 1975" (Government Printing
Office, 127 pp.).
247
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen Transmitting
Report on the Status of Indochina Refugees. March 22, 1976
IN ACCORDANCE with the provisions of the Indochina Migration and Refu-
gee Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting to you on the status of refugees from
Cambodia and Vietnam.
I am proud of the fact that we were able to achieve our goal of complete
refugee resettlement before the end of calendar year 1975. My first three reports
to the Congress described the activities undertaken to successfully complete the
resettlement phase of the program. The task since that time has been to pro-
vide the Indochina refugee necessary assistance in his becoming a self-reliant
member of his new community. I must report that in the majority of cases the
Indochina refugee is achieving his assimilation into American society largely
on his own efforts. Numbers of refugees, however, do require financial, medical,
or educational assistance. Through private and governmental efforts we have
been able to provide that assistance.
On the whole, I believe this report will show an encouraging start has been
made in assisting the Indochina refugee to participate fully in American life.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James O. Eastland, Chairman,
Senate Committee on the Judiciary; the Honorable
Peter W. Rodino, Chairman, House Committee on
the Judiciary; the Honorable John J. Sparkman,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations;
the Honorable Thomas E. Morgan, Chairman,
House Committee on International Relations; the
GERALD R. FORD
Honorable John L. McClellan, Chairman, Senate
Committee on Appropriations; and the Honorable
George H. Mahon, Chairman, House Committee on
Appropriations.
The report is entitled "HEW Task Force for
Indochina Refugees, Report to the Congress,
March 15, 1976."
789
