March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
BETTY FORD
[12.] Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. You will have to speak louder. You were yelling louder than
you speak. [Laughter]
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my wife, Betty, was out at the Lambs, in fact, she was
there today. And Congressman McClory was there. And as I understand it,
Betty was there 2½ hours and spent a great deal of time, I assume, with the
students, the young people who were there. And I can't understand why she
couldn't speak to the faculty or the members of the teaching group. But that
wasn't a decision made by Betty. That was a decision made by somebody else,
if it is true. And I just can't imagine that if she was there for 2½ hours, she didn't
have a chance to talk to some of the teachers.
Well, here is Bob McClory. Let Bob answer it. Well, Bob tells me that she
spoke to the teachers, spoke to everybody.
SCHOOL BUSING
[13.] Q. I heard your remarks in there about trying to restore freedom back
to the American people, and I think that is probably the most important thing.
However, I know that right now, at this very minute, there are people back
in Washington who are determining what type of car I will be able to buy and
determining whether my children will be able to attend this school that I am
paying for or whether they will have to attend some school not of my choice,
who are also attempting to dictate what type of home I will live in or where
this home will be located. Despite your wonderful goal, I am wondering what
you are trying to do in terms of trying to accomplish that in light of what I
have just told you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the gentleman has questioned whether we have at the
present time in the Federal Government the kind of freedom that I understand
he would prefer, which would be the freedom to send his children to the schools
of his choice, the freedom to buy the car that he would like, and one other, I
don't recall.
Well, I think the objectives of what he has indicated are what I would like.
I don't agree with court-ordered, forced busing to achieve racial balance, period.
But under our system, the Supreme Court is a coequal branch of the Federal
Government, and the President can't call up the Chief Justice and say, you de-
677
