[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
America's heritage was created by our farmers. The time has come for all
Americans to join you, the farmers, in recultivating America's old and cherished
values, including our rededication to the highest moral and spiritual values. You,
the farmers of America, took the challenge some 200 years ago. In the words of
Ralph Waldo Emerson, describing the heroic stand at Concord Bridge in 1775
said, “. . . the embattled farmers stood, And fired the shot heard round the
world."
Today, the farmer is still embattled. Today's telling shots are not from guns
but from grain; not from pistols but from productivity. The Minuteman of 1976
is the man who drives the tractors in your fields. Two hundred years have passed,
but you remain central to America's future and to America's freedom.
Thank you very much.
I look forward to the questions and answers.
Q. Mr. President, I want to compliment you, first, on your appointment of
Secretary Butz to this committee. I think we, as farmers, will be very pleased to
think the Secretary now might have some of your administration at elbow
length, perhaps, instead of arms length.
I am also very pleased with your comment relative to exports, but I hasten
to add that I think farmers are still very apprehensive about 1976 as they again
approach all-out production. And we are wondering what concrete assurances
you can give farmers that they could believe the administration in saying that
again you might not impose some type of export restrictions?
The President. Now that we have developed firm and certain relationships,
not only with Japan and with some of the Eastern European countries, the Soviet
Union and elsewhere, I would say that the likelihood of any limitation on ex-
ports is virtually nil.
But I have to be honest and frank with you. I just don't believe in kidding
people. I can't say never, under no circumstances. I think any responsible Presi-
dent has to have an option, if he has to face a catastrophe of some kind. But as I
said a moment ago, the likelihood is virtually nil of any limitation of exports
in 1976.
Q. I'm from the National Farmers Organization. Our members would like to
welcome you to this greatest of all agricultural States. My prime concern is not
at this point will I be able to leave my family farm to my heirs but will I be able
to keep it that long. We believe that there are unfair tax advantages by corpora-
tions and that they move into agriculture. I have an opportunity to work with
a coalition group, and there is in the Judiciary Committee a family farm act
530
