March 20
[237]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, any allegation to the effect that we are going to
negotiate away the Panama Canal is just totally inaccurate. Three Presidents—
President Johnson, President Nixon, and myself—have been negotiating with
the Panama Government following the very serious riots that took place there
in 1965, when 30 individuals were killed, including about 10 Americans.
We are trying to negotiate it in a responsible way, but under no circumstances
are we going to give away what some people allege. And until we conclude
the negotiations, there is no change in the status whatsoever.
Q. Mr. President, an Army staff officer recently said that contrary to Penta-
gon statements, the Army is in such a state of disarray through lack of
sufficient training and necessary equipment—that less than one out of three divi-
sions could be effectively put into the field in an emergency or crisis situation.
Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. That is not what the top people in the Department of Defense
say. They, I think, have the responsibility to keep our military forces—the Army,
Navy, Air Force, and Marines—in top shape. They are ready; they are alert;
they are well trained; they are well equipped. And any allegation to that effect,
I think, is inaccurate.
The United States has a national defense program second to none. The United
States has sufficient military capability to deter aggression, to maintain the peace,
and to protect our national security. So, any charges to the contrary are com-
pletely and totally inaccurate.
Q. Mr. President, Governor Holshouser has been criticized by your opponent
for using State planes and State facilities in your campaign. Do you condone the
use of tax funds for this sort of thing?
The President. It is my understanding that when there have been meals at
the Governor's residence that they have been paid for by the President Ford
Committee. Jim Holshouser is an honest, straightforward, very effective Gov-
ernor, highly supported by the people of North Carolina. So, these are again
just purely political charges that don't really have any substance.
Q. Will you reimburse the State for any use of State planes?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you that fact, but there is the best witness right
there. You know, these kind of charges-they always arise, and people get
panicky on the other side. And you just have to roll with the punches, because
they don't have any substance to talk about.
Q. Why did you come to Asheville before Governor Reagan showed up?
761
