February 13
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of the Treasury has testified on a number of
occasions before the House Committee on Ways and Means and, I think, the
Senate Finance Committee with some guidelines of this administration concern-
ing tax reform and tax revision.
The House has passed a bill. We like some of it; we don't like other parts
of it. We think the Internal Revenue Code could be simplified. But we are
working with the Congress not only on our ideas but some of the things that
have come out from the Department of the Treasury.
In the State of the Union Message that I gave a month or so ago, I did recom-
mend some tax changes-one of them to provide an incentive to industry to
build new plants, buy new equipment in high unemployment areas, giving
them a more rapid amortization.
I also recommended tax changes that would permit individuals to buy stock
in American corporations, to become owners, and get a tax deferral during a
period of time. I think we ought to broaden the ownership of American indus-
try. That was another tax proposal, and we will be coming forth with some
others as the session progresses.
FLORIDA PRIMARY ELECTION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, we are told you are only going to make two visits to
Florida before the March 9 primary. Are you confident that only 4 or 5 days of
campaigning in Florida can win you the primaries, especially when most
political observers see the Ford-Reagan contest as a tossup in this State and
that many reports have surfaced that your Florida campaign is in disarray?
The President. Let me make two very categorical comments: number one,
I think I will do well in Florida; number two, my campaign organization is in
good shape. Lou Frey has done a good job. We have supplemented his staff
with some additional people, because it is getting closer and closer to March 9.
Therefore, I think our Florida organization will do a good job, and I think we
will win in Florida.
Now, I happen to believe that coming down here on this trip and possibly
another one is important. That is why I am here. But, I must say my principal
job is to continue to be an effective President. It is more important that I attend
to the many, many responsibilities as President, and on weekends or on quick
trips, I will try to come down, as I am on this occasion. But, my principal respon-
sibility is to make sure that our domestic and international policies are carried
out in the best interest of the country as a whole.
265
