[180]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
It has been said that more words have been written about Abraham Lincoln
than about any other American. Certainly more speeches have been made about
him, especially by candidates in election campaigns. And I must confess, I have
been guilty of this myself on very numerous occasions.
I do remember, however, my first visit to this house about a dozen years ago,
in the company of my good friends, Paul Findley and the late Senator Everett
Dirksen. Ev was about the best storyteller to come out of central Illinois since
Lincoln himself.
I had just been elected, in 1965, the Republican leader of the House of Repre-
sentatives. And Ev Dirksen was teaching me something about the trade, since
Ev had been the Republican leader in the Senate for approximately 6 years.
Frankly, I can't remember what I said about Abraham Lincoln that day in 1965,
in Springfield, but I do remember the difficulty that I had in trying to put
Abraham Lincoln into words.
Carl Sandburg and others have spent a whole lifetime in this effort, and
almost everything there has been to say about Lincoln has been said many, many
times before, and probably much better. Nobody has ever been able to capture
that great spirit fully in a few sentences—even Lincoln's own eloquent sen-
tences cannot explain Lincoln's universal appeal to human hearts.
There is a story, however, about a young family visiting the Lincoln Memorial
in Washington, D.C. According to the story, the mother leans over to her little
girl, who was about 4 or 5 years old, and points up to the marble statue of
Lincoln in the Memorial. The mother asks, “Now you know who that is, don't
you?" Quick as a flash, the child responds, "Oh, yes, he's my friend.”
Whether that story is true or not, it explains a lot. Every American feels that
he or she knows about Abraham Lincoln in a very personal way, as surely as
Springfield neighbors did when Abraham Lincoln bid them a last farewell
before taking the train to the Nation's Capital.
All along the way, people called out, called to him as Abe, sometimes Old Abe,
though he was only 52. It was a term of affection just as Ike was for President
Eisenhower or Ev for Senator Dirksen. The wonder is that this communion
between Lincoln and the people, so evident in his own life, continues to this very,
very day.
His amazing ability to communicate some of his own calm courage, his own
calm compassion to his fellow countrymen across more than a century sets
Abraham Lincoln apart from all the great Americans whose names we honor.
Others are legends; Lincoln is real. He is especially real here in Springfield, the
524
