[209]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
complex and frequently changing guidelines to qualify for those programs.
Can you, sir, offer any hope for simplifying the bureaucratic process and for
making it easier for small communities to deal efficiently and effectively with
the Federal Government?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have recommended four major block grant programs
that all or in part would answer the problem you are talking about. One, health
services we are proposing 15 or 16 categorical grant programs going into one.
Primary and secondary education, plus vocational education, plus child nutri-
tion programs, plus aid to the disabled would also be a block grant program and
would reduce significantly the number of applications that local units of gov-
ernment would have to make for educational Federal funding. We also have
proposed the social services be consolidated into a block grant program and
also the Federal nutrition program.
All of these in one way or another, some more than others, would reduce
the burden of applying for Federal categorical grant programs. We would
actually take about 60 categorical grant programs and cut them down to 4,
and that is a lot of progress, I think, from the local as well as the Federal level.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give you an illustration why I am convinced it will.
Up until 1974, we had seven different categorical grant programs for urban
development. We had the Urban Development Program, the Model Cities
Program-we had seven of them. When we did away with the seven block
grant programs and turned it into a community development program, one al-
location to a community, we reduced the number of forms significantly. We
have reduced the number of Federal employees significantly, and we have re-
duced the burden on the local units of government in a meaningful way. If we
could do it in that program, I see no reason why we cannot do it in the other
four programs that I have mentioned.
FEDERAL STRIP MINING LEGISLATION
[12.] Q. President Ford, this past year you vetoed a bill which would have
mandated strip mining companies to immediately restore the environments after
the strip mining is completed. If you are elected and such a bill came before you
again, what would be your position then, and why?
THE PRESIDENT. If the same bill came before me, of course I would veto it
because of several things. One, it would have slowed down our answer to the
energy program. It would have slowed down significantly the development and
660
