[206]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
total national expenditures. It was the first time that that trend line has started
up.
That decision was not predicated on anything that had to be done immediately
for our national security because we do have the best trained, the best equipped,
the best led, the most alert military force in the history of the United States. That
is what we have today. But the decision to add more spending to reverse the trend
was to protect whoever might be President 3, 4, 5, 6 years from now because
you don't turn a switch and all of a sudden have more missiles and more sub-
marines and more aircraft, et cetera. The decisions made today in a defense
budget materialize basically 2 to 4 to 5 years from now.
I repeat, this country is second to none in the capability that is required to pro-
tect our country, but we have to look down the long road and we cannot tolerate
that trendline that has been going on. Somebody in the audience might ask, well,
why didn't you do something about it last year? The facts of life are that in Jan-
uary of 1975, I then submitted the highest military budget in peacetime. Tragi-
cally, the Congress cut it $7.5 billion. But we can and we will make it up, and I
ask you to support the kind of military programs and policies that we are
undertaking at the present time.
And if we all join together—Democrats, Republicans, across the board—the
current capability that we have as a nation now is fully adequate to meet any
challenges from any sources, under any circumstances, and that is what is needed,
that is what is essential for our security. And I pledge to you, as I am sure Chuck
and John will do the same, under no circumstances will we play second fiddle
to any country in military preparedness.
Quite frankly, as I say goodby, it has been a great experience to be in Rock-
ford. I have been here several times in the past. It was a great opportunity yester-
day to talk firsthand with a very fine cross section of American agriculture. It
was a thrilling experience last night to be at Cherryvale Mall. And it was kind
of nice to see my wife again, as she came back from California. You know, she
has been out in Arizona and California trying to get my votes up to her polls.
[Laughter]
But as I leave you this morning, I want to thank you for the great hospitality.
I am proud to be here with John and Chuck and Dick Ogilvie and Dave and
all of the others. I am proud of the record that we have tried to undertake for our
great country in the last 19 months, and I am even prouder of the American
people because I think they have done a great job in not reacting with panic and
cynicism and skepticism. And I am proud of our kind of government, it is some-
632
