February 10
[75]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that we have been striving to live up to ever since. Yet it took many years before
these ideals became a reality for black citizens.
The last quarter-century has finally witnessed significant strides in the full in-
tegration of black people into every area of national life. In celebrating Black
History Month, we can take satisfaction from this recent progress in the reali-
zation of the ideals envisioned by our Founding Fathers. But, even more than
this, we can seize the opportunity to honor the too-often neglected accomplish-
ments of black Americans in every area of endeavor throughout our history.
I urge my fellow citizens to join me in tribute to Black History Month and
to the message of courage and perseverance it brings to all of us.
GERALD R. FORD
75
Remarks at the Swearing In of W. J. Usery, Jr., as
Secretary of Labor. February 10, 1976
Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-designate, Bill Usery,
distinguished members of the Cabinet, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
Let me welcome you most heartily here on this very fine occasion and to
indicate to you at the conclusion of my remarks in the swearing in, I welcome
all of you to join us in the State Dining Room for some refreshments.
There can be no doubt whatsoever as to the capability and the ability of
Bill Usery to handle this very important job at this very crucial time. We just
have to take a good, hard look at his impressive credentials, the record he built
up over so many years in successfully mediating complex, controversial differ-
ences between both labor and management.
Everybody who has had any experience with Bill in this field, and those
who have watched from the outside, know that he is trusted and respected
by labor and management because he understands the needs as well as the
concerns of both.
Bill has had a very outstanding record in the field of both labor as well as
labor-management relations. He served for many years as a representative
of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers of the
AFL-CIO.
He was appointed Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Rela-
tions in 1969 and did a superb job in that responsibility. In 1973 he became the
243
