[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Aeronautics Board-it arises out of the fact the statutes we are charged with
administering are archaic.
The President. Let me ask this, Karl: Is the Commission or are the related
commissions preparing for submission to the Congress new legislation that
would meet the current requirements and related matters, or just doing nothing?
MR. BAKKE. No, sir. Speaking for the Federal Maritime Commission, we are
setting in motion a comprehensive and searching review, both of our statutory
authorities and the regulations we have promulgated to implement those au-
thorities specifically with a view to updating them and stripping away the
anachronistic or archaic features of our basic authorities—perhaps of necessity
adding additional statutory authority to optimize our functions in the real
world of today.
I think by the beginning of the next session of Congress we will be in a posi-
tion to come forward with a number of proposals in that respect with the bene-
fit of Mr. Lynn's good office in clearing off on them.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you.
Cal, could we hear from you and the Federal Trade Commission? We will
have to cut the next three presentations rather short as the President has a bill
signing ceremony outside. Please be as brief as possible.
MR. COLLIER [Calvin J. Collier, Chairman, Federal Trade Commission].
Mr. President, Lou Engman, as one of his last acts as chairman of the FTC,
wrote to you about some of the specific steps that are being taken by the Com-
mission that relate to your four-point program for regulatory reform, which
I should add, we fully endorse.
Looking forward, I am hopeful the Commission's efforts at cost-benefit analy-
sis can be institutionalized and expanded. This kind of analysis, done correctly,
is no easy task. Equally difficult is the job of educating the staff within the agency
as to how to build high quality analysis into their thought processes and recom-
mendations. This has to be used to predict the effects of proposed regulations and
other actions and also to monitor and evaluate in retrospect what the effects of
such actions were. Regulators can't be allowed to bury their mistakes in the Code
of Federal Regulations.
I have been particularly encouraged by reports on a program that began when
I was general counsel. This program was designed to scrutinize the inventory of
our accumulated trade practice rules and guides dating back decades to deter-
mine whether they should be rescinded. To date, and after public comments, 61
such rules and guides have been reviewed and over 90 percent revoked. Another
90 or so will be going through the same process in the coming months.
1020
