February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the growth in our Federal spending and have our revenues increase, as they do,
as our economy improves.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Andrew DeGraffenreidt, commissioner of the city of
Ft. Lauderdale. I am concerned about job opportunities for Americans. I no-
ticed in the recent issue of U.S. World [U.S. News-World Report] there are
8.7 percent of Americans out of work. Do you have any view in your particular
budget whereby we can put Americans back to work?
The President. Let me give you the figures, as I understand them, from
the Department of Labor. In December, we had unemployment of 8.3. In
the figures for January, they dropped to 7.8. This is a half a percent drop which
resulted in 800,000 more people being gainfully employed. Now, 7.8 unemploy-
ment is still far too high, but the trend is in the right direction. Unemploy-
ment is going down; employment is going up.
I believe that the best way for us to solve the unemployment problem is to
give an incentive to the private sector. Five out of six jobs in this country are
in the private sector, and what we should do is to get the private sector moving
so employment, the slack in unemployment will be overcome. I am confident
with the trend that is going at the present time, with the incentives we have
for the private sector, you are going to see unemployment continuously going
down.
Now in the meantime, I think the Federal Government has an obligation
to carry on responsible programs, such as the highway program, and we are
going to spend more money on the highway program in the next fiscal year
than we have in this current fiscal year or the previous fiscal year.
At the same time, I have recommended an increase in spending for public
works projects, the ongoing projects, the ones that are not quick fixes but
the ones that have been well thought out and have been available for con-
struction for some time.
At the same time, I have increased the water treatment and sewage programs
as far as the Federal Government, so we will spend more money in fiscal year 1977
for these kinds of construction projects. In fact, it is 60 percent more than the
current year, 90-some percent more than a year ago. So, whether it is highways
or public works or water and sewage treatment plants, the Federal Government
ought to do those things that build America, and we are.
Now, there are some other programs. You are familiar, I trust, with the
Comprehensive Education [Employment] and Training Act-CETA. I have
recommended full funding for that program for the next fiscal year, and
we are full funding it this year. We hope to phase it out as the economy gets
281
