[168]
March 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
I strongly urge the Congress to act quickly and favorably on my proposal to
help ensure quality education for all of our children.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:15 a.m. at a ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
169
Special Message to Congress Proposing Elementary and
Secondary Education Reform Legislation. March 1, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
The education of our children is vital to the future of the United States. From
the start, our Founding Fathers knew that ignorance and free government could
not coexist. Our nation has acted from the beginning on the sound principle
that control over our schools should remain at the State and local level. Nothing
could be more destructive of the diversity of thought and opinion necessary for
national progress than an excess of control by the central government.
In recent years, our national sense of fairness and equity has led to an increas-
ing number of Federal programs of aid to education. The Federal government
has recognized a responsibility to help ensure adequate educational opportu-
nities for those with special needs, such as the educationally deprived and the
handicapped. We have appropriately provided States and localities with added
resources to help them improve opportunities for such students. At the same time,
we have channeled our aid into too many narrow and restrictive categorical pro-
grams. As a result, we have made it more difficult for the schools to educate.
It is time that we reconcile our good intentions with the recognition that we
at the Federal level cannot know what is best for every school child in every
classroom in the country.
In my State of the Union address, I spoke of the need for a new realism and
a new balance in our system of Federalism—a balance that favors greater respon-
sibility and freedom for the leaders of our State and local governments.
Our experience in education demonstrates that those principles are not abstract
political philosophy, but guides to the concrete action we must take to help
assure the survival of our system of free government. We must continually
guard against Federal control over public schools.
I am proposing today the Financial Assistance for Elementary and Secondary
Education Act which will consolidate 24 existing programs into one block
500
