February 13
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in those fields as well as several other exotic fields. In the case of solar energy,
the increase in research and development funds was over 40 percent.
So, we are trying to move ahead in conservation, in increased domestic pro-
duction, the greater utilization of coal in research and development for the long
term. Although the Congress did not respond as well as I would have liked last
year, I think we will make more headway in 1976.
Q. Do you have any timetable in mind on that, sir?
The President. If the Congress would pass all the things I recommended, we
would be well on our way to energy independence by 1985. Even though they
have been a little slow, I am always an optimist that they will begin to move.
U.S. REPRESENTATIVE TO THE UNITED NATIONS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I have a two-part question concerning U.N. Ambassa-
dor Daniel Moynihan. Would you comment on James Reston's¹ report that
while you were publicly praising Ambassador Moynihan, you and Secretary
Kissinger deplored his actions?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Kissinger and myself, both publicly and privately,
repeatedly endorsed the positions that Ambassador Moynihan took and the way
he handled his job as Ambassador to the United Nations. I think the best evi-
dence of that is what Ambassador Moynihan said on many occasions subsequent
to his letter of resignation, where he fully indicated that I had supported him,
that Secretary Kissinger had supported him. I think the new Ambassador who
will succeed him will carry out the same policy—which are policies of strength
in the United Nations, trying to break up the bloc voting, making certain that
the position of the United States is strongly put forward, and that we don't take
a back seat to anybody. Pat Moynihan did a fine job, and his successor will, too.
Q. Along that same line, on the question of appointment for a new U.N.
Ambassador, the Sentinel Star here in Orlando has called on you, editorially, to
appoint an eagle and not a pigeon. Which will it be?
THE PRESIDENT. The first Ambassador I appointed to the United Nations was
Pat Moynihan. I guess Pat would fall under the heading of an eagle, and I can
assure you, as I said a moment ago, that his successor will be just as strong, just
as firm as Pat Moynihan was.
DEREGULATION OF NATURAL GAS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, you already touched on deregulation of natural gas.
The oil industry is pushing Congress and Government to deregulate natural gas.
1 New York Times vice president and columnist.
263
