[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
go into anticipated revenues, and what we think are wise decisions as to
expenditures.
We had some good news yesterday that could have a very beneficial impact
on the budget. The Department of Labor announced that the unemployment
figures for the month of January went from 8.3 down to 7.8, a half a percentage
point reduction in 1 month, the largest reduction in unemployment percentage
since 1959.
We also had in that release from the Department of Labor an indication that
in that 1-month period there were 800,000 more people gainfully employed, so
that it indicates that since March, at the bottom of the recession, through Janu-
ary, some 2,100,000 more people had been gainfully employed.
Actually, we have regained 96 percent of the job losses that took place during
the depths of the recession. Now, that is not good enough-7.8 is still too high,
but it certainly is on target, if not better than what we anticipated in the
the process
of putting together this budget.
Now let me give you several very broad guidelines that we used in the prepa-
ration of the budget. I believe very strongly that we have to get a new balance
in the Federal budget between the people who were the beneficiaries of some of
the benefits and the taxpayers as a whole.
I believe that we also have to develop a new relationship between the Federal
Government on the one hand and States and local communities on the other.
This balance is vitally important if the Federal system that we believe in is to
continue and grow, not only in strength but in services and the delivery of
services in the best way.
The program that I think in the budget you are mostly interested in would
be general revenue sharing. Under general revenue sharing, which went into
effect in 1972, the total number of States and local units of government that have
been beneficiaries-39,000-some $23 billion has been transferred from the
Federal Treasury to States and local units of government. By the end of this
calendar year, almost $30 billion in Federal funds will have gone to States and
local units, with virtually no strings attached whatsoever.
In the State of New Hampshire, as of this date, Federal revenue sharing has
totaled $75 million plus, and by the end of this calendar year, some $96 million
will have been paid to the State, to 10 counties, to 13 cities, and to 221 townships.
Now, the program that I have recommended and recommended in 1975 is
for the extension of the existing program, which expires on December 31. I have
recommended a 5-year extension that involves almost $40 billion, approxi-
160
