[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
amendment that would preclude any Federal executive, legislative or judicial
action against abortions. And I felt then-and it is on the record at that time—
that I favored an amendment that would permit individual State action.
That record was laid out long before I became Vice President or President,
so it has no application whatsoever to the current situation.
Q. Why do you think such an amendment is necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that it would be very helpful in clarifying and
giving to the individual State-we have 50 States, and if they want to make a
decision one way or another, if you believe in States' rights, I think it is a very
proper, very logical conclusion.
PRAYER IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am Fred Kocher from WMUR-TV in Manchester,
New Hampshire.
The Federal District Court in Concord just recently, here in New Hamp-
shire, ruled that a State law here in New Hampshire allowing voluntary prayer
in public schools was patently unconstitutional.
My question to you is, do you agree with that kind of court decision, because
there are people in this State and in many States that feel that voluntary prayer
is a basic constitutional right?
THE PRESIDENT. Some years ago there was a United States Supreme Court
decision as to whether or not a woman in Baltimore, as I recollect, had a child
who objected to the nondenominational prayer that was conducted in that
community.
That Court decision, in effect, said there could be no prayer in public schools
in the United States. I read that decision very carefully. I read the dissenting
opinion of Justice Potter Stewart very carefully. I subscribe to Justice Potter
Stewart's dissenting opinion, and therefore, I disagree with the Supreme Court
decision which precludes nondenominational prayers in public schools. I agree
with the Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart, who said the Court was wrong.
So, I regret the Court decision. I agree with the minority, and I think it is
most unfortunate that under reasonable limitations-I think it is regrettable
that, under reasonable limitations, there can't be nondenominational prayer in
public schools.
Q. What course of action would you suggest at this point, let's say, to the
Congress or to any group who disagreed like you do?
THE PRESIDENT. The most extreme course of action would be a constitutional
amendment. When this matter came up, I was the Republican minority leader
204
