[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, at the present time, there are too many people who are getting welfare,
food stamps, who don't need them. On the other hand, there are many of the
needy who are being shortchanged. But the fault is that we've got so many pro-
grams that are proliferated all over the Federal lot. And what we are going to
have to come to at some point—it didn't seem feasible to try and do it this year
in a national election year-to have one single plan.
And let me give you an idea of what it might be, but we haven't finalized it.
Back in 1971 there was a plan put together called a Family Assistance Plan,
which did away with the traditional welfare. It provided a work incentive.
I thought it was a good plan. I was in the House of Representatives, and I voted
for it. Unfortunately, the United States Senate wouldn't go along.
I think we can build from that structure, get rid of all of the programs we
have, and start with a single plan that will give to the needy what they deserve
and need and cut out the ones that are the chiselers in the overall.
INDIA
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I respect you and I believe in your policies and I
wish you good luck in the election. But my question is that last year, in June,
Mrs. Gandhi took away the fundamental rights of the people and put all the
opposition leaders in jail. But your government, or you yourself, didn't do
anything to save the people in India. I know that your answer will be that we
don't want to interfere in the internal matters of the other governments. But
isn't it the responsibility of the United States, who is the biggest democracy
in the world, to save the democracy?
THE PRESIDENT. I had the temerity to make a comment somewhat critical of
the developments of which you speak in India, for which I was castigated by
some very prominent public officials in India. And they told me that it was none
of our business what happened or transpired internally in India.
It is not good policy for one country to interject itself in the internal affairs
of another. I would simply answer the question you raise by saying, out of 155
nations in the world today, there are less than 38 that have one form of democ-
racy or other. That is a very small percentage, and some in that group of 38,
really, we wouldn't categorize as democracies.
Now, what we have to do is by persuasion and proper diplomatic representa-
tions do what we can to help the restoration of democracy in any of the coun-
tries. And what we are trying to do is handle it in a proper way. I deplore the
loss of democracy anyplace, and we will do what we can in a proper way to
seek its restoration.
228
