[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
petition. For several years now, as our written reports indicate, we have under-
taken a major deregulatory effort designed to eliminate needless, outmoded and
overly burdensome regulation. We have, for example, modified or deleted over
400 rules in broadcasting and have made 25 major reforms to our cable television
policies. We have made a special effort to reduce regulation of the small business-
man, the person on whom the burden of government paperwork falls most
heavily. This is perhaps best exemplified by our new short-form radio re-
newal application, adopted just last month.
The Commission has also placed considerable emphasis on rule changes in the
common carrier field which have the effect of introducing competition in place
of monopoly regulation. This has been true in domestic private line services,
terminal equipment, land mobile radio, and international communications. In
each of these areas, the Commission's actions have provided an opportunity for
our free enterprise system to function, and the result has been to afford the indi-
vidual consumer and the businessman a greater variety of modern communica-
tions options and alternatives and at reduced costs. Three weeks ago, for
example—and I think this was our most significant effort—the FCC greatly
expanded the opportunities for competition in the telephone equipment market.
Number two, procedural delay. In July of 1974, we created a task force to
undertake a comprehensive reexamination of the Commission's adjudicative
rules in order to eliminate unwarranted delays. Last month, the FCC an-
nounced a major overhaul of our historically cumbersome and time-consum-
ing hearing procedures.
Without going into detail, let me simply say that these innovations should
result in decisionmaking which is faster, more efficient, and I believe more
responsive to the public interest. The problem of agency delay has also been
addressed in the context of an extensive backlog reduction program.
Number three, expanded public participation. In the last 2 years, the FCC
has substantially increased the opportunities for citizens and public interest
groups to express their views to the Commission and to contribute to our de-
cisionmaking.
Specifically, we have instituted a regional meeting program in which the
chairman, other commissioners, and key staff personnel have met face-to-face
with the public in such major urban areas as Atlanta, Chicago, Boston, Denver,
Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C. These sessions are sup-
plemented by monthly, full commission meetings which are open to groups
seeking to present their views to us.
We recently have instituted a new weekly publication-distributed to public
1002
