March 20
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
240
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at Lenoir Rhyne
College in Hickory, North Carolina. March 20, 1976
Jim Broyhill, Governor Holshouser, distinguished guests, and all you wonder-
ful people of Catawba County and this area of North Carolina:
You didn't let me down; you stayed. I won't let you down, I promise you
faithfully, for the next 5 years.
I especially want to thank your great Congressman, Jim Broyhill. I under-
stand Jim held the fort here and came out very forcefully and very forthrightly
on my behalf. And, Jim, I thank you very, very much for those kind words.
Jim was in the forefront when I was a potential as a Vice President. He has
been strong and helpful in the Congress, and I thank him very, very, very much.
May I also thank here, at the end of a somewhat long day, my good friend—
and obviously your good friend—and your superb Governor, Jim Holshouser,
for being out in front, working with me, helping me. Jim, I can't thank you
enough.
Over the years, I have been in Catawba County; I have been throughout the
great State of North Carolina. In fact, I don't feel like a stranger in North
Carolina at all. I went to school here one time for the summer at the University
of North Carolina. I was stationed at Chapel Hill in the Navy for 9 months
early in the war, and my oldest son and his wonderful wife both graduated
from Wake Forest College a couple of years ago.
And as Jim Holshouser and Jim Broyhill know, I have traveled the length
and the breadth of this State, trying to be helpful in various political cam-
paigns for Governor, for Senator, for Congressman, for the ticket. And I really
feel at home, and I thank you, obviously, for this tremendous welcome. There is
no way that I can express my gratitude sufficiently. Quite honestly, I thought
maybe we would have a handful here, and I just thank you so much for this
wonderful appearance here. And I won't let you down, believe me.
Before we go any further—and I mention this because as I walked into this
fine facility, your outstanding football field out there that I, as a former Wol-
verine had been on the gridiron—let me congratulate you and this school on
your own great football team, the Bears.
In football, as in politics, winning always feels real good. [Laughter] This
area has had so many of the fine qualities I have always liked best about North
Carolina, not only Catawba County but Burke, Caldwell, Iredell, Lincoln, and
769
