February 20
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
118
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Chamber of
Commerce Breakfast in Dover, New Hampshire.
February 20, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Ray, and thank all of you for coming here this
morning and participating in this very informal and I hope informative get-
together in Dover. It is a great pleasure to be in your community. It is a great
pleasure to be in New Hampshire. I have been here a good many times over
the years, and it is a special pleasure to be here on this occasion.
I have a prepared text which I will not use. I will summarize it because I think
it is much more important that I get an opportunity to respond to your questions.
So, what I will do is summarize what we have released to my good friends in
the press, and then I look forward to the opportunity to answering your
questions.
Let me make three points, if I might. I got up this morning—and I am an
avid reader of newspapers—and I happened to be looking through one of the
Boston papers, and I couldn't help but notice the headline on this story, “Green-
span-Burns Optimistic About The Pace Of Recovery." Well, they are both
people that I highly respect, and their views have turned out to be right. But
then, as I read the news story in the second paragraph, I found some astounding
support which I think is more indicative than even what Alan Greenspan and
Arthur Burns¹ have said.
And let me quote from the news story, which is a quote from this very dis-
tinguished Member of the Congress. It goes on: "And they were joined by U.S.
Senator Hubert Humphrey, Democrat of Minnesota, who said at a Joint Eco-
nomic Committee hearing, 'I am a little more bullish on the economy than
most people I listen to.'" Well, if he is more bullish than Greenspan and Burns,
we are really on the way to economic progress.
Well, the facts are we have gone through a tough 12 months, because about
a year ago we were still at an inflation rate which was far too high. It had been
12 to 14 percent; it was starting down. About 12 months ago, we were really
on the brink and falling rapidly into the worst recession this country had had
since the end of World War II. All of the economic signs were gloomy and
dismal.
1 Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, respectively.
393
