February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see any real necessity for it. I have a record. I cast
4,000 votes in the House of Representatives in 25 years on Federal issues. I have
been President for 18 months. The public knows what my record is. If they want
to compare it to the rhetoric or the words of former Governor Reagan on
Federal issues, I think that is a very legitimate study for the American people
to make, but I don't think a 30-minute or an hour debate is the preferable way
or the better way for the public to find out what the facts are.
They can look at my voting record and the way I have acted in the White
House for the last 18 months. It is on the record-meeting practical problems
in a practical way, not with speeches. And they can compare that record with
the Governor's record as to what he says he would do, and that is a very valid
comparison. I don't think that an hour's debate would make any significant
difference.
NEW HAMPSHIRE PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, Bill Ayedelott, WLTN Radio, Littleton, New
Hampshire.
President Ford, this is your second political appearance in New Hampshire in
the last 6 months, the first one being this past September on behalf of the can-
didacy in the special Senate election of Lou Wyman.²
At that time, you were supporting him and his record. He was wholeheartedly
supporting you and your administration. Yet, in the outcome of that election,
he suffered quite a stinging defeat in what is generally a Republican State.
I am wondering whether you feel that, or whether you are just regarding
that as a personal loss for him despite your appearance in his behalf, or whether
it might be considered a valid indication that quite a number of New Hamp-
shire voters are dissatisfied with your policies?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it proves one thing—that you can't necessarily translate
your own record or your own popularity to another candidate. I am not going
to speculate on the impact of that appearance where I was very warmly and
very generously received by, I think, over 100,000 people in the short span from
9 o'clock in the morning until 9 o'clock at night.
I am not going to speculate whether that warmth and that very generous
reception that was given to me in that September day will have an impact on
this election or not. I think the only time we can really see is February 24, and I
am quite optimistic.
Q. Well, in a follow-up to that, despite that appearance where so many
2 See 1975 volume, Items 547-549.
209
