March 15
[217]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
year they would buy literally nothing, and the next year they would buy very
significant amounts.
Now since the agreement was signed, they have bought better than 3 million
more tons of corn and wheat, taking us up to a figure of about 13 million tons,
as I recall, Earl. And the possibility exists, with their bad harvest and their
great needs, that they will come in and buy some more.
One of the problems they have-they have bought so much from us that
their ports, their shipping facilities, are incapable of handling what they have
already purchased. So, what we have sold them is good; what the prospects
are for the next 5 years are excellent.
So, I think American agriculture has a great, great future. And Earl Butz
has been, I think, a super Secretary. And all of the success that comes from the
bureaucracy down here, I think we can attribute to the leadership and the
experience and the dedication that we have in Earl Butz. Earl, I thank you for
the great job.
I also should say a good word about Bud Brown. He was a great help to me
when I was in the Congress as the minority leader. Of course, I knew his Dad
and worked with his father, who was also a great Member of the Congress.
I am sorry that Wally Hirshfield¹ is not here. I understand he is over in
Europe with another good friend of mine, Jim Rhodes.² I don't know Wally
too well, but I will tell you that Jim Rhodes is a real salesman. [Laughter] I
think you all know it better than I do.
So it is nice to have Bill here representing Wally, and it is nice to have Bud
and all of you here at the White House. And I thank you very, very much for
coming.
WILLIAM SWANK. Mr. President, in anticipation of this meeting, our board
met and talked about a commendation to you for your strong efforts in sta-
bilizing the economy and getting this runaway inflation back under control.
Farmers are very concerned, as you know, because so many of their costs have
to be purchased off the farm; that's not just farm machinery, but all those
things.
Our vice president of the board is here and our chairman of our public affairs
committee. We want you to meet them, along with these people, but first I have
been designated to hand you this commendation. I won't read it, but I will say
that it speaks to the tireless efforts of President Gerald Ford in getting our
economy in a viable condition. And the most recent statistics that we have
¹ President, Ohio Farm Bureau Federation.
2 Governor of Ohio.
715
