[216]
March 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
unhealthy trend. I was a leader, among many others, in this effort, and I know
what the intent of the Congress was then.
In the 4 years since the revenue sharing program began, State and local gov-
ernments have proved beyond any doubt whatsoever the merit of local control
over local concerns, and I congratulate you.
To date, more than $23,500 million in general revenue sharing funds have
been returned to the 50 States and some 39,000 local units of government. In
fiscal year 1975 alone, more than $7,100 million were well spent on a wide range
of vital public services and facilities, and done very well.
Nearly 25 percent of these funds were spent on public safety, almost 22 per-
cent was spent on education, 13 percent on public transportation, more than
7 percent on environmental protection, and about the same percentages on
health services. These are programs that help people, and in case after case they
are programs you could not have afforded had it not been for general revenue
sharing.
When you were put in charge, you proved—as I knew you would—that you
know a lot more about what your cities need than the Washington bureaucracy
does. That bureaucracy has been held at an absolute minimum in the operation
of revenue sharing. Only about twelve-hundredths of 1 percent authorized for
general revenue sharing in the past 4 years has been spent in Washington in
handling the programs. That is an amazing statistic, and it is a very encourag-
ing sign that bureaucratic overhead need not rob the taxpayer blind nor bind
your cities and States in a maze of redtape in order for federally funded pro-
grams to succeed.
In thousands of cities and counties, and in all 50 States, revenue sharing has
spelled success. If there was ever a program that has earned its keep, revenue
sharing is that program.
Last April, I proposed a 5-year 9-month extension of the general revenue
sharing program. This proposal represented an increase in funding of almost
$1 billion for a total of $39,850 million and called for changes to improve the
effectiveness of the program. Eleven months ago I urged the Congress to take
prompt action on this proposal. I did not ask the Congress for rubber stamp
approval of this important and substantial program. It deserved careful study,
but it also deserved immediate attention.
The Congress obviously did not share my sense of urgency. It is becoming
increasingly apparent that the Congress fails to understand the importance of
this program to the people of the cities and counties and States of our Nation.
710
