[240]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Alexandria Counties are full of good people. I knew I would mispronounce
that one county, but excuse me. [Laughter]
You are all as strong and sturdy as those who come from Hickory, and thank
you all for coming from those various places.
The mountains of North Carolina are one of my favorite parts of the State.
We had a little mountain dew up there at Spruce Pine today, and the ceiling
was a little low. We couldn't see some of the tops of them very well. But they
had 3,000 people out there who had waited and waited and waited. And I
danced with some of those Mountain Cloggers, and can they move their feet.
[Laughter]
But right here at Lenoir Rhyne College, I can see the same signs of drive and
initiative that are typical of your great State. Your president emeritus, Dr.
[Voight Rhodes] Cromer, launched a construction program that gave you 13
modern campus buildings. And under the leadership of your own current, dis-
tinguished president, Dr. [Raymond M.] Bost, you have almost doubled your
college endowment, as well as strengthening and expanding the academic
program.
Having had some executive experience myself, let me say that any president
would be proud of dynamic progress like that, and I congratulate both Dr.
Cromer as well as Dr. Bost.
And as a footnote, let me add we are going to revitalize the United States of
America just like they have done it here in Lenoir Rhyne. Incidentally, I know
that in 1968, Hickory won the title of an All-American City. I can see that just
wasn't a title for 1 year, because the people of Hickory today show the same
spirit of independence that has always helped make America a great, great
country. That is what helped you to make your remarkable recovery from re-
cent economic problems, and that is what has been helping America to make
its recovery as well. We can see the signs of your healthy economy not just in
Hickory but in Newton and Conover just as well.
And we can see the signs of America's recovery in each new set of statistics
that are released. One piece of good news in those statistics is that housing-starts
in February showed a record increase of 27 percent over the previous month.
And that is movement in the right direction. That is going to mean a lot more
business for your wonderful furniture factories right here in Hickory and
North Carolina, generally.
But that is only part of the story. Unemployment is down, and we are going
to keep it down. The rate of inflation is down, too—way down. In February—
the figures were just announced yesterday—the Consumer Price Index showed
770
