April 6
[306]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
306
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the National
Alliance of Businessmen. April 6, 1976
Thank you very much, Carl and John Condon and Mr. Skutt, members of
the National Alliance of Business:
It is always a pleasure to get together with this organization and to welcome
you to Washington and, particularly, to welcome all of you here to the White
House, in the East Room.
From the many meetings that I have had with this group and with indi-
viduals from the group, I can say again, and say it with conviction, that I am
particularly proud of the fine work that you have done and particularly at a
time when we are all so concerned about finding more and more jobs for
American men and women.
The administration-I don't have to tell you, either-is fully aware of the
fact that the economy of the Nation during the past year has not made your
task one bit easier—that of placing Vietnam veterans, the handicapped, the
disadvantaged in jobs in the private sector, where they have had the greatest
opportunity to enlarge their capabilities, their opportunities, and their natural
talents.
I think we all recognize that people will always be America's greatest, single
resource, and people working in rewarding, permanent, meaningful jobs are
the country's greatest strength and the assurance of future progress and pros-
perity.
This organization has formed a very unique partnership with American
business, American labor, and American government to accomplish your
goals. And the success of your efforts shows that this can happen when com-
binations such as these work together. The millions and millions of jobs that
you have found all over the country for men and women in the United States
must make you deservedly proud, and let me say I applaud you wholeheartedly
for it.
I looked at the records before coming over here and found that the NAB
has found jobs for 4.5 million disadvantaged adults, Vietnam veterans, ex-
offenders, and disadvantaged youths. I think that is a tremendous record. I just
hope and trust that the American people appreciate it. I can assure you that I
am extremely grateful.
983
