March 13
[213]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
education. But we have, at this point, no specific plans for a block grant program
as far as higher education is concerned.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much. We can all go watch for a couple
of minutes the basketball game.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-eighth news conference began at 12:02 p.m. in Sternberger Auditorium,
Founders Hall at Guilford College, Greensboro, N.C.
213
Remarks in Guilford, North Carolina.
March 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Jim Holshouser, Congressman Rich
Preyer, distinguished mayors, reverend clergy, Director Everhardt, Mr. Froelich,
ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very high honor and a very great privilege for me to participate in the
anniversary of a memorable battle that typified the deeds that we so proudly
celebrate on our National Bicentennial. And let me say parenthetically that all
of us who come from the other 48 States are deeply indebted to the heroism and
the accomplishments of those who fought in this battle 195 years ago.
It was here on this battlefield that North Carolina's famous Tar Heel spirit
inspired the men of many States to stand together against a common foe. The
enemy came on with drums beating and feathers in their caps. But the Tar Heels
provided the tar; the feathers flew but the tar stuck. Our farmers and frontiers-
men dealt your best professional soldiers a blow that led to their ultimate
surrender. The North Carolinians posed on the frontline made the difference.
Today, Tar Heel tenacity remains a model for America's tenacity. Tar Heel
pride is America's pride. And Tar Heel commonsense and moderation sym-
bolizes the new realism of the United States of America. When I leave here
today, I hope that some of your magic tar sticks to my heels.
I congratulate you not only for your State's courage but for your modern North
Carolina lifestyle. You combine the very best of the present with the finest values
of the past, and you do this in North Carolina with genuine humility. I like the
North Carolina approach.
Two hundred years ago the Founding Fathers favored what they called mild
government. They believed that you can only achieve mild government if you
maintain State and local government so responsive that the National Govern-
693
