January 20
[20]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
20
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on the Military
Assistance Program. January 20, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
The Foreign Assistance Act of 1974, enacted by the 93rd Congress on Decem-
ber 30, 1974, expresses the sense of the Congress that the policies and purposes of
the military assistance program should be “reexamined in light of changes in
world conditions and the economic position of the United States in relation to
countries receiving such assistance.” Section 17(a) of the act expresses the view
that the program, except for military education and training activities, “should
be reduced and terminated as rapidly as feasible consistent with the security and
foreign policy requirements of the United States."
To give effect to section 17(a) of the act, the Congress directed that I submit
to the first session of the 94th Congress a detailed plan for the “reduction and
eventual elimination of the present military assistance program.” In the inter-
vening period, the two foreign affairs committees are considering draft legisla-
tion that would arbitrarily terminate grant military assistance programs after
September 30, 1977, unless authorized by the Congress.
I have stressed repeatedly in my messages to the Congress and in my reports
to the American people, the need for constancy and continuity in our foreign
policy, and, in particular, in our relationship with nations which turn to us
for necessary support in meeting their most pressing security needs. Since World
War II, the United States has extended such assistance to friends and allies.
This policy has contributed immeasureably to the cause of peace and stability
in the world. Many countries which once received grant military assistance
have achieved self-sufficiency in providing for their security interests, and grant
military assistance to a number of current recipients is being reduced or
eliminated.
I firmly believe that grant military assistance in some form will remain a basic
requirement for an effective U.S. foreign policy for the foreseeable future. In
the Middle East and elsewhere, we must maintain our flexibility to respond to
future assistance requirements which cannot now be reckoned with precision.
It will continue to be in our interest to be able to meet the legitimate security
requirements of countries who cannot shoulder the full burden of their own
defense and grant assistance will continue to be needed to assist countries that
provide us essential military bases and facilities. These requirements will not
43
