[159]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, looking ahead to the March 9 primary here in Flor-
ida, who do you see as the Democrat to watch? Who do you feel is going to be
the one? Who is the most serious threat in the Democratic Party?
The President. I really haven't paid much attention to it. I have said re-
peatedly, and I see no reason to change, that my good friend, Hubert Hum-
phrey, will probably be the nominee. Everybody else is in a horse race, and he
will come from behind and take over, and they are just wasting a lot of time.
Q. To follow that up, sir, you said that the other day as well. And that seems
to suggest, since he wasn't in New Hampshire, and an unauthorized write-in
campaign for him sort of fizzled up there, that the New Hampshire Democratic
primary didn't amount to much. Why are you so satisfied with your victory in
the Republican primary there?
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall, Hubert got 6 percent of the vote, and I got 51 per-
cent. There is quite a difference.
Q. Mr. President, do you have any reason to believe that Castro is going to
intervene anywhere as a result of what you have said?
THE PRESIDENT. No, but I think it is very appropriate for me to have said what
I said, and I meant it very literally.
Q. Mr. President, I am sorry, I didn't hear Helen's [Helen Thomas, United
Press International] question, but if it had to do with Cuba, I wanted to ask
you about Cuba also, and that is, down the road, if Fidel Castro does pull his
troops out of Africa, isn't it going to be necessary for us to try to get along with
Cuba as we try to get along with China and the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we ought to speculate. Naturally, I think it
would be very wise for them to withdraw their troops from Angola, and any
other parts of Africa, but what happens after that, I won't speculate at this time.
Q. Mr. President, what are these measures that you said—the appropriate
measures that you viewed as taking against Cuba? After all, measures didn't stop
Cuba in Angola.
THE PRESIDENT. It could have if the Congress had been willing to appropriate
the necessary money and give us the necessary authority.
Q. Do you think Congress is any more likely to go along with any further
measures you recommended?
The President. I would hope so because, you know, once they make a mistake,
I hope they won't repeat it.
Q. Mr. President, where did you get the 12 percentage margin that you had
gained?
478
