[287]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
ago, and everything we buy is so high. I would like to know why it always seems
everything is done for dairy farmers and so forth, and there is no parity on beef
and we hear very little about the beef farmers' plight.
The President. I would agree with you that the beef production industry is
one of a few aspects of agriculture that has no government program as such. But
as I remember, over the years the Cattlemen's Association and the various organi-
zations that represent the beef producing industry always wanted Uncle Sam to
keep his hands off of the cattle business, and when you do that you are bound to
have some fluctuation.
I met several days ago with the Secretary of Agriculture in his new Agricul-
tural Advisory Group that I have established to give me the input on decision-
making for all agricultural decisions, and I asked about beef prices, I asked about
hog prices. And it is his judgment and the judgment of the experts—and there
is some evidence to show it now, not enough but some-that beef prices are on the
way up, and in the period of 3 to 4 months you are going to see a quite different
situation from what it is today. And I certainly hope so because I agree with you
that beef prices today are too low, they are below parity if there was a program.
But from all the signs that the experts can put together, the beef business is going
to be a lot better in about 3 months.
Q. Okay. Thank you. Then I will hold my steers 3 more months, and if the
price does not go up, you are going to hear from me.
The President. Let me add a couple of things that relate particularly to the
beef business. You know, a year or two ago a number of people sold their beef to
some of the stockyards or to some of the processors, and in one or two instances
they went broke, and the people who had sold their beef took a licking. Now that
is not fair. Legislation has been approved, and I support it. I think this is a way
in which we can protect the producers of beef against the bankruptcy of the beef
processors, and this should be helpful. I think it is desirable legislation.
One other answer in response to the young man is, you know, we recom-
mended about 3 weeks ago new legislation in the tax field that would permit a
family farm to go from one generation to another, and we recommended two
procedures or two provisions to take care of this. One, to increase the exemption
from $60,000 to $150,000, and, secondly, to extend the payment of any estate tax
liability over a 25-year period with a 5-year moratorium, and the interest that
would be paid, if any, would be 4 percent.
So, we want to keep the family farm in the hands of one family, and this way
I
think we can help passing it on from one generation to another. And if the Con-
gress will pass it, it will be a great step forward.
930
