[302]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
of democracy live and flourish for the hope and for the future of all the peoples
of the world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:17 p.m. in the Jefferson West Room at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
303
Letter to the Speaker of the House on Foreign Assistance
Appropriations Legislation. April 6, 1976
Dear Mr. Speaker:
In my letter of March 29, 1976 to the House and Senate Conferees, I stated
my strong objections to the Senate action adding nearly $800 million in pro-
gram terms to the budget for Foreign Military Sales credits and Security Sup-
porting Assistance for the Transition Quarter for Israel, Egypt, Jordan and Syria,
since in my view these funds are not needed to meet the essential needs of the
recipients. This position was only taken after the most careful review and
analysis.
As you know, this Administration is firmly committed to the security of the
State of Israel, and also to providing constructive economic assistance to Egypt,
Jordan and Syria. However, the FY 76 and FY 77 budget levels were designed
to meet these purposes on an austere basis without any funding in the Transi-
tion Quarter.
It is natural that the recipient governments would like to receive financial
support at a higher level than provided in the Administration's request. I am
aware also that it has been argued that the United States should fund through
security assistance any budget deficit which governments might incur as the
result in part of acquiring military equipment from the United States. However,
it should be obvious that any such proposals are completely infeasible, since the
United States is in no position to control every aspect of another government's
budget spending. Security Assistance is intended to provide military and eco-
nomic funding to ease the pressure on friendly governments in meeting their
legitimate security needs. It never has been nor should be intended to meet
every budgetary deficit or foreign exchange shortfall which another govern-
ment may incur and no such commitment has been made.
Specifically in the case of Israel, my FY 76 and FY 77 budget requests pro-
vide sufficient levels of assistance to meet that nation's needs. Our most care-
ful analysis indicates that the levels provided in the FY 76 and 77 requests
978
