[240]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
my desk until, about 10 days ago, the Republican leader in the House of Rep-
resentatives called me and said, “Are you familiar with this legislation?” I said,
"No, it has never been called to my attention."
We went back and checked the records. The Department of Justice had con-
tinued with the same recommendation that was approved by the previous ad-
ministration without any additional consultation with me in the White House.
When I got into it, what did I find out? In the first place, it would have dep-
utized every State's attorney in North Carolina, Michigan, elsewhere-to un-
dertake on their own, class actions to allegedly enforce antitrust legislation. I
don't think States attorneys general should be seeking to enforce U.S. Federal
antitrust legislation. That is the responsibility, as I see it, of the Department of
Justice.
Secondly, since I have become President, I recommended higher penalties,
both criminal and civil, for violations of our antitrust laws. Congress passed that
legislation. In the budget for the next fiscal year, I recommended 25 more anti-
trust lawyers in the Department of Justice, because we want the laws on the
books fully enforced, and they will be. But it ought to be done by Federal au-
thorities, not by attorney generals of various States who would use that as a
political steppingstone for their own political ambitions.
PRESIDENT'S VIEWS ON THE CHALLENGES OF THE PRESIDENCY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I have had the privilege of talking to three Presidents
before in my life: you, General Eisenhower, Woodrow Wilson, and—let's see,
I can't remember the other name.
THE PRESIDENT. Teddy Roosevelt?
Q. Well, three besides you. And I think you are the greatest President we
have ever had in the United States. Also, I have a boy named Gerald. He made
straight A's in high school and grammar school for 12 straight years.
THE PRESIDENT. He did better than I did. [Laughter]
Q. He was a quarterback; he weighed 260 pounds. He played end; he played
fullback. He starred in baseball and basketball. And I asked him one day, I said,
“Gerald, what do you want to be when you grow up to a grown man?" He
said, "I want to be President of the United States." I said, "Well, if you go to
school long enough, you might be one." So, I sent him through school.
I said to him the other day, I said, "Gerald, how would you like to be in
President Ford's place?" He said, “No, I don't want that. That is too much work
for me.” Well, he has got a job as traffic manager for Singer Industries in
Lenoir, and he looks after a fleet of truck lines and also railroad cars and
778
