February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
forces to strengthen the Cyprus Greek National Guard forces at the time they
sought to assassinate Makarios and put in a man by the name of Sampson.
The attempted assassination of Makarios failed, thank goodness. But at the
same time, the Greek colonels government sought to move in and take over
Cyprus. That precipitated a counteraction by the Turkish Government, and
they moved in with very substantial forces, up to some 40,000, and the net
result has been the Turks, having been stimulated by what the Greek colonels
government did, is now virtually in possession and control of Cyprus.
It's a bad situation. We have roughly 250,000 Greek Cypriot refugees. We
are having a great deal of difficulty trying to get the refugees properly taken
care of, to get a resolution of the dividing line between the portion that would
go to Greece or the Greek Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots. I can only tell
you this, that this Government, our Government, has been working with the
Greeks and the Turks. I have met twice with Prime Minister Demirel of Tur-
key, and I have met twice with Prime Minister Caramanlis of Greece. Secre-
tary Kissinger has worked with their foreign secretaries.
I believe a very crucial meeting is being held February 17 where Clerides
and Denktash, the two from the Greek and the Turkish negotiators, are going
to be, hopefully, resolving the problems of the dividing line, the refugees, and
the kind of government. It is vitally important for Greeks and Turks and
the whole Mediterranean area for a solution to come from a very bad situa-
tion that was precipitated in the first place by a bad Greek Government under
the colonels.
Q. President Ford, if I may add, that military government, which all the
Greeks despise, was aided by the United States Government. That is perhaps
my question, perhaps that is the heart of my question. Why all this foreign
aid support to essentially corrupted governments which can escalate to a
global destruction of the world?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to admit that the Turkish Government
does have a legally elected Parliament, and the Prime Minister, who is the head
of his party, Mr. Demirel, will probably have some elections sometime in 1976,
and his competitor is a man named Ecevit, and the small party is headed by
a man named Erbakan.
Now, they do have a free election in Turkey, so it is not a dictatorship, mili-
tary or otherwise.
Q. I was referring to the dictatorship in Greece in 1967, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. The Caramanlis government in Greece today is a freely
elected government.
223
