[293]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
put it another way, this is no time to trade in your Ford for another model,
especially one that has not been road-tested.
What America needs now is experience. America needs to continue the sound
and stable policies that have proven their value by helping this country through
its hard times. America needs a government that does not raise false hope or
conjure up false fears. What we need is a government that promises only what
it can deliver and delivers everything that it can—that it promises. That is the
policy that my administration has followed, and that is the policy we are going
to keep on following for the next 4 years.
But with your help, both next Tuesday and next November, we will make
sure that America continues to have the solid, the responsible government that
it needs, not just this spring but every spring for the next 4 years as well.
I thank you. It has been a great opportunity to be here.
Let's get to questions.
QUESTIONS
AMERICA'S DEFENSIVE CAPABILITIES
[1.] Q. Mr. President, my question is in regard to Mr. Reagan's charge that
the administration's policy is to be second best or number two in defense.
THE PRESIDENT. I am glad you asked that question because I have some very
strong feelings about it, and I will give you the facts. Let me talk first about
strategic capability. The United States has the most accurate ballistic missiles;
the United States has the most survivable ballistic missiles; the United States
has many, many, many more ballistic missile nuclear warheads than the Soviet
Union. Those are the facts.
In addition, the United States has about 3 to 1 over the Soviet Union in what
we call strategic bombers-our B-52's and other comparable bombers. The
United States has, in addition, our Polaris submarines, our Poseidon submarines.
We are in the process of building for deployment our Trident submarines. We
are in the process of procuring and deploying our B-1 bomber. The United
States has an unsurpassed ballistic nuclear strategic capability, and anyone who
says to the contrary does not know what they are talking about.
As long as the question has been raised, let's talk about ships. I don't know
how many people in this audience have served in the Navy, but in World War
II, I served 4 years in the Navy, better than 2 years on an aircraft carrier in the
956
