[272]
March 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
substantive, that Earl Butz is the person who is going to chair that group and
will convey those recommendations to me specifically.
Now, I know you're concerned about export controls, about production cost
increase, energy problems, and a whole raft of other agricultural matters. I've
had the privilege in the last 3 weeks to meet with two farm groups, one in Illi-
nois, one in Wisconsin, and I have found firsthand that they have some ques-
tions. We tried to answer them satisfactorily. I know that there is concern, for
example, as to the passing on of family farms from one generation to another.
As you know, in January I made one recommendation and after further con-
sideration added to it a second portion or part of that proposal—the first being
a deferral for 5 years of any estate tax payments with a 20-year period of ex-
tended annual payments at a 4-percent interest rate. On further investigation,
we found that that would not be sufficient or satisfactory and added the recom-
mendation that the present exemption of $60,000, which was established in 1942,
be increased to the figure of $150,000.
Secretary Simon has been up before the House Committee on Ways and
Means and has testified on behalf of that legislation. My own thought is-know-
ing a bit about the way Congress operates-that if that proposal is to get incor-
porated into a much larger tax bill, a so-called tax reform bill, the likelihood of
that becoming law in 1976 is rather remote because any so-called tax reform bill,
for a wide variety of reasons, has many, many problems. And I would doubt
whether such legislation will pass the Congress.
On the other hand, if we could possibly isolate that proposal and have it go
through as a separate piece of legislation—and it not only affects, as you know,
farmers, but it affects small businessmen—the likelihood of it being enacted,
signed into law, would be considerably increased. With those very general
observations, I will be glad to respond to any questions.
Don't be shy. Those farmers weren't. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, has your administration planned any action in the next
few weeks or months on the problem of increasing imports of palm oil into the
United States, which seems to be having effect on soybean producers?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Department of Agriculture, because of the actual
and, to an even greater degree, the threat of substantial increases in palm oil
imports-the Department of Agriculture is at the present time undertaking a
very in-depth study. And I can't tell you the date when that study will be com-
pleted, but we recognize the seriousness of it. I would expect in a relatively short
period of time we would have recommendations from the Department of Agri-
culture as to what might be done. We are fully cognizant of the fact that over
858
