[127]
February 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Assure that no State will receive less money as a result of this legislation
than it received in fiscal year 1976.
-Decrease Federal monitoring and oversight of State plan requirements and
expenditures of funds with the States assuming greater responsibility in
this area.
-Improve the public planning process by which citizens and local govern-
ments participate in identifying needs and establishing priorities.
I ask the Congress to enact this legislation promptly so that States may begin
to use Federal and local money more effectively.
The White House,
February 23, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
128
Statement on Drug Abuse. February 23, 1976
DRUG ABUSE is one of the most serious and tragic problems in this country.
Its cost to the Nation in terms of ruined lives, broken homes, and divided com-
munities is staggering. In addition to this toll, it is a major cause of crime.
Combating this problem is a major priority of my administration. The ap-
pointment of Peter Bensinger as head of the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion is one of the most important I have made as President, because of the critical
mission of that agency. I believe we have found in Mr. Bensinger the right com-
bination of proven experience, complete integrity, and full commitment to
public service.
The Drug Enforcement Administration is the agency principally responsi-
ble for Federal drug law enforcement. It has the often thankless task of seeking
out and apprehending some of the cruelest criminals in the world-those who
traffic in hard drugs. This is a complex and difficult task. However, if we are to
win the war on drugs, these merchants of tragedy and death must be stopped.
I have recommended that the Congress enact legislation which would impose
mandatory prison sentences on those convicted of trafficking in hard drugs. I
have also met with the leaders of Mexico, Turkey, and Colombia, and with
Members of the United States Congress to assure them of my full commit-
ment to curbing the illicit traffic in drugs. I want to take this opportunity to
pledge to the American people an all-out Federal effort to combat the drug
menace.
422
