February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Sir, Mr. President, my name is Sonny Wright. I'm a realtor and a member
of the board of governors of the Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce,
one of the organizations which cosponsored the White House conference
which you requested at the Diplomat Hotel. I would like to ask you two
questions. The first is, housing, as we all know, is the biggest problem or at least
it is one of the biggest problems that is facing the majority of the citizens
in this country-and we made a national commitment to provide a decent
home for every American citizen, and I think that we have made efforts
along that line in forums such as the 235 program, for example, which was
very unsuccessful for various reasons, the 236 program and the various other
programs, section 8 which we now have.
Sir, I would like to ask you whether or not we could not perhaps apply a
little bit of a commonsense approach towards the solution of some of these
problems. For example, if we would simply extend the length of a mortgage
that the average citizen would receive to 40 years, this in itself would make
homeownership possible for a great number of people who otherwise would
not have the benefit.
Another thing that I think is very obvious—at least in this area where we
have a tremendous amount of houses, apartments, condominiums available
with no takers-if we could take the section 8 program in this area, for
example, and apply it to some of these existing newly constructed buildings,
which as I understand are not eligible under the present regulations, this
in itself would create housing for a lot of people in this area.
THE PRESIDENT. You are very familiar with the various programs we have
had-235, 236, section 8, public housing, the whole thing. There are more
than that, but those are the better known ones. Most of them really have
not worked too well, some of them less well than others.
I think section 8, if given a fair chance-it being the newest one-will
be the best approach. It is only actually less than a year old, as I recollect.
The regulations under the new Secretary of HUD were out about a year ago,
and I think we ought to give it a chance. Now whether it could be redesigned
to meet the kind of particular problem you are talking of, I would have
to talk to Secretary Carla Hills. I would hesitate to give you a quick, off-
the-cuff answer.
Q. That was the purpose of my asking the question. So, I would hope that
you would.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if we can get your name and address, I will find
293
