[138]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. Bill Scranton will carry out my policies. My policies
were those that Pat Moynihan carried out, so the switch from Moynihan to
Scranton will not in any way whatsoever change our policies.
As I said this morning, at the time I made the announcement of Bill Scran-
ton's nomination, we are stronger at the United Nations today than we have
been for a good many years. It started when Secretary Kissinger made a presen-
tation to the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations last fall, followed
by Ambassador Moynihan's actions and speeches in the United Nations since
January of this year. Bill Scranton will carry out those policies, which I think
have been very effective.
I don't want to be all on the left side here. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT'S ECONOMIC POLICY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, most of the unsuccessful candidates in New Hamp-
shire were promising full employment. Do you promise full employment and,
if not, in light of the improvement in the economic climate reported in recent
weeks, what are your terms for substantial employment?
The President. I promise substantially increased employment without the
ravages of inflation. I believe the policies we are pursuing at the present time
will result in a continuous downward trend in the cost of living. I believe it will
also provide for increased employment opportunities primarily in the private
sector where five out of the six jobs in this country today exist.
I think anyone who promises overnight, quick-fix, full employment isn't
being candid with the American people. And, I think, the American people
are smarter than anybody who is compaigning for an elective office who says,
"You elect me and I will turn a switch and all of you will have jobs.”
I think the American people know that can't happen. They are, in my opinion,
very hungry for frankness and the proper approach then is to tell them the facts.
And, if they are told the facts, they will understand that we have to have a firm,
constructive policy in the employment-inflation area that will bring meaningful
jobs, permanent jobs with an opportunity for advancement, and a continuous,
effective campaign against inflation.
RESTORATION OF CONFIDENCE IN THE PRESIDENCY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, when you came into office you indicated that one of
your main goals was to restore public faith in the office of the Presidency. Con-
sidering the statistics and the polls, do you feel the Presidency has been restored
to its former height?
440
