[164]
February 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have never underestimated the American people, all of you and 215 million
others like you, and I never will. I thank you for all these great characteristics.
We have recovered our economic strength without starting a new round of
double-digit inflation and without resorting to unsound inflationary remedies
for our present day problems.
Through commonsense steps, I initiated tax cuts for individuals, tax incen-
tives for business expansion and job production, and extended economic cush-
ions for the Americans out of work. We worked our way out of the worst reces-
sion in 30 years.
I have always believed the harder you work, the luckier you get. Hard work
and hard decisions have made the difference in this recovery. We are lucky we
didn't listen to those who would try to spend our way out of our recession
instead of working our way out.
In fact, as Skip and Lou know, I vetoed 46 bills since becoming President. The
interesting point—and I want you to listen very, very carefully—I did this
without endangering or weakening our economic recovery. And incidentally,
those vetoes have saved the American taxpayer $13 billion, and we will do it
again and again and again.
One of those vetoed bills which some of you were particularly interested in
was the so-called common situs picketing bill. We all know that a healthy
striving construction industry is vitally important to any real long-term eco-
nomic stability, whether here in Sarasota or in the Nation as a whole. The
common situs bill, as presented to me, might well have threatened that stability.
Even in Latin, common situs spells trouble, and trouble we don't need.
Something else that spells trouble, unless the Congress acts promptly, is the
problem of deficit spending in the Social Security system. This year, the Social
Security Agency [Administration] will pay out $3 billion more than it takes in.
Next year, unless corrective action is taken, that deficit in a 12-month period
will be $3.5 billion, and it will get worse year by year instead of better.
In my State of the Union Message in January and in St. Petersburg 2 weeks
ago, I pledged—and I reiterate it here this afternoon—the integrity and the sol-
vency of the social security system. In my budget for 1977, I am recommending a
full cost-of-living increase in social security benefits. They must be paid this year
and in the years hence.
As I look around this wonderful group and refresh my memory with the
occasions I have had to shake hands with many of you, let me say something
that comes from the depth of my heart, and I know you join with me in the
same feeling: Aren't we all proud to be Americans? Aren't we proud of
490
