January 30
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
59 days. But they never pay more than $500 in any one year, and they never
pay more than $250 in doctors' bills in any one year. That takes care of the
25,000 (25 million) in Medicare, and there are 3 million out of that 25 million
who would qualify, according to our statistics, as recipients of catastrophic aid.
I think under the social services program—and I will have to check this, to be
honest with you—that there is care taken for these people, but I will have to
doublecheck it.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[13.] Q. The House was told today by an Under Secretary of State that there
never really was a grain embargo. I think some farmers in Iowa and some Mid-
western States—some have disagreed with that assessment. He said he did recog-
nize that there were problems in using agripower in the world diplomacy. If
that is so, how would you solve those problems?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Soviet Union, about through the first 6 months of
this [last] year, had purchased roughly 9 million tons of grain including corn,
wheat, and so forth. They then came in and wanted to buy a substantial amount
more, and they eventually bought another 4 million tons, as I recollect. At that
time, there was some concern about the production of the corn crop; the wheat
crop was not all in. And the net result was we sat down with the Soviet Union
and worked out the grain deal on a 5-year basis that provides a certain market
of 6 million tons every year and up to 8 million tons, with an escape hatch over
the 8 million tons. And we authorized them to purchase another 6 million tons
in this 12-month period.
You may have noticed this morning that there is a solid rumor, as I under-
stand it, that the Soviet Union has come in and bought some additional corn, a
fairly sizable purchase. I think this is probably going to be done not only in
this case but others. I am not saying there was an embargo there was a hiatus
period while we were negotiating a further sale this year and a 5-year agree-
ment overall.
ESTATE TAXES
[14.] Q. Mr. President, in your State of the Union speech you talked about
estate taxes, particularly as they apply to farmers and the father handing the
farm down to the son. One farm group in Missouri has indicated that you are
trying to pull the wool over the farmers' eyes, in that you were just deferring
payment of those taxes, not raising the exemption. Would you favor raising the
exemption on the estate taxes?
125
