[233]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Can you tell us the current status of the Bo Callaway matter?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only tell you that the Callaway matter is where it was a
week ago today when Bo Callaway asked to step aside—and I agreed—until the
investigation is complete. Until that is completed, there is no change in status,
and I wouldn't speculate on what might happen if there was a change.
Thank you all very, very much.
Q. Senator Helms said yesterday that if you didn't fire Mr. Callaway that it
could be another Watergate. What is your reaction to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we took the appropriate action with the request by Mr.
Callaway for himself to be suspended until the investigation was complete. So,
there is just no comparability or connection whatsoever, and any allegation like
that is without foundation.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 a.m. at Douglas Municipal Airport.
234
Remarks in Charlotte at a Reception Honoring Representative
James G. Martin of North Carolina.
March 20, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Jim, Governor Jim Holshouser, Charlie and Annie
Elliott Jonas, Dr. Martin, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great pleasure to be here in Charlotte, and I thank you very much, Jim,
for those overly generous words. I can assure you in the months ahead I will do
my utmost to live up to those high standards that you have set, and I will give
my best efforts to not disappoint you in any way whatsoever.
I was looking at the records the other day, and I have been in Charlotte three
times in the last 2 years. The last time I was here was in May of 1975. At that
time, Jim Martin assembled 105,000 of his closest friends-[laughter]—to meet
me at the Mecklenburg County Bicentennial celebration. It was a great occasion,
and I enjoyed it very, very much. You gave me a very, very warm welcome at
that time, and I certainly appreciated that enthusiastic reception.
But let me say I am especially pleased to be here and have an opportunity
to say a few things that I feel very strongly and very deeply concerning your
fine Congressman, Jim Martin.
While I am here, I think it appropriate that I say a few words in a salute to
1 See item 212, footnote 3.
748
