[80]
February 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
nois, Jefferson's ringing truths in the Declaration of Independence were exciting
and very real—that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable rights: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Among his many gifts of greatness, Abraham Lincoln had almost a mystic
ability to find deep meaning in the tumultuous events that swirled about him.
His expression of these insights in words-that some called dull and dish-watery
when they were spoken-are inscribed on these walls and in the hearts of his
countrymen.
But it is less for the power of his words that we honor Lincoln than for the
force of his faith in America and in the people of this great Republic. He saw
the political system created by the Constitution as a definitive answer to the
ancient debate about the ability of man to govern himself in freedom. The worth
and the will of Government in Washington was being questioned and assailed
all around him. But even as Americans struggled in bloody battle with other
Americans over the issues the Founding Fathers had failed to resolve, President
Lincoln was able to declare, “It is my confident hope and belief that this system
will be found, after sufficient trials, to be better adapted everywhere than any
other to the great interest of human society; namely, the preservation of peace,
order and national prosperity." And after more than sufficient trial, the Union
was saved and the Republic endures.
It is to Abraham Lincoln that we owe the opportunity to observe our Na-
tional Bicentennial in peace among ourselves and with all nations.
Today we rededicate ourselves to the values and to the goals for which Abra-
ham Lincoln lived and died—“that this nation, under God, shall have a new
birth of freedom; and that government of the people, by the people, for the
people, shall not perish from the earth."
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. at the
Lincoln Memorial. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Frederick D. Hunt, chancellor-in-chief of
the Military Order of the Loyal Legion and master
of ceremonies, Secretary of the Interior Thomas S.
Kleppe, Francis L. Dale, U.S. Representative to the
European Office of the United Nations, and televi-
sion personality Ralph Edwards.
The Military Order of the Loyal Legion, a patri-
otic organization founded on the day President.
Lincoln died, sponsored the annual ceremonies at the
Lincoln Memorial.
81
Statement on Small Business. February 12, 1976
AS I have indicated on a number of occasions, the small business sector of our
economy is vital to private job creation, technological innovation, competition,
250
