[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, that is one group. They just want their own hand in the decision-
making process.
The other group is an element that doesn't believe in the concept, period.
They just don't think you should take Federal money and send it back to the
States without any control or strings.
I think this is a very honest opinion, but I believe that the Federal tax system
is more equitable than most State tax systems and that this is a way, under a
well-agreed-to formula, to get the money back so you in Concord and others
can make your own decision.
I have been talking with the Governors, with the county officials, and with
municipal officials, trying to get them to get moving to put pressure on the
Congress to get the program through.
I have asked the Vice President to take charge of that effort. And you are
going to see some activity, and I think we will get it through. I don't know
what your budget situation is in Concord, but if they took away that money
from your budget in Concord, you would either have to raise taxes or discon-
tinue services or programs.
And, therefore, we have to get a tremendous groundswell of public interest.
And I am going to do this in New Hampshire, and we will do it elsewhere,
just so the public understands what will happen in Concord and elsewhere if
this program isn't extended.
Q. Mr. President, I am Rob Trowbridge. I am the chairman of the senate
finance committee here in the State, and I am interested in your remarks on
general revenue sharing in that, as in that capacity, I have prepared for the last
4 years—and I think most selectmen here know it—a report of where revenue
sharing was spent in New Hampshire, county by county, town by town.
It is very interesting, Mr. President, that one of the big areas that the towns
of New Hampshire use this money for is for general hardware rather than soft-
ware, if you want to distinguish. You know, it is trucks and it is plows and it is
things like that which they have difficulty with.
One of the problems with revenue sharing now—and I think this news con-
ference goes both ways, for you to get our views as well as for us to get yours-
is that there is a limitation that you have to spend the money within 2 years.
Many, many towns in New Hampshire would love to be able to put this
money into capital reserve, building up to buy the plow or the truck or what-
ever comes down the road. And I think that when you say there are no restric-
tions on general revenue sharing, you might have someone look back again,
because there are more restrictions than you might believe.
164
