[8]
January 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
that over one-half of the grain moving across international boundaries through-
out the world is grown by you, the American farmer. And we are proud of
your efforts and your results.
But if we want dependable export markets for our food, the United States
must be a reliable supplier. On two occasions since I became President, the
Government was forced to temporarily restrain farm exports.
I recognize that these actions resulted in confusion and concern among some
of our farmers. The first Government interruption came in October of 1974
when the Soviet Union suddenly, and without any notice whatsoever, entered
our markets to buy at a time when we had a short crop in some areas. The
Government was forced to intervene to learn Soviet intentions. This was in the
interest of our livestock producers and our regular grain-buying customers
overseas and the American public. Accordingly, contracts with the Soviet Union
were renegotiated to change the proportion of corn and wheat for export. These
actions headed off the danger of even more severe legislative restrictions by
Congress.
Last summer, the Soviets suffered another extremely short crop. They again
turned to the United States farmers for supplementary grain supplies. A tempo-
rary hold on new sales to the Soviets was made only after they had become our
largest foreign customer by purchasing 9.8 million metric tons of grain—375
million bushels. There was, as you know, deep concern at that time about our
own corn crop. Although the wheat harvest was nearly completed by July, our
feed grain crop was still somewhat uncertain. Dry weather had already dam-
aged corn in the western corn belt. There was no way of knowing if we would
have a repeat of the drought or an early freeze which hit the corn crop the
previous year.
Again, a temporary hold on new grain sales to the Soviets, and later to
Poland, was taken, I can assure you, with extreme reluctance. Pressures in the
Congress were increasing to halt all private grain sales and put agricultural
exports in the hands of a Government management and control board. I did
not, and do not want the Government running your business 365 days a year,
year in and year out.
It was a unique situation that required corrective action and long-term solu-
tion. The temporary hold on the new sales permitted us to work out a 5-year
agreement with the Russians. Since then-since then, in the open market we
have made substantial new sales to the Soviet Union and to Poland. Right now,
ships filled with U.S. grain are now backed up at foreign ports waiting to be
14
