[66]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
I said, "Susan, don't tell that to me, tell it to Ron Nessen." [Laughter]
But let me, if I might, kick off from that point. Competition—whether it is
on the ski slopes or on the athletic field or in business or in labor or in govern-
ment-it is good for America.
We ought to link competition today as our forefathers did, across the spec-
trum. Competition in the political arena is good-ideas, differences of opinion.
I happen to believe there are some very, very important differences that ought
to be discussed, discussed rationally.
There is an old saying in the House of Representatives that you can disagree
without being disagreeable. We are on the right side on the issues. We know
something about running the Federal Government, and we have an oppor-
tunity to get out there and sell what we are trying to do.
I was thinking this morning back about 18 or 19 months ago when I became
President, and that first night I said a long, long prayer, because I knew there
were a great many problems that had to be solved.
What were those? Well, we were then in the throes of double-digit infla-
tion-12, 13, 14 percent-we were approximating the brink of recession, and
bad signs of unemployment were beginning to emerge. I knew that there were
many in Western Europe and some in the Pacific who questioned whether
the United States Government with a new President would meet the challenge
that had to be met if we were to carry out our international responsibility.
But in the last 18 months, with the help of millions and millions of fine people
like you, we have turned this all around. We have reassured our allies in Western
Europe. They know we are as strong, if not stronger, today than we were before.
We have broadened and strengthened our relations with the Japanese so that
a very important relationship in the Pacific is in the best of shape. We have
moved forward in every area to strengthen the American position, to maintain
peace worldwide. But because the American people had patience and confidence
and were courageous and had restraint and didn't go for some panic button, we
have turned the economy around.
We had some great news on Friday. You may have read about it or heard it,
but I think it is worthwhile repeating. In the month of January, 800,000 more
Americans went to work than worked in the month of December. That was the
greatest increase in 1 month since 1960. At the same time, the rate of unemploy-
ment went down a half a percentage point which was the largest decrease in
the unemployment figure since 1959.
We have regained 96 percent of the jobs lost during the recession, and 2,100,000
196
