[209]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
any Member of the House or Senate who has been cutting the defense program
to support this defense program.
And I suspect if Members of Congress are going to try and slash the defense
program in 1976 as they have in prior years, the public will see to it that they
will hear about it next November. I think that is the best way under our system
to convince Members of Congress that we must change our defense spending
to go from a downward trend to an upward trend, as I have proposed.
DEVELOPMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, is there still a fuel shortage, and will the price of
fuel rise?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no fuel shortage. The shortage could come in any
year ahead of us if we were to have another embargo such as we had by the
OPEC nations in 1973.
The problem is not an immediate shortage. The problem is that we are becom-
ing more and more dependent on foreign oil imports. Two years ago, we were
relying on foreign oil imports to the extent of about 33 percent. Today, it is up to
almost 40 percent, and unless we stimulate more U.S. production of oil and
natural gas, and unless we utilize our vast resources of coal, unless we expedite
the construction and installation of more nuclear powerplants, unless we more
rapidly develop some of our exotic fuels, our dependence on foreign oil will go
up, up, up, which means that we are more dependent not only on the amount of
foreign oil but the price they charge us.
So, if we don't get away from foreign oil imports, we are going to have higher
fuel costs. That is why it is highly essential that we develop more and more
domestic resources here as our sources of energy.
RAILWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, there have been several multiple fatality accidents at
Illinois railroad crossings in recent months, and we have been told that several
billions of dollars are in a railroad safety act fund in Washington. Why can't
these funds be released to help repair this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a program that calls for a very limited number of
Federal projects for rail relocations. I can think of several. There is one out in
Elko, Nevada. There is, I think, a total of 10 altogether. They are on a sample
basis. I don't think the Federal Government can tackle every rail crossing
throughout the United States. That is an impracticality. We do attack the prob-
654
