February 13
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the expertise of the Kennedy Space Center is nearby and, particularly, as
Brevard County has maintained a 17 percent or more unemployment rate?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly, Brevard County and the whole area have many,
many assets that certainly will be important at the time they submit their
application under the criteria established by ERDA. But it would be ill-advised
and probably completely wrong for me to make any commitment on behalf
of ERDA, because that is a technical decision. I am sure that the application
will be a good one. I am certain that this area will get excellent consideration.
But it would be, I think, wrong for me to make a decision other than to say
I know you have lots of sunshine.
AID TO THE ELDERLY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, you have given the first of some special messages
to Congress on the problems of the elderly. What kind of help do you propose
to help Florida's many senior citizens?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I fully agree with whatever the increases
in social security benefits will be under the cost-of-living escalator clause.
That will take place later this year. I fully concur with that.
Number two, I happen to believe that it is vitally important for us to make
certain that the Social Security Trust Fund is fully funded. At the present
time, it is running in a deficit of about $4 billion per year. Sometime in 1980,
if we don't do something, the fund will be depleted. I have recommended
one proposal to make sure, to make positive, that those who are retired and
those who are to be retired will have a continuous flow of the benefits under
social security.
Number three, I have recommended that we incorporate in the law a new
program to take care of, roughly, the 3 million individuals, most of whom
are among our older citizens, who are suffering from what we call catastrophic
illnesses. At the present time, there is no program to take care of those who
have extended and serious illnesses. I have proposed a catastrophic health
care plan that will take care of about 3 million people under Medicare. I
think it is a good proposal, and I hope the Congress will respond to it.
In addition, I have recommended good funding, I think, for what we call
the Older Americans Act. It has a wide variety of services that are incorpo-
rated, and I hope the Congress does as I have recommended in the funding
of those programs.
Q. On the health care plan you mentioned, Mr. President, Dr. Hobert
Jackson, who is vice president of the National Council on Aging, said in
261
