[257]
March 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
I would like to thank the very outstanding group of technicians who came
in and met with me for an hour or so this afternoon-Dr. Salk, Dr. Sabin, and
others here who have convinced me beyond any doubt whatsoever, that this
is the right course of action. And tomorrow, I will submit to the Congress a
message and a budget supplement, so that this money will be available, and
available as promptly as possible.
We discussed how the supplemental should be handled, whether it should
be a part of the supplemental that is now going through the Congress or a
separate supplemental that would be identified only for this purpose and
passed by both the House and the Senate for this purpose and this purpose alone.
It is my recommendation that the Congress take this item for $135 million, act
promptly on it, and not tie it up with a broader supplemental appropriation
bill.
And now,
it is my pleasure to ask Dr. Mathews, Secretary of HEW, and
Dr. Cooper and the other distinguished scientists who are here who can answer
your technical questions.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. to reporters
assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
Following the President's remarks, a news brief-
ing on the subject was held by David Mathews,
Secretary, Dr. Theodore Cooper, Assistant Secretary
for Health, Dr. David J. Sencer, Director, Center
for Disease Control, Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare; and Dr. Jonas Salk and Dr.
Albert B. Sabin, pioneers in the development of the
polio vaccine.
258
Special Message to the Congress Requesting a Special
Supplemental Appropriation for the National Swine Flu
Immunization Program. March 25, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
The nation faces a serious potential public health threat this winter from a
strain of virus known as swine influenza.
On month ago this strain of influenza was discovered and isolated among
Army recruits at Fort Dix, New Jersey. The appearance of this strain has caused
concern within the medical community because this virus is very similar to the
one that caused a widespread and very deadly flu epidemic late in 1918–19. Some
Americans will recall that 548,000 people died in this country during that tragic
period—and 20 million people worldwide.
804
