April 2
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
working our way out of the worst recession in 40 years. I won't burden you with
lot of statistics, but I can report to you that all of the economic trends are good.
Everything that is supposed to be going up, like the number of jobs in America,
real earning for the American workers, sales, investment, industrial production,
all of these are on the increase. And everything that is supposed to be going
down, like the rate of unemployment, the rate of inflation, the rate of growth
in Federal spending, even some prices are going down.
Just 2 days ago it was reported that the Wholesale Price Index has shown
virtually no upward movement overall in the last 5 months, and tonight I can
say to you with confidence and without any hesitation or reservation we are on
the road to a new prosperity in the United States of America, and we are not
about to be sidetracked right now.
The best thing about this new prosperity is that it is not based on the shifting
sands of political maneuvering and government gimmicks, but on the solid,
permanent foundation of the American free enterprise system.
Oh, there was a lot of pressure on me at the beginning of the recession to take
some panic action that sounded good but never worked in the past. Some very
distinguished economists and some very concerned Members of Congress urged
me to impose, for example, wage and price controls on the American economy.
Others urged me to propose massive Federal spending as a stimulus to the
economy regardless of whether we could really afford that spending or not.
I rejected both of those suggestions and all of the other quick-fix proposals
that were wrong medicine for the American economy. The strong economic re-
covery we are experiencing today has proved me, I think, to be right in rejecting
them. And most of you remember the wage and price controls that were imposed
back in 1971 and 1972. So much pressure was built up under that wage and
price lid that when price controls and wage controls were removed, the economy
simply got out of control. The rate of inflation got up to more than 12 percent
at one point and that, combined with the oil embargo of 1973, helped trigger
the recession we are just recovering from at the present time.
The other proposal was that we spend all kinds of your hard-earned taxpayers'
dollars to stimulate the economy and put hundreds of thousands more people
back on the Federal payroll. But I know, and I think you know, that you can't
solve every problem in the world just by throwing a lot of money at it, and I was
determined not to risk a new round of double-digit inflation as the cure for the
recession.
As Warren Knowles indicated, over the last 19 months I have vetoed 46
bills sent to me by the Congress, and they tell me that is some kind of a record,
921
