[283]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, I have been asked to thank you on behalf of all these ethnic
leaders, and I think they all recognize that you are the best friend that ethnic
Americans have ever had in the White House.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have really enjoyed it.
I will have to go out and swim or walk or something.
I want to thank the wonderful hosts here as well as all of you, for one of the
most delightful luncheons. It is a great privilege and a great pleasure to see you
all.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. at Mader's Restaurant in Milwaukee, Wis.
284
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in
Milwaukee at an Economic Forum of the Wisconsin
Association of Manufacturers and Commerce.
April 2, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Orville, Paul Hassett, Congressman Bill Steiger,
Governor Warren Knowles, distinguished guests, members of the Wisconsin
Association of Manufacturers and Commerce:
It is really a great privilege and pleasure for me to have the opportunity of
meeting with this group this afternoon, an organization that has contributed
significantly not just to the well-being of your own State but to the well-being
and the prosperity of the United States and 215 million Americans.
Let me take this opportunity to say how much it saddened me last week to
hear of the death of Wisconsin's distinguished ex-Governor Walter J. Kohler.
I knew Walter Kohler. He was a man who worked hard, achieved much both
in public service and private enterprise. And I know from my experiences with
him he set a high example for all of us.
I look forward to answering the questions that I know you have, and I will be
delighted to respond as long as you can put up with my answers.
But let me talk for a minute about some good news that I received this morning
as I flew out from Washington, D.C., to Milwaukee. We have had some good
news on the economic front for the last 5 to 6 weeks. This morning the Depart-
ment of Labor announced at 10 a.m., Washington time, that we had another
drop in the unemployment figures. The unemployment-7.5-I think it is well
904
