[203]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
in Federal expenditures by those vetoes and the fact that the Congress sustained
them.
So, we are trying to stop this excessive spending that has gone on far too long,
and the only way we can do it is to have a President that will veto bills that are
too expensive and a Congress that will stand up and sustain a President when
those vetoes come from the Oval Office in the White House.
Q. I don't feel that our Congress is as up to date as the people in the country
are in realizing this, I guess. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe we can change that next year—on a selective basis,
however. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, first of all, I think I would like to extend a thank you for
the opportunity to come here and talk to you personally. And I think we owe
a debt of gratitude to our public servants, including all of these elected officials
that are here, and my comment doesn't necessarily require an answer. I would
like to say that we, as farmers, are more concerned with what you can do to us
than what you can do for us. And thank you for coming.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't improve on that as the most wholesome attitude that
I believe in and subscribe to. And I appreciate that we are trying to do it to the
maximum possible, but that view is, unfortunately, not shared by as many as
we would like throughout this country.
Q. Mr. President, in referring to the grain that we do export, much of this
goes down the Mississippi. And we are told that there is a lock at Alton, Illinois.
and a dam that is in very poor condition. And this is of great concern, because
it will affect our prices if we have to ship by rail and, besides that, we could have
grain gluts. What is your stand on Locks and Dam 26 at Alton?
THE PRESIDENT. I can give you the facts, as I understand them. It is an old lock,
an old dam. It was authorized a number of years ago. It is a bottleneck in the
Mississippi.
There is a proposal by the Corps of Engineers to expand or to rebuild the
lock. In the meantime, a number of organizations and/or individuals have
started lawsuits to prevent the rebuilding of Lock 26 at Alton, Illinois. And the
matter is now in litigation, as I understand it, between the Government, who
wants to proceed, and the environmentalists, who say it would destroy wild-
fowl habitat and would have other adverse impacts as far as the environment is
concerned.
Until that lawsuit is settled in the courts, it would be inappropriate for me,
as President, to say anything one way or another. It is a matter that is now in
litigation. And until that lawsuit is settled as to the adequacy of the environ-
616
