[118]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Point two, titles I, II, III, IV, et cetera, are direct and specific aid. I believe
revenue sharing for the schools should replace these titles and help the taxpayers
of Dover and other cities and States and towns educate their children.
Last, but not least, I am very pleased that you are going to speak to the stu-
dents at Dover High, and I must compliment Mr. Easter ³ for the outstanding
job in his efforts in preparing the program.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Let me make a couple of comments. The problem of impact aid is not only
controversial but good people can be on both sides. As you know, there are
actually four-what is it-category A, B, C, and D. Impact aid was initiated at
the time of World War II and Korea where the Federal Government went in,
took over a piece of property, put an installation on it, took it away from the
tax base, put people in there with children, and put the children as a burden on
the local community.
Under category A, wherever a person has children who lives and works on a
U.S. Government facility, we fully fund impact aid.
Category B is one where an individual owns a home, we'll say in town A, but
works on an installation. He doesn't live on the installation; he only works
there. He pays his real estate taxes in the town. That is a different kind of a
situation.
And then, of course, you have the other two that are even less deserving.
We have gone along with full funding of category A, as we should. We have
had less enthusiasm about category B and virtually no enthusiasm for C and D,
and I think rightly so.
One of the paradoxes of the program is this—and let me illustrate: Members
of Congress who live in Virginia or Maryland—who are paid, I think, well—
when their children go to a public school in Maryland or Virginia their children
are counted for impact aid. Our four children were, I think that is unconscion-
able. We should be able to support the schools in Virginia or Maryland.
The taxpayers of Michigan and New Hampshire shouldn't support the educa-
tion of a Congressman's child in Washington, D.C., or Maryland or Virginia.
That kind of a program is so mixed up that we have got to sit down and sort it
out, take care of A and maybe some of B, but doggone it we really can't let the
program run wild the way it is going at the present time.
Q. I agree that it is running wild, but I disagree that $100,000 should be taken
3
* Fred E. Easter, president, Merchant's National Bank of Dover.
400
