April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nizations like the EEOC and OSHA and some of these others. It is very difficult,
especially for a small business, to protect ourselves against this sort of a thing.
We don't have the funds for the legal talent it requires. Is there anything that can
be done for us?
THE PRESIDENT. The one that has worried me the most, and I know Bill
Steiger shares this, is the way that the OSHA law has been implemented. Now,
it is not much solace to you, but if the law that originally came out of the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor in the House of Representatives had become
law, OSHA would have been 10 times the monster that it is in many respects
at the present time. Isn't that right, Bill?
But, anyhow, basically the executive branch does-basically, I say—what
the law requires. On the other hand, I have to admit—and I have had enough
experiences when I was in Congress where I had complaints from people in my
district just like you are inferring here—that the people who go in and inspect
your plant or inspect your facility have had the wrong attitude. They appear
on too many occasions to be prosecutor rather than trying to solve the problem
and help the solution.
Now, the new head of the OSHA-I have forgotten his name now but he is
a new man and he is given directions by the Secretary of Labor to change the
attitude and we will have to wait and see because, if they do it right, they will
correct the things that are wrong. If they go in there like they are trying to run
your business, you are not going to cooperate and you are going to have
nothing but trouble. So unless the law is changed, we have to follow it, but the
people who run it have to have a different attitude and, by gosh, we are going to
try and get it.
THE PRESIDENT. One more.
Q. Mr. President, you are advocating the removal of economic regulation
for the trucking industry. The industry and many of our national organizations
are opposed to deregulation, even the Teamsters are opposed to deregulation.
Do you see this becoming a political issue and a political question in the months
ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, with all respect to the motorcarriers and the Teamsters,
I respectfully think you are wrong. [Laughter]
I happen to think that-first, I concede that is a tough duet to try and lick, but
we honestly felt that the recommendations we have made are not as serious to
the industry as a whole as the people you represent think it is. Now, I don't think
the Congress is going to pass it, but I think it is a mistake just to say that the
existing system is good, because I don't think it is good. I think it can be im-
917
