[66]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
But then we have an obligation also in certain fields, research and develop-
ment, to spend money today so that we can have exotic fuels to solve our energy
problem, make America energy independent, solar energy.
Just in passing, I increased the funding for research and development in solar
energy by 35 to 40 percent in the next budget. It went from 86 million to
120-some million, as I recollect.
We are going to spend all the money we can for those things that will make
a better life and a better America for these young children. The hope they have
is that we will do a good job. And I intend to spend as many hours, as many
days as I can to make sure that your Federal Government runs right, that you
can be proud of your Government, that you and I can be proud of America and
proud to be Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:17 p.m. at Rundlett Junior High School.
67
The President's News Conference of
February 8, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. I have enjoyed being here. Ron Nessen has
enjoyed being here. The next time Ron comes, I think we will get Ron to ski up
here. [Laughter]
Why don't we have the first question?
NEW HAMPSHIRE PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, John Whiteman, Portsmouth Herald.
A survey in a Boston newspaper today says that Mr. Reagan's campaign has
contacted more New Hampshire voters than yours, and it suggested the Ford
campaign has been out-organized so far.
In an apparently tight race, do you feel the 16 days remaining is sufficient for
you to swing enough voters to win this New Hampshire primary campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe in the final analysis the voters in New Hampshire
will make a decision on the basis of policies, the policies that I have imple-
mented, the policies that have proven successful as far our economy is con-
cerned, turning it around, starting it up on an upswing. I don't think they will
make their decision on the basis of promises or rhetoric.
Secondly, I think our organization is a good organization. I met with 700—
198
