[159]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
with definiteness the qualifications. I made one selection. I think he has been a
first-class Vice President and he has been a loyal and dedicated partner as far as
I am concerned. But I think we have to analyze tht situation as we get closer to
the convention in Kansas City and, at that time, we will be prepared to make a
specific recommendation.
Thank you all very much, and have a good day and a good night.
REPORTER. Thank you.
[At this point, the President crossed the park to speak to a group of Girl Scouts. Following
his remarks to the Girl Scouts, the question-and-answer session with reporters continued.]
Q. Can you tell us what the impact of this motorcade will be on the Florida
primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it will be very much a plus. I have met so many people.
The crowds have been enthusiastic. I have seen a number of old friends. It has
been very interesting. So, I am very encouraged because I know these people
coming down here are here on my behalf.
Q. From Washington?
The President. And Michigan, all over. That really helps. That surely will
be helpful in getting the vote out, getting other people to be convinced.
Q. Do you
think something like this would swing the balance or the difference
in a close race, something similar to the race in New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. Very definitely.
Q. On the plane down here, I understand, according to UPI, you said that
your campaign here was good and they thought you would carry Florida. Is this
based on any new polls that you have? Because you also spoke very optimistically
on the airplane.
THE PRESIDENT. I am very optimistic. Everything we see-the crowds, the en-
thusiasm, the organization, leadership—all of it is very much on the plus side, so
I am convinced with the momentum we have generated in New Hampshire and
all of the other factors, I think we are going to win. We are working very hard,
and I am absolutely convinced that things are going precisely in the right direc-
tion, and we are going to win.
Q. You have spoken of being up about 12 percent, I believe, at the airport. Is
this based on any polls? Do you have any hard facts on this?
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand, the campaign manager for my opponent a
month or two ago said that he was going to win 2 to 1, and that is 67 percent.
I understand yesterday he said they were going to win by 55 percent, so that is a
482
