March 26
[260]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nomic recovery is fast, could result in a genuine boom in consumer spending.
For the first time in 3 years, more respondents-47 percent, were expecting good
times in the next year than those expecting bad times-29 percent."
So, when we have the good figures on employment, on unemployment,
Wholesale Price Index and the Consumer Price Index, plus the obvious regenera-
tion in enthusiasm in the consumer sector, I think all of us can honestly look
forward to increasing progress toward the prosperity that we all want so very
badly.
But let me add, if I might, I am fully aware of the competitive situation that
is facing the textile and apparel industries, and I can assure you that I am de-
termined to support your efforts to keep this industry or these industries strong
and thriving.
As you well know, the United States imports textiles and apparels from about
120 countries. We have joined with 50 other countries in the multifiber arrange-
ment to provide the ground rules to assure that worldwide trade can continue
to grow without disruption.
In this international framework, the United States has negotiated 18 agree-
ments; 16 have been signed, and 2 more are expected to be signed very shortly.
The multifiber agreement, which has been in force under GATT [General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade] since 1974, in January, has been under review
during the past year, within the administration at the highest level, to consider
whether it should be extended, modified, or discontinued.
Although it is by no means a perfect instrument, you recognize it, and so do
I, that our review certainly suggests to us that MFA [Multifiber Arrangement]
has functioned reasonably well. And I have therefore concluded that the United
States Government should seek a renewal of the multifiber arrangement. And
I will instruct our textile negotiators to pursue its renewal in the GATT textile
committee.
Some of the largest producers in the world of textiles are not a party to the
multifiber arrangement and I am aware that there is considerable concern in the
United States textile industry about rapidly rising imports from some of these
nations.
I can assure you that I share your desire to avoid disruption of our domestic
textile market from any source. The matter is presently in review at the Cabinet
level, and I am taking a personal interest in the problem and following these
deliberations very closely. I can assure you that I am genuinely committed to
finding the most appropriate way of dealing with the problem to ensure that our
809
