[51]
January 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
Should the Bicentennial accomplish nothing else, this alone would be a
resounding triumph—a fitting tribute to our heritage.
I believe in America as all of you do. I reaffirm my faith in the unique value
of a government of shared responsibility. I believe in our capacity to foster diver-
sity with unity, to encourage innovation and creativity, both privately as well as
publicly, and to achieve a proper balance between the National and our State
governments. The vision of this House of Burgesses, first expressed 357 years ago
in colonial Virginia, remains vivid. It is a vision of a State and of a nation where
the government serves and the people rule. It is the vision of the supremacy of
God and the dedication of man. As George Mason, author of the immortal
Declaration of Rights, said of this historic place where we meet today: "We seem
to have been treading on enchanted ground.”
Thank you for allowing me to share this enchanted ground with you in this
enchanted year.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in the Hall
of the House of Burgesses. In his opening remarks,
he referred to John Warren Cooke, speaker of the
house, Virginia General Assembly, and Associate Su-
preme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., chairman.
of the board, Colonial Williamsburg Foundation.
52
Toasts of the President and Governor Mills E. Godwin of
Virginia at a Dinner in Williamsburg. January 31, 1976
Governor Godwin and distinguished citizens of the great Commonwealth of
Virginia:
There is no way that I can adequately express my appreciation for the oppor-
tunity to participate in this wonderful day in the history of the Commonwealth.
I have had a long experience with wonderful people from this State, people in
private life as well as in public life. It has always been a great thrill to me to
have lived in part in the Commonwealth and to have seen this great State grow
and become a tremendous influence and have a great impact on our Union.
In coming down here I had the opportunity to do a little more reading about
the great history of Virginia. And it is a thrill and it is an inspiration to have
been a very small part of a great history of a great State-one of our Thirteen
Colonies of a growing, burgeoning, vitally important part of our 50 States.
I thank you all for your hospitality, and I thank you, Governor Godwin, for
140
