March 16
[221]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
You know, it was great to see those pictures of Cliff Gettings and Mose Had-
dam, who were such good friends of mine and did so much for me when I was at
South High. To see them working side by side with some of the students from
Calvin College, the high schools, and other colleges in western Michigan, really
gave me a thrill and made me feel just real good inside.
But, with that kind of spirit and that kind of dedication, we are going to
keep up our unbroken string of victories-New Hampshire, Vermont, Massa-
chusetts, Florida—and I just heard a few minutes ago that one of the networks
said we were going to win 63 percent of the vote in Illinois. Another one said
58 percent. But whether it is 58 or 63, that is a great victory and another real
clincher in our effort to win the nomination and to go on to victory on Novem-
ber 2, 1976.
We are going to keep on with the same programs. We are going to make
certain that what we do is right, and that we are going to make certain that we
have progress on our domestic economy at home and peace abroad. I am con-
vinced that those programs will win not only the primaries but it will win the
general election on November 2, 1976.
I would like to add this, Pete, if I might: We have a great senatorial elec-
tion, or race, coming up in 1976 in Michigan. I happen to think that Bob
Griffin is one of the finest Members of the Congress, either in the House or
the Senate, on the Democratic or Republican side. Bob does just a tremendous
job. But it would be a great help to him and a great help to me if we had another
good Republican Senator from Michigan elected on November 2.
Now, we are going to say to all of you that we have appreciated your help and
assistance. We want support from the younger people, from those in the middle,
and those who are among our senior citizens.
We think we have a good program. It is aimed at solid solutions, not at quick
fixes. Those who advocate the quick fixes are looking at today and forgetting
about tomorrow. We have to have a program in this country that takes care
of our present problems and makes certain that we have a solid, strong, vigorous,
progressive America in the years ahead. And I pledge to you, the younger peo-
ple, and all above that age group, that as far as this administration is concerned,
we are going to be for a strong America both at home as well as abroad.
Let me conclude by simply saying we have a tradition in this country that goes
back some 200 years. And we are on the brink of our third century; it should be
the greatest century in the history of America. But we can make it that way by
being proud that we are Americans and proud of America.
723
