[96]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have heard from certain people, and I have read some newspapers, and I have
read some columns that we did not have any organization down here, we did
not have any workers, we did not have any enthusiasm. I find just the opposite
true. And let me say I will pit the organization we have against any opposition
I know on the Republican or Democratic side—either one.
It has just been a fabulous day and a half and the culmination of coming
here, down in southwest Florida, at Ft. Myers, has just been tremendous. We
had a wonderful meeting-I have forgotten the name of the building, Skip—
Exhibition Hall-I knew I was in Ft. Myers-but it was wonderful. And let
me just make one or two points. I think it is vitally important for a person
with the moderate Republican philosophy that I think I believe in-have
fought for—to win the election and to make certain that this kind of philoso-
phy prevails for the next 4 years.
Now let me give you a couple of quick ideas of what it relates to. And if I
might, with your permission, I would like to go back to August of 1974 when,
very suddenly, under very difficult circumstances, I became President. What
did we find? We found that inflation was something over 12 percent, much too
high, runaway. It seemed uncontrollable. We had all kinds of proposals 'for
wage and price controls. We had all kinds of other quick fixes that everybody
here knows would not have done the job and probably would have com-
pounded the problem.
We decided that the best way to meet the challenge of inflation was to have
a cool, steady policy of restraint as far as the Federal budget was concerned.
And I think we have accomplished that despite some of the problems we have
had with the majority party in the Congress of the United States.
And then almost as soon as I had taken the oath of office, we saw these darn
clouds coming over the horizon of a recession, and it turned into a very serious
one—the worst since the Depression of the 1930's. It could have caused all of
us to panic and to, again, do some gimmickry to try and resolve the problem.
Unemployment soared; employment went down. I knew from the days
when I and my family and friends of mine went through the Depression that
all of these make-work projects, or most of them, don't really work.
So we decided that we would put the emphasis on trying to restore the
confidence in the private sector where five out of the six jobs in this country
exist anyhow. Those are permanent. Those are inspiring. Those are meaning-
ful jobs. And the net result is without all the extra Federal spending that so
many wanted, we were able to add 800,000 more jobs last month, and over the
last 7 or 8 months we have added 2,100,000 jobs.
324
