January 7
[10]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
grams of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The new deferrals
establish and the revised deferrals extend through the third quarter funding
levels that differ from the general levels allowed by the continuing resolution.
In so doing, these deferrals preserve—until enactment of the regular appropria-
tions—the possibility of conducting the reported programs in 1976 at the levels
I have recommended and, in four cases, at the level the Congress has
recommended.
The details of the proposed rescission and the deferrals are contained in the
attached reports.
The White House,
January 6, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescission and deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of Janu-
ary 9, 1976 (41 FR 1702).
10
Remarks During a Visit to the President Ford Committee
Headquarters. January 7, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Bo, and thank all of you. I have had an oppor-
tunity to meet many of you, and I hope that before I leave I will have an oppor-
tunity to shake hands and meet the ones that I haven't known before.
First, let me thank Bo and all of you for the fine job you have been doing. I
think we have got a fine, in fact, a great chairman of the President Ford Com-
mittee in Bo Callaway. I don't want to start mentioning the names of all the
other great people, but I consider you all an outstanding, excellent team in every
respect, and I appreciate it very much.
The thing that I have noticed—and I meet with Bo weekly-is the steady
growth from a small base to, I think, an organization that is going to be very
effective.
I like the integrity of the organization. I like the teamwork of the organiza-
tion. You work together and you are working for a cause that I know you
believe in. It is a cause that I think is in the best interest of the United States.
It is a cause that will be proven to be right both at home and abroad.
We have gone through a tough 12 months or more. I could enumerate the
difficulties that have faced us as a nation and myself as a President and this
administration. We haven't lost our cool. We have done what is right. And the
21
