[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Americans, Democrat or Republican, vote with their heads and not with their
feet.
Oh, it is easy to say that the Social Security Trust Fund upon which some
32 million Americans—older and disabled in our society—that that trust fund
should be invested in the stock market, making the Federal Government a
major stockholder in most American businesses, but that's the best blueprint
for back door socialism that I ever heard.
I want to improve the social security system, not cripple it. I want to make
sure that program is strong, sound, and certain, not only for the present gen-
eration of beneficiaries but for every generation of working men and women,
and that is what I intend to do.
I want to improve the Medicare system. I want better and more comprehen-
sive medical coverage for our older citizens. There is absolutely no reason why
older Americans or their loved ones should have to go broke just to get well
or stay well in the United States of America.
Yes, the list could go on and on. We have to be realistic about what the
Government can do and what it can't do, but we must also recognize that there
are certain things that Government must do and do better if we are to continue
the progress we have made in the past.
We have a great, great country, and I am proud to be an American, and I am
proud of America as you are. We have our problems, and we are not afraid
to admit them. But I think it is high time people stopped running America
down. We should brag about America.
I think it is time we remembered that we are the most richly blessed nation
in the history of the world. We have special gifts, special resources, and special
responsibilities greater than any nation on Earth.
From the vantage point of the Presidency I can see the greatness of America
as I never really saw it before. I can see its many problems, its frustrations, its
strengths, its weaknesses, its ambitions. I can see its people working, playing,
hoping, planning, praying, living their lives the best they can, and they are
good lives which most of mankind envy very greatly.
Obviously all of our problems have not been solved and all of our challenges
have not been met. As Lincoln said, "The question is not can any of us imagine
better but can we all do better." Of course we can, and that is why I am asking
for your continued support next Tuesday, next November, and over the next
4 years.
Thank you, and I will be glad to answer your questions.
374
