February 25
[133]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I think the fact that 60 million young men have participated over a period of
66 years, is indicative of the strength that scouting has contributed to a better
America. I just hope that scouting goes on forever, because it is a great contrib-
utor to all of what we stand for in this country.
I hope that in the future there will be many Presidents who will be honored,
as have been, by your presentations today. And I thank you, Jeff and David
and Larry, Arch, as well as all of you. This has been a fine opportunity, not only
to meet you but all of these outstanding young men and women who are here in
the Oval Office on this occasion.
Good luck.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:23 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Arch Monson, Jr., Boy Scouts of America
president; Alden Barber, chief scout executive; Jeff
F. Hunsaker and David E. Honigs, national youth
representatives of the Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts,
respectively; and Larry A. Carpenter, National Ex-
plorer president.
133
Remarks Congratulating William W. Scranton on
His Nomination To Be Ambassador to the
United Nations. February 25, 1976
LET ME say how pleased I am that my long-time friend, Bill Scranton, is
going to be our next Ambassador to the United Nations. He not only has been
a good, close, personal friend but a good friend in many, many other ways.
We were just chatting and the Secretary of State indicated that he had been
trying to get him to take a position of responsibility for-7 years, was it, Henry?
Bill Scranton has a big job to do. We have got great responsibilities in the
United Nations. We are stronger there today. Starting with the Secretary's
speech to the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations last fall, where we,
I think, made great progress with the underdeveloped countries and, of course,
the policy of standing up for the United States against some of these unfair at-
tacks—the actions of Ambassador Moynihan—I think, have been good from the
point of view of the United States.
You've got a big job to do carrying out the Secretary's policies and carrying
out my decisions, but we are very, very confident, Bill, with your background in
a wide variety of areas, including the political scene, will give you the kind of
stature and strength and capabilities to do the job that I want you to do and the
Secretary of State wants you to do.
427
