April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
looking at each case, weighing the different factors involved in each case maybe
differently or inconsistently with preceding or future cases.
We have undertaken or hope to undertake an organizational study of the
Federal Power Commission. There has been, that we can see, no major rethink-
ing of how the Commission itself was organized since about 1950. So, we think
it is about time to look at the approach of the organization.
Other measures that we have taken to improve public perception of the Fed-
eral Power Commission-we have agreed and have held meetings in other
places, and Washington, D.C., to try to get a feel. We expect to continue that.
We are also experimenting with—it is a difficult legal matter—holding joint
proceedings with State regulatory commissions. Frequently in major hydrosite
applications, for instance, both the State has certain powers and the Federal
Government has others. Sometimes the resolution of matters are much delayed.
It is a difficult area, but we are trying to work out ways to accomplish that.
We have decided to, and did adopt a resolution to open our public meetings
to the general public for observation—that is, on all nonprotected matters. There
are a lot of items that come within the Privacy Act, but the nonprotected areas
will be discussed in a public forum so they can see how we arrive at decisions.
To go to your third section that you asked us to comment on, and for the
problems that we see coming up, the primary one is the natural gas situation.
We are in almost a very difficult position, as you are very well aware, of trying
to attract to the interstate market gas which, under our rules, under our proc-
ess is priced at about a third or fourth the price of nonregulated gas. It is a
difficult matter, and we have not been that successful in adding additions to the
interstate market.
Aside from the new gas price situation—leaving that aside for a moment—
it seemed to us it would be very helpful if the law were changed, either added
to or changed slightly in the definitions under which we now operate, because
the constraints that we operate under-our Natural Gas Act was adopted in
1938, and hundreds if not thousands of cases of litigation, many in all kinds of
superior courts, many, many in the Supreme Court, which limit and constrain
the elements we can take into account in changing this equation.
We cannot, except to a limited extent, take into consideration price factors,
market factors, costs of alternative fuels, things like that, so that is a very dif-
ficult thing. So, quite aside from the question of whether price regulation should
be discontinued, it would be most doubtful unless there was some change that
would give us the latitude to perhaps begin again.
1017
