January 3
[6]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, it is true that subsequent to that there were some very vitriolic debates,
there were some very serious differences that developed in the United Nations
from various pressure groups.
I would hope that in the future some of this conflict would subside and there
would be a more constructive effort made to solve the problems. And since I
am always an optimist—and I think it is important and necessary for a Presi-
dent to be that-I think that as we move in the United Nations in the future
that we can calm some of the voices and get to some of the answers.
And so, this country's foreign policy in the United Nations will be aimed
in that direction. And if we follow what we did in the Seventh Special Session
and what we are trying to do now, I think these pressure groups will recognize
that words are not the answer, but solutions will be to the benefit of all parties
concerned.
MR. CHANCELLOR. In your history in public life as a Member of Congress,
Mr. President, and now as the President, do you find that organized groups
play a greater role now in terms of our foreign affairs or trying to influence
them than they did when you began?
THE PRESIDENT. To some degree, yes. I think highly organized, very articu-
late pressure groups can, on occasion, tend to distort the circumstances and can
hamper rather than help in the solution.
I don't believe those pressure groups necessarily represent the American
people as a whole. So, a President, myself included, has to look at the broad
perspective and not necessarily in every instance respond to the pressure groups
that are well intentioned but who have a limited perspective or scope.
And as we move ahead, we are going to try and predicate our foreign policy
on the best interests of all the people in this country, as well as our allies and our
adversaries, rather than to respond to a highly articulate, a very tightly organized
pressure group of any kind. We cannot let America's policies be predicated on a
limited part of our population or our society.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, thank you for spending that extra minute
with us. We thought that was an important point. I appreciate very much your
answering that question.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, John.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:36 a.m. in the
Library at the White House. It was broadcast during
a portion of the program "New World-Hard
Choices: American Foreign Policy 1976," which
was shown on the NBC network on January 5.
11
