January 30
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. The vote was not encouraging. I haven't made a decision.
whether we will come back and try. The possibility exists. I think it was a serious
mistake on the part of the Congress, and I think we will live to regret it.
MILITARY SPENDING
[6.] Q. Mr. President, as to military spending, when will we get some dates
and word as to when we will be closing and what bases will be closing and mili-
tary installations or reductions?
THE PRESIDENT. The Defense Department is always reviewing their base
operations. The Defense Department, I am told, has under review a number of
prospective base operations. They have not finalized that paper or those recom-
mendations. I can't tell you, because until they do, they are not going to send
anything to me. But there is a requirement in the budget for a reduction of
about 26,000 employees for the Defense Department—civilian employees. There
is no reduction in military manpower. And as they reduce their civilian employ-
ment, there will have to be some actions taken to make certain that they operate
effectively and efficiently. But the Defense Department has not finalized, as I
understand it, any decision in this area.
FLORIDA PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
[7.] Q. There are reports that you are unhappy with the situation in Florida
to the degree that you want to remove Congressman Lou Frey as your Florida
campaign manager. One, are there any plans to remove Congressman Frey, and
two, if there are, who will be his replacement?
THE PRESIDENT. There are no plans to remove Lou Frey. He is a good friend
of mine. I think he has done a good job, and any speculation to that effect is
not well founded.
CAMPAIGN TACTICS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, the former Governor of California has adopted, ap-
parently, an 11th commandment, and now he infers dirty tricks, apparently, on
the part of your administration. I wonder if you would comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Any allegations as to dirty tricks is completely without foun-
dation. We are running a campaign in full support of the law, and we are run-
ning a campaign in full support of the Fair Campaign Practices Committee,
and we will stand firmly on that comment.
123
