March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and your father and your uncle and your aunt and your grandmother and
grandfather.
So, just because you may be about 17½ does not mean you can't be a partici-
pant. You can do something to influence others, and you can get people to the
polls. And we have to get a maximum vote in 1976 to prove to the world that
we love and cherish our democracy. We can't neglect the right to vote.
AMERICAN BUSINESS PRACTICES IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to thank you for letting me speak be-
cause I am usually the first guy that hits the red light. My question is this: We
all know about the major repercussions that have taken place in the past month
because of the plethora of payoffs by American corporations like Lockheed.
Now, the governments of the world are dealing with the individuals who re-
ceive the money like it was an illegal act. How is the United States Government
going to control American corporations paying off people or individuals in other
countries?
THE PRESIDENT. I am in the process of establishing a Cabinet-level commission
headed by the Secretary of Commerce who will study not only our domestic
ramifications but the worldwide ramifications of the revelations that have been
public knowledge in the last several months. I think it is a very serious matter.
I have the firm personal conviction that we can't tolerate any businesses from
the United States, of course, violating our own laws, but I think they have to
live up to the laws of the countries in which they do business.
Now, that is a firm, broad conviction, but this Cabinet-level commission or
committee will delve into the domestic as well as international ramifications in
detail. It is a very complicated matter, and for me to give you any pat solution
other than a basic concept, I think, would be a disservice. It has got to be solved.
And I think we can come up with this commission that will include as Chairman,
the Secretary of Commerce, Mr. Elliot Richardson.
Q. Mr. President, does America or the United States consider it an illegal act
for payoffs at the present time? Is it an illegal act?
THE PRESIDENT. If it violates any law in the country in which that company
operates, definitely. And there are investigations undergoing at the Securities
and Exchange Commission now to find out whether some of these allegations
are true and if they are true whether the payments are illegal. Many of them
were made under quite different circumstances, one from another. And for me
to give you a broad answer as to all of them I think is not a proper way to
847
