[171]
March 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
demands for use such as timber production, wilderness preservation, recrea-
tion and wildlife.
• evaluation of whether and to what extent the Federal Government should
provide assistance to State and private landowners.
development of a comprehensive Federal research program, complementary
to State and private research efforts, for the management, protection and
use of forest and rangeland resources.
Preparation of the Program was an extremely difficult task complicated by:
•
a lack of adequate and accurate data on program input/output relationships.
difficulty of determining the relative priority of competing uses ; e.g., timber,
recreation, etc.
uncertainty over rates of future population increases and income levels and
demand and supply relationships for each competing use.
The Forest Service has made significant progress on this complex task in the
past year. A range of possible goals has been formulated and analyzed in terms
of the costs of Federal programs, the anticipated value of program results, and
the environmental implications. Based on this approach, the Secretary has rec-
ommended a program consisting of a series of general goals with specific produc-
tion targets for Federal programs for the years 1977-1980 and for each decade
through 2020.
The general program goals recommended by the Secretary are:
• “Increase supply of outdoor recreation opportunities and services through
Forest Service programs that emphasize dispersed recreation.”
• "Provide for a moderate increase in wilderness from national forest land."
• "Provide for species diversity and greater wildlife and fish populations
through a substantial increase in habitat management."
• "Provide forage to the extent benefits are commensurate with costs without
impairing land productivity."
• “Increase timber supplies and quality in an environmentally sound manner
to the point where benefits are commensurate with costs."
• "Meet minimum air and water quality standards. Emphasize improvement
of soil productivity and air and water quality while selectively improving,
commensurate with benefits, water supply. Meet other land stewardship
standards."
• "Increase emphasis on involvement in discrete human and community de-
velopment efforts that complement the activities in other Forest Service
resource systems."
504
