[33]
January 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
reverse the tide and block the Soviet-backed effort to take over the country by
force. However, in September and October, the Soviet Union, with the help of a
Cuban expeditionary force, massively escalated the conflict. In response
the
Administration sought, through consultation with the appropriate Congressional
Committees, to gain approval for the reprogramming of $28 million to continue
our assistance. (The matter of our assistance in Angola was the subject of 25
separate contacts with eight Congressional Committees.) In concert with this
proposal, the Administration launched a determined diplomatic effort to bring
an end to the fighting and to find a means to bring about a negotiated settlement
acceptable to all of the Angolan parties. Unfortunately, this effort was substan-
tially undermined by the vote of the Senate in December 1975 to cut off US
assistance to Angola.
As I have stated on a number of occasions, the US seeks no special advantage
in Angola, nor are we opposed to the MPLA faction per se. Our sole objective
has been to preserve the opportunity for this Angolan problem to be resolved
by Angolans, and not through the application of brute military force by the
Soviet Union and Cuba. I believe that resistance to Soviet expansion by military
means must be a fundamental element of US foreign policy. There must be
no question in Angola or elsewhere in the world, of American resolve in this
regard. The response of the United States is a matter of fundamental concern
to our friends and allies everywhere. The failure of the US to take a stand will
inevitably lead our friends and supporters to conclusions about our steadfastness
and resolve. It could lead to a future Soviet miscalculation based upon its
perception of that resolve. It would make Cuba the mercenaries of upheavals
everywhere.
I bring my most serious concerns over the course of events in Angola and the
significance of a Soviet victory there to your attention. I strongly urge the House
of Representatives to take them into account in its deliberations on Angola today
and vote to disagree with the Senate amendment to the Defense Appropriations
Act.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
94
