January 8
[11]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the benefit of several of my old friends in the Congress, Barber Conable and Al
Ullman.
I want to thank you very, very much—and I know you come from a very di-
verse group in our society-for agreeing to serve in this advisory capacity which
I consider to be extremely important, and I know that your aid and assistance
will be invaluable to Fred Dent, who has left the Department of Commerce and
taken on a very, very essential job as far as our country is concerned, under the
Trade Act of 1974.
That act, as you have been told or know, calls upon a group such as the one
that
you are a part of, giving a wide range of information, advice, counsel to our
negotiating team and our objectives in the process under the law. And I am cer-
tain that Fred Dent, Clayton Yeutter, and Bill Walker¹ will be helped im-
mensely by the input that will come from all of you.
I can assure you that we intend to carry out the letter and the intent of the act.
The law is quite specific in many, many instances. It is important in our relations
in the executive branch to work with the Congress in legislation of this kind.
I personally feel very strongly concerning the multilateral trade negotiations
under the legislation. The activities in Geneva will be significant. I have always
supported, in the days that I was in the Congress, efforts at trying to reduce and,
in some cases, eliminate trade barriers.
It is even more important as I look at it today because our globe is becoming
a number of interdependent nations and we can't live alone under protectionism
in the United States.
It is my feeling that if we do our job well, the American people, regardless of
whether they are in business or labor or agriculture or otherwise, will support
what all of you are trying to do in working with Fred and his advisers in
Geneva.
At the economic summit that I attended in October in Rambouillet, the lead-
ers from the others countries that were there and I agreed that to resort at this
time to new trade barriers would weaken our prospects in this country and in
those countries for sustained economic recovery.
The American farmers, the American workers, the American businessmen
have demonstrated a capacity to successfully compete throughout the world, and
the trade negotiations are a way of implementing it so that we can benefit more
from our capacity as workers, businessmen, farmers.
1 Special Representative for Trade Negotiations and Deputy Special Representatives, respectively.
23
