April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
now a single form to be filed with the Commission for all self-regulated indus-
tries and regulatory agencies of 48 States. It reduces reporting by 98 percent.
One of the largest brokerage firms in the country has told us the reduction of
their audited fees is 50 percent by this one change.
Four months ago, we began an evaluation of proposed regulations or rules,
and, as a result, we have withdrawn entirely 28 outstanding rules proposals.
We found opinions in our administrative proceedings were taking 2 years to
come down. We found the typical opinion took 1 year. Our attempt to reduce
that typical opinion to 30 days is almost complete, and it will shortly be at
30 days. We found we could not track in any fashion the delays in the thousands
of filings made with our commission every year.
As of last month, after a great deal of work and a great deal of help from
the OMB, we now have a computer run that gives our managers a chance to
identify every filing within a week or two after it develops. The OMB approved
our request with your support, sir, for money to convert all our files to micro-
film. That will further speed our work, reduce our staff, and save us a great
deal of money and will include a reduction of 35 people from our personnel.
We eliminated fixed commissions, a practice standing for 182 years. I think
it is the only time that a Commission in the history of the Government in a rate-
making situation got out of it.
We believe that the efforts I have described will produce comparable results
and comparable endorsement in the months ahead.
THE PRESIDENT. What has been the net result to the consumer with the elimi-
nation of ratemaking?
MR. HILLS. I think Ed made a good point a minute ago. It has been difficult
for us to find out who precisely our consumer is. To date, the consumer has bene-
fited only to the extent he has been a participant in an institutional buyer. The
cost of buying stocks through an institution is 5 percent. The same savings has
not been passed on to individual buyers in precisely the same way because
they don't yet have the effective muscle to have the brokerage firm reduce their
rate.
What we have found out is that the industry has been pricing their commodity
in the wrong fashion. Having a fixed rate, they never tried to change it. It has
now moved to a fixed share cost instead of a percent. If the stock was $100,
they were charging $5. But now, industry is finding the cost is more related to
the share. We are beginning to show the industry what it is costing them on a
percent per share. That has shown the industry today in every category the
cents per share cost to consumer is even a tiny bit less than it is to the institu-
1011
