[37]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
defenders could defeat not only hardship and privation but the disciplined
power of an empire. Our people demonstrated extraordinary belief that their
cause was just and that it would prevail.
I think it is well to recall at the start of this Bicentennial Year that it was not
might nor wealth which ultimately gained American independence and liberty,
but more powerful forces—the unshakable, unbreakable belief of our people in
themselves and in their cause. They proved that a people's greatest strength is its
own faith.
We are gathered here this morning to recall and to renew that faith—faith in
God and belief in the future of our country. We seek to sustain and to increase
our spiritual strength at this time of prayer and recollection.
John Muhlenburg wrote in his diary in 1776, about 200 years ago: "There is a
time to pray and a time to fight. This is the time to fight." If he were alive today
and writing in 1976, he may have written, "This is the time to pray."
Let men and women of faith remember that this Nation, endowed by God
with so many blessings, is also surrounded by incredible needs. At the begin-
ning of this century in American history, let us remember Jesus, who, surrounded
by needs still early in the morning, went away to a solitary place to pray.
We are one people, one Government, and one Nation. We are, by any name,
an indivisible land and people.
Benjamin Franklin, addressing himself to religious faith and worship in God
in the society in which he lived, told the framers of the Constitution: “Without
[God's] concurring aid, we shall succeed in this political building no better
than the builders of Babel. We shall be divided by our little partial local interests.
Our projects will be confounded and we ourselves shall become a reproach and a
by-word down to future ages."
Today, unlike the times of Dr. Franklin, our Nation is mighty and is wealthy.
The many changes in our land in these 200 years may be as frightening as they
are wondrous.
This becomes apparent when we ask ourselves this question: Do we have the
faith, the belief of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and others? Has our spiritual
growth matched our temporal destiny as a nation?
We know that wealth and power do not measure the greatness of this or any
other nation. Our spiritual principles and moral values transcend the physical
capacities and the boundaries of our land.
That is why we come here humbly this morning—to ask from God strength
and guidance so we may leave our third century a legacy of leadership worthy
of the inheritance left us by our forebears.
100
