[203]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
there is joint tenancy, and to include $60,000 now or $150,000, if my proposal
goes through.
John-I know John Anderson is a lawyer-isn't that your understanding?
Representative ANDERSON. Mr. President, like you, I haven't practiced tax
law for a long time, either, but I think you are correct in your interpretation.
THE PRESIDENT. I really think we are correct there, but if not, I hope that the
witnesses before the Committee on Ways and Means will bring that point up,
because I think it is a very legitimate point that ought to be recognized and any
changes in the law, if necessary.
Q. Mr. President, grain prices are down approximately one-third from a
short time ago. The 26 percent of erosion has incurred over the last few years
because of intense cropping caused by the lower prices. What I think many of
us are concerned about, as you have stated before, is what is going to be done to
preserve and maintain agricultural land for future generations ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we've got to encourage full production. We have to
encourage the selling of our commodities abroad. As I understand it, out of 4
acres, 1 acre of American agriculture is sold overseas. We have to push those
sales overseas. Our markets are really unlimited with the burgeoning of popu-
lation all over the world, including the United States. I believe that our export
trade offers us the greatest opportunity, and I can assure you that the prospects
of any embargo or any trade limitation are virtually nil as we move ahead, now
that we have this agreement with the Soviet Union, now that we have these
agreements with Japan and with some of the Eastern European countries.
So, as long as we can say to young people on the farm that their markets are
potentially bigger and bigger, and I think they are, I think you are going to get
younger people coming on the farm under the new proposal, particularly where
they can inherit with less of a financial burden.
Q. Well, the second part would be the increase that you are suggesting-
this $60,000 was set when farmland was approximately $100 an acre. Farmland
now is many times that, and in order to keep the family farm, the amount that is
suggested wouldn't be nearly enough, even then, to keep the farm with inflated
prices that we are under today.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is my understanding that the present $60,000 was
enacted in 1942. I can't tell you the increase in the cost of living since 1942. It
may have been more than the $150,000 rather than the $60,000, but I think we
have to be realistic. This suggestion that I have made will cost the Federal
Treasury about $1,100 million a year in receipts, and we do have to have some
614
