[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
supply an adequate design by a professional engineer to qualify. This was a
State amount that was quoted to us, and we can't get at the money because the
State is administering it.
THE PRESIDENT. I respectfully suggest you go to Concord and ask them.
[Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, when I married a native and moved to the State some 15
years ago, one of my mother's good southern friends asked her what State New
Hampshire was in. [Laughter] Sometimes when I take long looks at informa-
tion such as the budget packet you have given today, I wonder if many of the
people in Washington know what State we are in.
I am particularly interested in the question of mass transportation. I notice
in your budget, as stated by the selectman from Warner, there is a huge increase
in highway taxes. There is a considerable increase, as a matter of fact, in mass
transportation. I notice further, however, that most of that money seems ear-
marked for the expansion and betterment of the already existing mass transpor-
tation systems, particularly from Washington to Boston.
All over northern New England we have an old saying that you can't get there
from here. And if you are trying to get anywhere by mass transportation in this
State, it certainly is true. We have kids going to college in the western part of
the State who can't get home, 90 miles away, without going to Boston to get
there.
I wonder how far down the road you see administrations and Congress and
the Senates waking up to the fact we need mass transportation in rural areas
and trying to appropriate money to encourage cooperative, small, rural, in-
novative mass transportation systems?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me make one comment. There is no increase in transpor-
tation taxes. The Federal gas tax stays at 4 cents a gallon. As I indicated, I
recommended it be reduced 1 cent and that 1 cent go to the States.
But anyhow, we have three basic mass transit programs. Under the Federal aid
to highway program, a local community, if it wants to take its highway money
off of construction for highways, it can make that decision and utilize that money
on a local mass transit program.
I think they are doing that in Boston. I know they are doing it in Washington,
D.C. I know they are doing it in many, many communities. They don't feel they
need more highways. They feel they need more mass transit, so they have that
flexibility out of the highway money.
Number two, I signed in late 1974 a new mass transit bill that provided
170
