[97]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
diately read to that individual his rights under the Constitution. Why not
tell the victim of his rights, too, just as clearly and just as promptly?
This has been advanced by the National District Attorneys Association
and a victim's rights card is now used in 18 States. The investigating officer
informs the victim, "You have the right, as a victim of crime, the following:
"To be free from intimidation; to be told about available compensation for
court appearances; to be told about available compensation for your injuries;
to be told about social service agencies which can help you; and to be assisted
by your criminal justice agencies.'
999
I think this is a step forward, and I hope that more than 18 States will do
exactly the same. Let us encourage witnesses by giving them the support that
they need. I have asked the Department of Justice to develop new programs
to protect and to assist all witnesses in Federal criminal proceedings. No com-
munity should tolerate the abuse of victims. This has happened far too fre-
quently in rape cases where the victim is needlessly subjected to additional
humiliation.
The violent crime that plagues Americans is essentially within the realm
of State and local government. But the Federal Government will assert its
maximum role under the Constitution to fight crime within its jurisdiction.
The increasing abuse of hard drugs contributes to the soaring crime rate.
In this case, our Federal responsibility is very, very clear. I have directed all
Federal law enforcement agencies-in particular, the Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration—to intensify the drive against major narcotic traffickers. I am
seeking legislation and cooperation with the Congress for mandatory prison
sentences for convicted traffickers in hard drugs. These merchants of death
deserve nothing less.
Because the drug problem also involves other nations, I have had an oppor-
tunity in the last year and a half to consult with leaders of Mexico, Colombia,
and Turkey to urge stronger action by them in cooperation with us to control
the production and the shipment of hard drugs.
I have also recommended to the Congress to increase Federal funds to get
drug addicts into treatment and out of crime. Your own program right here
in Miami, known as the Treatment Alternative to Street Crime, funded by
LEAA, I think is an excellent example of this concept at work.
The programs that I have outlined here tonight are part of a Federal effort
to combat crime. As long as crime is a national or nationwide problem, the
administration is determined to provide leadership and assistance in fighting
it within our jurisdiction.
330
