April 2
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT'S TRAVEL ITINERARY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student here at West Bend High School. It
was reported in our local newspaper tonight that you play a big part in deciding
where your itinerary goes. I was just wondering—and I bet a lot of other people
were, too—why you decided to come to West Bend tonight?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had heard so much about all the nice people here I just
decided I wanted to come to West Bend. As a matter of fact, we go to the Con-
gressmen, we go to the people like Governor Knowles, and they give us recom-
mendations. But in all honesty, I had heard that West Bend had many similar-
ities to some of the communities and the kind of people that I represented over in
Michigan. I thought they were great people, and, in all honesty, I did want to
come here to this kind of a community.
REASONS FOR WANTING TO BE PRESIDENT
[13.] Q. I live here in West Bend. I am going to ask a simple question, and
I hope I get a simple answer. [Laughter] I was wondering why you want to run
to be the President this year?
THE PRESIDENT. I will try to make it simple. [Laughter] When I became Presi-
dent in August of 1974 this country was having very serious problems. There
was great distrust of government, and we were on the brink of a recession. We
were having 12 to 14 percent inflation. Our allies around the world were un-
certain as to what the United States would do. Our adversaries were in a
position where they might have taken advantage of us. We have had 19 to 20
months of tough problems. I think we have made a lot of headway but the job
isn't done. And I would like 4 more years to finish the job and turn it over
to my successor in better shape than it is and a lot better shape than it was
August 8, 1974.
ESTATE TAX EXEMPTION INCREASE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Belgium, Wisconsin, and I would like to
know what kind of relief, if any, you have for the small farmer where the
husband dies and the wife, because of a high inheritance tax or whatever, is
forced off the farm because she can't pay it, or for the young people of this
country who really would like to own their own farm but can't afford it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the estate tax changes that I mentioned a moment ago,
increasing the estate tax exemption from $60,000, which was established in 1942,
to $150,000 would, in many, many instances, I think, handle the problem you are
talking about as you describe it—a small farm. And then the other provisions
931
