March 19
[231]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
wage with 2½ times the pay for overtime. Knowing your feelings and your
activities regarding inflation, would you please comment on that proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Those recommendations did not come from this adminis-
tration. [Laughter] Those recommendations were generated on Capitol Hill.
We are trying to work with the Congress to find an answer. The bill that has
been floating around up there, I think, would have a substantial impact in
reigniting some of the fires of inflation. So, we are doing our very, very best
to find an equitable solution.
The one that I have heard about up on Capitol Hill, in the House and the
Senate, would not contribute to a stabilization of our economy. It would, in
many respects, be harmful.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN FINANCING PRIVATE BUSINESS VENTURES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, the other day I expressed to Senator Muskie, chair-
man of the Senate Budget Committee, the urgent need for long-term financing
for the middle-level entrepreneur, such as an RFC [Reconstruction Finance
Corporation], to stimulate production and employment. What would be your
reaction to such a proposal, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, we do have a number of Federal loaning agencies
that do try to help. For example, the Small Business Administration has an
important role, but it has a limited scope.
We have two proposals up on Capitol Hill that focus in on two of our major
problems, and they relate to the question of energy. One is a proposal for the
Federal Government to loan or to guarantee loans in the synthetic fuel area.
I think there is a $6 billion proposal in that area.
And then we also have the energy independence agency, which is a proposal
of Federal financing of major breakthroughs in the energy field where, at the
present time, the know-how, the expertise is not sufficient for the private sector
to put up the necessary capital. And the energy independence agency would fill
that gap during the interim as they were pushing ahead in some of these exotic
fuels. Those two programs have a particular focus on the energy problem.
Other than that, plus the Small Business Administration—and there are
several in the Commerce Department that are aimed at helping minority
groups—I know of no other proposed Federal financing agency that is either
in being or recommended.
Q. Would you concur?
THE PRESIDENT. I am hesitant about expanding the Federal Government's
743
