[31]
January 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
some predicted did not occur. The recession did not deepen into a cumulative
depression. There was no collapse in international trade and investment. The
price of bread never rose to a dollar, nor did the price of gasoline. We did not
experience corrosive social unrest as a consequence of our economic difficulties.
While I do not regard the events of 1975 as fully satisfactory by any measure, we
should find it reassuring that our economic system withstood severe strains and
displayed inherent strengths during the year. I am confident that with respon-
sible and appropriate policies we can achieve sustained economic progress in the
future.
Unfortunately there is no simple formula or single act that will quickly pro-
duce full economic health. It has taken many years for excessive stimulation,
combined with external shocks like the quintupling of international oil prices,
to create the economic difficulties of 1974 and 1975, and it will take several
years of sound policies to restore sustained, noninflationary growth. I will not
make promises which I know, and you know, cannot be kept. We must restore
the strength of the American economy as quickly as we can; but in so doing we
cannot ignore the dangers of refueling inflationary forces, because unchecked
inflation makes steady growth and full employment impossible. The events of
the past several years have once again convincingly demonstrated that accelerat-
ing inflation causes instability and disruptions, increases unemployment, and
ultimately precludes real prosperity.
It is often said that we must choose between inflation and unemployment, and
that the only way to reduce unemployment is to accept chronic inflation or rigid
controls. I reject this view. Inflation and unemployment are not opposites but
are related symptoms of an unhealthy economy. The latter months of 1974
illustrate the relationship betwen inflation and unemployment. Sharply rising
prices created a climate of uncertainty and were to blame for part of the massive
reduction in the purchasing power of household assets placed in savings accounts
and investment securities. In turn, consumers cut back on expenditures; and
consequently inventories, already swollen by speculative buying, backed up in
distribution channels. By the early months of 1975 there were sharp cutbacks in
production and employment. Thus inflation played a significant part in the
surge of unemployment, and if we have a new round of inflation it is likely to
bring still more unemployment. Chronically high unemployment is an in-
tolerable waste of human resources and entails an unacceptable loss of material
production. Clearly, we must attack inflation and unemployment at the same
time; our policies must be balanced.
86
