February 9
[69]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
were elected to the Presidency of the United States, what new changes would
take place?
THE PRESIDENT. Let's take foreign policy. We are at peace, as I said in my
opening remarks. We have strengthened our relations with the NATO nations
in Western Europe, and they are getting better every day.
We have the best, the finest relations with Japan we have ever had. We are
making excellent headway in pushing for a permanent and a fair and equitable
peace in the Middle East.
We are keeping a dialog with words and not bullets with the Soviet Union,
and we are making, improving relations with the People's Republic of China.
In foreign policy we are going to keep moving ahead on the same policy of
achieving peace, maintaining peace that we have had.
In the domestic policy area, I think we are on the right course for us to con-
tinue to improve our economic situation. We are going to continue the down-
ward trend in inflation. We have made a lot of progress from what it was 18
months ago. It was over 12 percent a year. It is 6 percent a year now, and it is
going down.
Unemployment is headed in the right direction, down; the trend of the
gross national product is in the right direction. So, we are going to keep a firm,
steady hand to make sure that these trends continue.
That will take a lot of hard work, a little confrontation with my friends in
the Congress. But I think we will come out in good shape, and America will
be a better country in 1977 and the years thereafter.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:05 p.m. in Lundholm
Gymnasium. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Eugene S. Mills, president of the University of New
Hampshire, and David Farnham, president of the
university's student government.
69
Remarks Upon Signing a Message to the Congress on Older
Americans. February 9, 1976
TODAY I am sending a message to the Congress that expresses my confidence
and support of older Americans, my very deep concern about the problems of
the aging, and my proposals for dealing with the problems involving them.
Society owes a very deep debt of gratitude to all older persons who have worked
hard and contributed significantly to our Nation's progress.
233
