March 13
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of North Carolina Law School-down at Carr Dormitory-and for 9 months
early in World War II, I was at the Navy pre-flight school at Chapel Hill, and
then my oldest son graduated from Wake Forest 3 years ago.
You know, as much as I believe in a strong and prosperous American auto-
mobile industry, I am here to say that this year there is absolutely no reason
to trade in your Ford on a new model. And let me add, I am proud to say this
is one Ford that has even been road-tested by Richard Petty.¹ I am very honored
and very happy to say that Richard is a member of the President Ford Steering
Committee here in North Carolina, and I am deeply grateful for his support.
As I have gone across the country in recent months, I have enjoyed a number
of question-and-answer sessions with people of a great many States. I am
anxious to do that tonight with this wonderful audience, but let me make one
or two brief comments before we get into the question-and-answer period.
The year 1976 is a vitally important, very critical year for America. It marks a
turning point for our country as we enter the last quarter century—last quarter
of the 20th century, and begin the third century of America's history of progress.
It is good for us sometimes to take stock of where we have been, where we are
and where we are going as a people and as a nation. America has come a
long, long way in the last 200 years. We have grown from a very small, poor,
weak, struggling collection of colonies to the greatest nation in the history of
the world. And we, all of us, 215 million Americans, can look with pride at our
country.
now,
We have come through wars, a depression, droughts, riots, assassinations,
scandals—practically everything that fate could throw at us. But we have also
enjoyed phenomenal economic, technological, and sociological progress in
America. And that progress has made our way of life the envy throughout the
globe. Despite all the problems we have had, I don't think any of us would trade
places with the people of any other country in the world. I wouldn't, and you
wouldn't.
We hear a lot of skeptical and cynical talk these days about America being
in a state of decline. That's wrong and you know it and I know it. We hear that
America's best days are behind us. That's wrong. I know it and you know it.
We hear America is a second-rate power in the world today. That's wrong, and
let me hear how you feel about it. It's wrong.
Frankly, I am sick and tired of hearing those who would run down America.
¹ NASCAR [National Association of Stock Car Racing, Inc.] driver.
699
