February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in the House, and Senator Everett Dirksen was the Republican minority
leader in the Senate. He was a firm advocate of a constitutional amendment
to remedy this situation.
I talked with him many, many times about it, because that was one thing
he wanted to do because he felt so strongly about it. In the process of my dis-
cussions with him, I subscribed to an amendment of that kind.
FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Mike D'Antonio from The New Hampshire.
Any cuts in aid to education may make entrance to universities impossible
for low- and middle-income people who cannot pay the entire bill without
assistance. Will you please comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the primary responsibility for the financing of a State
university comes from the State itself. These are State universities, and the fund-
ing for the faculty, for the facilities should, of course, come as a major respon-
sibility of the State.
Now, the Federal Government does put in a very substantial amount of
funding in several ways. One, the Federal Government finances a great deal
of research and development in college laboratories. It puts a great deal of
money into State and private universities all over the country for basic research,
for applied research.
The other approach that the Federal Government does is to give to students
who want to attend a university significant financial assistance. In the budget
that I recommended for fiscal year 1977, I proposed $1,100 million for the Basic
Opportunity Grants program to help students all over the country so that
they would have financial resources so they could go to colleges and universities
throughout the United States. This program is focused in on the students who
are in need.
Now, we have a number of other individually focused programs for the
students. We have the guaranteed loan program, and I have to say parenthet-
ically, the repayment rate on those loans has not been very encouraging. But
we also have the work-study group, or program, where on many, if not all
campuses, the Federal Government pays, as I recall, 90 percent of the pay
that goes to students who work on the campus doing jobs related to the
maintenance and so forth of the campuses.
This program, when you add it all up as far as the Federal Government is
concerned, will be in the range of around $2 billion for students, period. And
in addition, we have the grant programs for many, many studies conducted
205
