[213]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
new moderation in the relationship of government to the governed, and new
American strength throughout the world.
Together, all of us, in all 50 States, in all walks of life, old and young-we
welcome America's third century. Together, we offer optimism to all our
fellow countrymen and all of the world. Together, we will build a better
America, and we will build a better world.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. at the
Guilford Courthouse National Military Park. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Gary E. Everhardt,
Director, National Park Service, Department of the
Interior, and J. F. Froelich, director, Guilford
County Bicentennial Commission.
214
Remarks in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
March 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Jim Holshouser.
Coming back to Winston-Salem and back to North Carolina is almost like
coming back to home for me. Our oldest son graduated from Wake Forest 3 years
ago. A long time ago, I went to the University of North Carolina Law School
and stayed at Carr Dormitory. There must be a little rivalry there. And then in
the early days of World War II, I was stationed at the pre-flight school down at
Chapel Hill. And over a period of 20-some years, I have campaigned for candi-
dates for Congress, candidates for the governorship, candidates for the Senators.
And so I think I have been the length and the breadth of North Carolina and
hopefully, I have a friend or two. And thank you all for coming here.
I do want to thank every one of you for coming here on a Saturday afternoon
to express your support, your interest, and with this kind of enthusiasm, we are
bound to win a week from Tuesday.
Now, let me give you a little straight talk, because I think you are interested in
straight talk. First, I hope you will listen very carefully. Since I took office about
19 months ago, we have given you straight talk. We have not promised more
than we can deliver, and we have delivered everything that we promised. And
we will keep that commitment in the future. Secondly, I think all of you recog-
nize that for the last 19 months this country has gone through a very difficult
time domestically.
When I took office, inflation was up here about 12 percent or more per year.
We have cut it in half or more, and we are going to continue to make progress in
696
