April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
improvements in the four areas concerned that he has mentioned. Those were
the subjects of your reports.
He has three specific requests he hopes you will keep in mind as you pre-
pare your next report. First, that special consideration be given as to how we can
make your progress—and our progress in the executive branch—as well as our
regulations more understandable. For example, when you report on how you are
eliminating or improving your regulatory functions, the President would like
to see a specific statement on how the change will affect consumers, small
businessmen, and taxpayers.
Second, if you would, the report should list and discuss priorities for agency
reforms. Along with the priorities should be recommendations on where regu-
latory objectives can be achieved in a less costly, less time-consuming, and more
efficient manner. If we are going to show results to the American people, we need
to have a better idea of what our priorities are and how we are going to accom-
plish them. One of your first priorities should be where there is workable com-
petition or where competition could be increased if outdated regulations were
eliminated.
Third, the President asks all of you to concentrate, along with the executive
branch agencies, on achieving a 10-percent reduction in the number of forms
that Federal agencies require.
It has been said that our continued requests for information cost individuals
and businesses billions of dollars in expenses every year. The cost of paperwork
cannot any longer be considered an incidental cost. Many small businessmen
have pointed out it isn't worth it for them to hire two people in their business
whose efforts are directed toward filling out of forms instead of selling products
and services.
The Committee on Paperwork is looking on the longterm approach of re-
ducing costs of paperwork. The President has directed the executive agencies
to achieve a 10-percent reduction in number of forms by July.
In your September 15 report on your administrative reforms, he hopes you
can also report on your contribution to achieving a reduction in reporting re-
quirements.
Let me say, certainly on this side of the table, we are all convinced that all
of us here and all of you are working toward the goal of making the Fed-
eral Government as responsive and efficient as humanly possible.
Thank you. We appreciate it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
1025
