April 6
[305]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
305
Veto of the Child Day Care Bill. April 6, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval, H.R. 9803, a bill which would perpetu-
ate rigid Federal child day care standards for all the States and localities in the
Nation, with the cost to be paid by the Federal taxpayer.
I cannot approve legislation which runs directly counter to a basic principle of
government in which I strongly believe-the vesting of responsibility in State
and local government and the removing of burdensome Federal restrictions.
I am firmly committed to providing Federal assistance to States for social
services programs, including child day care. But I am opposed to unwarranted
Federal interference in States' administration of these programs.
The States should have the responsibility—and the right-to establish and en-
force their own quality day care standards. My recently proposed Federal As-
sistance for Community Services Act would adopt this principle, and with it
greater State flexibility in other aspects of the use of social services funds available
under Title XX of the Social Security Act.
H.R. 9803 is the antithesis of my proposal. It would make permanent highly
controversial and costly day care staff-to-children ratios. And it would deny the
States the flexibility to establish and enforce their own staffing standards for fed-
erally assisted day care.
This bill would not make day care services more widely available. It would
only make them more costly to the American taxpayer. It would demand the
expenditure of $125 million over the next six months, and could lead to $250
million more each year thereafter.
H.R. 9803 would also specify that a portion of Federal social services funds be
available under Title XX of the Social Security Act for a narrow, categorical pur-
pose. In the deliberations leading to enactment of Title XX, a little over a year
ago, the States and the voluntary service organizations fought hard to win the
right to determine both the form and the content of services to be provided ac-
cording to their own priorities. This bill would undermine the Title XX com-
mitment to State initiative by dictating not only how day care services are to be
provided, but also how they are to be financed under Title XX.
It would introduce two additional Federal matching rates for some day care
costs that are higher than the rates for other Title XX-supported services,
thereby further complicating the States' administration of social services pro-
981
