March 24
[256]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Congress and all others associated. And to you, Ambassador Williams, we owe
a great debt of gratitude.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:14 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the East Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.J. Res. 549) is Public Law
94-241 (90 Stat. 263).
256
Statement on Signing Legislation Approving the Covenant
Establishing Commonwealth Status for the Northern
Mariana Islands. March 24, 1976
I AM signing today an historic document―H.J. Res. 549, the joint resolu-
tion of the Congress approving the Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth
Covenant.
It is an important occasion. First, it is a significant step in carrying out our
obligations under the United Nations Trusteeship Agreement which has been
the basis of the United States' administration of these islands since 1947. Sec-
ond, it confirms our national commitment to the principle of self-determina-
tion by honoring the freely expressed wishes of the peoples of these islands for
political union with the United States. And third, the joining together of all
of the Marianas under one flag and one common citizenship represents the
first major addition to United States territory in the Pacific since 1898.
History will show that this action has been in clear response to the persistent
desires of the Marianas people to become permanently associated with the
United States—a desire recorded formally through resolutions, referendums,
and petitions to the United Nations and to the United States dating as far back
as 1950. History will also show that the negotiations leading to the covenant were
conducted in an open and highly democratic fashion, and that the covenant's
provisions are responsive to the wishes of both the people of the Northern Mari-
ana Islands and the Congress of the United States.
Those who were involved in this careful and thorough process are to be con-
gratulated: The Marianas Political Status Commission, Ambassador Haydn
Williams and members of the American delegation, those Members of the
Congress who worked closely with Ambassador Williams during the negotia-
tions, and those who provided the leadership in moving the joint resolution
through its final stages in the House and the Senate. I refer to the members of
the Senate and House Interior Committees including Senator J. Bennett Johns-
ton, Senator Paul J. Fannin, Senator Clifford P. Hansen, Chairman James Haley,
801
