February 25
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA
[3.] Q. Mr. President, there seems to have been some speculation that
Richard Nixon's trip to China has in fact had a dampening effect on your votes.
Do you have any comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I have seen what others have said. I hesitate to evaluate the
impact, good or bad, on the election yesterday. My general impression is that
there was a minimal impact, but others differ with that. And we will try to
assess it as we look at the final results.
Q. Will you or someone from your staff meet with Mr. Nixon when he returns
from China?
THE PRESIDENT. As has been indicated, if Mr. Nixon, when he gets back, feels
there is something significant that ought to be conveyed to the administration,
we expect that it will be given to the administration through the Department of
State. But we will wait till he gets back and let him indicate whether there is
something significant that he would like to convey to us.
PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT LEGISLATION
[4.] Q. Is there any kind of public works bill that the Congress might pass
that you would feel you would be able to sign?
THE PRESIDENT. The bill I have indicated I would support is one that the Sec-
retary of HUD, Carla Hills, has worked on with Senator Griffin and Congress-
man Brown. It would provide roughly $740 million as an add-on to the com-
munity development appropriation bill. The community development program
is a program of about $3,300 million that goes to the municipalities and other
units of government to cover what used to be urban development, model cities,
and five other programs.
We think this is a better answer than some typical public works program
because the cities and other local units of government are ready right now. It is
a going program, and if the Congress would go along with that, I think that
is the best way to answer the employment problem as quickly as possible.
We are working to see if the Congress won't accept that proposal. And al-
though I hesitate to add to the budget, I think in the spirit of compromise, we
would go along with that approach of adding about $740 million because it is
the quickest and the best way to get jobs at the local level.
U.S. POLICY AT THE UNITED NATIONS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, today you announced the new leadership at the United
Nations. Does that signify or signal any rough change in our policy there?
439
