February 12
[81]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and individual liberty. In this era of bigness, our Nation must maintain an en-
vironment in which small businesses can flourish.
To foster innovation and productivity gains, it is important that we have a
dynamic economy in which new enterprises can be formed and will prosper.
Without the ongoing search for new ideas and better ways of doing things,
our competitive system would become progressively less efficient. Our historical
experience indicates that innovative ideas often originate in the laboratories and
workshops of small businesses. New enterprises are a basic source of innovative
ideas and serve to push the entire economic system to higher levels of efficiency,
thereby enhancing our competitive position in world markets. The strength of
small business must be preserved if this innovative climate is to be maintained.
In addition to its economic role, small business provides the entrepreneur
with a means of self-expression. The chance to create, own, and manage a busi-
ness is one of our most important freedoms. My administration considers the
healthy individualism of the small business entrepreneur an essential element
in our economic and political system. The freedom to create and operate one's
own business does not exist in many parts of the world. Because of its value to
our free society, this avenue for individual opportunity must be nourished and
promoted.
The largest corporate complexes started as small businesses, but most small
businesses never become international, billion-dollar companies. Rather, most
small firms are likely to remain relatively small. In many communities through-
out our Nation, the small businessman provides the leadership so vital to com-
munity life. Since this involvement in community affairs is of great value to the
quality of life in our country, I am committed to the continued health and vigor
of small businesses.
At a time when we so urgently need increased private job creation, I am par-
ticularly impressed by the fact that our 9.4 million small business firms employ
about 55 percent of the private sector labor force in this country and produce
about 48 percent of our gross business product. The continued growth and
prosperity of this vital sector is critically important if we are going to generate
the expanding number of private, productive jobs required in the coming years.
The Small Business Administration was created in 1953, during the Eisen-
hower administration, to provide small businessmen with advice and assistance
and to promote the interests of the small business community. The intent of this
legislation was to “aid, counsel, assist and protect . . . the interests of small busi-
ness concerns in order to preserve competitive enterprise as the basis for economic
well-being and the security of the Nation." The SBA is the primary instrument
251
