February 26
[139]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
when Mussolini went into Ethiopia and the Allies did nothing, absolutely noth-
ing, that was the invitation for further aggression, whether it was in Africa in
that instance, or elsewhere.
Now I am not saying Angola is identical, but it has enough similarity that we
ought to look in past history and learn from it. And I hope the Congress recog-
nizes that every time we fail to act where aggression is obvious, it just invites a
greater action someplace else.
We are going to meet the challenge unless the Congress continues to hand-
cuff us.
And let me assure you that if we sign a SALT agreement, it will be an agree-
ment in our interest in world peace; it will be a good, two-way, Yankee trader
agreement, nothing more, nothing less.
REPORTER. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:07 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Ralph S. Roth, president, Robert N.
Brown, chairman of the board, and William G. Boy-
kin, executive secretary, Inland Daily Press Associa-
tion.
139
Remarks Upon Signing a Special Message to the Congress Urging
Enactment of Proposed Energy Legislation. February 26, 1976
Secretary Richardson, Secretary Kleppe, distinguished members of the ad-
ministration:
Just over 2 years ago the Arab embargo taught us that the United States had
become far, far too dependent upon other countries for our oil supplies. We
learned the high price of excessive dependence in dollars as well as in jobs.
Today, there is a very real danger that present conditions may lull us into
a false sense of security. The long lines at the gasoline stations have faded from
most of people's memories. But we still have a very, very serious energy prob-
lem. The problem is that we are still far too dependent on foreign sources of oil.
This problem will get worse if we don't act quickly and effectively.
During the past year I have placed before the Congress a comprehensive set
of legislative proposals designed to help us achieve our goal of energy independ-
ence. My budget for fiscal year 1977 provides for a 30-percent increase in fund-
ing for energy research and development. I have taken the steps necessary and
445
