February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
RUNAWAY FATHERS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Katherine B. Donahue from Keene, New Hampshire,
and because I am getting over a cold, Mr. Caldwell will read my question for
me. Thank you.
Q. Since the Parent Locator Service law is now in operation, titled Office of
Child Support Enforcement, through Federal funding as of January 28-29,
1976, and is affiliated with the social security service, why is it necessary to spend
welfare funds over a period of months on one case to locate a delinquent missing
father of a dependent child or children to receive court designated payments
who are not on welfare when the social security number is available and could
be traced in a shorter period of time? Would this not be saving a lot of tax
dollars?
The President. The legislation to which you refer was passed about a year,
year and a half ago. What it seeks to do is to give new tools to Federal officials
and to local officials to locate runaway pappies so that they can be brought back
to take care of their financial responsibilities to their children and to their
former wife—but primarily to their children. That legislation was long overdue.
The first bill that I introduced in the House of Representatives in 1949 was
called the runaway pappy bill, because fathers go from New Hampshire to
Michigan or Ohio or Florida, get a job, they don't take care of the court-
ordered financial responsibilities for their children. That legislation finally
materialized into what was passed a year and a half ago, and I can assure
you we are going to make it work because it would relieve the welfare burden
and it would force so-called runaway pappies to pay for their financial respon-
sibilities to their children. We are going to make that law work, I can assure
you.
Q. I don't want to take question time away from someone else, but I just
have one more question.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. This has happened over a period of 10 years. I have raised 8 children for
16 years. Now, when I went to Social Security, they denied there was any such
office in Washington. I found the address through, really, pressure, and be-
cause I am not a welfare parent, I had to send $20 to start the case. The Social
Security here in Keene knows where my husband is, knows where he is em-
ployed. When the welfare worker called me after they received my check,
she told me it would be 4 months before I would hear anything.
Now, I think that is a disgrace, because that girl in that welfare department
379
