[22]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
reductions so that individuals and businesses can spend and invest these dollars
instead of having the Federal Government collect and spend them.
A third important dimension of the budget is the way it sorts out priorities.
In formulating this budget, I have tried to achieve fairness and balance:
-between the taxpayer and those who will benefit by Federal spending;
-between national security and other pressing needs;
-between our own generation and the world we want to leave to our
children;
-between those in some need and those most in need;
-between the programs we already have and those we would like to have;
-between aid to individuals and aid to State and local governments;
-between immediate implementation of a good idea and the need to allow
time for transition;
-between the desire to solve our problems quickly and the realization
that for some problems, good solutions will take more time; and
-between Federal control and direction to assure achievement of common
goals and the recognition that State and local governments and indi-
viduals may do as well or better without restraints.
Clearly, one of the highest priorities for our Government is always to secure
the defense of our country. There is no alternative. If we in the Federal Gov-
ernment fail in this responsibility, our other objectives are meaningless.
Accordingly, I am recommending a significant increase in defense spending
for 1977. If in good conscience I could propose less, I would. Great good
could be accomplished with other uses of these dollars. My request is based
on a careful assessment of the international situation and the contingencies
we must be prepared to meet. The amounts I seek will provide the national
defense it now appears we need. We dare not do less. And if our efforts to
secure international arms limitations falter, we will need to do more.
Assuring our Nation's needs for energy must also be among our highest
priorities. My budget gives that priority.
While providing fully for our defense and energy needs, I have imposed
upon these budgets the same discipline that I have applied in reviewing other
programs. Savings have been achieved in a number of areas. We cannot
tolerate waste in any program.
In our domestic programs, my objective has been to achieve a balance between
all the things we would like to do and those things we can realistically afford
to do. The hundreds of pages that spell out the details of my program pro-
posals tell the story, but some examples illustrate the point.
48
