[215]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
with favor on the continuation of revenue sharing and the possible expansion
of that program?
The President. The answer is categorically yes. And almost a year ago, I
recommended to the Congress a 534-year extension of the present revenue shar-
ing legislation, which now expires December 31, 1976. I don't understand why
the Congress has done nothing, because this is a program that gives to the States
and to the local communities, cities, townships, counties, about $6 billion a year.
I don't recall offhand the total amount that comes to North Carolina and all of
the communities in the State, but it is substantial. And that amount of money
has contributed extremely significantly to the local projects and policies and
programs that you can do in Wilkes County and Yadkin County and Alleghany
County and all of the others, and it has added measurably to the things that
the State of North Carolina can do.
And let me say that this is one Federal program that is the cheapest to
administer. I told you a minute ago that about $6 billion is turned back to
Governors and to mayors and county and township officials. You know what
the cost is? One-twelfth of 1 percent. The money goes back to local units of
government, to Governors, to the State legislators, so that they can do things on
the behalf of the people of a community or of a State. And I hope and trust
that the Congress wakes up-they have been pretty sleepy-about doing what
they should do on this program. We are pushing them, and we are going to
get some action. And if they don't act, I hope all of you will look them in the
eye next November.
Q. Mr. President, we are going to try to help you get a Congress that you can
work with.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
ACCESS ROADS ON FEDERAL PROPERTY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, during World War II, I spent 15 months on the
frontlines. Should the Government forbid me to go to my home and not have
a way in and out to my summer home?
THE PRESIDENT. Would you repeat that again?
Q. I have a summer home on the Blue Ridge Parkway, and the Federal
Government denies me the right to go through their property to my home.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I must confess that I don't understand all the details
of just what the problem is—the roadblock or impediment might be—but let
me assure you that we will take a good look at it and find why they won't let
you get from the main highway to the property that you own.
704
