February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much. It's nice to be here. Have a
good day-the rest of it.
NOTE: The President's twenty-fifth news confer-
ence began at 4:01 p.m. in the Strafford Room of the
Memorial Union Building at the University of New
Hampshire. It was broadcast live on regional tele-
vision and radio.
68
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the University
of New Hampshire in Durham. February 8, 1976
President Mills, Mrs. Mills, David Farnham, members of the university system
board of trustees, members of the faculty, students, ladies and gentlemen:
It really is a great pleasure to be here with you at this very historic and very
exceptional University of New Hampshire.
Now, I know that sounds pretty much like a traditional greeting, but believe
me, any university that can take a distinguished faculty, a dynamic student body,
a standard of academic excellence, and then combine it with a meeting place
called the Mub Pub, and one of the hottest hockey teams in America, the Wild-
cats-it really is good to be here.
Let me for a moment make some remarks before responding to your questions
and raise a question or two and, hopefully, give an answer, too.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The first is, how can we help to create an economic climate so that you can
use your education in a rewarding job?
Secondly, how can we keep the peace so that you can stay on the job? The
most important function of your education is to equip you for a satisfying job
so that you can enjoy what life has to offer to you in the future.
My new budget was designed to bolster our economy by generating new
jobs. In this budget, I have proposed an 11-percent increase in federally funded
research and development. This would bring Government R. & D. funds to a
record $25 billion in a 12-month period, with substantial increases, for example,
in energy—solar, geothermal research, areas which are vitally important to your
health-cancer, arthritis, and the rest.
This is a program that is not only applicable to applied research but equally
important in the field of basic research. As I indicated, this research helps to
not only give us a better future but to sustain our economy by creating an en-
215
