April 5
[300]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The U.S. share of this production, about 80 percent, may be sold at auction,
and up to 25 percent of that amount could be set aside for sale to small refiners.
At the President's discretion, all or part of the U.S. share may be used to build
up the strategic petroleum reserves. The act authorizes use of revenues from
the sale of petroleum for work on the naval petroleum reserves, for the national
reserve in Alaska, and for the strategic petroleum reserve.
This act is an important step toward reversing our declining domestic oil
production, and it is another sign that we are making progress. Four of my
original 13 proposals were included in the Energy Policy and Conservation
Act which I signed into law on December 22, 1975.
The Congress still has before it 17 major energy proposals, including those
remaining from the original 13 I submitted in January 1975 and others I have
submitted since then. We need those measures to conserve energy and to in-
crease domestic production. Congress must act on those measures so that we
can achieve our national goals for energy independence.
300
Remarks Upon Signing a Proclamation Designating May as
Older Americans Month. April 5, 1976
Secretary Mathews and distinguished guests:
It is especially fitting this year that we set aside a period to honor our older
citizens. Their insight and experience, their wisdom and their courage has con-
tributed beyond measure to the development of our 200-year-old Nation. We
must make it possible for older Americans to continue their involvement in
our national life.
One of the best ways we can draw upon their strengths and skills is in the
job and volunteer market. Too often, older and even middle-aged Americans
are the victims of myths and prejudices regarding their capabilities. Ameri-
cans must repudiate these myths and prejudices, as we have repudiated others,
and assure our older Americans the chance to prove that time has only en-
hanced their demonstrated abilities.
It is important that our Nation makes every effort to recognize the worth
and the dignity of our older citizens. To this end, the Federal Council on
Aging has prepared a Bicentennial Charter for our older Americans. This char-
ter sets forth principles to guide us in evaluating our Nation's response to the
973
