[24]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me make one or two comments concerning problems that face you and is-
sues which I tried to address Monday night in the State of the Union comments
to Congress and the American people.
Number one, one of the principal issues we face in this country is how to do
something affirmatively in the area of inflation. Fifteen, sixteen months ago we
were going through a very traumatic period, with the rate of inflation up over
12 percent.
We have made substantial strides in cutting back on the rate of inflation.
The current rate is roughly 6 percent. We hope to reduce that gradually, but con-
structively, in the months ahead. And if we carry out responsible fiscal policy, if
we do the other things that are needed and necessary, we can get the rate of in-
flation down to an area which is livable for all people and a rate that must be
obtained as far as retired people are concerned.
Number two, as all of you know, I indicated that I was not recommending any
cap or any ceiling on social security benefits. The anticipated cost-of-living in-
crease for the social security recipients is somewhere between 6 and 8 percent.
It is my feeling that we ought to permit—and I have recommended that that
go into effect as planned under the existing law. But I had to point out, and I
think properly so, that at the pay-out rate and based on the money that is received,
the Social Security Trust Fund is going to get in trouble in the next 4 or 5 years.
There is no question about it.
All of the experts can show you charts and graphs that indicate that unless we
increase receipts on the one hand, we will be forced either to reduce benefits or
else draw on the funds of the Treasury, the general funds.
It seemed to me that we had to face up to the issue of the integrity of the trust
fund, and the best of the three alternatives, in my opinion, is to add a very, very
small tax, three-tenths of 1 percent, on both employer and employee.
If you figure it out, the most a person would pay would be less than $1 a
week—the most. It adds up to $47 a week (year) for the person with the highest
income that is taxed-$15,400.
We must maintain the integrity of that trust fund. Otherwise, those who are
retired or those who are working and intend to retire will not have the security
that is needed or necessary.
The second point I addressed, I think of some interest to you, and that is how
we are going to handle the problem of catastrophic illnesses. Approximately 24
to 25 million people today are receiving Medicare benefits. The statisticians tell
me that roughly 3 million of that 24 to 25 million are affected by catastrophic
76
