January 27
[34]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for your advice, to get a better understanding about
what was going on in this country. And I always
came out of your office more encouraged about
America, about the Congress, about your determina-
tion to do what you believed that should be done
here in this country as well as this country's poli-
cies towards the world, towards securing peace and
freedom wherever and whenever it is possible.
Since you took this office, awesome responsibil-
ity of the President of the United States, this is the
third meeting between us here. And we have dis-
cussed through this period every possibility, every-
thing that can be done to encourage every option,
every avenue to move from war towards peace, to
achieve tranquility and stability in the area as long
as peace has not been achieved. And I appreciated
always your attitude that whenever there is a con-
frontation, the efforts to bring about peace must be
done from the standpoint of strengths, because no
totalitarian regime will tolerate a weak democracy.
And only a strong democracy can expect to achieve
peace with dignity, peace that is worthwhile.
I am especially glad, as you mentioned, Mr. Pres-
ident, that I am the first head of government to be
your official guest in this Bicentennial Year. I am
glad, especially, because I think I represent even
though a very small democracy, but it is the only
one that exists in the Middle East.
Before we came over I found that when you got
your independence 200 years ago, the total popula-
tion of then the United States was 3 million which
is exactly-[laughter]—the population of Israel to-
day. And I found that your growth came as a result
of the determination of the Founding Fathers to
build a country, but in addition to that, by main-
taining the basic principle of open gates to waves
of immigrants. And your country grew up by the
waves of immigrants that came to this great coun-
try. We maintain the same policy. And we have
grown through immigration and will continue to
grow through immigration.
In the last 1½ years we have taken certain steps
through the good offices of the United States Gov-
ernment, under your guidance, in the effort to bring
about certain moves toward peace. I believe that on
our part we did our share. We have taken risks in
the hope that a better future might be built not only
for Israel but for the whole Middle East, for all
countries and for all peoples there.
We are in a country in which war might be im-
minent. We have fought four major wars in the
last 28 years, and between them we have never
entertained one day of peace. And after 28 years
of war, believe me, Mr. President, if there is some-
thing that we aspire to, that we desire, that we are
longing for, it is to achieve a real peace.
Allow me to add that when I stayed in this coun-
try I learned one thing-that the vaguest word in
the English dictionary is "peace," because so many
interpretations are given to this word. And there-
fore, one has to be careful when the word is uttered
and no practical and meaningful interpretation is
given to that.
And, therefore, for us the meaning of peace that
we want to achieve is peace that will give us, as
well as to our neighbors, a sense of security to live
the way that we prefer to live in our own country
and they in their own.
We have done something to bring stabilization
to the area, but still the road to peace, unfortunately,
is still long. And it will require courage, determina-
tion, and skill to navigate the ship of hope of peace
until it will be a real one. And in facing all these
complex problems, one has not to lose his hope but
at the same time to have no illusions in coping with
the difficulties that should be overcome.
After the first talk that I had with you, Mr. Pres-
ident, I believed that we realize the difficulties. We
are determined to do everything to find ways to
cope with these difficulties. And I can assure you,
Mr. President, that on the part of Israel every effort
will be done to find ways to cooperate with you in
the efforts to bring about peace to the area which
has suffered so much from wars in the last years.
Allow me also, Mr. President, to thank you per-
sonally in the name of the people of Israel for your
support through the years, to your support to Israel
and to the cause of peace in the area in your capacity
as the President of the United States. You mentioned
what happened yesterday, and I am encouraged by
what happened today. And I would like to thank
you very, very much.
And allow me to raise my glass to the President
of the United States and to the friendship between
our two countries.
Lechayim.
97
