March 15
[216]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
After 11 months-I know the pressure that L. H. Fountain has been under-
a House subcommittee has begun to mark up a general revenue sharing bill.
While I am delighted to see the movement that has taken place, I am concerned
with their initial decisions in some instances regarding the level of funding and
prospective formula changes.
Behind all of the rhetoric associated with the growing congressional debate
over the renewal of this program is a very fundamental issue—whether or not
to continue providing cities, counties, and States with effective Federal assist-
ance now authorized by this program. It is just too important to your cities; it is
just too important to your States; it is just too important to the United States of
America; the general revenue sharing bill must pass clearly this year.
You know that failure to renew this program would weaken the fiscal stability
of your cities. You know that expiration of this program or a reduction of the
payments you now receive would mean cutbacks in essential services, increased
public and related private sector unemployment, or the imposition of more
taxes. Maybe this is what some partisans want, but I don't. Let me make very
clear on that point.
I deeply share your concern, and I stand firm in my commitment to secure an
extension of general revenue sharing, which should no longer be a partisan
political issue, and I hope it won't be in the months ahead. If you will work with
me we can meet that common commitment, and we can do even more good
with revenue sharing in the future.
Now, another legislative matter of urgent importance is the passage of a $1.7
billion supplemental appropriation bill to continue funding of public service
jobs under the Comprehensive Education and Employment Training Act.
Many of your cities face the imminent prospect of firing thousands of workers
because the Congress has not provided the funds that you need to pay them.
I know that many of you wanted more than this $1,700 million program. I
know that a $6 billion public works program sounds good, especially if you
don't have to borrow the money to pay for it. I respect your position, even while
respectfully disagreeing with it.
The Federal Government could not afford that program. Even if it could, it
would have taken months to put the program into place. By that time, given the
pace and the strength of our current economic recovery, that $6 billion bill
would very likely have done more to feed inflation than to fight unemployment.
But one thing is clear. The Congress was prepared to spend $6 billion to
initiate a program of dubious value. It should be willing to spend $1,700 million
to continue the CETA program for public service jobs already underway.
711
