February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
all the candidates because they take up storefronts and they eat in the restau-
rants and everything. But Stanley Arnold will be back on Park Avenue this
time next year and Shriver will probably be running his mart and I guess Car-
ter will be working for Maddox-[laughter]—and Loeb will only have the
Dartmouth students to pick on and then he won't be selling many newspapers.
And what I would like to ask you, on behalf of the fellows in the ski business,
will you come up and go skiing with us next year, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. You don't have to worry. The answer is yes.
Q. Thank you, sir.
The President. But let me point out that I started skiing in New Hamp-
shire back in 1938 and 1939 and did for 3 years. So I have skied in North Con-
way and all throughout New England a long, long time ago when we didn't
have the kind of bindings and the boots and the poles and all the other stuff
that we have today. And I wasn't very good then. I'm a little better now.
[Laughter] But I left an awful lot of sitz marks all over New England.
[Laughter]
CONGRESSIONAL PAY RAISE
Q. Mr. President, in view of your response to a previous question regarding
Ronald Reagan's support for repeal of the congressional pay raise scheme,
the secret plotting described by the Los Angeles Times was reconfirmed Febru-
ary 14 with Donald Smith of the Congressional Quarterly.
Mr. President, my question concerns only elected officials-Senators and
Representatives, not appointees. Do you think it is wise public policy to guar-
antee Congressmen protection from inflation, counter to the view of Governor
Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that a Member of the House and Senate ought to have
fair treatment, and I think it is demagoguery to isolate them from all other
people who work for the Federal Government. I think they ought to be fairly
treated, and I think it is pure political demagoguery to allege otherwise.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, my name is Elia Schwartz, I'm from Franklin Pierce
College. Do you feel the Chinese Government, by extending an invitation to
former President Nixon to visit China, in any way reflects the deterioration
of existing relations between the office of the President and the nation of China?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I have visited China twice, once in 1972 for 12 days
where I had the opportunity to travel extensively in the People's Republic
of China; I returned this year, or last year, in December and had an opportunity
381
