January 21
[21]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
21
Remarks Upon Signing the Fiscal Year 1977 Budget
Message. January 21, 1976
BEFORE signing the budget, let me say a very few words concerning the
budget.
I would like to say-and I mean this very specifically-I am very, very
grateful to all of you who have worked so many hours, done so many things to
make this budget a reality. I can't say with enough gratitude my appreciation
for the fine job that all of you have done.
As we all know, the Federal budget for 1977 represents what we hope will be a
very major turning point in the course followed by the Federal Government
for the American people. This budget does not hold out any false promise that
the Federal Government will immediately solve every problem or realize every
ambition or every well-intentioned goal of the American people. Instead, it
reflects on every page the common sense, the new realism, the better balance
between public and private initiatives and between the various levels of govern-
ment to which I referred to in my State of the Union Address. No department
nor agency has been exempted from our cost-saving efforts. None has been
unfairly or unreasonably treated, singled out to bear the brunt of this very major
effort.
We have arrested a spending trend that increasingly threatened our national
security and our national stability. We are committed to keeping the level of
Federal spending within reasonable and affordable limits, but we are also com-
mitted, and committed very deeply, to achieving a better and more bountiful
life for all Americans.
After a great deal of careful preparation—and all of you participated in it in
one way or another, and for that we are very thankful--it is my judgment that
we have struck a workable and a very honest balance. This budget proposes and
promises only what we know we can deliver, nothing more and nothing less
than $394.2 billion will buy for our Government and for our people.
We will be faithful to that promise with the cooperation of the Congress and
the support of the American people.
In this spirit, I will be honored and pleased to sign the budget proposal for
fiscal year 1977 for its appropriate submission to the Congress of the United
States.
[At this point, the President signed the message.]
45
