March 11
[205]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But in the last 19 months, tremendous progress has been made. Most of the
credit for that progress should go to you, the American people, because you did
not panic, you did not lose your cool, and you had faith in our government.
But let me outline some of the things that I think have happened, that have
come about because there was some leadership. It is my judgment that the Ameri-
can people have had a restoration of faith in our country and in our government,
and you should have it.
It is my feeling that because you got some straight talk from the White House,
from the Oval Office, you believe what your President tells you. Let me be very
straightforward. I don't intend to promise more than I can deliver, and I assure
you we will deliver everything we promise.
I know that although we have made great progress in going from the depths
of the recession in March and April of this year and that we are headed upward
to a new prosperity in America, that in Rockford you have an unemployment
that is much too high. I know that in many areas of this country unemploy-
ment is still too high, but let me give you some reassuring facts-facts that should
prove to you beyond any doubt whatsoever that the right policies have been in
place and the right course of direction is taken—whereas 19 months ago infla-
tion was 12 to 14 percent, today it is half of that, and the rate of inflation is going
down, and it will keep going down.
We also know that in the last 2 months there has been very encouraging news
on the national front that employment is going up and unemployment is going
down. Again, it is still too high, much higher than we want it and much higher
than we are going to permit it to be, but from a high of 8.9 percent several
months ago, it is now down to 7.6. The trend is right, and that trend is going to
continue. Employment is going up and unemployment is going down, and we
are going to keep both trends going in the right direction.
But there are some other things I want to talk to you about. As I travel around
the country and meet wonderful people like you, whether it is in Peoria or Cham-
paign or other States and other cities, I find that people generally, regardless of
what occupation they may be in, are disillusioned with the fact that government
is too big, that government does not treat them right, that service to them for the
taxes they have paid isn't in the right proportion.
What we are trying to do is to give to you the kind of Government service at
the Federal level that will restore and renew your faith in what the Government
is doing. I think we ought to get rid of those programs that don't work. We ought
to do better with the programs that are good but that are not working as well as
623
