[203]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
Your profits on the farm are America's profits. And thanks to you, we are
enjoying our best balance of international trade in years. Foreign agricultural
sales thus far in the 1970's are nearly 2½ times greater than they were a decade
ago.
All Americans and millions of people throughout the globe owe the American
farmer a special debt of gratitude and plenty of praise for your outstanding
record of performance and production and, on their behalf, I thank all of you
and your fellow farmers throughout America most sincerely.
But no one praises you more often or with more genuine respect and affection
than my Secretary of Agriculture, my good friend and yours, Earl Butz.
As I announced in Springfield last week, I have appointed Secretary Butz
as Chairman of my new Cabinet-level Agricultural Policy Committee, which
will have the central role in developing and directing our Nation's food policies.
Those policies must guarantee a fair price for the farmer, a fair share of inter-
national trade, and a fair shake for everybody.
Earl Butz, who I met with this morning, and who regrets that he couldn't
join you—but Assistant Secretary Jack Knebel is here someplace. There's Jack,
back there. But Earl has said countless times that the American farmer is the
miracle man of the 20th century, and I couldn't agree with him more. And I
think it is time farmers got as much out of their work as they put into it. The
American farmer is more efficient, more skilled, more advanced, and more
productive than any other farmer in any other nation in the world.
Earlier in this century, the American farmer seemed to be a vanishing breed.
For too long, migration, as many of you know, from America's farms and fields
threatened to leave rural America in decay and in poverty. I am delighted to see
that confidence has returned to our rural areas, that more young people are
coming back into agriculture, and that enrollments in our agricultural colleges
are running at an alltime high.
To further encourage the revitalization of rural America, I have proposed an
increase in estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. This is in addition to
my earlier proposal that Congress act to stretch out estate payments at greatly
reduced interest rates over a 25-year period. I am glad to report that witnesses
from the executive branch of the Government will be testifying next week before
the House Committee on Ways and Means, or the subcommittee of that commit-
tee, and will put forward categorically the proposal that I just described. This
dual relief will help save the American family farm, which has always been one
of the basic elements of our free American society. And all of you know, perhaps
better than I, we must preserve it for our children as well as our grandchildren.
612
