March 5
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
CIVIL RIGHTS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I'm a resident of Peoria and a part-time student at
Bradley. I wonder if you would clarify your position on the subject of civil
rights for gay people in America.
THE PRESIDENT. Civil rights for what?
Q. For gay people, with respect to hiring, employment, and housing. And
secondly, if you were elected President, how would you hope to eliminate some
of the discrimination that gay people in America live under?
THE PRESIDENT. I recognize that this is a very new and serious problem in our
society. I have always tried to be an understanding person as far as people are
concerned who are different than myself. That doesn't mean that I agree with
or would concur in what is done by them or their position in society. I think
this is a problem we have to face up to, and I can't give you a pat answer tonight.
I just would be dishonest to say that there is a pat answer under these very diffi-
cult circumstances.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I'm pastor of a church here in Peoria. From time to
time we get reports, printed sometimes, to the effect that Mr. Kissinger and
the State Department have already made promises and commitments regard-
ing the Panama Canal to a government which is something less than friendly to
us. And furthermore, it has been suggested that the constitutional caution which
forbids any United States property to be sold without approval of the Con-
gress—that that will be circumvented by retaining title to it but nevertheless
technically not selling it, but in reality giving all the controls and direction
and jurisdiction to the Panama Government, which only the owner of the
property should have. I'd like you, Mr. President, to comment on that if you
would.
THE PRESIDENT. Well first, let me say that whatever is done, if it reaches that
point, will be fully submitted to the United States Congress, both the House as
well as the Senate. If property is sold—and I'm not saying it is—or is transferred,
it would have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and, of course,
if it's a treaty, it would have to be approved by the Senate alone. So, you can rest
assured that whatever is done, if anything is done, will be submitted in its en-
tirety, and completely open and above board.
Now, the situation is that since 1964, when they had a series of riots in the
Panama area—the Canal Zone and the Government of Panama-some 30
people were killed in these riots, including a significant number of Americans.
555
