[268]
March 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
a proclamation [4423] establishing a quota of zero pounds for the aforemen-
tioned mixtures, such quota to continue in effect pending Presidential action
upon receipt of the report and recommendation of the United States Inter-
national Trade Commission with respect thereto.
The United States International Trade Commission is therefore directed to
make an immediate investigation under Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjust-
ment Act, as amended, to determine whether the above-described mixtures are
being, or are practically certain to be, imported under such conditions and in
such quantities as to render or tend to render ineffective or materially interfere
with the price support program now conducted by the Department of Agricul-
ture for milk, or to reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the
United States from domestic milk, and to report its findings and recommenda-
tions to me at the earliest practicable date.
The Secretary of Agriculture has further advised me that the monetary limi-
tation in headnote 2(b) of Part 3 of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules of the
United States for the exclusion from the quota restrictions provided for in Part
3 of articles (except cotton and cotton waste) with an aggregate value of not over
$10 in any shipment, if imported as samples for taking orders, for the personal
use of the importer, or for research, is no longer a realistic figure. This limitation
was originally established by Presidential Proclamation No. 3025 of June 30,
1953. The Secretary has recommended that an adjustment of this limitation be
made, and that the authority for making such an adjustment and any further
adjustments which may become necessary in the future be vested in the Secretary
of Agriculture. The Commission is therefore further directed to advise me with
respect to this recommendation, including the amounts of any increases deemed
appropriate at the present time.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Will E. Leonard, Chairman, United States International Trade Commission, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20436]
269
Statement on Signing Budget Rescission Legislation.
March 29, 1976
I HAVE signed H.R. 11665, a bill that will save the taxpayer $75.8 million. These
savings are small in comparison with our total Federal budget. However, we
should be grateful when the Congress agrees to save any amount.
852
