March 9
[196]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
That is the way I look at America's prospects. So, we can all say, as we do
today, “I am proud to be an American and proud of America."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:30 p.m. in the In-
ternational Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to John N.
Matich, president, Ben M. Hogan, senior vice presi-
dent, Associated General Contractors of America,
and Rev. Thomas W. Lyons, auxiliary bishop, arch-
diocese of Washington.
196
Remarks at a Reception for Delegates Attending the
B'nai B'rith International Bicentennial Convention.
March 9, 1976
Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Rockefeller, my daughter, Susan, and all of you wonderful
members of this great organization, B'nai B'rith—and I see a few men chiseling
in:
Really, Betty was supposed to be here along with Mrs. Rockefeller. Unfor-
tunately, she is out in Arizona and California today and tomorrow. Let me give
you some inside dope, sort of a family secret. She is going to Arizona and Cali-
fornia to try and get my votes up to her polls. [Laughter]
But I do want to welcome you all to the wonderful White House. You are go-
ing to have the privilege of hearing Happy Rockefeller and Susan. And they are
very good speakers. And when I heard that you were all here, I thought I would
come over and preempt about a minute or two of your time.
I have had the privilege and the pleasure of working with your organization
as well as your male counterparts over the years when I was in Michigan and
particularly when I was in—we have only got 47 more States to go. [Laughter]
I do want to say a word very seriously for a moment. The United States has
long had a history of supporting the Government of Israel. I think all of us
recognize that this is an issue that is not partisan. Great Democratic Presidents,
great Republican Presidents have stood firm and fast in recommending pro-
grams, recommending policies, recommending appropriations for the security
and the survival of Israel, and this administration is doing exactly the same
thing.
We recognize, of course, that Israel is a democratic country in an area that
is controversial, complex, volatile. And the 3 million-plus citizens of Israel, be-
cause of their staunch and steadfast defense of freedom, need the help and as-
sistance of 215 million Americans whether they are Democrats or Republicans.
599
