[61]
February 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
The details of the revised rescission and the revised and new deferrals are
contained in the attached reports.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
February 6, 1976.
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescission and deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of February 11,
1976 (41 FR 6208).
62
Remarks at the Northeast Republican Conference in
Arlington, Virginia. February 6, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Vice President, Mary Louise, Dick Rosenbaum,
members of the Republican National Committee, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
Mr. Vice President, it is fortunate for us Fords that you weren't born in
Michigan. [Laughter] That includes Henry, too.
Let me say say with the deepest appreciation, I am most grateful for your overly
kind and very generous comments, Nelson. I can say without hesitation or
equivocation that we try to do what Nelson has said we do do. And I can assure
you we are going to do it in the future.
May I add a footnote. I have benefited immeasurably, and the country is
better, because Nelson Rockefeller has been Vice President of the United States.
But, Mr. Chairman, before I begin, I have some very good economic news
that was just released by the Department of Labor. The unemployment rate for
January was 7.8 percent. This is down from 8.3 percent in December. Total
employment rose by 800,000, and 2,100,000 more Americans were working last
month than during the month of March 1975.
This means that virtually all of the jobs lost during the recession have now
been recovered. This is the largest monthly decline in unemployment in 15
years. And this is the largest monthly job increase since 1960. This is good
news, but we are going to make it better in the future.
It is a very great personal pleasure for me to participate in this Northeastern
Conference of the Republican Party.
As I look about this room, I see the faces of many, many old friends—and
some new friends as well-good Republicans that I have met over the years,
for the first time and many times, as I traveled to just about all of your States,
152
