February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We are very optimistic, but it is nice to see such a warm welcome and have
so many nice people out here saying hello and wishing me well.
REPORTER. What kind of shape do you think the party is in, sir, in Florida—
the Republican Party?
THE PRESIDENT. I am optimistic about it, of course. I am sure it is out-regis-
tered, but philosophically, I am certain that the Republican Party and its candi-
dates will do well.
Q. You said recently the candidacy of your opponent was divisive to the party.
Do you think your visit here will alter that or change that?
The President. I don't think it is too divisive. It is a good contest. I am
running on my record, and I think it is a good record, and I think it conforms
with the moderate Republican philosophy that is necessary to win. Anything
to the extreme right of that philosophy can't win a national election. So, I
think my philosophy, my record, is what is good for the Republican Party,
and I think it is good for the country as a whole.
Q. Sir, there has been talk that there really is not that much difference
between yourself and your opponent, that you are both basically conservative in
your ideology. What are the differences as you see them?
The President. I am a moderate, middle-of-the-road Republican. I believe
in fiscal responsibility. I believe in a strong national defense. I don't think
I should pass judgment on former Governor Reagan's record or his statement.
I will run on my record, which I think conforms to the middle-of-the-road
American viewpoint today, and it has proven to be a good record for the
country, and I will run on that record.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:23 p.m. at Ft. Lauderdale International Airport.
89
Remarks at a Briefing on the Budget in Ft. Lauderdale.
February 13, 1976
Mayor Shaw, Congressman Louis Frey and Congressman Bill Young and
Congressman Skip Bafalis, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and honor to be here in Ft. Lauderdale. I am
sorry that my good friend, Herb Burke, couldn't join us tonight. Unfortunately,
he is laid up with a slight bout of the flu-so he is here in spirit if not in person.
273
