[142]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
142
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the Republican
National Committee. February 26, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Mary Louise. It is wonderful to see nothing
but good Republicans in the White House. [Laughter]
Betty and I are very grateful that you all came, and we are most anxious that
you relax and enjoy yourselves. We welcome you to this really wonderful place.
Unfortunately, Betty is traveling. She likes to travel, and she just happened to
pick a place at random called Florida for a few days. [Laughter] But she asked
me to express to all of you her very warm welcome.
Let me take just a minute or two before we all go into the East Room for a
reception, a few refreshments. There are three things that I think are vitally
important that we all have to look at.
Number one, what are we doing to convince a substantial majority of 215
million Americans that they ought to vote for a Republican candidate and a
Republican policy? I think we have a policy that we are working on, both at
home and abroad, to convince a majority of the American people that they
ought to vote for our policies and our candidate.
Number two, I think our policies ought to reflect what will make you enthu-
siastic to go out and support them in every State of the Union, and I think what
we are trying to do, both at home and abroad, should give you that kind of
enthusiasm.
Number three, the things we are seeking to do here in the White House
ought to help you recruit the best candidates at the local and at the State level,
the kind of candidates that will be proud to support us. And we will be proud
to support them, because the party must have a broad elected basis of people at
the local and the State, as well as the Federal level.
Now, let me take just a minute or two to tell you what we are doing. You are
familiar with the circumstances better than a year ago. This country was facing
some very difficult problems-inflation much too high, 12 to 14 percent; unem-
ployment about to burgeon; employment about to go down.
But if we look at what has transpired in the last 12 months, we can be very
optimistic that we have overcome the worst ravages of the worst recession since
the Great Depression of the 1930's. We have cut inflation in half; employment is
going up; unemployment is going down; capital goods expenditures are going
456
