[77]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
77
Remarks at a Briefing for Representatives of Military
Organizations on Defense and Foreign
Policy. February 10, 1976
Secretary Clements, General Brown, General Scowcroft, members of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, distinguished guests:
It is awfully good to see you all and to welcome you to the White House. I
know that Secretary Kissinger and Secretary Clements and others have briefed
you very fully on the elements of our new defense budget and the policies of their
respective departments.
Actually, foreign policy and defense policy are both part of a single national
policy, the policy that carries out the first duty of the Federal Government,
which is to make the United States and its people safe and secure in a very dan-
gerous world.
Throughout our 200 years of independence, we have become the strongest
nation in the history of mankind. And, as President, I intend to keep our mili-
tary strength certain and our powder dry.
But our world has also become much more dangerous. It is also my duty
to do all that I can to reduce the level of danger by diplomatic means. So, my
policy for national security can be summed up in three words—peace through
strength.
I believe it is far better to seek negotiations with the Soviet Union based on
strength than to permit a runaway nuclear arms race and risk a nuclear holo-
caust.
Under my administration, the United States is at peace. There are no Ameri-
cans in battle anywhere in the world today. We have greatly strengthened our
essential alliances with Western Europe and with Japan.
The United States has taken a strong and very forthright stand in the United
Nations on behalf of our own national interest. We challenged the Soviet Union
and Cuba in their intervention in Angola, and if the Congress had stood with us,
we could have preserved the opportunity to let the Angolans settle their future
among themselves.
We have worked to achieve an unprecedented increase in United States
foreign trade, which has ensured hundreds of thousands of American jobs. The
United States has used its unique position, its position of confidence on both
sides, to accomplish an historic breakthrough in peace negotiations between
246
