March 13
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
about the security, the safety, and the reliability of nuclear powerplants, but let
me say, there hasn't been a single person injured by any lack of safety in nuclear
powerplants in the history of the United States.
We are, however, very cognizant of the concern and the worry that some
people have. And therefore, in the budgets that I have submitted to the Congress
for the Energy Research and Development Agency [Administration], we are
spending a great deal of extra money to make certain that our nuclear power-
plants are safe, reliable, and the kind that will operate for the benefit of this
country. I am convinced that our Nuclear Regulatory Agency [Commission],
our Energy Research and Development Agency, are doing everything possible
to increase the safety—even though it is excellent today—and to increase the
reliability of those present and future nuclear powerplants.
Q. Mr. President, I wasn't questioning—in fact, I think that nuclear reactors
are very safe, and I am not worried at all about like blowing up or anything
like that. But my question more is, with the increasing number of nuclear plants,
where are we going to put the waste that has to be stored for many years before
it is not dangerous anymore?
The President. The question of what we do with nuclear waste is a matter
of major concern to me and to the experts in this field. There have been a number
of proposals made for the disposal of nuclear wastes. We tried several years ago
to deposit them in the salt mines, or the abandoned salt mines out in the State
of Kansas. Some questions were raised, and that proposal has been abandoned.
There are other proposals that are in the mill. No specific recommendation
has come to me for the particular plan, but the experts are working on it, and
I am certain they will find an answer. And when they make a recommendation,
I will propose it, and I think it will be the way in which we ought to handle the
problem. We are cognizant of the difficulty; we are going to have a solution.
THE PRESIDENT'S RELIGIOUS COMMITMENT
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am a Baptist minister and my question is this, sir:
Why is it that we haven't had a President in the White House since Herbert
Hoover that has mentioned Jesus Christ's name publicly?
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Ford and-my oldest son, Mike, is studying the ministry
up at Gordon Conwell Seminary in Massachusetts. He has taken a commitment
and so have I, and I am proud of him, and I am proud of our commitment.
GENERAL REVENUE SHARING
[4.] Q. Mr. President, the municipal authorities of North Carolina are very
much interested in a continuation of the revenue sharing program. Do you look
703
