[302]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
important to me, but so was my first job. It was given to me when I was in South
High School, in Grand Rapids, Michigan, by Alex Dumar, a distinguished
AHEPA member of longstanding. Alex and I were reminiscing about it this
afternoon in the Oval Office. I told him the pay was a lot less, but the hours were
a lot better than I have now. [Laughter]
But Alex, let me say the pay was good for those days, but that friendship which
began almost 50 years ago was far, far more important than the compensation.
Tonight, we celebrate your 54th year of service to America. I am naturally
very pleased and proud that Betty will be honored by the Daughters of Pe-
nelope's annual Salute to Women's Award. All of you know Penelope was re-
nowned for faithfully waiting at home for her wandering husband to return
from the wars. [Laughter] Now, Betty used to do that—[laughter]—but lately,
when I return from campaigning, I find that she is on her way out the door
to campaign for me someplace else. [Laughter] And I am delighted that she got
back tonight in time for AHEPA to reunite us.
And I am also delighted to learn that AHEPA's highest honor, the Socratic
Award, will be bestowed at a later date upon one of the Western World's most
distinguished statesmen, Prime Minister Constantine Karamanlis of Greece.
It was my very great pleasure and honor to meet twice with Prime Minister
Karamanlis in 1975, and I am very much looking forward to our next meeting.
During our extensive and wide-ranging conversations last year, I reaffirmed
with him the very great importance the United States attaches to close and har-
monious relations with Greece. I also expressed my admiration for the action
he has taken to strengthen democratic government in Greece and to find peace-
ful and just solutions to the difficult and complex problems in the eastern Medi-
terranean area.
As President, my policy towards Greece is a policy of positive action based
on the many interests we share bilaterally on our important ties as allies, and
on the very great ties of friendship and kinship between our peoples. This is
my policy, this will continue to be my policy, and I am delighted to have this
opportunity to reaffirm it here tonight.
And I am supremely pleased and very delighted that you are honoring my
former colleagues in the House and Senate with Bicentennial Socratic Awards
this evening. In spite of what you may have heard, we still get along together—
most of the time. [Laughter]
I will always have, I think, as they know, great love and the most respectful
honor as far as the legislative branch of our National Government is concerned.
I spent 25-plus years there, and no one can spend a quarter of a century without
976
