[209]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe as the economy improves, and it is, that the prospects for next spring
or this coming spring are an awful lot better than they were last year. I can
almost be certain of that. There is no reason why it should not be.
Q. Mr. President, the Northern Illinois Newspaper Association expresses its
appreciation to you, Mr. President, for this press conference. We also are pleased
to have shared this press conference with the Washington press corps and the
Chicago press corps.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I am grateful to have a chance to meet
with you, and good luck. I am glad you included some of those friends of mine
over there.
Nice to see you all. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom at the Chicago Airport Marriott Inn.
210
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in
Buffalo Grove, Illinois. March 12, 1976
Thank you all. Thank you very, very much, Governor Dick Ogilvie, Senator
Chuck Percy, Congressman Bob McClory, Mayor Fabish, Mayor Ryan,
Dr. Miller, students and guests of Buffalo Grove High School:
What an inspiration to be here in Buffalo Grove High School with this won-
derful student body, this tremendous faculty. It is great to be here and to cele-
brate the Bicentennial.
I want to say how deeply grateful I am that Marguerite Church is here. She
has been a longtime friend of mine. I had the privilege of serving with her hus-
band in the Congress and the great honor and privilege of serving many years
with her in the House of Representatives. She is one of the outstanding women
in this country and, Marguerite, it is wonderful to have you here, and I thank
you.
I wish my wife, Betty, was here, but she left Washington last Monday and
went to Arizona, to California, and came back and met me here in Rockford
last night. She has undertaken a mission around the country, and she asked me
to express her apologies for not being here. But her mission is to try and get my
votes up to her polls-[laughter]—and if she does, we are bound to win, believe
me.
664
