[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
sky is getting clearer every day. We are going to keep that same steady, con-
structive, firm course in the months ahead.
We did, of course, hold off the onslaughts in many cases, not all, of the big
spenders in the Congress. As Orville said a few moments ago in introducing me,
I vetoed a good many bills in the last 19 months-46 to be exact, Orville. [Laugh-
ter] We keep a scorecard down there in the Oval Office, and it looks pretty good
because the Congress sustained 39 of them. And the net result is that the tax-
payers of this country, with those vetoes and that action by the Congress in sus-
taining them, saved $13 billion, and that is a lot of money.
But our fight to hold down Federal spending has been coupled with major tax
cuts-put more money back into the hands of the American consumer-and the
administration has taken other steps aimed at encouraging the business invest-
ment that will be so vital to a sound and future economic prosperity.
In addition to substantial personal income tax reductions, I have urged that
the Congress lower the corporate tax rate from 48 to 46 percent. I have also urged
the phasing out of double taxation of dividends, broadening stock ownership,
and easing the burden of estate taxes on small businesses and small farms.
One issue that especially concerns me is the excessive Federal paperwork re-
quired of the American people and the American business community.
On March 1, I sent a letter to the heads of all Federal agencies and all depart-
ments directing them to reduce the number of reports which collect information
from the public at large by at least 10 percent by July 1 of this year. I told them
that I fully expected prompt results, and I think we will get it.
I am happy to report that even before I sent the letter, after I had announced
in the Cabinet meeting, we have already received a net reduction in this area of
108 Federal forms. That is not a lot, but that is the beginning of a process that is
going to continue, and we are going to get results. I think what we need is
productivity, not paperwork, in the Federal Government.
Next Thursday, I will be meeting with the heads of the independent regula-
tory agencies, and I am going to ask them for their cooperation as well.
In addition to reducing paperwork, we are going to keep on working to
lighten the burden of Federal regulation and to make sure that all of the rules
are applied equitably and uniformly. Regulation is meant to be in the public in-
terest, but hamstringing business, tying it up in knots of redtape has never been
in the interest of the American public and never will be.
We are going to do everything we possibly can, that we can possibly do in any-
way whatsoever, so that we can keep America's great free enterprise system
906
