April 3
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
well, the whole range of things, and we are going to get some of these cures
that don't seem to be available.
And I just say again that our medical profession, by the standards that I have
seen, is a good medical profession. Now, they make a mistake, like I have made
one or you may have made one, but they are not deliberate, I can assure you.
Q. Thank you.
HATCH ACT LEGISLATION; U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I have a two-part question, please. First, I would like
to know your views on the present status of the U.S. Postal Service. The second
part is, do you plan on either signing or vetoing House bill 8617 and if a veto,
some of your reasons why? The House bill 8617 is the revision to the Hatch Act.
Thank you.
The President. Well, let me answer the second question first.
That bill, the so-called Hatch Act abandonment bill or the destruction of career
Civil Service legislation, when it gets down to me—and it will be down to the
Oval Office probably in a couple of days—everything I know about it, I am going
to veto it. I think it ought to be vetoed. You can't have a career service for Gov-
ernment employees and get them involved in the partisan political arena. It
just doesn't work. So, I probably, under any circumstances I see, will veto the
legislation.
Number two, the Postal Service, up until it became the Postal Service—the
Post Office Department was getting less and less efficient and it was costing
more and more money out of the general Treasury. And the net result was Con-
gress decided that it ought to become a nonpolitical patronage organization be-
cause the Post Office Department was bedded down with partisan politics, it was
not an effective and efficient mail delivery service.
Now, the present Postal Service in time is going to remedy that. I must say I
am a little disappointed in the progress they have made, but it is going to be
a lot better in the future than the old Post Office Department would have been.
Now, there are those who say that the $1 billion a year that Congress puts in
to subsidize the Postal Service isn't enough. That is what we have been subsidiz-
ing-the Postal Service-each year for the last several years.
We recognize we have to pay something for what is called public service, but
you cannot go on taking that much money or double that much money from
the general taxpayer to keep the Postal Service going. So, we either have to im-
prove the efficiency of the service, cut down on some of the uneconomical op-
erations, or you have to increase the rates or you have to take more money out
961
