January 29
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tures. The percentage has gone from something like 40 percent down to 24
percent.
At the same time during this decade, the portion or percentage of Federal
expenditures for domestic programs have gone up from about 30 percent to
the range of about 42 or 43 percent. And the net result has been during this
period of time that our deterrent capability, our capability to respond to any
challenge of our efforts on a worldwide basis for peace or security, was eroded.
And so, in the budget that I just proposed we asked for additional funds, a
greater percentage of Federal expenditures so that the security of America will
be ensured.
At the same time we have proceeded to finance those domestic programs for
the aged, for the less well-off at fully adequate amounts, so that nobody can say
that we have lacked compassion, lacked concern. We help the unemployed, we
provide training, jobs, and opportunities for those who are temporarily laid off.
We provide for the older people. We recommend, for the first time, a program to
take care of those who are unfortunately affected by a catastrophic illness, a
program that makes sure and certain that individuals who are ill for an extended
period of time with either hospital or nursing home care or affected by never-
ending medical costs are no longer a drain on their own resources or those of
their family. We are trying to get this balance between defense and domestic
programs.
The relationship between the Federal Government and States is vitally impor-
tant. In my time in the Congress there was always a drive, a tendency to concen-
trate power and authority in the Federal Government with a corresponding
reduction in the role or the responsibility of local units of government-State
or local.
The feeling during this period of time was that the Federal Government
knew how to do the job best and that it was better to undercut the role of locally
elected officials. That theory didn't work, and the net result is we piled program
after program after program on the Federal Government and we found too
many failures. We wasted too much money. We tried to control the lives of
individuals from the Federal Government and it didn't work.
Some of those people who promoted this idea for too long a time never seem
to understand that a government big enough to give us everything we want is
a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
I recognize that there are individuals in our society back in your respective
States who need some Federal assistance. But the best way to see that those serv-
107
