March 13
[212]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
B-52's, for example. We are in the process of acquiring the B-1's. If you look at
the Navy, yes, the Soviet Union has more ships, but we have far, far more
tonnage in capital ships because our naval leaders said that is what we needed for
our national security. So, we tailor our national security programs based on what
is needed for the United States to protect this country, to deter aggression, and
to maintain the peace.
And I think our program is second to none, and it will stay second to none if
the Congress approves the budget that I recommended for the next fiscal year,
which, incidentally, is the highest peacetime budget in the history of the United
States.
U.S. POLICY ON THE PANAMA CANAL
[14.] Q. Mr. President, my question is this: Do you see the United States
relinquishing control of the Panama Canal in the next 4 years, and, if so, under
what circumstances?
The President. Three Presidents have been negotiating since 1965 with the
Government of Panama to resolve the dispute that arose following the very
sad and tragic incident that happened at that time where some 30 people were
killed, including, as I recall, approximately 10 Americans. These negotiations
have gone on for about 10-plus years. I can assure you of this: The United States,
as long as I am President, will do nothing to give up the control of the operations
of the canal and will do nothing to give up the military protection of the canal.
And that is what the experts in our Government are most concerned about. And
whatever is agreed to, if anything, will be submitted openly to the United States
Congress for consideration.
PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN PLANS
[15.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Holshouser has said that Ronald Reagan's
campaign is all but dead, and he has invited other Republicans to get behind your
candidacy. My question is this, sir: Would you not prefer that Ronald Reagan
remain in the campaign right down to the wire for the amount of publicity it
brings to you and your candidacy? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I really should not pass judgment on my opponent's
campaign, what he will do or what he has done. I can only assure you that the
plans we have—and they have been this from the very beginning when some
pessimists were saying, “When are you going to get out?"—our plans from the
beginning have been to stay in and to win in Kansas City. And we are going
to do that, and I think we will win in November as well.
689
