February 29
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
commitment to progress which Americans have shared for 200 years. We live in
a nation that is the envy of the whole wide world.
Frankly, let me just say this: I am darned fed up with those Americans who
downgrade America, and I hope you are, too. Obviously, you and I agree. We
believe in America. We believe in its strength. We believe in its purpose. We
believe in its goodness and, believe me, I believe in you, the American people,
and I thank you for your support.
Let me say something that means very much to me. We in America need
frankness, candor, forthrightness. We shouldn't promise more from Wash-
ington than we can produce, and we shouldn't tell the American people that
they can have everything. We should tell them the facts, and we should pro-
duce everything that we promise. And I say to all of you here, the wonderful
people from Tampa, everything I promise you, we will produce, and we won't
promise you anything we can't produce.
Let me add this: Working together—that is you and me—we can look to an
even brighter future for our children and their children. These wonderful young
children, boys and girls, give me an inspiration. We inherited—those of us alive
today—a country that was given to us by our forefathers, and they gave us a
great country. I think we, through wars and depression and recession and other
problems—when the scorecard is kept, when the historians write the books,
they will say we didn't do too badly, either.
But we have some things we've got to do, not for us, necessarily, but for these
great kids, these great young people. That's our obligation, and I know that you
will join me in making certain that that obligation, that responsibility, is
maintained.
But let me conclude with just this observation and comment, I look out that
and you are looking here, but all of us can see an America today in which
all men and women live in dignity and security and harmony and peace.
way
We can see a people taking pride in the work and finding pleasure and pur-
pose in their lives. We can see America—and Tampa and Florida and 49 other
States-in which government is the capable servant and not the master of its
people.
We can see America, which cherishes those old values of honesty, com-
passion, determination, and courage. We can see America, in which those
dreams we have dreamed since our youth—and these young people are dream-
ing today—we can see an America in which those dreams will come true.
That is my goal. That is what we want for all of America. And that is why I
497
