March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
recent FEA regulation is longer than the Gettysburg Address. The Energy
Policy and Conservation Act requires that these controls be eliminated. Just how
quickly may we expect this to happen?
The President. I think the head of the Federal Energy Administration, Mr.
Frank Zarb, will be submitting some proposals under this new law in the very
near future. I can't recall the precise date, but it will be timely done. As a matter
of fact, it is long overdue. If we could only deregulate domestic oil and gas we
would have a lot greater supplies and the marketing system would work a lot
better. But I think in the specific case you are talking about—those regulations—
getting rid of the regulations will be coming along rather shortly.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Rantoul. I also have a question concerning
energy.
The country has noted your concern with the energy crisis. In view of
the developing shortage of fossil fuels and problems involving the use of nuclear
energy, what is being done by our Nation, and the Federal Government in par-
ticular, to develop alternate sources of energy such as wind, sun, tide, geothermal
sources, and so forth, and in your opinion, is sufficient effort being applied to
meet the gravity of this situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a very significant question because our domes-
tic supplies of oil are decreasing. They have been decreasing every year since
1973, and until we get the Alaskan Pipeline completed and that 2 million barrels
per day starts to flow, it is going to go down more rapidly. And as long as the
Congress won't enact deregulation of natural gas, our domestic production of
natural gas is going to continue to go down. And the net result is, we will be
more and more and more dependent on foreign oil. And for the last year the
import of foreign oil has gone up every month, literally every day. So, what we
have to do it to take a look at nuclear energy, but also some of these exotic fuel
sources that you mentioned.
Let me, in a broad sense, tell you what we have done. For the Energy Research
and Development Agency [Administration], ERDA, I recommend about a
30-percent increase in research and development in the fuel sources that you
mentioned.
In the case of solar heat, I recommended-the current level is about $80
million a year in research for solar-I recommended for the next fiscal year $116
to $120 million. We have increased the research and development for geothermal,
we have increased the research funding for wind, all of these areas which today
569
