[222]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
I thank you all, on behalf of Betty and myself, very, very much. The best to
you and to all of those who are there. Good luck, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. from the Residence at the White House.
222
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Liam M. Cosgrave
of Ireland. March 17, 1976
MR. PRIME MINISTER, it is a particular honor and a pleasure to welcome
you on this very special day, when the American spirit and the Irish spirit are
in such close harmony.
I welcome you not only as Prime Minister of Ireland but as a kinsman, very
distant in genealogy but very close in affinity. My mother proudly told me one
time that I am partially Irish in heritage, and I can assure you that I am fully
Irish in spirit.
Your visit, Mr. Prime Minister, symbolizes the warm friendship and excellent
relations between our two countries. We have joined to face the great challenges
of our times—to ensure peace, prosperity, and liberty for all our peoples.
Mr. Prime Minister, I convey the appreciation of the American people to the
people of Ireland for your participation in our Bicentennial. Throughout our
history-beginning with the many Irish-Americans who fought for freedom in
1776 and the 11 who signed the Declaration of Independence-men and women
from your country have brought Irish courage, Irish energy, Irish strength, Irish
devotion, and Irish genius to the United States of America.
In addition to the bonds of history and family, our nations share a deep devo-
tion to independence, democracy, religious liberty, and individual freedom.
Ireland, which became a free nation only in this century, is part of the new
as well as the old. You have the confidence of many of the world's new and de-
veloping nations which, like Ireland, have gained independence in our lifetime.
You also have the mature values and culture of an ancient civilization which
started before history books were written.
The problems confronting the entire world, the attainment of peace and secu-
rity, of justice and human dignity, must be met by nations working together.
Only by cooperation can the countries of the world confront the complexity of
the new age. Through your effective contributions to the United Nations, espe-
cially to the United Nations peacekeeping forces, Ireland has shown profound
appreciation of humanity's interdependence.
As a member of the European Community, Ireland has creatively fostered
724
