[223]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
an expanded international grain reserve system and enlarged our food aid
assistance. We will continue our policy of encouraging maximum agricultural
production, and our efforts to achieve an efficient distribution system to assure
that hungry people will be fed.
U.S.-Soviet Agreements on Grain and Oil
Last October, the United States and the Soviet Union signed an agreement
providing for regular and orderly sales of American wheat and corn during the
next five years. The American people—our farmers, our workers, and our con-
sumers—will benefit from this agreement. The Soviet Union is committed to
purchasing at least six million metric tons of grain per year, representing one
billion dollars in annual export earnings.
In signing this agreement, we have assured a stable, long-term foreign market
for our grain, and a more reliable flow of payments from abroad. We have
assured American farmers that the Soviet Union will be a regular buyer of
grain at market prices, thereby increasing the incentive for full production.
We have provided jobs for American transportation workers and seamen. We
have neutralized a great destabilizing factor in our grain markets. Perhaps most
importantly, we have preserved our private marketing system, permitting us
to maintain our highly successful policy of all-out production and open markets.
In the same constructive spirit, the governments of the United States and the
Soviet Union have also committed themselves to negotiations on a five-year
agreement for the purchase of Soviet oil. These negotiations are currently
underway.
Multinational Corporations
Multinational corporations (MNC's) continue to be a highly visible and con-
troversial factor in international affairs. MNC's have made major contributions
to world economic development and will continue to do so in the future. While
the major portion of foreign investment by multinational corporations is con-
centrated in industrial nations, many developing countries actively seek invest-
ments by MNC's, recognizing their potential contribution to economic
development. Recognizing the generally positive impact of MNC's on world
trade and production, I am distressed by reports of corrupt practices by some
companies. For that reason, I have directed that members of my Administra-
tion undertake efforts, both domestically and internationally, to assure that
multinational corporations obey the laws and conform with the public policies
of the countries in which they do business.
728
