March 27
[264]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tain 39 of those 46 vetoes, and I am very happy to report to you that we saved
the American taxpayers $13 billion in the process.
Obviously, with more Republicans in the House and Senate, we could have
done even better and that is the challenge that we all face in 1976. In the Senate
and in the House of Representatives in Washington, D.C., Republicans are out-
numbered better than 2 to 1; those are tough odds. I know in the State of Cali-
fornia, in the House of Representatives, you have an outstanding delegation.
They are high in quality, the best, but doggone it, we need more quantity.
I know that John Rousselot down here has been working as the chairman of
the Republican delegation in the House of Representatives for the State of Cali-
fornia to recruit candidates, to help to elect them. And I know that we are trying
desperately in this State to elect a Republican United States Senator.
And although I think it is fairly important to get a good vote for our can-
didate for President in the State of California, it is vitally important that we
elect a Republican United States Senator in California and a lot more Repub-
lican Congressmen from the State of California.
We have been talking about those vetoes, and I think those vetoes which were
made and sustained were done without weakening our economic recovery and
without straying from the steady course of economic stability and economic
growth which I have pursued and we will pursue in the next 4 years.
We will also pursue a firm, steady course internationally. We cherish the peace
that America enjoys today, the peace that finds no Americans in combat any-
where throughout the globe, and yet we know that the freedoms we have de-
fended so often are being challenged today. We know that our strength, our
power, our constant vigilance and our resolve, our will, are the foundation of
mankind's hope for peace and stability throughout the globe.
In the last 19 months, I have taken affirmative action to ensure that Amer-
ica's alliances are strong, our commitments are worthwhile, and our defenses
are without equal in the world, in this controversial globe in which we live. And
let me assure you without any equivocation, hesitation, that we are going to
keep those defenses the best.
The record is clear. We are strong enough to deter aggression, we are strong
enough to maintain the peace, and we are strong enough to protect our national
security and keep America free. In my Presidency, I have proposed to the Con-
gress the two largest peacetime military budgets in the history of the United
States, reversing a trend that was reducing our defense expenditures year by
year to levels dangerously low. Our aim is to make peace secure throughout the
world.
829
