[63]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
63
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Manchester,
New Hampshire. February 7, 1976
WHILE WE are waiting for Susan and Mrs. Ford, I might make a comment
or two. It is nice to be back in New Hampshire. I first came to New Hampshire,
went to the University of New Hampshire campus in September of 1935, did a
good bit of skiing up in New Hampshire in the late 1930's and 1940 or '41. I
have been here a good many times with Jim Cleveland¹ and others. It has
always been a great experience.
In 1975 I had a great trip, going to Concord, Nashua, Keene, Exeter, Ports-
mouth, a number of other communities, and I am looking forward to this week-
end, as Betty and Susan are.
We think it is a great opportunity for us to come up and get reacquainted
and get acquainted with some new friends. We will discuss some of the issues;
we will talk about the economy; we will talk affirmatively about our progress
in maintaining peace. We think it is a great opportunity to see all of you and
to have a chance to get better acquainted.
With that, I will be delighted to answer any questions from the local reporters.
REPORTER. Mr. President, what is your insight into former President Nixon's
trip to China just 3 days before the primary? Do you think it will have an effect
on your race here?
The President. President Nixon is going to China as a private citizen at the
invitation of the People's Republic of China. He, of course, took a historic step
in 1972 in opening China, in an attempt to initiate a normalization of relations
with a country that has some 800 million people.
Approximately 10,000 Americans have visited China in the last several years,
and President Nixon is going there as a private citizen at the invitation of the
government officials. I certainly am delighted that his health is such that he
can go, and I asked him to extend my best wishes to Chairman Mao and the
others.
Q. Mr. President, could you give a wave to the crowd?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure. They were very kind and hospitable, and it is delightful
to be here. I wish it were possible for me to do a little skiing up here again, but
they have got the schedule worked out so Susan, who is the expert in the family,
is going up to Conway and do a little.
1
Representative James C. Cleveland, chairman of the New Hampshire President Ford Committee.
158
