[265]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, Karl Hess, who was the principal author of the 1960 and
'64 Republican platforms, has dropped out of society-he is living in a home-
stead in West Virginia. In the March 25 Rolling Stone he predicts that we might
be witnessing the downfall of the Republican Party. In his words, it is abandon-
ing the middle class it once seemed to so solidly signify and that is has become
the party of the rich and the party of big business. How would you respond to
those charges?
THE PRESIDENT. That is categorically wrong. If you will go back and look at
the tax reduction recommendations that I made a year ago and reiterated
this year, I strongly recommended to the Congress that there be greater equity
and greater reductions made in tax cuts for the middle class. So that, in and of
itself, I think, indicates to Mr. Hess that he is totally wrong.
Q. Mr. Ford, any indication that the Soviet Union or Cuba has heeded your
warning?
THE PRESIDENT. There has not been any action taken that we would define
as adventurism, such as they did in the case of Angola. I hope they understand
what we said. We said it very plainly, and I can assure you we mean it.
Q. Mr. Ford, what is your stand on revenue sharing?
THE PRESIDENT. I am a strong advocate of revenue sharing. I led the fight in
1972 to get it enacted in the first place, and it has brought or will bring by the
end of this year to the State of Wisconsin about $750 million. It will bring to La
Crosse County, as I recall, about $3 million, and it will bring to La Crosse City
about $3 million.
I recommended a year ago that the Congress extend general revenue sharing
for another 5 years, which would mean that the State of Wisconsin would get
over a billion dollars during that period. And, as I recall the figures, La Crosse
County and La Crosse City each would get about $5 million.
So, I am a firm believer in the program. I think it is the right approach. It
gives Federal money to local communities and to States so that they can make the
decisions as to where they want those resources expended at the local level.
Q. Mr. Ford, who would you rather have as opposition in November for the
Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't really have much choice on that, but I happen to think
that my good friend Hubert Humphrey will be the nominee. The rest of them
are all nipping at one another and not getting, as I see it, sufficient Democratic
delegates to prevail when they go to New York City next July. So, it is my
judgment that in the final it will be a brokered convention and Hubert will
probably be the winner.
832
