[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
you when we make an agreement with the dairy industry, we will keep it. And
the record shows we have in every instance.
So without making a final judgment on a piece of legislation, I am just trying
to explain to you how I generally feel. I usually have a policy of [not] saying
I will or won't veto something until I read the fine print, and that is not a bad
idea. So, generally, I think we have got a good arrangement-that every quarter
we are going to review it, and we are not going to break any agreement. And that
generally is a better approach than some firm, fixed figure, as I see it.
Q. I disagree with you on that, but that is—I think that I like the 2 year
time on this thing because it runs quite a bit after the election, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. We will take a good look at it, but I—[laughter]—
Let me say this to the gentleman that just spoke to me--I wish we could get
politics out of the farm problem. That would be best for the farmer and best for
the country.
I have enjoyed the opportunity to be here. I deeply appreciate your views as you
have expressed them in questions. And if we have had some disagreements, and
in a couple of instances we have, the great thing about these kind of meetings, as
I see them, is that you can disagree without being disagreeable, and that is the
strength of this country.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:43 a.m. in the
Little Theatre at Goodrich High School. Repre-
sentative William A. Steiger introduced the Presi-
dent.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Gov. Warren P. Knowles of Wisconsin 1964-71,
chairman of the Wisconsin President Ford Com-
mittee, and Melvin R. Laird, U.S. Representative
from Wisconsin 1953-69 and Secretary of Defense
1969-73.
289
Remarks Upon Receiving the Key to the City of
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. April 3, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody.
Let me first of all thank your Congressman, Bill Steiger, and former Gov-
ernor, Warren Knowles, and all of the local public officials and all of you for
coming out here. This has been one of the most wonderful welcomes, one of
the greatest crowds, one of the warmest and most friendly groups, and I thank
you from the bottom of my heart.
May I express also my gratitude to the various individuals who have been
so generous in remembering both Betty and myself, and the wonderful things
946
