[31]
January 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
also begun to cooperate more closely with oil-consuming countries in the effort
to become less dependent on imported energy. I intend to consolidate and build
upon this progress in 1976.
Of central concern both here and abroad is U.S. energy policy. Without a
vigorous and growing industry supplying domestic energy, much of our indus-
trial development in the next 10 years will be uncertain. And unless we can
reduce our dependency on Middle East oil, we will not have a sound basis for
international cooperation in the development of new fossil fuel and other energy
sources.
As an initial step toward greater self-sufficiency, I signed the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act in December 1975. I concluded that this act, though
deficient in some respects, did provide a vehicle for moving us toward our
energy goals. With this mechanism the price of petroleum can be allowed to
rise to promote domestic supply and to restrain consumption. At the end of 40
months, under the act, I may remove price controls altogether, and I will utilize
the provisions of the act to move toward a free market in petroleum as quickly
as is possible and consistent with our larger economic goals. The act offers
flexibility, which I have already used to start dismantling price controls and
allocation arrangements in fuel markets where no shortages exist. The legislation
also establishes a national strategic petroleum reserve which will make our
supply of energy more secure and give other nations less inducement to impose
an oil embargo.
Measures crucial to our energy future still remain to be enacted, however.
Natural gas deregulation is now the most pressing of the issues on energy before
the Congress: shortages grow year by year, while the country waits for more
testimony on supply and demand, or waits for extremely expensive new syn-
thetic gas plants to replace the natural gas production choked off by price con-
trols. I urge the Congress to make deregulation of new natural gas one of its
first objectives in 1976. The legislation I have proposed in order to assure ade-
quate supplies of fuel for nuclear power plants is also critical. If we are to
improve our energy situation, these measures are necessary. They will also
reinforce our efforts to remove unnecessary and deleterious Government inter-
ference in economic activities where the consumer is adequately protected by
market forces.
A year ago I said, "The year 1975 must be the one in which we face our eco-
nomic problems and start the course toward real solutions." I am pleased with
the beginning we have made. The course is a long one, but its benefits for all
90
