[155]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are all proud of what has been done by America. We have had our troubles
the last 19 months since I have been President. We had inflation that was too
high, unemployment that was too high, difficulties of one kind or another here
at home. But, believe me, all the news is good, and it is going to get better.
And let me say that as I travel—not only here but abroad—I find that people
respect America because we are free, because we are strong, because we are
humane, because we are going to do things to help people have the same bless-
ings, the same opportunities that we have.
We must stop aggression, we must be strong to make people respect us, our
friends as well as our adversaries. I can assure you that this country is going to
be strong at home and strong abroad for all of our betterment.
Now let me thank you for your coming out and wishing me well. May I ask
a favor of you? I need your help March 9, and I hope and trust that what I
have tried to do for the benefit of our country and 215 million Americans justifies
your faith and your support. I would appreciate it very much. I can promise you
that we will work at the job, and we will make a better and better America in
the days ahead, with your support.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:36 p.m. at the Sunshine Square Shopping Center.
156
Remarks in Briney Breezes, Florida. February 28, 1976
Mr. Mayor and all of the wonderful people here at Briney Breezes:
We have made about 10 stops since we arrived in Florida this morning, and
it seems like every one of them gets more enthusiastic and more—you know just
warm, and the welcome and the weather is getting better, too. [Laughter]
What I really appreciate is the friendliness—the indication of understanding
and support. And it's great to see people from Cedar Springs, my old “red
flannel town,” and Kent City. They are all wonderful people. But I ran into
about five people who said they were from New Hampshire. And every one of
them said they voted for me, and I appreciate it very much.
I think they made a good investment because what we are trying to do, to be
serious for a minute, is to take this country out of the problems we have had
for the last 19 months, and we have had them at home—you know as well as I.
But by doing the right thing and staying a steady course, being tough with the
Congress and doing what is right, America is on the right path again.
474
