February 9
[70]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
To help finance the added protection, I am proposing to limit Medicare
reimbursement rates to 7 percent for hospital services and 4 percent for physi-
cian services. These proposals are of particular importance in achieving my
goal of helping all Americans live in dignity, security, and good health.
I hope you will join me in efforts to secure congressional passage of these
important proposals. We must show our commitment to a cause that is often
too long neglected—the dignity and well-being of America's older generations.
I will now sign the messages to the Congress-one to the House and one to the
Senate urging that they undertake the enactment of this necessary legislation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. at a ceremony in the Oval Office at the White House.
70
Special Message to the Congress on Older
Americans. February 9, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I ask the Congress to join with me in making improvements in programs
serving the elderly.
As President, I intend to do everything in my power to help our nation demon-
strate by its deeds a deep concern for the dignity and worth of our older persons.
By so doing, our nation will continue to benefit from the contributions that older
persons can make to the strengthening of our nation.
The proposals being forwarded to Congress are directly related to the health
and security of older Americans. Their prompt enactment will demonstrate our
concern that lifetimes of sacrifice and hard work conclude in hope rather than
despair.
The single greatest threat to the quality of life of older Americans is inflation.
Our first priority continues to be the fight against inflation. We have been able
to reduce by nearly half the double digit inflation experienced in 1974. But the
retired, living on fixed incomes, have been particularly hard hit and the progress
we have made in reducing inflation has not benefited them enough. We will
continue our efforts to reduce federal spending, balance the budget, and reduce
taxes. The particular vulnerability of the aged to the burdens of inflation, how-
ever, requires that specific improvements be made in two major Federal pro-
grams, Social Security and Medicare.
235
