February 25
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to meet a vast spectrum of human needs. Early in the nation's history, observers
from abroad commented upon our flair for effective voluntary associations. This
willingness to be of help to one another epitomizes the American spirit—and the
Red Cross perpetuates this heritage.
Through the Red Cross and its Blood Program, we secure an adequate supply
of safe blood, voluntarily given; we arm ourselves and others with the knowl-
edge and skills to save lives by enrolling in health, nursing, first aid, water
safety and small craft training courses; we assist the thousands of our fellow
citizens who have been victimized by natural disasters; and we continue to help
over one million servicemen, veterans and their families each year cope with
emergency situations.
Within the Federal government, the Red Cross is a part of the Combined
Federal Campaign, but more than half of its 3,100 chapters raise all their funds
in March. All chapters use that month to inform the public of Red Cross services
available to citizens and to recruit new blood donors and volunteers.
As President of the United States and Honorary Chairman of the American
Red Cross, I urge all civilian employees of the Federal Government and mem-
bers of the Armed Forces to support this vital voluntary effort to the best of their
ability.
GERALD R. FORD
135
Remarks Upon Signing a Special Message to the Congress
Proposing Health Care Reform Legislation. February 25, 1976
Secretary Mathews and your associates in the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare:
As you well know, I am asking the Congress today to enact the Financial As-
sistance for Health Care Act, which will consolidate Medicaid and 15 categorical
Federal health programs into a $10 billion block grant to our various States.
I am proposing that future Federal funding for this new program be increased
in increments of $500 million annually. My proposal is designed to distribute
Federal health care dollars more equitably and to increase State control over
health spending.
My proposal also recognizes what I consider to be a more appropriate Federal
role in providing financial assistance to State and local governments to improve
the quality and the distribution of health services.
429
