January 31
[51]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
government. Yet we find ourselves in a Bicentennial Year when we look back
with something less than pleasure at the erosion of State and local authority.
Indeed, America has now reached the point where the Federal Establishment
employs over 3 million people. This is more than the combined population of
all the Thirteen Original States when the Virginia Convention reserved to your
people and to your State government all power not bestowed upon the National
Government.
The Founding Fathers understood that a self-governing republic could not
exist if people did not possess the traditional virtues of self-discipline, self-
reliance, and a patriotic concern for the public good. "Republican Government,”
said James Madison, "presupposes the existence of these qualities in a higher
degree than any other form."
In earlier years, the American political system worked so well that we accepted
it as a tradition. We did not question why it worked. We assumed only that its
magical providence would continue forever. In the 18th century, Jefferson and
Adams agreed that self-government, as they understood it, involved a lifestyle
dependent upon qualities they called "Republican virtues"-attributes that
would make democracy possible.
When our State constitutions were adopted, great care was taken to preserve
fundamental principles of self-government. The States demonstrated that the
real strength of American self-rule is that truly free people do not make a con-
tract with a centralized government, but only among themselves.
The Founding Fathers favored what they called "mild government." Their
premise was that you can only achieve mild government if you maintain local
government so responsive that national government is limited in scope. They
believed in the ability of individuals to govern themselves. In recent years during
an era of rapid change, more and more people looked to Washington to solve
local problems. The view of too many was that the world's richest and most
powerful nation could do anything and do it instantly. Too much was expected
and too much was promised.
Can you really expect a huge government to give you everything but to
take away nothing? Can we afford massive taxes to finance not only rising
expectations but also rising entitlements? I refer to the escalation of material
things some citizens feel automatically entitled to, without regard to their own
efforts or to their personal contribution to the economy.
Freedom is now misinterpreted by too many to mean the instantaneous reform
of all social and economic inequalities at the public expense through the instru-
mentality of the Federal Government. In pursuit of that quest, the Federal
137
