April 7
[308]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
dous productivity of our agriculture-5 percent of our people produce far more
food and fiber than we can possibly eat or wear, we are the breadbasket of the
world. No other nation can compete with us in agricultural productivity. When
you look at our scientific and technological capability, which is again an in-
stance where the United States is at the pinnacle, and when you add in one other
ingredient-I happen to believe that the United States is morally, spiritually,
and religiously also at the top.
So, this package of military capability, industrial might, agricultural pro-
ductivity, scientific and technological capability, plus our moral and spiritual
and religious strength—the United States is number one by any standard. We
should be proud to be Americans, and we should be proud of America.
Q. The people in Grand Rapids are asking when you are coming home.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. We are going to Texas this Friday and Saturday, and we will
be going to several of the other States where there are primaries between then
and the Michigan primary. But don't worry, we will be back home.
Q. Dick Vander Veen was running for Congress, and he said he was going
to go to Washington, and he would like to support you. Are you satisfied with
the support you have been getting?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there could be some improvement. [Laughter]
Q. Do you feel the Teamsters settlement was inflationary? I asked Bill ¹ that
question, and he couldn't answer it. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I can't imagine Bill having any difficulty answering it.
[Laughter] He and I haven't checked signals this morning, but I think from the
economic advisers, including Bill, the settlement was within the parameters of
what we thought would be a defendable agreement.
I am sure the management people would have liked to have had it less, and
whether or not the Teamsters are totally satisfied will be determined by the
votes in their respective conferences. But as we look at the package, on the basis
of the facts we have available, I think it is within the parameters of a good
settlement.
Now, we don't want to interfere with approval by the Teamsters. That is a
decision for them to make. But from the economic point of view, we think it is
a settlement that does fit into our overall economic plans and forecasts for the
next 3 years.
I think you have to also, however, leaving aside the details, turn over the coin
and see what adverse impact it would have had if we had had a prolonged
1 William Seidman, Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs.
6886
