[164]
February 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
as President, I have to use a political recipe that is consistent. I don't have the
luxury of dealing with each of the 50 States one at a time, telling each one of
them what they want to hear. My job is to determine the best recipe for the
whole country, 215 million people in 50 States, to decide what is best for the
United States of America. And that, of course, is the course of action that I have
tried to follow for the last 19 months.
To do that job most effectively and to extend my other responsibilities that
will permit—it is important and vital for me to get to know the people of every
State, to learn their concerns and aspirations firsthand, and to let them know
from me where I stand.
As you know, I am entering every one of the 31 Presidential primaries this
year. I want the people of every primary State, as well as those in others, to take
a very close look at my record and at my goals for the future of this great coun-
try. I want them to know that I share with them a very deep, a very active faith
in the ability of this great country and its people to do superb things in the
months and the years ahead.
I want the American people to know that I believe in them, that I trust their
judgment, that as long as I am President of the United States I intend to be
candid and frank and forthright with each and every one of you to make this
system work the way it ought to work.
I happen to think that it is an advantage rather than a handicap for a person
to have some experience in a chosen field, and I think on-the-job experience is
the very, very best kind. I am proud to say, as many of my good friends from
Michigan know, I have been in public service for 27 years—as a Member of the
House of Representatives, for almost 9 years as the Republican leader in the
House of Representatives, as Vice President and, for the last 19 months, as
your President.
Those 19 months, as we all know, began with our country facing some of the
most pressing and most serious problems in our country's history. Runaway
inflation and ominous beginnings of a recession threatened our economic
strength and our economic stability. International tensions threatened the peace
throughout many areas of the world. A crisis of confidence in our own Govern-
ment and in the basic institutions of our society threatened to develop into a
crisis of spirit for the American people as a whole. However, with the under-
standing of the American people the length and the breadth of this country,
with their prayers and your support and your help, I set about to do what I could
do to meet those challenges, to put America at peace with itself and with the
world.
488
