February 16
[103]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
gress to join with me in quick and effective action. There can be no retreat
on an issue so fundamental to our democracy.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:36 a.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefiing Room at the White House.
103
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Legislation
To Reconstitute the Federal Election Commission.
February 16, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In only two weeks time, unless there is affirmative action by the Congress,
the Federal Election Commission will be stripped of most of its powers.
We must not allow that to happen. The American people can and should
expect that our elections in this Bicentennial year, as well as other years, will
be free of abuse. And they know that the Federal Election Commission is the
single most effective unit for meeting that challenge.
The Commission has become the chief instrument for achieving clean Federal
elections in 1976. If it becomes an empty shell, public confidence in our political
process will be further eroded and the door will be opened to possible abuses
in the coming elections. There would be no one to interpret, advise or provide
needed certainty to the candidates with regard to the complexities of the Federal
Election law. If we maintain the Commission, we can rebuild and restore the
public faith that is essential for a democracy.
The fate of the Commission has been called into question, of course, by the
decision of the Supreme Court on January 30. The Court ruled that the Com-
mission was improperly constituted. The Congress gave the Commission
executive powers but then, in violation of the Constitution, the Congress re-
served to itself the authority to appoint four of the six members of the Com-
mission. The Court said that this defect could be cured by having all members
of the Commission nominated by the President upon the advice and consent
of the Senate. Under the Court's ruling, the Commission was given a 30-day
lease on life so that the defect might be corrected.
I fully recognize that other aspects of the Court's decision and that, indeed,
the original law itself have created valid concerns among Members of Congress.
I share many of those concerns, and I share in a desire to reform and improve
339
