March 6
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
team to go to that hospital to see what is done to help unfortunate people, pri-
marily young people. And I learned at that point not only what my father had
sort of imbued in me but I learned what great people like all of you do, on a
day-to-day basis, to help those less fortunate than yourself.
I've been proud ever since having the experience, and I thank you for inviting
me tonight. I am deeply grateful for the association that I've had with my fellow
Nobles at Saladin Temple, and it's just nice to see all of you from this temple
here in Peoria.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 p.m. at the Mohammed Temple of the Shriners.
187
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Peoria. March 6, 1976
Bob, one of my best and very dearest friends, and also my very good friends in
the Congress, Tom Railsback, Ed Madigan, Mayor Carver, your wonderful Gov-
ernor, Dick Ogilvie, Mary Alice, all of you:
I thank you very, very much for coming here this morning, Saturday morn-
ing. Getting up at this hour for a political gathering is far and above the call of
duty, and I thank you very, very much. As I was reading the paper this morning,
I couldn't help but notice a change from the papers that I had read a year ago.
About a year ago, all the doomsayers were predicting 10 percent unemploy-
ment or more, a recession moving into a depression. They were talking about
inflation getting worse. They were saying that our foreign policy was in disarray,
that the United States was doomed to despair not only at home but abroad. And
they were indicating that I had only won an election in Michigan and couldn't
win any elections elsewhere.
You know, to get up this morning and read a paper with somewhat changed
headlines and a little different factual information made me feel good, and I
hope it did you, too.
The economic news is good, and it's going to get better. I think the facts speak
for themselves. We've cut the inflation rate by better than 50 percent. We have
the unemployment figures going down nationally. We have the employment
figures going up. And it isn't noticed very often, but we have regained-accord-
ing to the statistics released Friday—we are back at the highest historical em-
ployment figure of 86.3 million people, and we're going to get better.
559
