[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
you feel about the passing of a law which would ban entirely the sale, manu-
facture, and possession of the so-called Saturday night specials?
THE PRESIDENT. My basic philosophy is that we should make it as difficult as
possible for the person with a criminal intent to have possession so he can use
a handgun. You can do this in a number of ways.
Number one, I think we should stiffen the penalties for those individuals who
commit a crime while in the possession of a handgun. This includes, for those
type of crimes, mandatory criminal prison sentences.
In addition, I think we should extend the restrictions on the availability of so-
called Saturday night specials. The Congress passed about 4 years ago a law pro-
hibiting the importation of Saturday night specials. That has not been effective,
because the importers send the parts over and Americans put them together and
then sell them.
I have recommended to the Congress—and I hope it passes it—a strict limita-
tion on the sale of so-called cheap Saturday night specials. I think that is a step in
the right direction.
In addition, in the budget for fiscal 1977, I recommended an additional 500
employees for the Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms Division [Bureau] of the De-
partment of the Treasury, so that they can move into major metropolitan areas
of high crime and incidents and really go after the trading of handguns in those
areas where the danger is the greatest. I am categorically opposed to the registra-
tion of guns and/or the individuals who own handguns.
MARIJUANA
[3.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Jeffrey Ventura, and I was wondering how
you feel about the legalization of marijuana?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a great controversy in the scientific world as to
whether or not the use to a substantial degree of marijuana is good or bad for a
person's health. Until there is a higher degree of unanimity among the scientific
world that marijuana is not harmful to the individual, I do not think we should
decriminalize marijuana.
I think that we should do as the White House Domestic Council review rec-
ommended, that we should concentrate our efforts at the Federal level on hard
drugs, the traffickers and the others.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. But, I reemphasize I do not believe in the decriminalization
of marijuana under the present circumstances.
218
