February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
number of the total number of military supersonic aircraft that are flying around
the world everyday.
But nevertheless, we ought to do what Secretary Coleman suggested—16-
month trial period, very rigid regulations, very important testing in the process.
I think it was an excellent decision. I fully support it.
200-MILE COASTAL LIMIT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Michael Imsick, UNH Student Press.
In view of the many complications in the establishment of a 200-mile ocean
fisheries and economic limit such as free-shipping passage, military access,
migratory fish species, the presence of our fishing vessels within 200 miles of
other countries and, inevitably, boundary disputes, would you endorse a tempo-
rary 200-mile unilateral economic limit until it can be resolved through inter-
national agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. This administration has been working very, very hard in the
Law of the Sea Conference. We have another meeting of the Law of the Sea
Conference in New York in late February or early March.
We now have a draft paper that is substantial progress, which meets in some
degree or another all of the problems that you raise. It would be very beneficial
for the world as a whole to settle the problems of the 200-mile limit, the owner-
ship of seabeds minerals, the navigation problems, overflight, on-the-surface use
of the seas.
If we could settle all of those problems in the Law of the Sea Conference in
this meeting that comes up in late February or early March, that would be the
best solution. In the meantime, however, I think it is helpful to have some
pressure, that if the negotiators dillydally, don't do something affirmatively,
then they ought to recognize the United States feels it is vitally important that
we do something to protect not only our game fish but our commercial fish.
And therefore, I have said we will give the Law of the Sea Conference through
1976 and some months in 1977 to fish or cut bait. And if they don't, then the
United States ought to move unilaterally.
I feel very strongly that way, and I think the negotiators ought to move and
stop haggling and find the answers to the problems you are talking about.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN PLANS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, David Wysocki, WKXL Radio, Concord.
You have said you feel your strategy of running on your record plus your past
experiences here in New Hampshire will be successful here. Well, I am wonder-
201
