[109]
February 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Treaty is the first major international agreement by the United States
aimed at obtaining information and guidance needed for criminal investigations
and prosecutions. Cooperation of this kind with Switzerland is uniquely im-
portant because of its position as an international financial center. Despite the
general cooperation of Swiss authorities in criminal cases, the procedures for
obtaining needed information have been generally ponderous and inadequate.
Despite this cooperation, United States law enforcement and investigative agen-
cies have frequently encountered severe difficulties in obtaining needed infor-
mation from Swiss banks because of banking secrecy laws.
The new Treaty, as implemented by Swiss legislation, should open up new
avenues of cooperation in Switzerland and greatly facilitate the work of the
United States law enforcement and prosecutive agencies, especially in dealing
with cases involving organized crime. Assistance will extend to ascertaining the
whereabouts of persons, taking testimony, producing and preserving judicial
and other documents, records and evidence, and serving and authenticating
judicial and administrative documents.
The Treaty is expected to provide a useful and significant tool in combating
crime and bringing offenders to justice. I recommend that the Senate give the
Treaty and related letters prompt consideration and consent to their ratification.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
February 18, 1976.
NOTE: The treaty and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive F (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
110
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Legislation To
Reform the United States Foreign Intelligence Community.
February 18, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
By virtue of the authority vested in me by Article II, Section 2 and 3 of the
Constitution, and other provisions of law, I have today issued an Executive
Order [11905] pertaining to the organization and control of the United States
foreign intelligence community. This order establishes clear lines of accounta-
bility for the Nation's foreign intelligence agencies. It sets forth strict guidelines
to control the activities of these agencies and specifies as well those activities in
which they shall not engage.
362
