[231]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
financing in the general across-the-board financing area. I vividly recall what
the RFC did during the depression, but that met the problems of the 1930's,
and the circumstances are quite different today.
I think we have to pinpoint where the problem is-small business, minority
groups, the energy problem—rather than an across-the-board financing proposal.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, the people of South Carolina are suspicious of the
word détente, and I wondered if you would care to comment on whether or
not the Secretary of State, or whoever, might be giving away more than we get?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is categorically untrue that the United States has
given away more than we have received. As a matter of fact, we have bargained
like good Yankee traders, and wherever agreements have been made the United
States has come out well.
I strongly disagree with those who say that the United States has not held
its own in any negotiations. As a matter of fact, if you look at where we have
moved in foreign policy, I believe by any criteria we are ahead.
First, we have peace, and that is fairly important to most people. Number two,
let's take some areas in the foreign policy field. We, of course—and I say we,
the United States has played a very major role in the Middle East. We have
achieved, working with Israel on the one hand and Egypt on another, a great
breakthrough with the Sinai agreement. It was the second step in trying to
hold peace in that area, a very volatile, complex, complicated area.
Another dividend that has come because of the trust that Israel and the Arab
nations have in the United States is the fact that President Sadat, just earlier
this week, cut off almost entirely his relations with the Soviet Union. He is no
longer dependent on the Soviet Union for any military hardware. That is a
tremendous change for the better, in our opinion, and we, of course, hope and
trust that that move of cutting off relations, in effect, with the Soviet Union
will be responded to by the United States Government in any efforts that we
can make economically and otherwise.
But you can go around the world and the United States is in good shape.
And we are in good shape because we are militarily strong; we have achieved
peace; we are deterring any aggression that affects our national security.
So, the word doesn't mean anything, but the process is important. And we
are going to continue the process, to continue the success we have had in the past.
744
