[235]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
My oldest son, Mike, and his wife, my daughter-in-law, both graduated from
Wake Forest, and they think it is a pretty good school. I think so, too.
But the point is that the Ford family shares an affinity with you for the en-
lightened spirit of your State. The patriotism, the dedication, and the willpower
of the Thirteen Original States still burn brightly throughout the Old North
State. The Tarheels must be doing something right. I think so, and I congratu-
late you.
Our challenge, yours and mine, is to foster a new appreciation of the American
home, new cohesion in the American family, new moderation in the relationship
of government to the governed, and new American strength throughout the
world. Together, we welcome our Nation's third century, a century which I
hope will emphasize freedom of the individual.
Together, the American people will rise up to the calling of your inspiring
motto, “A Past To Honor, A Future To Mold." Together, all of us, 215 million
Americans in 50 States, will work together to build a better America for
everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:09 a.m. at the Plaza
Level of the Charlotte Civic Center. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Dr. Hazel Tripp, State
adviser, and Ann Cooper, vice president and presi-
dent-elect, North Carolina Future Homemakers of
America.
236
Remarks During a Visit to the President Ford Committee
Headquarters in Charlotte. March 20, 1976
LET ME just take a minute, if I could. First, let me thank every one of you.
I have tried to do it personally, but let me reiterate it and reemphasize it to all
of you as a group.
We won in New Hampshire because of the tremendous effort of the people
like yourselves. You did the phoning and did all of the other difficult chores.
We won, coming from behind. It was a total effort, the basis coming from people
like yourselves who were volunteers. We had a great many other people, Mem-
bers of the Congress, that went up there on their own. We had others who vol-
unteered from various walks of life to go up and give us a hand.
Then, of course, was Massachusetts, where we did extremely well; Vermont,
where we were entered and the opposition was not. It all helped to accumulate
the position where we are in.
Then we went to Florida and again, according to the campaign manager for
our opponent, we were behind 2 to 1—33 percent to 66 percent. But because so
758
