January 19
[19]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
19
Address Before a Joint Session of the Congress Reporting
on the State of the Union. January 19, 1976
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of the 94th Congress, and dis
tinguished guests:
As we begin our Bicentennial, America is still one of the youngest nations
in recorded history. Long before our forefathers came to these shores, men
and women had been struggling on this planet to forge a better life for them-
selves and their families.
In man's long, upward march from savagery and slavery-throughout the
nearly 2,000 years of the Christian calendar, the nearly 6,000 years of Jewish
reckoning—there have been many deep, terrifying valleys, but also many bright
and towering peaks.
One peak stands highest in the ranges of human history. One example
shines forth of a people uniting to produce abundance and to share the good
life fairly and with freedom. One union holds out the promise of justice
and opportunity for every citizen: That union is the United States of America.
We have not remade paradise on Earth. We know perfection will not be
found here. But think for a minute how far we have come in 200 years.
We came from many roots, and we have many branches. Yet all Americans
across the eight generations that separate us from the stirring deeds of 1776,
those who know no other homeland and those who just found refuge among
our shores, say in unison:
I am proud of America, and I am proud to be an American. Life will be
a little better here for my children than for me. I believe this not because I am
told to believe it, but because life has been better for me than it was for my
father and my mother. I know it will be better for my children because my
hands, my brains, my voice, and my vote can help make it happen.
It has happened here in America. It has happened to you and to me.
Government exists to create and preserve conditions in which people can
translate their ideas into practical reality. In the best of times, much is lost
in translation. But we try. Sometimes we have tried and failed. Always we
have had the best of intentions.
But in the recent past, we sometimes forgot the sound principles that guided
us through most of our history. We wanted to accomplish great things and
31
