[209]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER; FOREIGN POLICY AS A CAMPAIGN ISSUE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday, Mr. Kissinger made some remarks in
Boston which some of your opponents have said were overtly political. Have
you discussed your campaign with Dr. Kissinger, and if you are reelected, will
he be the Secretary of State?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said on more than one occasion that Dr. Kissinger
can stay as Secretary of State as long as he wants to. I think the way to judge the
success of a Secretary of State is to look at the results. And when you look at
what has been accomplished—and let me enumerate several of them—first, the
United States, through its efforts, through my efforts, achieved a great break-
through in the Middle East. We have had four wars in 25 years in the Middle
East, and by the work that we did with Israel on the one hand and Egypt on
the other, we have been able to take a second step with the Sinai agreement that
cools down that volatile, controversial, complex area.
That is success, and we were able to do it because those two countries believe
in Dr. Kissinger and believe in the United States. That is a plus, and I think
that is the way you judge a Secretary of State.
Now, it is rather interesting that some Presidential candidates have criticized
the Secretary of State for pointing out what the Congress has done to impede
more progress in foreign affairs or foreign policy.
Well, they have been doing that for a year. I think it is perfectly legitimate for
me or the Secretary of State to respond to those charges, and I intend to do so
where I think they have been wrong. I think they were wrong in what they
did in the Trade Act of 1974. I think they were wrong in how they have handi-
capped us in trying to get a solution to the Cyprus question. I think they have
been wrong in a number of other cases. If they are going to attack our foreign
policy, I think we have the legitimate and proper role to respond, and I certainly
intend to.
THE PRESIDENT. We don't discuss the politics of it. We discuss whether we
were right, and what we ought to do in the future to make our foreign policy
work. And what we have done, we are proud of, and what we intend to do will
be in the best interests of the United States. We don't discuss the politics of it, no.
ECONOMIC POLICY
[15.] Q. Mr. President, the indicators show we are headed for a period of
economic growth. Is there any point where you will put on the brakes to prevent
renewed inflation, or increase of the inflation rate?
662
