April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
WELFARE REFORM
[6.] Q. Mr. President, one of the most serious tax drains that we have got
both at the State and Federal level is public assistance. The system is fraught with
waste, fraud, and mismanagement. We have done a number of things here in
Wisconsin at the legislative level, State level, but there are a lot of things that we
cannot do because we are prevented from doing that by Federal health, educa-
tion and welfare regulations. We all think that we need welfare reform. We
realize that this mess was not your doing, you inherited it, but what are you
going to do about it in the coming months and coming years as our President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that you at the State level in many ways are
hamstrung, that we in the executive branch are hamstrung, too, because we have
to carry out the laws as they are passed by the Congress. What we have got to do
is change the basic law.
In 1972, and again in 1974, I voted for a complete junking of the existing wel-
fare program and voted for what I thought was a great improvement, and it
obviously was not perfect. It passed the House twice, it was called the Family
Assistance Program-much better than the present system we have.
I think in 1977 we have to come up with a comprehensive reform of existing
welfare, something like—although I am not going to embrace it entirely—the
Family Assistance Program that was passed by the House in 1971 and '72.
I think there are some areas of improvement in this particular area. But when
you take, for example, food stamps—the food stamp cost today to the Federal
Government is something over $7 billion a year. Last year I sent up to the Con-
gress a recommendation to tighten it up, to take away from people who have
incomes over the poverty level the food stamp participation they were involved
in and give more to the people below the poverty level. And in the process we
could have knocked off 600,000 people, as I recollect, and could have saved $1,200
million. Congress has not done a thing.
Now, then, they told us in the executive branch to do something, and they
took away over a billion dollars and said now you save some money, but didn't
give us any additional authority.
Well, we have finally sent some regulations up that were published in the
Federal Register that will save $1,200 million. I think it is a good approach, but
it is only a piecemeal one, because that program is only a part of aid to depend-
ent children-welfare; we have got more welfare programs, when you put
them under a broad tent, than you can count. And we have to have a single com-
913
