February 20
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
from the city of Dover. If you will examine the circumstances, sir, you will
discover that Maryland is a wealthy area, Dover is not.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we will take a look at it. And let me add this, if I
might. Under my block grant programs for primary and secondary education
and vocational rehabilitation, aid to the handicapped, we would put more money
into what I think the circumstances you are describing into Dover and you and
Dover would have a lot more control on how you spend that money than you
do at the present time.
Q. If block grant means revenue sharing, yes, sir, and thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you and I are right on in that one. [Laughter]
AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, I am Earl B. Canfield. I'm a member of the Dover Rotary
Club as well as being a Ford dealer in the city and county of Dover. I would
like to commend the Government on what they have done in lessening the
environmental controls on the automobile which, I think, has been a big help—
or a big boost in our industry-but I would like to see the controls dropped a
little bit more because the way we look at 1978 we are going to be in trouble.
And I think that in this great country of ours-I was talking to my daughter
the other night and we were commenting on the salary that President Ford
earned and the salary that the president of General Motors earned and I said,
well, this is true, but what could we do without General Motors or Ford or
Chrysler in these United States? Our economy would be in trouble.
So, I think if they can lessen some of these controls, it would be a big boost
to our industry.
The President. Let me, not because I am a Ford from Michigan, but—
[laughter]—and the better known Fords won't recognize that we are in any
way whatsoever related to them—but I think the automotive industry has
done a fine job in responding to what the public sentiment is. And the net
result is the automotive industry, and I hope it is true here in Dover, has really
come back tremendously. In the last 2 months, they have had excellent months. I
think their production is 50 percent or more over a year ago. They are on the
uphill just like most other segments of our economy.
Now the real problem is that the pressure is on to too quickly get to too high
a standard. And the Congress is now in the process of trying to extend that
deadline, I think by 2 years. And I am told by the people from the automotive
industry that if they get another 2 years, they can increase their efficiency by
about 40 percent, which means less gasoline per mile, and at the same time
401
