[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ural gas production—and it is inevitable—it means we buy more and more and
more Arab foreign oil. That is not good for the United States.
So, if you want to twist some arms with some Congressmen and tell them to
make up for the mistake they made, then we can really move forward in this
energy production business.
SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PROGRAMS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am Doug Mills, a local banker.
THE PRESIDENT. Wasn't there a Doug Mills that was a basketball coach and
athletic director?
Q. He is a few years older than I am, but I was named after him—yes.
At the present time, citizens not participating in a pension or profit-sharing
fund may invest a maximum of $1,500 per year in individual retirement ac-
counts. We know these as IRA's. Would you support legislation that would per-
mit and encourage all citizens to provide for a portion of their retirement
through the mechanism of the IRA's, or the individual retirement accounts?
THE PRESIDENT. I was a supporter of what we call the Keogh plan, and I am
sure you are familiar with that. That has been increased from $1,500 to $2,500,
as I recollect. There is the IRA program. I have recommended something along
this line so that individuals can invest in American corporations and get a tax
deferral.
In other words, I think it is $1,500 a year. If they invest in American corporate
securities, they can then get a deferral of their tax and pay the tax when they re-
tire at the retirement age. I happen to believe very strongly in supplemental re-
tirement programs, whether it is Keogh or any one of the others. So, anything
that can be justified within reason, the answer is categorically yes.
CONSOLIDATION OF FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION PROGRAMS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Champaign, Illinois. As superintendent
of schools, I am rather concerned with the problem of funding public educa-
tion, particularly in these days. So, I have what you might call a composite
question which is really related more to the immediate future than today.
I would like to know what your views are on the role of the Federal Gov-
ernment in the partnership with State and local governments in the general
funding of education, what proportionate share you see the Federal Govern-
ment bears when such a partnership develops, and how you see the Federal
Government going from categorical aids to general aids, and how you see the
role of the President in producing such movement?
574
