February 14
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
through the hospital facility. It's a 600-bed hospital. They are anxious to get a
supplemental hospital to add 900-plus beds.
Two years ago at the suggestion of the Congressman from that district and
others in the area—I directed that we have an immediate study as to the need
and necessity for rapid construction of the Bay Pines facility. That report is to
be on my desk sometime next week.
After looking at the facility and seeing the need, I am quite sure that the pro-
ponents of that facility will not be disappointed with my decision, but I do have
to look at the report.
But now let's talk about hospitals generally. I am not familiar with any clos-
ing of VA hospital facilities. As a matter of fact, in the budget for the current
fiscal year, based on a recommendation of a survey made, I added $404 million
to get quality care for VA hospitals throughout the country and added 7,000
more medical personnel. And in the budget right here I added 1,700 more medi-
cal personnel and $250-some million to continue the increase in quality care for
the veterans throughout this country. We are going to see it. We are going to
demand that it be done.
Q. This is most wonderful, and it is quite a different story than what we have
been hearing. This I really love to hear and I certainly appreciate it. I can
certainly pass it about. We certainly want to welcome you to the fair city of
Ft. Myers, and we will see you in Washington next month.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Nice to see you.
Q. Mr. President, I am from Norwalk, Connecticut. Welcome to God's
country.
THE PRESIDENT. Which-Norwalk or Ft. Myers?
Q. Ft. Myers.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Alright. I like them both.
Q. I would like to ask a question, Mr. President. You have not been in our
State. We would like to have you up there soon, when it gets a little warmer—
right now it is cold. Can I get an answer from you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would like to stay in Ft. Myers and southwest Florida
for a long time, but it just so happens that I have a quite significant job to do
as being President of the United States.
Q. You are doing a good job, Mr. President. Nobody had the guts to take it,
believe me.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me be serious for a minute. It is vitally important as we
meet the problems, both at home and abroad, for the President to be on the job
317
