[31]
January 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
pansions in the duration and coverage of unemployment insurance. These
changes eased the financial burden of 3.6 million Americans who were unem-
ployed for a part of last year. Programs in my fiscal 1977 budget will also provide
3.6 million Americans with opportunities for training and employment.
These cushions to unemployment should be viewed as only temporary
remedies. They are not a substitute for productive jobs in the private sector. The
only way that such jobs can be produced is by restoring the vitality of private
industry, which today employs five out of six American workers.
III. Success in promoting healthy economic growth and a vigorous private
economy depends to a large extent on our eliminating Government policies and
institutions which interfere with competition. Traditionally the American
system has relied on competition to organize production and to encourage
economic progress. The Government, however, has attempted to correct im-
perfections in competition by regulating prices and the quality of services in
many different industries. This attempt has been less than a complete success.
Regulation has been useful in curbing the pricing power of certain monopolies
and in fostering the growth of new industries, such as air transportation in the
1940s and 1950s. It has also helped to ensure compliance with such publicly
determined social goals as clean air and safe working conditions. But in several
industries, regulation has been used to protect and support the growth of estab-
lished firms rather than to promote competition.
Over the years, Government regulation has also had many other undesirable
effects. Besides reducing competition in many instances, it has also imposed on
complying firms enormous burdens, which raise business costs and consumer
prices.
Increasing competition from world markets and the need to maintain and
improve the standard of living of a growing population require constant im-
provement of the American market system. For this reason I have asked the
Congress to legislate fundamental changes in the laws regulating our railroads,
airlines, and trucking firms. The new amendments will free these companies
to respond more flexibly to market conditions. I have also urged deregulation
of the price of natural gas and sought essential pricing flexibility for the oil and
electric utilities industries. We will continue to improve all essential protection
for public health and safety, trying at the same time not to increase unnecessarily
the cost to the public. My object is to achieve a better combination of market
competition and responsible Government regulation. The programs I have
88
