April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
latory system is a long-term effort, and we would like to see what
complished and what you are currently trying to achieve.
you
have ac-
There are some points that were not fully discussed in the reports, and I hope
we can talk about them this afternoon as we discuss our future efforts. We would
like to direct our discussion to what has been done and what needs to be done.
The reduction of agency backlogs and delays seems to be the highest priority
for everyone here. There have been some marked achievements in this area, and
it is interesting to see the various approaches you are taking to solve your backlog
problems.
Several agencies are also taking a number of important steps to increase con-
sumer representation in their proceedings. In some cases, however, the consumer
seems to be equated with the customer who benefits most directly from a regu-
lated service. It is the American people who ultimately pay the cost of regulation,
and all of them must be represented, too.
In general, there is less progress in improving the quality of economic analysis.
Some of the reports show understanding of the importance of increasing and
expanding the use of economic analysis in agency policymaking. Most agencies
seem to be more limited in how they are using economic analyses.
Finally, most of the reports were far from specific in what was needed to
increase our reliance on competition instead of regulation. It is not enough to
determine how we are doing things without questioning why. I hope we will
highlight our efforts today on future actions in this area. On the whole the
reports are encouraging and responsive.
I would like you today to report on what you consider your most considerable
reform effort. I would like to call on each of the chairmen to discuss each
agency's efforts. In order to have time to consider all the agencies, I would ask
each agency about your most significant reform success and that your report be
kept to 3 or 4 minutes so we have time for follow-up questions. You will recall we
advised each of you we are making a transcript of the meeting and plan to make
it public.
Let's begin with Dick Wiley of the FCC.
MR. WILEY [Richard E. Wiley, Chairman, Federal Communications Com-
mission]. On behalf of the Federal Communications Commission, I am pleased
to discuss once again the important subject of regulatory reform. At our last
meeting on July 10, Mr. President, you outlined four areas in which you hoped to
see some improvements in our service to the public. Let me comment briefly on
the Commission's recent efforts in each of these areas.
Number one, elimination of antiquated regulations or those which stifle com-
1001
