[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Elk Hills, California, oil development, which has been a naval petroleum
reserve. And that, once they let me sign it—and I will next week—will give
us 300,000 barrels per day in a period of 2 months. So, we are making headway
slowly, but it was not satisfactory. I wish it would move faster. But you know,
you just can't tell 535 Members of Congress, unfortunately, that they ought to
act with promptness and constructive programs. We have a little trouble with
them. [Laughter]
Go ahead, yes?
Q. What about alternate energy sources? We don't seem to have a very
pronounced program in that area.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I suppose you are referring to coal production. In the
last several years we have produced 600 million tons of coal per year. That is
less than what we produced at any other time in this country-no, not any
other time but less than the previous record.
In the next 10 years we have to increase that about 100 percent. I think we
can unless we get some strip mining legislation that will hamper and restrict
responsible utilization of surface mines.
In addition, we are increasing our research and development to get a cleaner
and a more efficient utilization of coal, which is our greatest natural resource
in the energy field. And in addition, in the more exotic fuels, solar energy and
geothermal energy, I increased in next year's budget the research and develop-
ment funds in solar from about $80 million to $120 million—all that they asked
for and more, too. But that is not something we are going to get tomorrow.
It is probably 3 to 8 years off before we have any really meaningful solar energy
program.
Geothermal-it is limited to a great extent by the area in which you can
find this source, but we also increased the research and development programs
in that area.
And one other area-nuclear power. We now have 55 nuclear powerplants
in operation all over the country. I think we are building another 60 at the
present time. There was a slowdown a year ago for financial reasons, for rate
reasons, for environmental reasons, and just redtape, but I believe that they are
safe. As a matter of fact, the figures that I got the other day from the head of
the Nuclear Regulatory Agency [Commission] said that there is 1 chance in
5 billion that there will be a person injured as a result of a nuclear powerplant
disability. Those are better odds than being hit by a meteor, and they are better
odds than being hit by lightning. [Laughter]
910
