[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions. So, I think there is no doubt amongst any of us that the cost to the con-
sumer to buy a share of stock has been dramatically reduced.
I might say we are in midcourse of causing competitive market making
in the securities industry. Today, on listed stocks, there is a monopoly posi-
tion and we have reduced that monopoly position in a dramatic way for agency
transactions. I think we have a growing consensus in the securities industry
and certainly have a regulatory intent to eliminate this monopoly position.
Once that is taken away and there is true competition in making the market
stocks comparable, there will be another dramatic reduction in cost of stocks
to the consumer.
MR. MACAVOY. One of the arguments that seems to be the strongest or the
most often presented in eliminating control of the commission was the service
to the small purchaser; the individual buying a few shares would be eliminated,
chaos would break out, and the result of the chaos is there would be no more
service for small purchasers.
Have you tracked the effect not on the prices but the quality of services?
MR. HILLS. Yes, we have, but the phenomena was nobody bothered to price
the individual service, but everything came together and they got their price. I
know of no individual losing service except many parts of the industry are hav-
ing a hard time trying to figure out how to develop their services, but they are
trying.
The issue of how to provide the right kind of service to the right kind of buyer
is very much in the developing stage. We tried very hard to find who was going
out of business. A lot of companies have, but there was by no means a dramatic
exodus. We spent as much as 4 hours with people that went out of business trying
to find out why.
One businessman came to us and said, frankly, they hadn't realized it, but they
were not in an economic business; were not doing anything that made sense. We
are now trying to find out the type of investment advice people want and charge
them. Instead of making people pay for services they didn't want, we are allow-
ing people gradually to get the services they do want.
Traditionally, we have said people sell stocks but don't buy them. The amount
of stocks owned by institutions that do their own research has grown dramati-
cally. Many individual stock purchases are now done by institutions, so by un-
bundling services we find people are developing services and hiring people that
can produce the kind of services they want.
I think I can say there has been no loss of essential services anyplace. We have
no consumer complaint they can't get the kind of services they want.
1012
