[19]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
take care of themselves. The host of Federal programs in this field reflect our
generosity as a people.
But everyone realizes that when it comes to welfare, government at all levels
is not doing the job well. Too many of our welfare programs are inequitable
and invite abuse. Too many of our welfare programs have problems from begin-
ning to end. Worse, we are wasting badly needed resources without reaching
many of the truly needy.
Complex welfare programs cannot be reformed overnight. Surely we cannot
simply dump welfare into the laps of the 50 States, their local taxpayers, or
their private charities, and just walk away from it. Nor is it the right time for
massive and sweeping changes while we are still recovering from the recession.
Nevertheless, there are still plenty of improvements that we can make. I will
ask Congress for Presidential authority to tighten up the rules for eligibility
and benefits.
Last year I twice sought long overdue reform of the scandal-riddled food
stamp program. This year I say again: Let's give food stamps to those most
in need. Let's not give any to those who don't need them.
Protecting the life and property of the citizen at home is the responsibility of
all public officials, but is primarily the job of local and State law enforcement
authorities.
Americans have always found the very thought of a Federal police force
repugnant, and so do I. But there are proper ways in which we can help to
insure domestic tranquility as the Constitution charges us.
My recommendations on how to control violent crime were submitted to
the Congress last June with strong emphasis on protecting the innocent victims
of crime. To keep a convicted criminal from committing more crimes, we must
put him in prison so he cannot harm more law-abiding citizens. To be effective,
this punishment must be swift and it must be certain.
Too often, criminals are not sent to prison after conviction but are allowed to
return to the streets. Some judges are reluctant to send convicted criminals to
prison because of inadequate facilities. To alleviate this problem at the Federal
level, my new budget proposes the construction of four new Federal facilities.
To speed Federal justice, I propose an increase this year in the United States
attorneys prosecuting Federal crimes and the reinforcement of the number of
United States marshals. Additional Federal judges are needed, as recommended
by me and the Judicial Conference.
Another major threat to every American's person and property is the criminal
carrying a handgun. The way to cut down on the criminal use of guns is not
38
