[205]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
205
Remarks in Rockford, Illinois. March 11, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John Anderson, Senator Chuck Percy, Governor
Ogilvie, Dave Martinson, ladies and gentlemen:
At the very outset let me thank, from the bottom of my heart, this fine group
of young Girl Scouts who are the Bicentennial Choir. Let's all give them a great
big hand. And we should do exactly the same thing for the Proud American
Singing Group. Let's give them a hand.
May I ask everybody to be quiet for just a few minutes. What I will say won't
take long but what I will say I hope you will listen to because it is what we have
to believe, what we have to do if we are going to make America what it must be
for older people, for younger people, for all of us. So please be quiet just a
minute.
It is a great privilege and pleasure, it is an inspiration to be here in Rockford
on this occasion. It is a great experience for me to come to this Cherryvale Mall
where I see in brick and mortar what a vigorous America can do and will do.
I thank John Anderson, my very good friend, for the very kind and thoughtful
comments he made in the introduction. Let me assure you that I will aspire to
be all that John has said because that is what a President of the United States
should be. And I promise John and I promise you that I will seek to accomplish
and to achieve personally and in policy what John Anderson has outlined for
you tonight.
As we were driving over here this evening, I thought of what the circumstances
were 19 months ago, and let me quickly review where this country was at that
time in August of 1974.
The American people in Rockford, in Grand Rapids, in all of our 50 States,
for reasons that we all know, had lost confidence in our country, in our govern-
ment. We all know that 19 months ago we were experiencing the most disastrous
inflation, we were on the brink of a horrible recession with unemployment
shortly to go up and employment about to go down. We also know that 19
months ago our country was torn apart. No public official could go onto a cam-
pus in this country. Few public officials could talk to any group without con-
fusion and chaos and all of the things that were so foreign to the country that we
had inherited from our forefathers. America was on the brink of the most frus-
trating and traumatic experience, certainly during my lifetime.
622
