[100]
February 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
impact out of reading the sports pages first every morning. [Laughter] I do it
for two reasons. One, I enjoy the opportunity of seeing how well or how badly
people are doing, but compared to the front page, in the sports page you have
a 50-50 chance of being right. [Laughter]
President Kennedy once said at a state dinner for Nobel prize winners:
There has never been such an extraordinary collection of talent and human
knowledge at the White House before, with the possible exception when
Thomas Jefferson dined alone. I believe it is quite safe to say that no more out-
standing representation of athletic prowess has ever been seen in this house
before. And as I said, Betty and I are most pleased and delighted to have you
all here. Your athletic abilities, however, even though far excelling those of the
average person or the average athlete, are not all that make you very, very
special—and you have heard from some most articulate and dedicated and com-
mitted people this morning.
I think what they said and how they said it meant a great deal to all of us.
You are also special because of your love of God, your faith in Him, a love and a
faith that Betty and I share. The Apostle Paul, writing the Corinthians, said:
They which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. Everyone in this
room has run the race. You have received the prize that comes with excellence.
You have tasted what Jim McKay¹ calls the thrill of victory and the agony of
defeat. Yet, you know that because of your faith you can never really be de-
feated. There will be setbacks, there will be races or matches or games that you
will not win, but you will never be defeated because the presence of God is too
strong in each and every one of your lives.
If God is on your side-and he will be if you are on His-no man, no woman,
can ever defeat you. As the Bible said, "God be for us, who can be against us."
As President and as one who has been in the political arena for 27 years, I have
had my share of political victories—as the minority leader in the House of Rep-
resentatives for almost 10 years, in the House dominated by the opposition.
For most of the time I have known my full share of defeats along the way,
but whenever I am discouraged or disappointed by the course of events, I know
there is a place I can go for solace and for strength. That knowledge is a source
of great comfort and consolation to me. It sustained me in many hours of trial
and chastened me in the hour of triumph or in pride.
I sincerely, and most sincerely, believe that America is the great Nation it is
¹ ABC sports commentator.
336
