February 28
[151]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, is Ronald Reagan too old to be Vice President? You said
there were younger men coming along.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we have a wealth of talent, young and old, and
we have a lot of people with great capabilities. Our convention is not going to
have any trouble picking a first-class Vice President.
Q. What kind of Republican victory do you expect you will have in Kansas
City?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will do very well in Kansas City. I can't pass judg-
ment on whether somebody else is going to be there. We will be there, and we
are going to win.
Q. How big do you expect to win in Florida?
The President. I don't make any predictions on numbers. I think some who
have been on the other side of the fence have picked numbers. Somebody told
me we gained 12 percentage points in the last 3 or 4 days. I think that is indica-
tive of how well we are doing. The momentum is going, and we are going to
do extremely well.
Q. Mr. President, did you think you would be coming from behind in Florida?
THE PRESIDENT. I am just going by the opponents' statistics and by their own
admission, we have gained 12 points in the last several days. That's plenty of
momentum in a political arena.
Thank you all very much. It's great to be here.
NOTE: The exchange began at 12:45 p.m. at Palm
Beach International Airport. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to Representatives Louis Frey,
Jr., chairman of the Florida President Ford Commit-
tee, L. A. (Skip) Bafalis, J. Herbert Burke, and
C. W. Bill Young.
151
Remarks in West Palm Beach, Florida. February 28, 1976
LET ME thank every one of you-let me thank young folk, the middle-aged
people, and the older folks, every one of you—for being here and giving me
such a warm and gracious and generous welcome. I just can't express my grati-
tude sufficiently.
The only way that I can repay you for all that you have done, all that you will
do, is to do the very best job I can for all Americans.
Let me take just a minute or two to give you some thoughts that I think reflect
what is good for America. That is what we are all interested in.
I have one ideal, and that ideal is freedom for America. It is freedom from
469
