March 26
[262]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
without any hesitation or qualification, we won't let you down for the next 4
years.
I am obviously delighted to be here this evening, and with a simple, straight-
forward message that I think is in keeping with this very happy occasion. The
message is simply this: 1976 is going to be a great year for the Republic and a
great year for the Republicans.
I can see the good signs and so can the American people. They are the signs
of a rejuvenation, the signs of health and vitality returning to a country that
not too long ago seemed frozen in a long, long cold winter. I am sure you
vividly remember what our economy was like last year, although I am sure
many of us would like to forget it.
But you may not remember what some of our opponents were saying a year
ago, and I am sure they would like us to forget their doom and gloom predic-
tions of about 12 months ago. For example, in February of 1975, George
Meany¹ warned that everything was pointing downward, down to a depres-
sion. He forecast that there would be a 10-percent unemployment rate by July,
that it was inevitable.
And in February of 1975, a leading spokesman of the Democratic Party, a
good friend of mine, Hubert Horatio Humphrey, said, "Unless we take some
very concrete and effective action very quickly within the next 60 or 90 days,
I think we would be approaching what you would call the dimensions of a
depression."
Those prophesies were false, and we knew they were false from the very
beginning. We had far more faith than they did in the great American
economic machine.
We weren't about to give in to the temptation of quick fixes and very empty
promises. I pursued a steady, balanced policy aimed at ensuring our Nation's
long-term economic health, not just for a week or for a month, not just for an
election but for the long term.
I fought hard, and the odds on occasion were pretty tough. We fought
against the shortsighted approach then, and I am going to keep on fighting
against it now and for the next 4 years as well.
They have great imagination. In case you haven't heard, they are cooking
up a new legislative miracle potion with a very attractive label. This one has
some very familiar names on it-Gus Hawkins and Hubert Humphrey.
If there ever was a bill or proposed legislation that promised more than it can
deliver, this is it. There is a curious consensus that this bill is bad news. Conserva-
1 AFL-CIO president.
821
