[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
familiar to discuss it in any depth. If you will write out the question, give me
your name and address, we will find the answer for you.
BUDGET DEFICITS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, my question: You stated that you would hope for a
balanced Federal budget in 1979. When you came into office, you said that you
were going for only a $60 billion deficit; now it stands at $80 billion. Could you
please tell me what your plans are to reduce that deficit to a zeroing out by 1979?.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. When I submitted the budget for fiscal year 1976, which was
submitted in January of 1975, we had not yet been able to forecast with any
precision the depth of the recession that we expected. And when the budget was
submitted in January of 1979 [1975] for the fiscal year that began July 1, 1975,
and ends June 30 of 1976, we anticipated that the deficit would be in the
magnitude of approximately $60 billion.
Unfortunately, the recession was much more severe than any of the economists
or any of the experts anticipated, and the net result was we received less revenue
than we anticipated, and we had a far greater payout in unemployment
compensation.
As I recollect, when we submitted this year's fiscal year budget, we anticipated
that unemployment compensation would range in the magnitude of about $6
billion. Because of the depth of the depression-many more people unemployed
and many people unemployed longer-the unemployment compensation went
from about $6 billion to approximately $19 billion. And between less revenue
and more unemployment compensation, the net result was, instead of a $60
billion deficit, we are going to have a deficit of approximately $74 billion, not
$80 billion.
Now that is too high; even $60 billion was too high. But when you consider
the fact that we had the worst recession or the worst economic time since the
depression, we were lucky not to do worse. In fact, some of the doomsday sayers
predicted that we would not have a $60 billion deficit but a $100 billion deficit.
You remember those figures. They didn't materialize.
Now, where do we stand for this coming fiscal year? I have recommended a
budget with an expenditure figure of $394.2 billion with an anticipated deficit
of $43 billion. Now, if the Congress will hold the figure of $394.2 billion and not
go beyond it—they are already forecasting that it will go beyond it—but if they
will hold the line with me with improving economic circumstances this year
rather than conditions that got worse last year, we can reduce that $43 billion
670
