January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, last night you placed great emphasis on your proposal to
crank into the Medicare program the catastrophic insurance plan, which would
cost an additional $538 million. But in this morning's documents, I note that
this would be more than offset by taking from Medicare recipients $1.8 bil-
lion and from providers of health services, about close to another billion dollars
so that the net for Medicare is actually reduced by $2.2 billion.
My question is, do you feel you leveled with the medical profession and the
Medicare recipients last night when you told them only about the sweetener
and not about the bitter pill?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me remind you that you ought to go back and read my
statement. I said in the statement there will be a slight increase in the fees. It
is in the sentence where I referred to the $500 and $250.
Now, let's talk about the facts. Under the present situation, when a person
under Medicare goes into the hospital, that individual in effect gets 60 days
free care. After 60 days, that person bears the total financial burden.
Under my plan, which I think is the soundest, the person pays 10 percent
of the hospital care costs up to a total of $500. After $500 the individual pays
nothing, and after $250 for physician care the individual pays nothing.
What we are trying to do is help the 3 million people who are today affected
very adversely by catastrophic illness, 3 million out of 25 million.
The financial burden, the mental fear and apprehension of the individual
who is hurt by a catastrophic illness is really extremely serious. And in order
to protect those 3 million people who have no hope, none whatsoever, of pro-
tecting themselves after they are afflicted, we think is the right group to concen-
trate on. And we feel that we can redistribute the financial burden across the
25 other million people in order to protect those 3 and all of those who might
in the future be affected.
Q. Mr. President, only a month or two ago you were quite insistent that
Congress commit itself to a specific spending ceiling as a precondition of any
tax cut. Yet, last night, when you proposed your additional $10 billion in tax
cuts, you made no mention of a requirement for such a spending ceiling.
Could you explain?
THE PRESIDENT. I think if you will reread the message you will find that
I do say—or did say, rather, in that message—that if we restrain Federal spend-
ing, we can have a tax reduction on a dollar-for-dollar basis. I can't remember
the page, but it is in the message that I read to the Congress last night.
Q. Yes, sir, but I think that you are no longer insisting on a specific ceiling
being approved by Congress as a precondition to that extra $10 billion.
57
