April 2
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the United States was fighting in North Vietnam. The same money which the
United States gave them, they bought a field hospital to send to help North
Vietnam Communists, against this country.
Secondly, I do not think that visits to Yugoslavia helped the people in Yugo-
slavia, because that helps the Communist government to kill traits of freedom
which those freedom lovers still have in their hearts. That helps the Communist
government to survive longer. And I would appreciate if you would consider that
in your next trips which you might plan, or in your next financial aid which
you are going to send or not to send to Yugoslavia, because in that way the
Americans are helping the Communist government in Yugoslavia to survive. We
are helping that regime to survive.
I am grateful to be here. Thank you very much for coming to Milwaukee and
visiting us ethnic groups. I will still pray for you. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, thank you very much.
I think we all recognize that in those Communist-dominated countries in
Eastern Europe, there is far from the kind of freedom that we enjoy in this
country. On the other hand, I think we have to recognize in the case of Yugo-
slavia, back in about 1950 or 1951, there was a distinct break-was it 1948?-
from Stalin's Soviet Union. That was the first breach in the solid European-
Asian Communist hierarchy.
In the interim time, there has been that continued attempt to get more in-
dependence from the domination of the Soviet Union. And in more recent
years, we have had Romania move to a more independent status. There are
indications that several of the other Eastern European countries, to the degree
that they can—and you know probably better than I, in some of those countries
it is very difficult for a government to adopt a total independence from the Soviet
Union.
It is a slow process, but from our point of view, as people interested in human
beings, interested in freedom, interested in national independence, I think we
have to keep pressure on and help in any way we can. And I can assure you that
as far as I am concerned, we will do so.
Q. Mr. President, I am Paul Anton with the American Greeks. The question
I have is: We, the Greeks, are concerned about the $1 billion military aid to
Turkey. Turkey is starting war already with Greece. What do you suggest in
that situation? Even though the American bases would be strictly under Turkish
control, we are still going to give $1 billion aid to Turkey.
THE PRESIDENT. The gentleman refers to the negotiated military treaty with
901
