[280]
April 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
of this virus, it is my hope that every man, woman, and child in the country
can be inoculated before the end of this calendar year.
Since there are no precedents for an endeavor of this magnitude, I am issuing
this directive to assure completion of the task in an appropirate, orderly, and
timely manner. The Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, David
Mathews, will take the lead in this effort, but it is essential that all federal depart-
ment and agency heads give him their full cooperation in carrying out
this program.
I have asked the Congress for a supplemental appropriation of $135 million
for this program. The Public Health Service, under the direction of HEW As-
sistant Secretary for Health, Dr. Theodore Cooper, will proceed with the plan-
ning and implementation efforts to make the vaccine available to all Ameri-
cans. This activity will be carried out in close coordination with the Center for
Disease Control, the Bureau of Biologics of the Food and Drug Administration,
and the National Institutes of Health.
These efforts will include utilization of State and local health agencies in con-
ducting immunization programs, and as distribution centers for vaccine. It will
be necessary to have the full cooperation and participation of the private sector,
as well as government, to assure the immunization of the total population in
the brief time available. In particular, we will need to mobilize the vast resources
of private sector health professionals and facilities.
National Influenza Immunization Plan Objectives
—The vaccine must be tested in field trials for efficacy and effectiveness, and
215 million doses produced to immunize the entire population.
-The nation's health professionals must be encouraged to fully support this
effort to increase the effectiveness of the immunization program.
—The public must be made aware of the importance of inoculation against
this type of influenza virus through a nationwide citizen awareness program.
-The vaccine, along with sufficient medical supplies and equipment, must be
distributed through the State agencies. Every opportunity for inoculation
must be maximized including mass immunization and the utilization of
delivery points already in place, such as physicians' offices, health depart-
ment clinics, community health centers, and public facilities.
-Epidemiologic and laboratory surveillance will be maintained to evaluate
the effectiveness of this effort and to determine disease trends and outbreaks
so that any necessary additional immunization and health efforts may be
directed toward epidemic control.
880
