[262]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
tives say it would lead to a planned economy similar to those in socialist
countries.
Some liberals say they doubt whether the Government can simply wave a
magic wand and achieve specific numerical goals for unemployment, interest
rates, and who else knows what. A labor economist who supports the bill says,
"It will do very little for the working poor."
And practically everybody says that this bill does not take into account its
own inflationary impact on the national economy. You can't get Hubert
Humphrey or Gus Hawkins to tell you how much the bill will cost. Maybe they
don't know or maybe they are just afraid to tell us.
But whatever its cost is, is probably much too much, and I can assure you
that if this bill gets to my desk in the Oval Office, I have got a ready veto stamp
on it.
The facts are, we are on the road to prosperity in this country, and we are not
going to take any wrong turns at this point in the road. The fact is that today
the American economy is good and getting better all the time. Inflation is way,
way down, less than half of what it was, and we are going to keep it going down.
Unemployment is going down too. We have recovered almost unbelievably
all the jobs numerically that had been lost during the depths of the recession in
March and April of last year. We are back up to 86,400,000 gainfully employed,
the same record of several years ago, before 1973 and 1974.
We are going to keep America working. I am going to keep up the pressure
in the right way until every American who wants a job has a job. The fact is
that people in this country have more cash and they have more confidence than
they did when I became President 19 months ago. And because they have that
renewed confidence in themselves and in their country, they are going to use
that cash.
That is why retail sales have been rising steadily. That is why we have seen a
substantial increase in new car sales and the purchase of durable goods. And that
new confidence is why American consumers are going to keep up their demand
for the great products that America has to offer.
One recent survey looked at how many Americans plan to buy a car in the
next 6 months and found the highest percentage in 9 years. The same survey
looked at how many Americans expect their personal income to rise in the next
6 months and found the highest level in 7 years. Another survey looked at how
many Americans are in the market for stocks, bonds, mutual funds and found
the first clear increase in over 2 years.
822
