March 24
[257]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
One month ago, a strain of influenza sometimes known as swine flu was
discovered and isolated among Army recruits at Fort Dix, New Jersey. The
appearance of this strain has caused concern within the medical community,
because this virus is very similar to one that caused a widespread and very
deadly flu epidemic late in the First World War. Some older Americans today
will remember that 548,000 people died in this country during that tragic
period.
During the last few days, I have consulted with members of my administra-
tion, Secretary Mathews and Dr. Cooper, and leading members of the health
community and public officials about the implications of this new appearance
of swine flu. I have been advised that there is a very real possibility that unless
we take effective counteractions, there could be an epidemic of this dangerous
disease next fall and winter here in the United States.
Let me state clearly at this time, no one knows exactly how serious this
threat could be. Nevertheless, we cannot afford to take a chance with the health
of our Nation. Accordingly, I am today announcing the following actions.
First, I am asking the Congress to appropriate $135 million, prior to their
April recess, for the production of sufficient vaccine to inoculate every man,
woman, and child in the United States.
Secondly, I am directing the Secretary of HEW David Mathews, and Assist-
ant Secretary, Dr. Cooper, to develop plans that would make this vaccine
available to all Americans during the 3-month period from September to
November of this year.
Finally, I am asking each and every American to make certain he or she
receives an inoculation this fall. Inoculations are to be available at schools,
hospitals, physicians' offices, and public health facilities.
The reaction to the shot, I am told, may mean a few sore arms for a day
or two-a very small price to pay for this vital protection.
The facts that have been presented to me in the last few days have come
from many of the best medical minds in this country. These facts do not sug-
gest there is any cause for alarm. The scientific community essentially under-
stands what we are dealing with, and they have developed a vaccine that will
be effective in combatting it.
The facts do suggest, however, that there is a need for action now-action
by the Government, action by industry and the medical community, and most
importantly, action by all of our citizens.
We are taking the first steps this afternoon, and before next winter I hope
we will have put this threat behind us.
803
