March 22
[245]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
fense systems, and a new tank. In addition we will strengthen our military-
related science and technology effort. The combat potential of new technol-
ogies such as high energy lasers will be actively explored.
-Through basic research, new knowledge is achieved that underlies all future
progress in science and technology. My proposed budget provides an increase of
11 percent over my 1976 estimates to assure that the flow of new scientific dis-
coveries continues. Since much of the Nation's basic research is carried out at
colleges and universities, I have given special emphasis to the budget request
for the National Science Foundation and other agencies that support research
in these institutions. I have requested an increase of 20 percent in NSF's fund-
ing for basic research in order to underscore my strong support for such re-
search, particularly in colleges and universities.
of
-In agriculture, improving the efficiency of American food production, is
vital to our National well-being and to help ease critical worldwide food short-
ages. My Budget provides over $500 million for agricultural research including
programs to increase crop yield, improve the nutrition and protein content
crops, and help find new and safer ways to protect crops from the devastat-
ing losses which are caused by pests and bad weather. Matching State funds
for research at land-grant institutions will contribute an additional $400 million
to the national effort. Within the agricultural research program, greater priority
will be given to basic agricultural research which is the key to our longer range
objectives in food production. Our agricultural research and research under-
taken by others around the world can have a major effect on the world food
situation for generations to come.
—In health, basic and applied medical research provides new knowledge about
causes, prevention and cure of diseases. This knowledge will make it possible to
reduce the toll of human suffering, reduce expensive medical treatments, and
increase the general level of health of our people. For the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare alone my Budget requests over $2.2 billion to pursue
new scientific opportunities relating to cancer, heart and lung disease, arthritis,
diabetes, and behavioral disturbances. It will also continue research in emerging
areas of National importance such as immunology, aging, environmental health,
and health services.
—In space, the shuttle is the key to improved operational space capabilities
for science, defense, and industry. My 1977 Budget provides the necessary
funds to continue development of the shuttle and to assure a balanced pro-
gram in science and space applications. In the future, space technologies can
further advance our National and worldwide needs for better communica-
787
