[41]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
41
Remarks of the President and Prime Minister Rabin of Israel
at a Reception Honoring the President. January 29, 1976
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Rabin:
I am delighted to be here and to see so many, many of your friends. We, of
course, are very pleased that you are in the United States. I feel, as you do, that
the discussions we have had in the 3 days have been very meaningful. I believe
they will be very productive. It has been a fine experience for me to renew our
personal friendship that existed over a period of years when you were the Am-
bassador for Israel. It has been for you, I am sure, a great experience to renew
your acquaintances with your many, many friends on Capitol Hill. And I am
certain, from what I have heard from some of my old friends, your presentation
to the Congress yesterday in joint session was outstanding. In fact, I heard it was
so good that I am not sure I want to make a State of the Union up there.
[Laughter]
But let me reiterate what we have said both privately and publicly. The
United States, at the present time, as it has been under five previous Presidents, is
dedicated to the survival and the security of Israel. We mean it. At the same time,
we are dedicated to working with you in moving forward to real peace in the
Middle East.
You have been staunch and steadfast in your dedication on behalf of your
country and at the same time have shown great statesmanship and leadership in
that very difficult area of the world. I can't thank you enough for the oppor-
tunity to work with you in the efforts that involve both your country and ours,
aimed at the achievement of the kind of life that is needed and necessary for all
peoples in the Middle East.
You have done an outstanding job as an Ambassador, and it is a great
pleasure and privilege for me to work with you on behalf of what we all have
to do in that very difficult area—the Middle East.
I thank you for the hospitality tonight. I hope and trust, as I am sure it will
be, that as you travel around the United States in the next 7 days, you will receive
as warm a welcome everywhere as you have received in our Nation's Capital.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 7:10
p.m. in the Regency Ballroom at the Shoreham
Americana Hotel in response to the Prime Minister,
who spoke as follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for
your kind invitation to come as official guests of you
to this country. I would like to thank you very much
110
