[244]
March 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
research and development activities, an increase of 11 percent over the current
fiscal year.
It focuses very special attention on research and development for energy and
defense and our basic research. It continues or increases support in agriculture,
space, health, as well as other areas that show promise in meeting the challenges
that we face.
At the same time, we must make sure that we have scientific and technological
expertise at the highest levels of government. To do this, I have submitted legis-
lation to establish an Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive
Office of the President.
It is vital that the Congress act promptly and positively on this proposal and on
my 1977 fiscal year budget recommendations. Let us make certain that science,
engineering, and technology will continue to play a very major part in assuring
our future strength and prosperity.
It is a pleasure now to sign the message to the Congress and hopefully—and
I think we have good reason to believe that Congress will act on this legis-
lation and the office will be established as soon as the legislation has been
signed into law.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:41 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to H. Guyford Stever, Director,
National Science Foundation.
245
Special Message to the Congress Urging Approval of 1977
Budget Requests and the Creation of an Office of
Science and Technology Policy. March 22, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
The desire and the ability of the American people to seek and apply new
knowledge have been crucial elements of the greatness of our country through-
out its 200-year history.
Our Founding Fathers placed high value on the pursuit of knowledge and
its application. They supported exploration, new methods of agriculture, the
establishment of scientific societies and institutions of higher learning, measures
to encourage invention, and means to protect and improve the Nation's health.
In our recent history, the Nation has made major investments in research and
development activities to ensure their continued contribution to the growth of
784
