[107]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
lives of foreign leaders. Was it your intention to leave open the possibility of
attempts on the lives of people in other cases—that is, people who are not
leaders—and, if so, will your specific guidelines to the intelligence community
address itself to this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said previously that I would not condone or author-
ize assassinations, period-certainly not in peacetime. So the legislation, I
trust, will follow those guidelines.
UNEMPLOYMENT LEGISLATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, to turn to another subject—unemployment—in your
State of Michigan, it covers around 13 percent, which is above the 8.5 national
average, and you are vetoing the public works bill. As a compromise, do you
smile upon Senator Griffin's bill as a compromise?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is a far better piece of legislation than the legisla-
tion that the Congress passed and I have vetoed. The bill that came down to
the White House really is a hoax. It is a campaign year document. It allegedly
says it will provide 800,000 jobs. The truth is it will provide no more than
100,000 to 120,000 jobs at a cost-and this is the unbelievable part-of $25,000
per job.
Now, we can do a better job using that money elsewhere. So, I vetoed it.
I hope that we can get it sustained. And, If the Congress comes back with a
proposal recommended by Senator Griffin and Congressman Garry Brown
which provides for the channeling of Federal funds of significantly less amounts
into programs that are ready to go at local levels in areas where the unemploy-
ment is over 8 percent and as long as the national unemployment is over 7 per-
cent, it would provide for about $750 million. It could be done quickly. It could
be done much more cheaply, and it will be far more effective.
Now, it seems to me that the bill that I vetoed cannot be defended in any
way whatsoever. The cost is high per job. It will be late in being implemented.
Actually, the jobs won't be available for almost 9 months to 18 months. We hope
and expect to be out of the problems we are in, significantly, by that time. So,
the alternatives suggested by Senator Griffin and Congressman Brown are
far, far better.
FBI INTELLIGENCE GUIDELINES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, you made no reference in your opening statement
to abuses by the FBI, and some of the greatest abuses in the intelligence gather-
356
