[276]
March 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have directed the task force to conduct a sweeping policy review of this
matter and to recommend such additional policy steps as may be warranted. The
views of the broadest base of interest groups and individuals are to be solicited
as part of this effort. I have also asked that periodic progress reports be sub-
mitted to me during the course of the review, and that a final report be on my
desk before the end of the current calendar year.
The purpose of this task force is not to punish American corporations but to
ensure that the United States has a clear policy and that we have an effec-
tive, active program to implement that policy.
To the extent that the questionable payments abroad have arisen from cor-
rupt practices on the part of American corporations, the United States bears a
clear responsibility to the entire international community to bring them to a
halt. Corrupt business practices strike at the very heart of our own moral code
and our faith in free enterprise. Businesses in this country run the risk of ever-
greater governmental regulation if they illegally take adavantage of consum-
ers, investors, and taxpayers.
Before we condemn American citizens out of hand, however, it is essential
that we also recognize the possibility that some of the questionable payments
abroad may result from extortion by foreign interests. To the extent that such
practices exist, I believe that the United States has an equal responsibility to our
own businesses to protect them from strong-arm practices. It is incumbent upon
us to work with foreign governments to curb any such abuses.
From the facts at hand it is not clear to me where true justice lies in this mat-
ter, and that issue may never be resolved to everyone's satisfaction. The central
policy question that needs to be addressed today is rather how we can arrive at
clear, enforceable standards to prevent such questionable activities in the future.
That is the key issue to which this new task force will direct its attentions.
277
Exchange With Secretary of Commerce Richardson on
Establishing the Task Force on Questionable Corporate
Payments Abroad. March 31, 1976
I HAVE just signed the necessary documents establishing a Cabinet-level task
force to undertake a very comprehensive study of the payments by American
corporations overseas. I have appointed the Secretary of Commerce, Elliot
870
