[81]
February 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the Federal Government in promoting the important interests of the small
business community. I supported the creation of SBA in 1953 and strongly sup-
port it today. As evidence of this commitment, my fiscal year 1977 budget
requests an increase of 33 percent in the SBA's major loan guarantee program.
This will increase the ability of the SBA to assist in financing the many small
businesses which cannot obtain needed financing in commercial markets.
In addition to supporting the work of the SBA, my administration is taking a
variety of actions to foster a strong small business community. Of paramount
importance, of course, is our effort to achieve sustained economic growth
without inflation by moderating the increases in Federal spending and by reduc-
ing our budget deficit. To also provide additional funds for business investment
and growth, I have proposed a permanent extension of the corporate surtax
exemption and the 10 percent investment tax credit currently in effect and have
also called for a reduction in the maximum corporate tax rate from 48 to 46
percent.
I have proposed changes in the estate tax laws to encourage expansion in
family businesses. This reform will help ensure the survival of smaller businesses
for future generations and allow them to expand their current operations.
Vigorous competition is necessary if small businesses are to expand and
flourish. Accordingly, I have increased the antitrust resources for the FTC and
the Department of Justice and emphasized the importance of vigorous antitrust
enforcement.
I consider it essential to reduce the burden of government-imposed regulation
and paperwork. I have, therefore, initiated a comprehensive review of all Federal
regulation and paperwork in order to eliminate or improve those requirements
and rules which are outdated or unnecessary.
I will designate Mitchell Kobelinski, our new Administrator of the Small
Business Administration, as a member of the Economic Policy Board. This will
help ensure small business participation in the formulation of our economic
policies. It will also help provide me with the advice and expertise of the Small
Business Administration in my consideration of economic policy issues.
These initiatives and efforts represent important and necessary improvements
in the environment for small businesses in America.
252
