[215]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am proud of America, and I am proud to be an American. And I know every
one of you are, too.
I believe in this country. I believe in its values, its traditions, its institutions
and, more importantly, its people. I believe in America's future. We have the
capacity in this country to do just about anything we set our minds to.
America today remains the best hope of peace, the strongest guardian of free-
dom in the world. And I am pursuing a policy of peace through strength. And
I can assure you that America's military capabilities are second to none, and I
intend to keep it that way.
But America's strength is measured by more than armaments alone. America
today is the greatest agricultural power, the most prolific producer of food and
fiber in the world. That is a credit to not only the mass production farmers in the
Middle West but also to the small family farmers right here in western North
Carolina, and I compliment you for what you do.
I want to see the family farms survive and thrive in America. I want to make it
easier for people to pass on their farms, the product of many years of hard work
and love and faith, to their sons and to their daughters. I want to make it easier
to keep those farms in the family, rather than sacrificing them to the tax collector.
I have proposed two measures to help promote that result. First, I proposed
that Congress act to stretch out the estate tax payments, at greatly reduced inter-
est rates, over a 25-year period. And, second, I have proposed an increase in the
estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000.
These proposals, if enacted by the Congress, would help not only family farms
but family businesses as well. I know that family-owned businesses can use all
the help that they can get. A long time ago, I worked in my father's small, family-
owned paint and varnish company for a lot of years in the summer, so that I
could go to high school and on to college and on to law school. And I know
from a personal experience in that family-owned business how tough it is but
also how rewarding it is to have a successful family enterprise.
Family-owned businesses, like every other segment of our economy, suf-
fered heavily in the worst recession in 40 years. But thanks to some strong,
commonsense policies I initiated at the outset of the recession, and thanks to
the determination and to the courage of the American people, we are working
our way out of that economic difficulty. With one favorable indicator after
another pointing the way, we are on the road to recovery and prosperity in
America, and we are picking up speed every day.
Even with the severe setbacks we suffered recently, today America is still
the strongest and the finest nation in the history of the world. I have never
700
