[262]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
fix solutions can look very attractive, particularly if they have a beautiful label,
especially to a Democratic Congress in an election year.
But only a steady, long term policy will lead us to a sound and prosperous
economy with full employment unburdened by a high rate of inflation. Ob-
viously—and I am the first to admit it—we have not licked all of our problems
yet. Frankly, the figures lately have been even better than we had expected.
And I would not be surprised or discouraged if we occasionally saw a few fig-
ures that are not quite as good in the months ahead. But the trend is right, and
the trend is strong, and we are going to keep it that way.
The figures are good but the United States of America is not composed of
statistics. It is composed of people. And when those people feel good about
where they are going, as they do now, then this country is clearly headed in
the right direction. And when the people feel that way, it means they want
continuity and stability, they don't want to change horses in midstream. I don't
think they want to trade in their Ford for another model in 1976.
As I travel around the country, it is very clear to me that the majority of the
American people are now returning to Republican values that I have always
stood for and voted for during my quarter of a century in the Congress. I knew
they were the right ones then; they are the right ones now. And we are going to
keep them in the record book for the next 4 years.
If you want to see what I mean, just take a look at some of the popular themes
being talked about by the Democrats in 1976. Just listen to this quotation: The
average American is fed up with footing the bill for high-flown, unplanned
bureaucratic schemes which fail to deliver effective services. I didn't say that.
Bill Simon didn't say that. Barry Goldwater didn't say that. We could have
said it, but that particular quotation came straight from Jimmy Carter, the
Democrat's leading contender in the primary races.
And Mo Udall, my very good friend with whom I served in the Congress
for many years, the most liberal of the leading Democratic candidates, does not
even call himself a liberal any more. He says the word "liberal" is associated,
and again I quote, “with big spending, wasteful extravagance in government.”
Well, some of us have been saying that for years. They seem to be a little
slower in getting the word, but better late than never. Those are some of the
borrowed ideas that the Democrats are using to appeal to the American voter this
year, along with some other ideas that sound awfully familiar to some of us Re-
824
