February 8
[66]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
66
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Concord, New Hampshire. February 8, 1976
LET ME make a comment or two to this wonderful group in this particular
room where Betty and I have both had the opportunity of shaking hands with
many of you.
I want to look each and every one of you right square in the eye and thank you
from the bottom of my heart for the tremendous effort and the great things you
are doing to help Betty and me and Susan and the others to go back to Wash-
ington and do a job for you, for New Hampshire, and for the country. And for
that, both of us here, as well as Susan, are most grateful.
I have heard from the people that are working with you here in New Hamp-
shire, and they have assured me day after day after day that we not only had
outstanding people but we had a lot of first-class people working on my behalf.
And when we can see firsthand this many people on a Sunday noon, on a day
when I know you would prefer to be skiing or watching the Olympics or doing
a million other things, to come here to show the support for what we are trying
to do and to indicate that you are willing to go down to the line to make certain
and to make positive that the things we stand for will be preserved and expanded
for the next 4 years, it makes me very, very grateful and most appreciative.
And I can't thank you enough.
Now, if you will excuse me, I will go to the other room, where they have
been listening, and the PA will come back here and you can listen to what I say
over there. And we will try to change it just a little bit.
[At this point the President left the cafeteria and proceeded to the gymnasium, where he
spoke to the overflow crowd as follows:]
Thank you very, very much, all of you in this room and that same wonderful
group in the other room for being here this morning.
We have had a superb day yesterday. It looks like everything is turning up
rosy with a fine, fine turnout like this on a Sunday noon.
I know you have got a million other things you would rather do, and I, there-
fore, am most grateful for the fact that you are here, that you are interested,
and that you are going out there to help us win February 24.
Susan went up late yesterday afternoon to Conway and skied. This morning
she told me that the racing was great and she had a wonderful time.
195
