[264]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are conducting our foreign policy with our eyes open, our guard up, and
our powder dry. We know that peace and national security cannot be pursued
on a one-way street, but we also know that a return to a collision course in a
thermonuclear age can leave the human race in ashes.
I will not lead the American people down the road to needless danger and
senseless destruction. I will lead them to the path of peace through strength,
and we will live in peace and freedom in the United States of America.
When we look at this great country, 50 States and our territories and 215
million Americans, we know that when you combine our industrial strength,
our tremendous agricultural productivity, our scientific and technological capa-
bility, our military strength, our moral and spiritual commitment-the United
States, by any standard, is number one, and we are going to keep it there. This
adds up to something that I can say here and will say across the length and
the breadth of the United States, we are proud to be Americans, and we are
proud of America.
The peace that we enjoy and the prosperity within our sights, these are the
clearest guideposts to victory in November. And in 1976 they are both on the
Republican side of the road. Our victory this year will be important to America
for years to come. It will be a clear signal to our own citizens, to our allies, and
to our adversaries, that we will stand tall and strong among the nations of
the globe. It will be a mandate to continue the policies of economic strength
and growth, of limited government, of decisionmaking at the local and State
level, of fiscal restraint and tax relief, which so many millions and millions of
Americans are demanding and to which our party has always been committed.
Our victory this year will be a covenant with the American people to promise
only what we can deliver and deliver everything we promise. It will be a recog-
nition by the American people that the government cannot do everything and
should not be expected to.We should never forget one very basic truth—a gov-
ernment big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough
to take from us everything we have. But it will also be an agreement with the
American people that whatever government does, it must do better and more
efficiently than it has in the past.
History may well record that the election of 1976 was a landmark in Ameri-
can politics. All of us are very, very fortunate to have a part in this great effort,
and each of us has a very special role to play. The grass roots politics that you
practiced this morning is every bit as important as the grand strategies of na-
tional campaigns. In fact, none of those strategies can succeed unless we succeed
at the grass roots level.
830
