March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am firmly opposed to subsidized imports. I don't want our American farm-
ers competing against the treasuries of foreign governments.
Let's talk for a minute about agricultural exports in the record of this admin-
istration. We exported a record $21,600 million in agricultural products last year.
Nearly $2 billion of that came from Illinois. That just did not happen. We
worked at it. You know what those exports mean to your farms, to your ability
to plant and produce, to your income, and to your family's well-being. It is good
for you, it is good for Illinois, and it is good for the country generally.
But let's look at another accomplishment. We are selling the Soviet Union $2
billion, or more I should add, in farm products from the 1975 crop. That is a
record, a record compiled during this administration, and it is only the begin-
ning of continued exports to the Soviet Union.
Let me add, farm exports will not be a pawn of international politics. We
want our agricultural production to promote trade and help keep the peace.
We want to keep your boys on the farms and send your bushels overseas and at
good terms of trade. I oppose policies which would keep your bushels at home
and send your boys overseas.
Last fall, as you know, we exercised a temporary restraint on grain sales to
the Soviet Union. Today, I would like to review that situation for you.
At that time, we had already sold the Russians about 10 million tons of grain.
Facilities to transport the grain and the Russian capability to handle incoming
shipments were already committed at capacity for months to come. If we had
sold the Russians one more bushel of corn or wheat at that time, it could not
have moved for months. We were then in the midst of negotiations with the
Soviet Government on long term sales of our wheat and corn.
Although we welcome the Russians as customers, I don't think they should
come into our market only when it suits them. I insisted on a long term grain
sales agreement with the Soviet Union. That is why there was a temporary halt
in sales while we put the finishing touches on that agreement. As soon as we got
the agreement that we wanted, I ordered the temporary halt lifted. Since then,
the Russians have come to us for another 3 million tons. As we have said before,
we remain ready to sell them more this year if they want it.
That is where we stand on farm exports, but better yet, because of the agree-
ment we concluded, you are going to have a regular customer, a regular market
in Russia for no less than 6 million tons of corn and wheat each year, and maybe
much more, from 1976 through 1980. That is a good deal for the American
farmer and for the Nation.
527
