[86]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
in attracting this convention to the United States, and your own outstanding
facilities made Orlando the final choice of the International Chamber.
I think this is an excellent example of how government and the private
sector can work together toward a common goal. I congratulate the city
of Orlando, and I am pleased that we were able to play a part in this successful
venture and effort.
With those brief observations and that good news announcement, I will
be glad to respond to the first question.
QUESTIONS
SOLAR RESEARCH CENTER
[2.] Q. Mr. President, a two-part question, sir. Since you took office you have
lashed out somewhat, of course, at Congress for its slowness in development
of a research and energy conservation plan. We now understand from ERDA
that it will be possibly more than 6 months before the site for the solar research
center is chosen, and that politics has entered into the picture so much in
that site selection that all the States in the Union may soon join in that com-
petition. The question, sir, is the pot-meaning the Ford administration—
calling the kettle black?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me get to the process and procedure for the determi-
nation of the solar research center.
ERDA, under Dr. Robert Seamans, is in the process right now of preparing
the criteria which will be distributed to all applicants for participation in the
solar research center. It is expected that the criteria will be developed and
made available within several weeks or a month. Following that, any city,
any State, any combination of governmental units can apply on the basis of
the criteria, the technical criteria, that has been established by the Energy
Research and Development Agency [Administration].
As I said, it will be 2 to 4 weeks before the criteria are out. It will probably
be 6 months or so after all applications have been received before ERDA
can make a final decision. That decision will be made as rapidly as possible.
We want to move ahead as quickly as possible, because solar research and
solar techniques are very important in our long-range energy program.
Q. Mr. President, would it possibly be in the best interest of the country's
taxpayers to develop the center here in Florida, in Brevard County, where
260
