January 26
[31]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
proven right. And we are going to continue a firm, steady rate of progress in
the months ahead.
So, with those observations, I will sign a few copies here.
[At this point, the President signed the Economic Report.]
Congratulations and my deep appreciation to all of you. It is good but some-
what hard reading. It is a little better than the one we submitted last year.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House at-
tended by members and staff of the Council of
Economic Advisers.
31
Annual Message to the Congress: The Economic Report
of the President. January 26, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
As we enter 1976, the American public still confronts its two greatest personal
concerns: inflation and unemployment. As valid as those concerns are, we
should not let them overshadow the very genuine progress we have made in
the past year. The underlying fact about our economy is that it is steadily
growing healthier. My policies for 1976 are intended to keep us on that upward
path.
A year ago the economy was in the midst of a severe recession with no
immediate end in sight. Exceptionally strong inflationary forces were just
beginning to abate, and the prospects for containing unemployment were not
bright.
It is now clear that we have made notable progress. The sharpest recession in
the post-World War II period hit bottom last spring, and a substantial recovery
is now under way. There were 85.4 million Americans at work in December,
1.3 million more than during March of 1975. While the rate of unemployment
remains far too high, it is slowly moving in the right direction. There have
also been appreciable advances in reducing the rate of inflation. The increase
in the consumer price index was 7 percent between December 1974 and Decem-
ber 1975, down from a rate of more than 12 percent during the previous 12
months.
In reviewing 1975 it is also wise to remember the large number of potentially
serious economic problems that did not materialize. The financial crisis that
85
