February 26
[142]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
up; real personal earnings are increasing. There isn't a single indicator that isn't
improving. The trends are all good.
And let me assure you we are going to continue to get good economic news,
and the American people believe, I think, that a government that does this, not
through quick fixes but through solid policies, those are the policies that are
in the best interest of the United States.
Now, it is absolutely essential that if we are to enjoy the fruits and the benefits
of a good economy, that we have to be strong enough to take care of the best
interests of the United States. We have to be strong enough to deter aggression,
to preserve the peace, and to protect our national interests.
The facts are that in the last 2 years, I have submitted to the Congress and to
the American people the two largest defense budget requests in the history of
the United States in peacetime. Those requested appropriations for the best mili-
tary personnel, the strongest weapons, the best planning by the Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marines, will give us the capability to deter war and to preserve our
national security.
This kind of a program should reassure our allies on a worldwide basis, and
this kind of a program should invite cooperation from any party that we nego-
tiate with. Let me assure you that this administration will stand tall and strong in
seeking peace through strength.
Let me close with just this final comment: In the State of the Union Message,
in the budget message, and in the economic report, we laid out some basic cri-
teria, what we are trying to do.
We are seeking to get an appropriate balance in the following areas: We
want a balance between those who pay the taxes and those who are the
beneficiaries. We want a proper balance between the Federal Government and
State and local units of government. We want a proper balance in the distribu-
tion of the necessary funding for the security of the country and for our necessary
domestic programs. We want a proper balance for the freedom of 215 million
Americans as they face the problems of government-freedom, peace, strength.
They are all in our program, both at home and abroad.
With that kind of a program, we will be able to convince a majority of Ameri-
cans on November 2 that our policies ought to continue. We will be able to get all
of you enthusiastic as you go out and sell what has been done. And number
three, we will recruit candidates; we will elect candidates, so they can help us
in the years ahead. Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:25 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Mary Louise Smith, Republi-
can National Committee chairman.
457
