February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
800, maybe more, this afternoon in Concord-extremely enthusiastic, coming
from all over the State. They have done a good job, and they will do a good job.
It is my impression the many times I have been to New Hampshire in the
past—not just in the last month—will have an impact because of the numerous
times that I have been in New Hampshire over the last 10 or 15 years. I have
acquired many friends, many individuals who believe in my policies, so I am
not just coming in for a last-minute effort.
I have a vast reservoir of good friends here that I have made over the years
including, I think, three times in 1975. So, ours is not a last-minute effort like
some campaigns have been. I have policies that are on the record, and I don't
have to say I would do this hypothetically.
So, our efforts in the last several days, I think, have been a good climax to
what we have done over a great many years.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, Miles Clevesy, Plymouth State College.
Mr. President, in a February 5 Manchester Union Leader article entitled
"Action Irks Governor," New Hampshire Governor Meldrim Thomson, Jr.,
severely criticized your administration for the ruling by the Atomic Energy
Safety and Licensing Board which will delay a proposed nuclear energy plant at
Seabrook.
The Governor blames the Board for freezing nearly 3,000 badly needed con-
struction jobs in the State and charged that the delay of the nuclear plants
construction is costing the electric-consuming public $10 million a month.
As I understand it, Mr. President, you called for construction of 200 major
nuclear plants by 1985 in the United States. Would you care to comment on both
Governor Thomson's charges and how the constant delays in awarding the
permits to Seabrook affect your deadline for 1985 for more such plants?
The President. Under the laws passed by Congress, a Nuclear Regulatory
Commission has been established. It has the sole jurisdiction to make a decision
as to any applicant and any protest made concerning that applicant. Any inter-
ference by a President of the United States in that process would be unethical
and illegal.
And this President doesn't intend to participate in any unethical or illegal
pressure on the Nuclear Regulatory Administration [Commission]. That
agency, or that commission, will make a decision and will make it on the facts.
I think it has taken too long, but that is their responsibility.
As
you indicated, I am a firm advocate of many, many more nuclear power-
199
