March 20
[237]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
many people in Florida—and I literally mean this—gave their time and made
the effort as volunteers, they turned it all around. We again had a broad spec-
trum of help and assistance. I went down twice. The momentum got going, and
we had a very significant win.
Then we went to Illinois last week, and the momentum that had begun in
New Hampshire, that had carried through, really gave us-well 59 to 40 per-
cent. That is not bad.
Now, we've got a real test here in North Carolina. Again, the initial forecast
was that we were going to lose. I don't think we are going to lose. I think we
are going to win. You know, five is great, but six would look even better.
[Laughter]
But the momentum is definitely in our direction. I can foresee nothing but
a real victory in Kansas City as a steppingstone, as a clincher for the victory
in November. In the meantime, we have to maximize our individual efforts.
We are trying to do that, but as we proceed along, let's make sure, let's make
positive we keep the party structure so that we can all work together after
Kansas City.
That is of maximum importance. We are the minority party, and we have to
solidify ourselves. I think we can, and I think we will. And the net result will
be a real triumph on November 2. And that will all come about because you
and many like you all over this country have been so generous with your time
and so self-sacrificing with every other aspect of your life. We just thank you.
Sorry Betty is not here, but she is up in New York City trying to—well, she
called Mayor Beame on his birthday. [Laughter] She is trying to get my votes
up to her poll. [Laughter] But she asked me to say hello to all of you and thank
you, as I have, for everything you have done.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:57 p.m. at the Park Selyn Building.
237
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Asheville,
North Carolina. March 20, 1976
IT IS nice to be here in Asheville in this part of North Carolina. We have had
a good day this week, and we had a fine day last week. I can't help but report
to you, firsthand, the good news we had again yesterday as far as the economy
is concerned—the lowest rate of increase in inflation in better than 4 years, .1
759
