February 20
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
either by the former Greek Government when they tried to assassinate Ma-
karios and to move in—I don't think that was right. I don't think the Turkish
Government was right to move in with 40,000 troops to do what they have done.
What we have to do is convince the Greek and Turkish Cypriots, with
the support of the Turkish as well as the Greek Government, to resolve the
problems of territory, the refugees, which is, of course, the most important
problem, and the kind of government that will actually control Cyprus.
Now what have I done? I have talked personally with the Prime Minister
of Turkey on two occasions, Prime Minister Demirel, and told him it was
mandatory that there be a settlement, mandatory for a wide variety of reasons—
the welfare of the people on the island of Cyprus, the strengthening of NATO,
and the maintenance of the Turkish-U.S. relations.
I have talked twice with Prime Minister Caramanlis urging that he cooperate
to the maximum. I think we are making some headway, and the present talks
that are going on are somewhat encouraging. But I am sure you recognize
the tension that has lived in that area not for the last 3 years but for literally
centuries.
And we are using our maximum diplomatic capability to not only solve the
Cyprus problem but the concurrent problems of the Aegean Sea. And it is
one of my deepest concerns because of the reasons that I have indicated. I
can assure you that we are going to continue to put pressure on all parties
to get a settlement.
SOLAR ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, Don Bryant of the Dover Lions Club. I think you know
that in New Hampshire energy costs are among the highest in the Nation.
Do you feel that the Federal Government is doing enough to develop solar
energy and other substitute sources of energy for oil?
THE PRESIDENT. I can tell you that in the budget that I submitted to the
Congress for the next fiscal year, I increased the research and development
funding for solar energy from roughly $80 million to about $120 million. It
is, what-30, 35 percent increase. I put into the budget virtually every penny
that any one of the agencies asked for solar energy research and development.
It is a very greatly expanding program, and it is covered in the Energy Re-
search and Development Agency [Administration] and HUD. And in all of
the agencies that have any research and development capability, if they wanted
solar energy research money they got virtually every penny that they asked
for-even in a tight budget year.
397
