April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a stable, upward trend. I think we are making headway. Inflation has been cut
in half. Unemployment is going down. Employment is going up, and this will
have a stabilizing effect. And we are headed for a balanced budget in the Federal
Government if we can get the Congress to cut the rate of growth in Federal
expenditures, and I think we are going to do it.
Q. The Federal Reserve Board regulates our monetary system, and it is a good
tool to be used when the economy is overheated. But when this happens, it
causes undue hardship for that individual that has just started or expanded his
business, and his funds are committed, and the only way he can get out from
underneath this is liquidation. What do you feel can be done to alleviate that
problem?
The President. You are exactly right that the Federal Reserve Board controls
the supply of money and basically, the interest rates throughout the country. In
the past, we have had too much fluctuation. They have either contracted too
severely or they have inflated it too greatly, and the net result is, to some extent
at least, they have contributed to the peaks and valleys in our economy. Under
the present leadership in the Federal Reserve Board, they have agreed to have a
range of increase in the supply of money of 42½ to, I think, 7 percent. And that is
a reasonable range, depending upon the fiscal policy of the Federal Government
and other factors.
At the present time, as I understand it, they are, more or less, in the middle of
that range over the 2 or 3 or 4-month period and, consequently, it does appear
that interest rates are falling. I know the Federal Government is paying less to-
day than it did a few months ago for the money it borrows, and long-range
interest rates are beginning to ease a bit.
I don't think we have to take any drastic action right now. It is my understand-
ing that savings and loans and mutual loaning institutions have had a great
inflow of money from the American people putting it in there for their savings.
And that, in turn, is going to make not only more money available to those that
have to borrow but money available at a lesser interest rate.
So, I think we are moving in the right direction, and I can assure you that the
Federal Reserve Board is cognizant of the precise problem you are talking about.
And we will try to make certain that they don't pinch off anything to create the
problems that we have had in the past on some occasions.
Q. I'm from Campbellsport, where you had breakfast this morning.
THE PRESIDENT. A real good breakfast-more than I should eat.
937
