[171]
March 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
—assure that benefits cited, such as lower consumer prices for wood prod-
ucts, are appropriate and result from Federal action.
——determine the appropriate trade-offs between competing uses of our forest
resources so as to yield the greatest net benefits from their use.
Apart from these fundamental concerns, further attention should be directed
to certain specific items, among them:
Upgrading the existing data base which in many areas is inadequate.
Evaluating user charges as a potential source of financing the costs asso-
ciated with a variety of goods and services now provided free or at a price
less than their cost.
Evaluating the effectiveness of State and private landowner assistance
programs.
Evaluating timber inventory management to determine whether changes in
present practices would yield greater net benefits to the Nation.
I believe that looking into the future to ascertain when actions must be taken
to meet carefully determined goals is essential. The process provides an oppor-
tunity to develop informed policy for an area of significant concern to the Nation.
But for the process to be workable, it must not be treated as producing an inflexi-
ble plan but rather viewed as an aid to charting our course for the next few
years subject to overall budget priorities and exigencies not now foreseen.
There is much work yet to be done. I am committed to accomplishing the
necessary tasks that remain.
GERALD R. FORD
172
Remarks at a Meeting With the Chairmen and Ranking
Republican Members of the Senate Armed Services and
Appropriations Committees on the Fiscal Year 1977
Defense Budget. March 2, 1976
WELL, I think I'll leave politics aside for a moment and talk very precisely about
the defense budget, and the four of you have a very important role in it.
I submitted, as all of you know, the largest defense budget in the history of the
country. And I submitted it knowing, first, that we had to have it and, secondly,
that we had to reverse the trend that has been developing over the last few years.
All of you know as well as I do, that the United States does have at the present
time a rough equivalency with the Soviet Union. But the situation is such that
506
