March 11
[205]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
work and they want a job, but we have to think of their families and of
themselves.
But we want them to have an opportunity to get that job back or to get a new
job and the best way to do it is through a tax incentive to individuals to stimulate
consumption or to business to stimulate more factories and more expansion.
Let me make one other point. As I sit in the Oval Office of the White House
I get letters, I get communications, I get legislation sent to me from the Con-
gress, and there is a trend. People say why don't you do this, why don't you
expand that program, why don't you spend more Federal money? Let me give
you two answers to that. If we followed that course of action, if we did what the
expansionists wanted us to do as far as the Federal Government was concerned,
I don't think they have understood one of the fundamentals that is so important,
and let me phrase it this way. I warn them, I look them in the eye and I say,
"Do you realize that a government big enough to give us everything we want is
a government big enough to take from us everything we have?"
You know, I have been criticized for saying that the Federal Government
should not spend as much money as some of the big spenders would like us to
do. Well, I am proud of the fact that in 19 months I vetoed 46 bills, most of them
adding extra funding to the Federal budget. And I am also very glad to note
that 39 of those vetoes have been sustained by one-third of the House and/or the
Senate. What does that mean? What has been accomplished by those vetoes that
have been sustained? One thing we should not forget-those vetoes that have
been sustained have saved $13 billion in Federal expenditures and that is a lot
of money that we saved.
And to those that are telling me they are going to send some more legislation
like that down to the White House, I have looked them in the eye and said,
“We'll veto them more and more and more because that kind of spending is
not good for America today and it isn't good for the future of America."
Now, let me conclude with just one or two additional comments. As John
Anderson said, this is one of the most inspirational meetings that I have ever
attended. They tell me there are 10,000 people here. I can see that every place
in this area is filled, and for that I thank all of you for coming out in a March
night when it could have been just as easy to stay home, but you are interested
in your government, and for that I thank you very much.
This is our Bicentennial Year. We have had 200 years in America. Refresh
your memory just a moment. About 200 years ago some 50 elected delegates put
together this Constitution by which this country has been governed. They met
from March until September. They deliberated, they compromised, they worked
625
