[148]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
of you, there are no words expressive enough to tell what it means to be an
American. America is easier to experience than to describe.
Too many Americans now take our national treasures for granted. These
treasures are not great cities and material achievements, but the freedom and
the dignity which American philosophy accords to every American citizen.
Although you have been citizens for only a very, very few minutes, you can
teach us many things. You can explain the real meaning of America to those
who see only bad in our Nation and only good in nations with other systems.
You can tell those who take America for granted that millions of people in
other lands as far away as 9,000 miles and as close as 90 miles would dearly love
to have just a fraction of the freedom we have in America.
Many of you come from places where people are denied the right of free
choice; from places where churches and synagogues are open, but only for
tourists; from places where free elections are promised, but never held; from
places where free speech exists only as a memory.
Let those of you who are now able to vote join fully in our self-governing
society. The American ballot box is not only our right but our responsibility.
You are now free to exercise all of the rights of free Americans. You also have
all of the responsibilities that go with them.
To qualify for naturalization, you have shown an understanding, as required
by law, of the fundamentals of history and the principles and form of govern-
ment of the United States.
After 200 years, there is still something very, very wonderful about being
an American. This continues to be the land of miracles. We continue to change,
to grow, to improve ourselves, to solve economic problems and employment
problems, and to believe that there is no problem that Americans cannot and
will not solve.
The United States of America remains the one nation which more than any
other in the world symbolizes man's quest for political freedom, religious liberty,
and economic prosperity.
Our 200-year-old Republic is kept free by the moral strength and faith of our
people and by the infusion of new strength and new faith which you, our newest
citizens, give us today. A nation of immigrants, we have thrived on constant
renewal by many peoples who bring us their very best. Americans have given
millions and millions a home, but we, in return, welcome and are enriched by
the many special qualities that have made our Nation unique.
I am proud to have supported—as I am sure my former colleagues in the
House did likewise—the legislation that permitted the naturalization of some
464
