February 17
[106]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
money, but the Coleman report of equality of educational opportunity and
subsequent research have cast serious doubts on that idea. It would be far easier
if we could measure educational quality in dollars and cents, but apparently
we cannot.
Education really relies on people-on the teachers who work in the schools,
on the administrators who direct them. The clear and constant measure of
educational quality is the degree of your commitment and the leadership that
you provide. You deserve the thanks and, even more importantly, the support
of all parents and all Americans. And on behalf of them, I thank you.
I understand the theme of this convention is "Cornerstone for Tomorrow."
For millions and millions of young Americans, the cornerstone of their tomor-
row will be you. I have faith that you will do the job for them, for us, and for
those who follow. And I thank you, again, for the opportunity of being with
you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the
main ballroom at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Allan D. Walker,
president, Charles M. Fallstrom, president-elect,
and Dr. Owen B. Kiernan, executive secretary, Na-
tional Association of Secondary School Principals,
and Rev. John C. Harper, director, St. John's Church.
106
Statement on Signing the Wetlands Loan Extension Act of 1976.
February 17, 1976
I HAVE today approved H.R. 5608, a bill which provides for the continued
authorization of funds with which to purchase wetlands for the protection of
migratory waterfowl. However, I am disappointed that the Congress did not
accept certain administration recommendations regarding this legislation.
To accomplish the objectives of this program and to do so in the most sound
financial manner, this administration had proposed to Congress two changes.
First, I proposed that the Secretary of the Interior be authorized to increase the
price of the Migratory Waterfowl Hunting Stamp, the so-called "duck stamp,"
considering both the increasing cost of buying wetlands and other costs incurred
in conserving waterfowl. Since 1972, the price of a “duck stamp" has been $5,
the maximum allowed by law. Most duck hunters should be willing to pay up
to $10 for a stamp to help pay the cost of conserving this resource. A $10 “duck
stamp” would double the revenues used to purchase wetlands, making approxi-
mately $24 million available annually.
347
