February 23
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
127
Special Message to the Congress Urging Enactment of Proposed
Community Services Legislation. February 23, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Today the Secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare is
transmitting my proposed Financial Assistance for Community Services Act to
the Congress.
This proposal is in keeping with my philosophy of reducing unnecessary and
burdensome Federal restrictions while increasing State and local flexibility and
responsibility in the administration of social programs.
This reform proposal will improve and strengthen the program of social
services established under Title XX of the Social Security Act. It will provide
a $2.5 billion block grant annually to the States on a population basis. It will
eliminate the requirement for State matching funds, as well as most Federal
requirements and prohibitions on the use of Federal funds.
These changes are an important step toward an improved Federal-State rela-
tionship in the social services field. Enactment of Title XX in January, 1975, was
a beginning. That law eliminated many of the problems of the past by giving
States broad authority to allocate resources within a general framework. Rather
than making States responsible to the Federal government, accountability for
social services was made a matter between each State and its citizens through an
open planning process-a process which has shown great promise.
Title XX, however, did not go far enough. It added new restrictions which
interfere with effective delivery of services. Officials at State and local levels of
government indicate that they are willing and able to assume greater responsi-
bility to gain greater flexibility in meeting local needs.
The proposed Financial Assistance for Community Services Act will:
—Eliminate the requirement that States must match one State dollar for three
Federal dollars.
-Eliminate numerous restrictive conditions on how Federal funds may be
used: burdensome Federal requirements for child day care; limitations on
social services funding for health and institutional care; and procedures for
the imposition of fees and the determination of eligibility.
-Concentrate Federal dollars on people most in need, those under the poverty
threshold and those receiving public assistance.
421
