[214]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
warheads, we have better accuracy, we have more strategic aircraft-America
is fully capable of meeting any challenge under any circumstances. We can
deter aggression, we can keep the peace, and we can handle our problems of
national security because America is strong. And let me assure you that under
this administration this year and for the next 4 years we are going to stay
strong because we have peace. And we are going to keep it because we are
strong.
Let me conclude by saying that this is one of the most exciting, one of the
most inspirational audiences that I have seen any place in this campaign. The
momentum is going. We won in New Hampshire, we won in Vermont, we
won in Massachusetts, we won in Florida, we are going to win in Illinois, and
we are going to win in North Carolina. And when we get to Kansas City, we
are going to win there, and we are going to win November 2.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:38 p.m. at Hanes Mall.
215
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in
Wilkesboro, North Carolina.
March 13, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, my very good friend and your very great
Governor, Jim Holshouser. Let's give Jim a great round of applause, because
he deserves it.
Bill Anderson, Hal Green—and may I say to Hal and to all of you here, we
are very grateful and appreciative of the wonderful school you have, the out-
standing student body, the great faculty, and all of the wonderful people of
Wilkes County that have supported this great institution.
Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, obviously it is a great privilege
and a pleasure and a high honor to have the opportunity of being in Wilkes
County. And obviously, I think I am among a few friends, and I thank you
for it.
I am not going to try and cover all the counties that Jim did, but I under-
stand that last night, was it, you were in Yadkin County? And let me say to
those from Yadkin County, thanks, those of you who are here, and all of the
other counties that are present on this great occasion here tonight.
You know, I have a long and a very special relationship with the people of
North Carolina. About 38 years ago, I was privileged to attend the University
698
