March 20
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
some of the other distinguished guests who are here. First, I think it is a very op-
portune time for me to wish Jim Martin's mother a very happy birthday, which
I understand will take place tomorrow. Mom and Pop Martin are well known
in Washington because of their very well-known son. Jim is every bit as proud
of you, Mrs. Martin, as I am sure you are of him.
It would be redundant, but I feel so strongly-I want to compliment you on
your outstanding Governor, Jim Holshouser. But I likewise would feel it very
appropriate for me to compliment you on one of my dearest and finest friends
in the Congress, Charlie Jonas and, of course, Annie Elliott.
Charlie and I served on the Committee on Appropriations together for a good
many years. And I know what a superb job he did, what a hard struggle he
made year after year after year to try and get some sense and responsibility in
the consideration of the various appropriation bills, but particularly the Labor
and HEW appropriation bills. And believe me, that is not an easy job. So,
Charlie and Annie Elliott, it is great to see you.
Let me also put in a good word for Cornbread Maxwell-[laughter]—and
Lou Massey¹ and the 49'ers of UNC, Charlotte. I wish them the very best.
The Ninth Congressional District of North Carolina has been accustomed
to winners, and I can personally vouch for the fact that this district has a great
reputation in Washington, D.C., and particularly in the House of Representa-
tives. You don't settle just for a good Congressman, you insist on a great Con-
gressman, and Jim and Charlie represent that.
You sent Charlie Jonas to Washington on 10 occasions, and as I said earlier,
he did a superb job. You sent Jim Martin to Washington on two occasions, and
let me urge you as strongly as I possibly can that you send Jim Martin back for
at least a third term.
I am proud of Jim because I know that he is one of the very strong people
that serves in the House of Representatives. And during my 25-plus years there,
I had an opportunity to pass judgment on a good many Members of the House.
They sort of would come and go like Greyhound buses, as one of our friends
used to say. And so I can speak with some authority when I say that you have
great representation in Jim, as you did in Charlie Jonas.
Jim, when he first went to the Congress in January of 1973, and from then
on, has demonstrated an outstanding capability to deal with issues forcefully,
intelligently, and with a great deal of plain old North Carolina common sense.
And I think those are great attributes for any person in public office.
¹ Cedric (Cornbread) Maxwell and Lou Massey, basketball players for the University of North Carolina
at Charlotte.
749
