February 23
[126]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Therefore, I am asking the Congress to approve the community services act,
and I am sending the proposal to the Congress today. It will significantly in-
crease the flexibility of States in delivering social services to low-income families,
and I refer in this category to such programs as day care, foster care, and home-
maker services.
Many of the responsibilities now placed by law in the hands of Federal
bureaucrats will be passed back to locally elected or State-elected officials. The
basic responsibility on how best to meet the needs of States' low-income fami-
lies would be returned to each of your respective States. This determination,
as I see it, can best be made through an open process of local planning that
directly involves your citizens.
Later this week, I will transmit proposals consolidating Medicaid and 15
other categorical health programs into a single $10 billion block grant. With it—
and I think this is significantly important—is a commitment to each of you
that your State will receive more Federal funds from this single program in
fiscal year 1977 than your State received in 1976 from 16 existing programs.
The hard choices of how best to meet the health needs of your State will no
longer be defined by a complicated and categorical tangle of Federal regula-
tions. They will be for you and your citizens to determine in an open and locally
responsive process.
I will soon submit to the Congress an education block grant program which
would propose to recognize national concerns that call for very special empha-
sis. It will give each State maximum flexibility in using Federal dollars to meet
your educational needs.
I know that all of you have been in the forefront on such issues as school
finance reform and education of the handicapped. In the last decade you have
demonstrated the ability and the willingness to tackle education problems, and
there is no reason whatsoever for the Federal Government to treat you as if we
doubted your commitment to goals shared by all Americans.
My proposals will reduce the administrative burdens of State and local gov-
ernments, while assuring a Federal commitment to elementary and secondary
education. No State will receive less Federal money under my proposal than
it did in fiscal year 1976 under all of the programs that would be consolidated.
In offering these proposals, I do not suggest a retreat from national concerns
nor the wholesale elimination of Federal funding. I intend to make Federal
dollars available to you, for you, in your States. But I will also minimize or
eliminate the requirement that State financial resources be used to qualify for
Federal matching funds.
419
