[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
But those statistics don't tell the whole story. Consumer confidence is again
on the rise and rising rapidly, and Americans are buying cars and retail goods
at an increased rate. Americans again feel confident to invest in their future and
their Nation's future. Our inflation rate is still too high, and there is still too much
unemployment. But we are taking firm steps in the right direction, and we are
going to keep up the pace that is now moving very, very rapidly.
For one thing, we are going to keep down the cost of living by keeping down
the cost of the Federal Government. We are going to improve those Federal
programs that do work and get rid of those Federal programs that don't.
Take revenue sharing, if we can, for a Federal program that does work. It
is cheap to administer. The running costs, or the costs of administration are
less than one-twelfth of 1 percent for every dollar handled. That much—in
the way of funds, some $5 billion a year, costs the least of any Federal program
that we administer, and it goes from the Federal Government to the State
government to the local government across this great land. It combines the
efficiency of the Federal revenue sharing system with the accountability of your
local government.
Under the current 5-year general revenue sharing program which ends
this December, Illinois State and local authorities will have received over
$12 billion. It has been a good investment at the State and at the local level.
It has helped to maintain local community services. It has helped to educate
your children. It has helped to keep your taxes down.
Revenue sharing by any criteria has proven its value and its realistic appraisal
of the Federal Government's role. That is why, with the help of the Congress,
I intend to extend and to increase this program, because realism and common
sense is what we want, not rhetoric.
I have been dealing with the realities of the Federal Government not just
in the last 19 months, but during a quarter of a century of service in the House
of Representatives. I believe that my experience has a lot to do with what I can
accomplish and have accomplished for the American people.
One thing that my experience has taught me is that America needs strong
defenses to keep it secure and at peace. I believe in peace through strength.
If we are strong enough, we can deter aggression, we can maintain the peace,
and we can take care of our national security against any challenge from any
quarter. As a nation today, we are second to none in military strength. And I,
with the help of the Congress, intend to keep it that way.
Another thing that my experience has taught me is how to use the machinery
of the Federal Government for the well-being of the American people. For
666
