[92]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
protection and every other retirement program strong, sound, and certain. And
we will do it.
Yesterday, the Department of Labor announced that wholesale prices were
unchanged in January. In fact, wholesale prices have shown no appreciable
change since October of last year. This is more good news in our fight against
inflation, and we are going to keep the pressure on.
In addition to the social security program, we are continuing our strong
commitment to benefit programs for more than 3 million railroad, military,
and Federal Government employees. Of course, that means we will do the same
job for the veterans who live here and live elsewhere in 49 other States.
After many, many years of sacrifice and hard work, you have contributed to
America, you have earned the respect, and you have earned more than the
prospect of poverty in your retirement years.
In my budget, the supplemental security income program, or SSI, will pay
almost $6 billion in Federal benefits to more than 5 million disabled and disad-
vantaged older Americans in 1977-170,000 of them right here in Florida.
Let's be frank. There have been some problems with this program, as you
probably know, because the SSI replaced a great number of federally assisted
State programs and inevitably there was some confusion in the process.
We have already begun to take extensive steps to correct these problems, and
we will make sure that if any American qualifies for these benefits, he or she
will get them, period. Those who don't qualify won't be taking money that you
should have.
In the field of health care, the Federal Medicare program in 1976 will provide
more than $17 billion for the health care of 24 million older and disabled Ameri-
cans, about 1,400,000 right here in the great State of Florida. But there are flaws
in this program, which actually help raise the cost of your medical care and
which fail to protect you adequately against the economic burdens of prolonged
illness.
I have proposed major improvements in the Medicare program to make it
serve you better. One of the most important improvements is the creation
of a system of health insurance that would pay all but a very small fraction
of the catastrophic cost of complex or extended care and treatment.
I don't have to tell you that medical treatment is very, very expensive
today. Hospital costs have risen by more than 200 percent since 1965, to an
average cost of $128 per day. If you have to stay in a hospital or a nursing
home or under doctor's care for a very, very long time, it puts an incredible
302
