February 14
[96]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
That is not good enough yet, but we have regained 96 percent of the jobs
lost during the recession and we are going to do better. We have to find job
opportunities for roughly 2 million new job entrants every year into the eco-
nomic mainstream of our society. And the best way to do it, the only honest
way to do it, is to try to do it in the private sector. And everything we do is
going to be aimed in that direction, I can assure you.
Now let me make one or two comments about foreign policy. I have said—
and I would like to repeat here—our whole foreign policy has to be predicated
on peace with strength. And what does strength mean? It means having a
Defense Department-Army, Navy, Air Force-that is second to none, mod-
ern weapons, the best training, the best-and let me put this in very emphati-
cally-we have to have the best intelligence capability in the world.
Frankly, I am getting fed up with those who want to destroy it and dis-
mantle it on the one hand, and those who, for one reason or another, want to
leak all our classified information on the other.
Now we are going to put a maximum effort to maintain the capability of
this country to deter war and to be able to maintain our national security
against any threat. That means we have to spend a lot of money. It means we
have to buy the best hardware, we have to provide the best training, and we
have to give it public support. And that is what I am asking all of you to do.
The Congress cannot and must not slash the Federal military budget this year.
Let me just conclude with this: All of you have, obviously, helped tremend-
ously already. We have got—what, 30 days to go, Lou? Twenty-four, all right.
It's March 9. I have not had time to add it up. I didn't take new math, so I
can't do it. But, anyhow, we have got a short time. We have to do a lot of door-
bell ringing, telephoning. We have to do a lot of persuading.
I think it is vitally important that we are successful March 9 so we can be
successful November 2.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:40 p.m. at the resi-
dence of Cassius Peacock, chairman of the Lee
County President Ford Committee. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Representatives Louis Frey,
Jr., chairman of the Florida President Ford Com-
mittee, L. A. (Skip) Bafalis, and C. W. Bill Young.
325
