March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sector so we had to stimulate the private sector with sound economic policies.
And when we see the results, we know we were right, and we are going to keep
the same solid, steady, firm, constructive programs in the future. And we are
not going to buy any quick fixes that some are trying to throw at the American
people in an election year.
You know, over the 19 months that I have been honored to be your President,
I vetoed 46 bills. The statisticians tell me that's a record. Well, 39 of those bills
have been sustained by the Congress. And I appreciate that at least one-third
of the Congress on 39 out of those 46 occasions did sustain my vetoes.
I am pleased because those vetoes that were sustained saved the taxpayers of
this country $13 billion. And if this Congress sends down any more big budget-
busting spending programs in an election year, I am going to veto them again
and again and again and again.
You know, there is one basic truth that I think we all have to understand. I
think it cuts across almost anything. I like to phrase it this way: A government
big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take
from us everything we have.
And so as we try to hold down Federal spending on the one hand and try to
hold down the growth of government on the other, we have to have a firm
course to protect the best kind of government, the best system of government
that man ever fashioned or put together. It is a system that we have that was
given to us by our forefathers, laid out with great care and at a great price by
patriots yearning for freedom.
We must make certain and positive that this government lives and grows and
thrives. It is a government that must never be the master of the people. The
people must control the government. We want the freedom in America to choose
our own course, our own lives, to chart our own future on our own terms with-
out having the government tell us everything we can or cannot do.
As we look back, America has prospered because that kind of government,
compared to any other, has shown the light and shown the way. Yes, the major
contribution of our government has been to give people the freedom to do things
by themselves to explore, to invent, to build, to learn, to speak, and to prosper.
Eight generations of Americans have enjoyed this freedom and made the most
of it. What other nation can match the combined economic, agricultural, tech-
nological, and military and moral strength of America ?
Yes, the elections of 1976 will play an important role in deciding what course
837
