[35]
January 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
35
Letter Accepting the Resignation of H. R. Crawford, Assistant
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for
Housing Management. January 28, 1976
[Dated January 27, 1976. Released January 28, 1976]
Dear Mr. Crawford:
In accordance with your letter of January 26, 1976, I hereby accept your resig-
nation as Assistant Secretary for Housing Management at the Department of
Housing and Urban Development effective this date.
Sincerely,
NOTE: Mr. Crawford's letter of resignation read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I hereby resign my position as Assistant Secretary
for Housing Management at the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, effective upon
GERALD R. FORD
acceptance of this resignation.
It has been my pleasure to serve in this position,
and I have decided to move on to personal pursuits
within the private sector.
Respectfully yours,
H. R. CRAWFORD
36
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on the
Food for Peace Program. January 28, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress the 1974 annual report on agri-
cultural export activities carried out under Public Law 480 (Food for Peace).
This program has supported the foreign policy and humanitarian objectives of
the United States, providing assistance to alleviate hunger and promoting eco-
nomic progress in the developing nations.
Throughout the year, the Food for Peace program demonstrated its flexibility
in a changing agricultural situation. Because of the continuing tightness of
commodity supplies in the United States, shipments during the year were some-
what restricted. This was especially true of wheat and wheat product shipments.
However, our food donations to the drought-stricken African countries remained
substantial. In both East and West Africa, U.S. food aid represented about 40
percent of the total supplied by the international community. The level of U.S.
contributions to the World Food Program and the U.S. voluntary agencies was
886
