February 28
[146]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
acts within the 20-day extension just granted by the Supreme Court, the Com-
mission will no longer be able to enforce the campaign laws, advise candidates
on what those laws mean, or certify candidates for Federal matching funds.
In short, the watchdog will have lost its teeth. We must not retreat from our
commitment to clean elections.
When the Supreme Court acted on this matter, it made it clear that the Con-
gress could remedy this problem by simply reconstituting the Commission. I
supported the Court's view and asked that the Congress act swiftly to extend the
life of the Commission.
Instead, various interests, both political and otherwise, both in and out of Con-
gress, have chosen this moment to advance a wide range of hastily considered
changes in the campaign laws. Most of the bills now being considered in the
Congress would introduce great uncertainty in the campaign process.
With the 1976 elections only 9 months away, I do not believe this is the proper
time to begin tampering with the campaign reform laws, and I will veto any
bill that will create confusion and will invite further delay and litigation.
Certainly, no one is fully satisfied with the campaign laws now on the statute
books. When the current political season is behind us, I ask the Congress to work
with me in conducting a very thorough review and revision of those laws. But
right now,
the most pressing task is to reestablish the Federal Election Commis-
sion as quickly as possible.
I urge the Congress to put aside its debates and enact the bill that I have sent
to the Congress to provide for an immediate and simple extension of the Com-
mission. We must get on with the job of ensuring that the political process in
1976 will be just as fair, just as honest as we can make it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:23 p.m. in the Briefing Room at the White House.
146
Message to the Chairman of the District of Columbia
City Council Disapproving a Shop-Book Rule Bill.
February 28, 1976
[Dated February 27, 1976. Released February 28, 1976]
IN ACCORDANCE with the District of Columbia Self-Government and Gov-
ernmental Reorganization Act, I disapprove Act 1–88, the District of Columbia
Shop-Book Rule Act.
461
