March 12
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
there be changes in its administration? Will it become permanent or is there
some way the burden of this tax collecting will be shifted to the communities?
THE PRESIDENT. Almost a year ago, I recommended to the Congress a 5¾-year
extension of the existing law which expires December 31, 1976. I recommended
that it be extended because I think it is one of the best programs the Federal Gov-
ernment does in seeking to aid State and local units of government. By the end
of this calendar year, the Federal Government will have contributed to State
and local units of government, I think it is almost $30 billion.
The administrative cost of this program is unbelievable. It is one of the best
records of any Federal aid program. I think less than 100 Federal employees
handle the whole distribution of all these funds to the 50 States and the almost
5,000 different units of government at the local level. I think the administrative
cost on an annual basis is one-twelfth of 1 percent-unbelievably low.
Now, I recommended this 534-year extension almost a year ago. We have been
working with Governors, with mayors, with county officials trying to get the
Congress to get off dead center. I was told that yesterday a subcommittee of the
House Government Operations Committee marked up a bill which is not the
legislation I proposed. It is my understanding that subcommittee has recom-
mended a 3-plus-year extension. I am told that instead of adding 150 million
a year to the formula that has been in existence for almost 5 years, they have
cut out that $150 million add-on each year.
I don't like that approach. I think we ought to give certainty with a longer
term, and I think we ought to provide the growth factor in the annual funding
for the State and local units of government.
I can assure you and the Governors and the mayors and the county officials
that we are going to continue to try and get the recommendations that I pro-
posed, which all of them support.
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON THE DEFENSE BUDGET
[2.] Q. Mr. President, in Florida 2 weeks ago, when I was there, you men-
tioned that you were going to drop the word "détente" and, instead, would seek
peace through strength. Now, would you mind commenting on how you pro-
pose to seek this strength or defense against the 100 or more liberals that we
now have in the Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the public will see that they change and that they
change to support the $112.7 billion defense program that I have recommended,
which is the largest peacetime defense program in the history of the United
States. I am an optimist that the impact of the public will be sufficient to get
653
