[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
was given out—I really didn't understand it. It looked like so many people
what needed to be helped-they had no help at all. And I'm not seeking no
help for myself, but lots of organization was fully able and had papers and
everything for their organizations to receive some of that Government grant,
but they didn't receive any at all.
It was very embarrassing-to the whole thing. It looked like everything was
cut and dried before the meeting started.
And tell Senator [Congressman] Burke that I said hello-Dr. Sweeting—
when you go back. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure, sir, that I understand the question. Is there
an appeal being made on behalf of-
Q. Well, quite a few of us made an appeal because so many of them was
vetoed at the meeting. They went ahead and talked. They wouldn't listen to
them. They just walked out.
The President. What particular program were they referring to, Doctor?
Q. Well, some was the manpower and different other organizations that
really I don't—but they were on the agenda for some of the grants, but they
didn't receive it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you would be so kind to put some of these ques-
tions in writing, we could look up specifically and find out why this organi-
zation or that organization didn't get the grant. And we would be glad to
respond and communicate with you, sir.
Q. I will be very happy. I communicate with Mr. Burke each time he comes
down here.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll talk to Congressman Burke and find out.
Q. Dr. Sweeting-he knows who I am. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. All right, thank you, sir.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Ernestine Turner, EEO director for Broward
County government. I would like you to give me a general observation of the
Federal revenue sharing as allotted to migrant education and for migrant work-
ers and farmworkers throughout the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. The general revenue sharing is not earmarked for any par-
ticular program in a State or in a local community, a county or a city. There are
some broad guidelines—I think there are six broad guidelines given—that are
supposed to be followed by the local or State government. But there is no
definite allocation when the money goes to Ft. Lauderdale or to Broward County
or to the State of Florida.
284
