April 7
[308]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
problems about any backroom, smoke-filled room negotiations. It will just be
pure mathematics, and I think we look very encouraging.
Q. Mr. President, I am for the private postal system, and with some of the con-
tinuing U.S. postal system problems, I would like to know what you think of
the private postal system's role in today's mail being carried?
THE PRESIDENT. The present problems we have with the Postal Service are
some of the most perplexing that, frankly, I face domestically. We had a political
patronage system for 170 or 180 years. Politics was rampant in the Post Office
Department. Career people had little or no opportunity to ever achieve top posi-
tions in the Post Office Department. The delivery of the mails under that political
patronage system was deteriorating very rapidly.
Now, we went to the Postal Service. Everybody recognized that it would take
a period of time to get rid of politics and run the Post Office Department as a
business. The transition has taken longer than any of us wanted, but I think they
are making headway.
Now we are faced with at least three bad alternatives at the present time, be-
cause the transition has not been as rapid as we wanted it. The Postal Service
wants a substantial additional increase from general revenues. They are now sub-
sidized to the tune of about a billion dollars a year. And as I understand it, the
head of the Postal Service is talking about another billion dollars, making a $2
billion subsidy in a 12-month period. Those of us who have to guard with great
caution and care the expenditure of moneys from general revenues are deeply
concerned about that.
The other alternative is to cut back service, get rid of some of the uneconomic
postal stations, services. And, of course, we get-not we, because it is an inde-
pendent agency-the Postal Service is getting a good many complaints about
any reduction in service, even though economically they can prove beyond any
doubt that it ought to be discontinued. So, that is an alternative that has some
peril.
The other is to increase postal rates. They went up—what was it, January 1—
from 10 to 13 cents for first class. That raises questions. At the moment, the al-
ternatives all look bad.
Let me give you one sign, however, that I think is indicative of an improving
management process there. When the Post Office Department ended its career,
when the political patronage was eliminated, the Post Office Department had
roughly 800,000 employees. At the present time, they have roughly 700,000. So,
they have made substantial progress in trying to lower their personnel numbers
991
