March 29
[267]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the North Atlantic Council-Ambassador de Staercke of Belgium, Ambassador
de Rose of France, and Ambassador Bruce of the United States.
In paying this tribute we reaffirm our commitment to our defense, to our way
of life, and to the cause of freedom everywhere. This is the responsibility of all
of the nations of the North Atlantic alliance and, most particularly, it is the
responsibility of the world's most powerful country, the United States.
In this American Bicentennial Year we are reminded of our duty to safe-
guard the heritage of democracy and of liberty. If we fail, there is no one to take
our place.
Over the past year, it has been my privilege to meet, both in Washington and
in Brussels, with the Ambassadors that we honor here today. I have found a very
remarkable new unity among all the nations of the alliance on political develop-
ments in Europe and on the continuing responsibilities of collective defense.
Each of the men we honor has given more than his full measure of clear-sighted
and dedicated service that we are all called upon to show.
Ambassador de Staercke has given more than 25 years of service to NATO,
spanning the service of 10 U.S. Ambassadors, and making in the truest sense
of the word a lasting contribution to the solidarity of the West. I would note that
our ties with Belgium bilaterally and in the alliance are truly outstanding.
The strength and the durability of our ties are expressed in special measure by
one of the countries represented here today. France is our oldest ally, and in our
Bicentennial Year it is with special warmth that we reaffirm the closeness of the
United States' relations with France.
Ambassador de Rose, in a long and distinguished diplomatic career, has
earned an enviable reputation for the skill with which he has represented France,
whose role is so important to the security and well-being of the West. I know
from Secretaries Kissinger and Rumsfeld that Ambassador de Rose's analytical
powers and eloquence enlivened and dignified the deliberations of the North
Atlantic Council and were a source of much wisdom.
A little more than a month ago it was my pleasure to confer the highest civilian
award of the United States, the Medal of Freedom with Distinction, on David
Bruce.ยน His outstanding service over half a century of public life has been a
unique contribution to American diplomacy and Atlantic unity that will never
be equaled.
What we should do and what we must do to honor these men today, in a
truly meaningful way, is to ensure that we maintain our strength and that with
1 See Item 76.
849
