[95]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. You served lunch to me at school 43 or 44 years ago. Do you remember
me? [Laughter]
The President. I have to get my glasses on. Those lights are bad.
Q. Ah, you know me, Jerry. [Laughter] Can I shake your hand, then I'll
leave you. Can I?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, have you got a question, first?
Q. I haven't got anything. You are doing a good job.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. [Laughter] I am glad to see a good Michigander down
here enjoying all the benefits and blessings of this area.
Q. Michael R. Nazarawh, Sanibel Island, Florida. Thank you for coming
to Ft. Myers, Mr. President. The question: Now that Susan has left her
position and will be joining you in helping in your reelection, do you antici-
pate any other members of the immediate family to follow suit, hopefully?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Betty is a tremendous asset. She could not come down
on this trip, but, I am sure if and when I think we will come to Florida
again, she will come on that trip. And Steve is out training horses in Cali-
fornia, and that is a long way from Florida. Mike is up in divinity school
in Massachusetts. He was with us in New Hampshire and will probably join us
the next time. Jack has got a new job, and he has got to go to work so-
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. They are great kids, and I have a wonderful
wife, and they are a better asset than I am.
FLORIDA INTERSTATE SYSTEM
Q. Good afternoon, I'm Robert Oldham from Ft. Myers. First of all, I
would like to thank you for sending me the autographed picture for Christ-
mas, and I have a question. What can you or will you do to speed construction
of Interstate 75 throughout southwest Florida?
THE PRESIDENT. How fast do you want it done? [Laughter]
Q. Well, how does next week strike you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have talked to your fine Congressman and others
about it. I happen to be a person that believes very strongly that we ought
to finish the interstate system as quickly as possible, period.
Now it is my understanding that there is a bill in the House and in the
Senate—they each have a slightly different version-one has $12 million extra
for this area and one has $25 million extra. Somewhere in between $12 and
and $25 million will be made available to the State of Florida to expedite
314
