February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of years until we can get a permanent one up. But we were told, to qualify for
the Federal funds we would have to build a $206,000 bridge to span a 47-foot
stream.
The town of Andover, about 20 miles up from us, just finished a bridge de-
signed by a registered professional engineer, designed for 20-ton loads, which is
really all we need to get a firetruck across, 25 cars a day, a schoolbus, and a mail-
man. [Laughter]
What I am asking is, would it not be possible for Federal agencies to take a
look at prudence in design and recognize that, doggone it, maybe we could do
for $60,000 the job that needs doing. We are not looking for a Lincoln Conti-
nental we want to get across the doggoned river. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Let me ask you, is this a primary, secondary, or interstate
highway?
Q. This is a Warner town road, the bridge has been there for over 200 years.
This will be the fourth bridge to go in place.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is under the Federal program a category—I have
forgotten the precise title, but let me give you what I think is a better answer.
Number one, last year I recommended an extension of the Federal aid to
highway program, the abolishment of all the categorical grant programs for
the Federal aid to highway program except interstate, and I recommended that
1 cent of the Federal gas tax go back to the States.
Now, unfortunately the Congress hasn't approved that. Under that program
there would have been a block grant to the State of New Hampshire, which
could have had greater control over the utilization of that money so that your
State highway authorities, in conjunction with local authorities, could have
made that decision for the specifications without having some engineer in Wash-
ington, D.C., do it.
I think that makes a lot of sense, but the Congress wouldn't buy it. I can tell
you why. They like to keep their fingers on certain specific programs.
In this case, under the existing law, my impression is that I just don't see why
a Federal highway engineer should draw the specifications for a town road in
Warner. I just don't see by what authority they have that jurisdiction.
But let me tell you this, if you will get me the facts, write them down, give
them to me, we will find out.
In all honesty, it doesn't make sense. My program would have avoided it, but
we have to deal with realities.
Q. Well, I think the real point in contention is that the funds are going to the
State, and the State is setting the specifications and not allowing the town to
169
