[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ELLIOT RICHARDSON
Q. Mr. President, Cathy Allen. As you may know, there is a move in this State
to write in the name of Elliot Richardson as Vice President on next Tuesday's
ballot. Would you have confidence in Mr. Richardson as a Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I nominated Elliot Richardson as the American Am-
bassador to Great Britain. I called him back to be the Secretary of Commerce
in my Cabinet. He attended his first Cabinet meeting this morning. I have
mentioned him as one of the potential possibilities as a Vice-Presidential
running mate. Obviously, the answer is yes.
COMMUNIST MEMBERSHIP IN NATO
Q. Mr. President, my name is Fran Silvestry. Recent events in Italy suggest
that the Communist Party may soon be admitted into the Italian Government.
If this happens, would you instruct our intelligence agencies to attempt to alter
this, and how secure would you feel with the Communist government as a
member of NATO?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have taken a very strong position, first at a NATO
meeting that I attended in Brussels last May, that the members of NATO
should not have Communist Party members as a part of their government,
period. We told that to the Italians, we told it to every other European country.
I don't think you can have a Communist government or Communist officials
in a government and have that nation a viable partner in NATO.
So, I have taken a very strong position against the inclusion of any Com-
munist membership in a government in Western Europe or in any NATO
country. I hope that the good people of those countries, Italy or elsewhere, will
make certain that they have one of the free political parties in their countries to
head their governments. I think it will be a stronger and better NATO, and
we would vigorously oppose any Communist participation.
PREPARATION FOR PUBLIC OFFICE
Q. Mr. President, Peter Clark. What courses do you have to take at college to
become President? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I would not limit my recommendations to what you might
take in college, because I think your whole educational process from kinder-
garten through college or to graduate school is equally important, but I would
make two recommendations: I would study government; I would study his-
tory-the history of the United States.
376
