[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
respond, because the circumstances differ in one country to another, and that
is why we are going to have this investigation on the broadest possible scale.
America must compete if we are going to sell American products abroad. We
have to compete fairly and within the law. But that competition has to be equal
with others from other countries, so it may have to resolve itself around some in-
ternational code of conduct, if it is possible. It just is not an answer that I can say
black or white. It is going to require a great deal of study and this group will be
shortly underway, as I have indicated.
EMPLOYMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE
[18.] Q. Mr. President, I am a high school student, and I was wondering
what your views are on teenage kids working, the ones that are under 18.
THE PRESIDENT. I have long felt that under our minimum wage legislation we
ought to have what they call a youth differential which would mean that an em-
ployer could pay a bit less to young people so that that individual could have a
job rather than standing on the street corner. I think that makes sense, and I
believe it makes sense from the point of view of the employer, because a young
person is not normally as well qualified as a person who has had some experi-
ence. So, a youth differential in our minimum wage legislation, I think, would
be a step forward to give young people an opportunity to earn money and to stay
off the street corners and have a lot of fun all the time.
I guess that is three and three and it has been great. I love you, and I would
like to stay over, but thanks for being here and thanks for the wonderful
reception.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:50 p.m. at the
Mary E. Sawyer Municipal Auditorium. He was
introduced by Dr. Adolph Gunderson, candidate for
the Third Congressional District.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Gov. Warren P. Knowles of Wisconsin 1964-71,
chairman of the Wisconsin President Ford Com-
mittee, and Mayor Patrick Zielke of La Crosse.
267
Remarks Upon Presenting the
Department of Defense Medal for
Distinguished Public Service. March 29, 1976
Secretary Rumsfeld, honored Ambassadors, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
I greatly welcome the opportunity to join you here today in honoring these
three outstanding men who have served as their countries' representatives in
848
