February 27
[144]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
protect and preserve our environment and, at the same time, make the most
effective use of our natural resources-with the objective of providing a better life
for ourselves and for our children and grandchildren.
This society has come a long way since the time when the daily struggle with
climate and wilderness dominated our ancestors lives, challenged their spirit and
energies, and shaped attitudes that served so well to forge a new Nation. We have
learned that our past progress was often achieved without adequate regard for
the longer term consequences to our air, water and land. Some have concluded
from our past experiences that certain national objectives—such as a strong
economy, an adequate supply of energy, and an improved environment—are
in conflict and we must choose among them. Others are concluding—and I
share their view—that we can make good progress toward all these objectives if
our goals are realistic, our resolve is firm, and our steps are deliberate.
The Sixth Annual Report of the Council on Environmental Quality which I
am forwarding to the Congress surveys our environmental accomplishments
and indicates that we have made such progress indeed.
The Council's summary of environmental conditions and trends describes
the encouraging results of our efforts to clean up the air and water. We are begin-
ning to bring our most chronic sources of water pollution under control, and we
are improving the quality of some of our most heavily polluted waterways. We
have improved air quality significantly in the United States during the past five
years.
The progress we have made so far is in large measure a reflection of the in-
vestment the Nation has made in cleaning up the environment. In 1975 govern-
ment and industry spent more than $15 billion in capital and operating
expenditures to meet the requirements of Federal pollution control legislation.
The Federal Government alone has increased its pollution control outlays from
$751 million in 1970 to an estimated $4.5 billion in the current fiscal year. Over
the next ten years the Nation will spend more than $22 billion per year to meet
Federal pollution control requirements.
We e can be proud of the progress we have made in improving the Nation's en-
vironmental quality. Yet, we must meet additional challenges over the next few
years. We must improve our understanding of the effects of pollutants and of
the means and costs of reducing pollution. As we develop new energy sources
and technologies we must assure that they meet environmental standards. We
also must continue the job of cleaning up pollution from existing sources.
The Council has reviewed the environmental conditions of our coastal zone
and on Federal public lands and describes the diverse purposes they serve and
459
