March 19
[231]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Any help you can give would be very, very important because otherwise, your
communities will not be getting the money that they have gotten for 5-plus years,
and they will either have to cut back on services or increase taxes at the local
level. And there is no excuse for the delay.
Q. What is your prediction?
THE PRESIDENT. I am always an optimist, but I have been so sorely disappointed
in the performance so far that I am very apprehensive. So, we've got to get not
only the mayors and the Governors and other public officials pressing the Con-
gress but all of you in your publications can be immensely helpful. Otherwise,
we will wake up some morning and 38,000 or 39,000 communities and 50 States
will have a potential fiscal chaos on their doorstep.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
[2.] Q. Mr. President, as newspaper people, we have a growing concern
about the health of the U.S. Postal Service. Can you enlighten us? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I share that concern. [Laughter] I share it for two
reasons.
We have had a couple of unfortunate incidents recently where material was
sent out from the President Ford Committee that had to get to a certain location
by a certain time and to a certain place. And I understand there was a mis-
delivery on one and a long delay on another. [Laughter]
I understand the problem, but I also have to look at it from the point of view
of how much Federal general funding will go in to subsidize the operations of
the Post Office—the Postal Service. The deficit under the current circumstances
has gotten over $1 billion, and I have to be careful as to what money we take
out of the general fund to put into the Postal Service. And I am very, very
concerned about the lack of the Postal Service to meet their operating costs.
It is a tough problem. I believe in the concept, but I think we somehow have
to find a better way for them to get the results all of us want. And there are some
studies going on in the executive branch, independent of the Postal Service
itself and the several commissions or committees that help to manage it.
Believe me, if we can find an answer, we are going to come up with one. We
just can't afford to have these kind of deficits on a year-to-year basis.
PRESIDENT'S VIEW OF NEWSPAPER REPORTING
[3.] Q. Mr. President, as long as most of us in this room are in the newspaper
business and your daughter, Susan, served on a newspaper in Kansas, how has
your opinion of the newspaper business changed?
THE PRESIDENT. I love the newspapers, and I love the people that do the re-
741
