[177]
March 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
synopsis, will be the national energy outlook in 1976, roughly 18 months after
the Project Independence report was submitted to me.
I do want to congratulate the members of the Council. I do want to thank
the staff of the FEA and the other agencies involved. The job is part way done.
We've got a lot to do, but I am convinced that we can move ahead and do the
job that must be done to make the United States energy independent by 1985.
Frank, do you want to proceed?
MR. ZARB. Mr. President, the book that you just referred to is the product of
a lot of work over this past year. And as a result of your instructions to us of
just about a year ago, after your energy program went to the Congress, we not
only monitored the legislation to make sure that we gave every effort to its imple-
mentation but that we continue to keep pace with the changing energy world
around us so that the policy can be modified and we can have a scorecard as to
how well this Nation is doing against your goals for self-sufficiency by 1985.
If there is one simple conclusion—and it's a complicated book-but if there
is one simple conclusion that sums up the material that is between those two
covers, it's this: We as a nation have the capability to become self-sufficient by
1985 and, thereafter, do even better than that. Whether or not we do it is
dependent upon our will to get the job done and the resources we place behind
it. There are no unnatural obstacles, or there are no natural difficulties such as
the absence of resources that could prevent us from accomplishing that task.
We said that a year ago in the message to the Congress; we've said it again
more recently. And this study documents that once again, if we fulfill the pro-
gram that we've been studying and working on for the last year, we can be
energy self-sufficient.
We prepared some charts, Mr. President, that summarize some of the major
conclusions. There is lots of other material in the book. But the question is,
where are we going with respect to consumption in the years ahead? And I
think those lines tell the story.
Our current forecast shows substantially lower consumption patterns pri-
marily because of high prices. The industrial sector has increased its conserva-
tion considerably. We expect that with a recovering economy and a growing
economy we will continue to increase our rate of growth, but rather than at a
rate of 3.6 percent, it will be down at least to 2.8 percent.
And if we do some of the things which have been proposed in the conserva-
tion sector, we can improve that even further. I'll get to those measures in a
minute. The important part of this chart, I think, is to point out that while there
is considerable room for improvement in conservation—and it will occur—the
516
