[86]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Gainesville, that your health care program has some good concepts but, in
effect, it would help only 1 in every 300 people affected.
The President. As I understand it, it would help very specifically, 3 mil-
THE PRESIDENT.
lion out of roughly 24 million. Now the good part of it is that these 3 million
are the ones who are most adversely affected by the cost of 2, 3, 5 years of
extended care in mounting doctor bills. It seems to me that we ought to
put special emphasis on taking care of those tragic cases where you have
extended illnesses.
In the meantime, under Medicare, there still would be a health care program
for those who participate. But we put a new tilt, trying to be helpful to the
people affected with a catastrophic illness.
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, not too many years ago, another American Presi-
dent put a challenge forth to this country to put a man on the Moon. Tech-
nology met that challenge, as you know. That task was met and we did put
a man on the Moon. The Project Independence was recently launched 2 years
ago to make this country energy self-sufficient. Reports are indicating this is
failing and failing rather miserably. Why is it failing, Mr. President? Why
can't this country be energy self-sufficient, and will you put a timetable on
that?
The President. In January of 1975, in my -State of the Union Message, I
laid out a 10-year program. I had a number of specific items that, if Congress
would respond, we could become energy independent in 10 years, by 1985.
Unfortunately, the Congress dillydallied day after day after day and, finally,
in December they passed a partial answer to the request that I had made in
January. The bill which I signed is a base from which we can operate. It
provides for some conservation. It provides, over a 40-month period, for in-
creased production domestically, and it has some conservation features.
On the other hand, it has done nothing to deregulate natural gas. Tragically,
we had a setback a week or so ago in the House of Representatives, but we
hope we can retrieve that. That would be something that I recommended
Congress should do.
In addition, I have recommended for the energy research and development
program $2,900 million. It is about a 30-some percent increase in research and
development funds for energy—including solar, geothermal, fossil fuels, nu-
clear energy. And if Congress appropriates the money, it will move us ahead
262
