[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
In conclusion, Mr. President, let me reiterate the FCC's full and vigorous
commitment to deregulation and to overall reform of our service to the Ameri-
can public. We look forward to continuing to work with you and your staff in
this very significant undertaking.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. SCHMULTS. Dick, does your experience with the citizens band problem
suggest you might explore, in addition to the other steps you are taking, widen-
ing the exemption area so you wouldn't have to go through a licensing pro-
cedure process?
MR. WILEY. We have looked at that. The greatest problem is the spectrum
is not discreet. If you have interference in one portion of the spectrum, in-
evitably you will have interference in other portions. We believe the licensing
procedure is the single greatest tool for enforcement.
What we are doing—as I suggested to the President—the problem has been
the people get the equipment and then have to wait 6 weeks to get their license.
Temptation comes in and they start to utilize the equipment. We are setting
up a temporary permit authorization. We will at that time have an informa-
tive, simple, easy to read pamphlet which tells the very basic regulations, what
is necessary in order that all can enjoy this service. If it is not regulated, there
will be chaos because of the closeness of the CB bands to broadcast bands, and
there will be interference. We might be able to go to a total deregulation, but
I think that is in the future.
MR. STAFFORD [George M. Stafford, Chairman, Interstate Commerce Com-
mission]. Could I make a cross-reference?
MR. SCHMULTS. Yes, surely.
MR. STAFFORD. I don't know whether it was before Dick or not, but the FCC
asked us to get involved because the truckers were using this in the strike 2
years ago. It really had us all tied up, and they were, as you may recall, really
using them to benefit, tie up all the commerce that was trying to move. So the
FCC asked us to get involved and try to hold them down because they didn't
have authority in that area. So, we put out an order then, in effect, threatening
them a little bit, but that was about as much as we could do. But it gave truck
management a lot of authority to tear them out of trucks.
Now, we find that a lot of the truckers—a lot of the management now like
the idea of having them in there because they are cutting down on their loss
and damages they are having because they immediately put out the CB report
the second they have lost a truck loaded with something very expensive.
One of the largest truckers in the Southeast told me they were now cutting
1004
