March 12
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
expansion of our coal mining throughout the country. It would have reduced
the number of jobs in this country at a critical time when jobs were very
important.
There could be a strip mining bill that I would sign, and I have indicated
about 10 different amendments to that legislation. If they were adopted, yes, I
would accept them. But that bill that they proposed would have hurt our
energy program, would have cut down on the number of jobs in this country
during a very critical time. In the meantime, it has been interesting, there have
been a number of States-not a number, but a few States-that have moved ahead
in their own strip mining legislation, and I think this could be a very good
alternative.
But if they would modify the bill I vetoed, which was sustained by the Con-
gress, I think I would accept it.
Q. Could you just mention those States that have made progress?
THE PRESIDENT. I cannot give them to you by name, but it is my recollection
that about 25 States as of now have passed strip mining legislation. I understand
the State of Illinois has good legislation. I know the State of Ohio does. I know
the State of Pennsylvania does. A number of States do have good legislation that
meets the requirements of the individual State. And if more would do it, it
would obviate the need for Federal legislation.
PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[13.] Q. Mr. President, we found in a recent poll taken of our readers that
one of the major reasons why the people in our area are not backing you is
because of the pardon of Mr. Nixon. Do you think that the pardon will hurt
you in the remaining primaries or, more specifically, in the general election ?
THE PRESIDENT. I really didn't do it for political purposes. As I said in the
statement that I issued at the time I signed the pardon, I was convinced that
if we had this turmoil going on with prospective court action for a long period
of time, it would continue to divide the United States, the people of this country.
And I made the decision just because I thought it was in the national interest—
not in his interest but the national interest-to get that tragedy, that trauma
period behind us. I did it, I did it at the right time, and I am convinced that it
was right.
Now, the political ramifications I can't judge, that is up to the public in the
primary, it is up to the public in the general election. But I am convinced it
was right in the national interest, and I would do it again.
661
