[39]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
ices are delivered is to make certain that it is handled—that the responsibility is
in the hands of those elected officials closest to the people.
A far better job can be done in the providing of those services, in the delivery
of those services if the Federal Government makes available the money but
gives the responsibility to the locally elected officials. And this is what we have
tried to do in the budget that I proposed for the consolidation of Federal health
programs, Federal aid and assistance to primary and secondary education, Fed-
eral assistance in the social services area.
What we have tried to do is to consolidate about 60 programs and to make
sure that those programs, when consolidated, that Federal money goes to the
States and local units of government to make certain that the people who need
the help are given the help.
In the area of division of responsibility between the private sector and govern-
ment, let me make this observation and comment. We have gone through a
tough recession during this past year. We reached the bottom of the recession in
March or April of 1975. There were many during that period of time who pre-
dicted chaos and confusion and disaster for America. And those people wanted
somebody in the Federal Government to turn a switch and solve the problem
yesterday.
In the first place, those dire predictions never materialized. We had a hard
time—it was difficult-but we adopted policies that said the best way to come out
of this problem was not through any vast government program, but to provide
confidence to the private sector. And the net result is, since March or April of
this past year, we have had about 1,300,000 more jobs provided, mainly in the
private sector, and today five out of six jobs in America come in the private
sector.
The permanent jobs, the jobs that give great opportunity, are primarily in the
private sector. What we want to do is to give an incentive to private industry
to provide jobs, employment opportunities, incentives, rewards to people like
yourself.
About 2 million young people every year come under the labor market. And if
we keep our cool and don't try some quick fix that won't work, then I think
the opportunities for those like you will expand. You will have more opportunity
to work in those occupations that you want on a permanent basis. And I say to
you that you can't solve the problem by telling government to all of a sudden do
this or do that.
For 200 years this country has benefited from what is labeled, called, the free
enterprise system, an economic system that depends upon private initiative and
108
