March 20
[239]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ful lot better. Oh, there are some who want to bust the Federal budget and pile
one bureaucracy on top of another. That is the wrong approach.
You know the Congress challenged me a good bit in the last 19 months. They
sent down to the Oval Office in the White House a lot of bad legislation. I vetoed
46 bills, almost an alltime record. I was sustained 39 times by at least one-third
of the Members of the House and Senate, and do you know how much money
we saved by those vetoes?-$13 billion.
If a spendthrift Congress, a budget-busting Congress sends any more big
spending bills down to the Oval Office, they are going to be vetoed again and
again and again.
Now, let's talk about the affirmative, what we ought to do in government,
what the responsibility is of the Federal Government. First, we have an obliga-
tion to our older people who are on social security. We have a social security
program at the present time that people have paid into, they have earned their
retirement, and we are going to keep that Social Security Trust Fund sound.
There are some that have gotten fancy schemes one way or another. I won't get
into the details, but I will promise you as your President for the next 5 years that
you will have a sound and secure social security program to take care of those
who are now on retirement and those who are working and earning their
retirement.
But let me say at the same time, the social security program is run well. There
are some programs in the Federal Government that aren't any good, and we are
going to get rid of them. There are those in Washington who want to pile this
bureaucracy on top of another bureaucracy. That is the wrong way to give free-
dom in America. I am scared that if we go down the wrong path, we are going
to lose our freedom in America. And that is as valuable and that is as priceless
to us as anything.
Now, let me just say if you put the wrong people in Washington, you have to
be fearful that they are going to husband all this power, take it away from you.
There is one real fundamental danger that we have to watch, and it is put in
about one sentence—just don't forget this—a government big enough to give you
everything you want is a government big enough to take from you everything
you have.
And now we are at peace. We have the military strength and capability to
keep that peace. We have the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines
that are, strong enough to prevent aggression. We have the Department of
Defense that is powerful enough to protect our national security and, if I am
elected President-as I think we will be-on November 2, I will guarantee to you
767
