January 30
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we have recommended an 11-percent increase, an increase particularly impor-
tant in the area of basic research.
In the environment, we recommended the expenditure of $3,800 million, a
60-percent increase over the current fiscal year, a 95-percent increase over the ex-
penditures a year ago. So, the environment is getting an increase, a domestic pro-
gram that is vitally important.
We have also made some recommendations for a better delivery of Federal
services, and I speak here of the Federal investment in health, the Federal in-
vestment in education, the Federal investment in child nutrition, and the Fed-
eral investment in social services.
Now, what we have tried to do is to consolidate a wide range of categorical
grant programs-15 in health, 27 in education, roughly 15 in child nutrition—
and avoid the duplication and the overlapping that exists in the present categori-
cal grant program. We recommend virtually the same amount of money in the
health, education, and social services. In fact, we actually recommend more
money. In the case of child nutrition we made some reductions because we
found that at the present time, under the existing system, money was going to
families where they were above the poverty line and families were being short-
changed in many instances below the poverty line.
We think the money ought to go in those areas for those below the poverty
line, and I can see no justification for those programs servicing individuals or
families above the poverty line.
What we have tried to do is eliminate this overlap that you may have seen
in the various charts-we call them "mess charts." Have you seen those?
Well, how anybody could run a program, how anybody could possibly receive
the benefits in an effective and a proper way under the existing system is beyond
comprehension. And I think these categorical grant programs contribute very
significantly to the complaints that we get from recipients. I think the existing
programs invite poor management, and I think the net result is we spend too
much money and don't get a proper benefit from them.
Let me speak rather categorically about one other area, because it is very
pertinent. A big decision is going to be made in the House of Representatives
next week. We have at the present time Federal control over the distribution
of natural gas, both as to distribution and as to price. The consequence is that
natural gas supplies have been dwindling, and in 11 States it was anticipated
we would have severe shortages this winter. Those shortages have not mate-
rialized to the degree that we anticipated, primarily, because of a rather mild
winter, but there are shortages and they could materialize.
119
