[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
ject was so vital that we ought to take it out from underneath the coverage of
what we call the Economic Policy Board where it was. And so it has been
hauled out of the Economic Policy Board and made a separate economic policy
committee as far as food is concerned. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of
Agriculture, as long as he stays with me and as long as I am President, will be
chairman of that group.
Q. Mr. President, I am presently a college student, and I am studying business
administration. I would like to know what the Federal Government is going to
do to reduce spending because if we, the people of this United States, ran our
businesses like the Federal Government does, we would be broke.
THE PRESIDENT. I could not agree with you more. And let me illustrate what
I am trying to do and I think all of these Members of Congress here are trying
to do. But I can just tell you what I did in the preparation of the budget for the
next fiscal year. In putting the Federal budget together for the next fiscal year,
I found this to be the case. If we did not change the law, we would have a $50
billion increase in Federal spending in a 12-month period.
It would have gone from roughly $370 billion for the current fiscal year to
$420-some billion in the next fiscal year. That is without a new law or without
any change in existing law, just because of cost escalations.
We have had about an 11-percent increase in Federal spending each year
for the last 10 years. The net result is Federal spending has escalated, sky-
rocketed. So, in the preparation of the budget for the next fiscal year, I said we
had to cut that increase in Federal spending by about half. And so I submitted,
instead of a $420-some billion budget for next year in expenditures, a budget of
$394.2 billion. That is still an increase, but it is half of the increase that was
expected if no laws were changed.
I think we are making some headway, some progress. I have vetoed 46 bills,
most of them spending bills; 39 of them have been sustained with the help of
the Congressmen here. We have saved $13 billion by those vetoes. We would
have $13 billion more spending if I had not vetoed that legislation.
Q. Mr. President, I am a horse farmer in disguise.
THE PRESIDENT. Somebody just said you looked like a cattle marauder.
[Laughter]
Q. I thought about putting my hands up here and looking like Napoleon.
Mr. President, I would like to compliment Paul Findley on bringing you here,
and more than that, I would like to compliment you on being so well versed on
agriculture's problems. This comes as a complete surprise to most of us.
[Laughter]
540
