March 27
[265]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I commend you, and I thank you for all of your commitment to the Republi-
can cause. It is a cause to which I have been firmly committed for more than 27
years of public life as a Member of the Congress, as a Republican leader of the
House of Representatives, as a Vice President, and for the past 19 months as
your President.
In those 19 months alone, there has been great progress in combating the
serious problems that beset our Nation, in putting America at peace with itself
and all the world around us. There is much, much more to be done, and we
will do much, much more in the 4 challenging years ahead.
As you walk the precincts of the great State of California this year, I invite
you and all Americans to walk with me on the path of peace, on the road to
prosperity, on the way and the path and the road to victory in November of 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:13 p.m. in the
Grand Hall, Exhibit Hall Building, at the Fresno
Convention Center. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Paul Haerle, California State Republican
chairman, Evelle J. Younger, attorney general of
California, and Mayor Peter Wilson of San Diego,
chairman of the Southern California President Ford
Committee.
Following his remarks, the President attended a
State Republican Committee and President Ford
Committee meeting in the Conference Room at the
center.
265
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at La Crosse, Wisconsin.
March 27, 1976
IT IS great to be in Wisconsin, and one can't help but be greatly impressed by
the warm and friendly and very large turnout.
La Crosse has always been one of my favorite cities. I was here in 1972, and, of
course, I have been in Wisconsin, generally, a great many times over the years
campaigning for Members of Congress and others. So, it is just nice to be back,
and we are going to be back some more. With that, I will be glad to answer any
questions from the local press.
REPORTER. Mr. President, the head of one of Wisconsin's milk marketing co-
ops has criticized your administration for opposing a bill which would not set
standards for foreign dairy imports equal to those of domestic products. Do
you indeed feel that they should be equal ?
THE PRESIDENT. We have the Department of Agriculture looking into that
at the present time. I think the matter is under review and the Department will
make a recommendation to me.
831
