February 23
[126]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In the campaign for general revenue sharing, I think I have worked longer
and harder for that legislation than almost any other. You are well aware of
how this $30.2 billion, 5-year program is now administered at the Federal level
at a cost of a twelfth of a penny for every dollar spent. You know how our States
are now making State decisions on the local use of their Federal taxes. I am now
vigorously seeking to extend this excellent program for 5¾¼ years.
It was last April, almost a year ago, when I asked the Congress to renew rev-
enue sharing so that you could make timely plans and decisions for fiscal year
1977 State budgets. Regrettably, the Congress did not share my sense of urgency.
Thus far, it has failed to act, and the deadline is getting closer and closer.
The Nation needs your help, and I am especially pleased by the response that
I understand you are undertaking. I have seen your warnings of higher taxes or
drastic curtailment of public services if Federal revenue sharing would be un-
fortunately discontinued. You are right in saying that our present economic
recovery would be endangered if the Congress were to end general revenue
sharing. It could force the States to fire workers, increase State taxes, and even
institute new State taxation.
You know and I know that we must join forces-and I am glad we are-
in getting some action on general revenue sharing. I ask you today, as the chief
executives of your States, to join me in moving the mountain we know as Capitol
Hill. The whole concept of balanced Federal-State relations is at stake.
You are much more aware than anyone of the new realities in your States. If
we fail this year to assure continued movement toward general revenue sharing,
there will be a new escalation in the categorical programs of an increasingly cen-
tralized government. I am determined to shake up, and shape up with your help,
the worthwhile and proven programs we now have, rather than permit a pro-
liferation of new and untried programs.
Categorical grants and categorical expectations have created more problems,
many more than they have solved. While I expected some criticism of my State
of the Union and budget messages-I suspect some of you have had the same--
I regret the revival of the old "knee-jerk" response-that I failed to propose
enough new Federal programs. We already have more than enough programs.
What we need is quality, not quantity. My messages contained proposals that not
only improve quality but also reduce quantity.
Let me show you a chart here on the right. When I first looked at that chart
in late December, my impression was that it looked like the electronics set-up
for our new space shuttle, but the truth is that is the way that Federal dollars for
health services go from the top line down to the beneficiaries or the recipients.
417
