[187]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
The momentum is going in the right direction. Maybe I shouldn't say this,
but you know they said, as I indicated a moment ago, I had never won an elec-
tion outside of a congressional district in Michigan. Well, we won New Hamp-
shire; we won Vermont; we won Massachusetts. I think we're going to win
Florida and, from what you all tell me, we're going to win Illinois.
So all those pundits are 100 percent wrong so far, and it is, I think, encourag-
ing, because it reflects the faith that the American people have in a sound course
of action. We were, you know, tempted—some people were saying, “Gee, you've
got to do this, and you have to take this radical course."
We didn't panic. We decided what was right; we did it, and I think the results
are proving it. We got the help of people like Bob and Ed and Tom and the
other staunch people in the Congress. They stood with us, and I thank them
from the bottom of my heart, because without their help, what we tried to do
never could have been accomplished. And let me just take one example.
We had some people up at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue in the
majority party that wanted to undertake all kinds of radical programs to meet
our problems at home, and in the process of 19 months I vetoed 46 bills. They
tell me that's a record, but I'm proud of it, and I'm very grateful for the people
in the Congress who stood with me. They sustained 39 of them. But the impor-
tant thing is we saved $13 billion, and that's not hay.
I can just hear old Bob up there on the floor of the House telling those wild-
eyed spenders, “You ought to have more sense.” We could hear you way at the
other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. But he rallied the troops, and he did
a great job, and the people that stood with him likewise deserve your applause
and your support.
What are the prospects for the future? Every indication we have is that the
economy is going to get better and better and better. I believe that we have a
strong deterrent military force that reinforces our alliance with our allies. They
have faith in us. It convinces our adversaries that they should treat us with
respect. And they are not going to undertake any ill-advised adventures, let me
assure you of that, because America is strong; it's alert; it's ready, and we're
going to keep it that way.
But I've had the privilege of meeting a good many of the people here this
morning who are going to be, or are, Ford delegates. We're sure going to see
you out in Kansas City, unless I drag you down and you don't win.
But I think Kansas City is going to be a tremendous success. It will be the
steppingstone, the springboard for a great victory in November of 1976. But, as
560
