January 19
[19]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The American people want strong and effective international and defense
policies. In our constitutional system, these policies should reflect consultation
and accommodation between the President and the Congress. But in the final
analysis, as the framers of our Constitution knew from hard experience, the
foreign relations of the United States can be conducted effectively only if there
strong central direction that allows flexibility of action. That responsibility
clearly rests with the President.
I pledge to the American people policies which seek a secure, just, and peace-
ful world. I pledge to the Congress to work with you to that end.
We must not face a future in which we can no longer help our friends, such
as Angola, even in limited and carefully controlled ways. We must not lose
all capacity to respond short of military intervention.
Some hasty actions of the Congress during the past year-most recently in
respect to Angola—were, in my view, very shortsighted. Unfortunately, they
are still very much on the minds of our allies and our adversaries.
A strong defense posture gives weight to our values and our views in inter-
national negotiations. It assures the vigor of our alliances. And it sustains our
efforts to promote settlements of international conflicts. Only from a position
of strength can we negotiate a balanced agreement to limit the growth of nuclear
arms. Only a balanced agreement will serve our interests and minimize the
threat of nuclear confrontation.
The defense budget I will submit to the Congress for fiscal year 1977 will
show an essential increase over the current year. It provides for real growth in
purchasing power over this year's defense budget, which includes the cost of the
all-volunteer force.
We are continuing to make economies to enhance the efficiency of our military
forces. But the budget I will submit represents the necessity of American
strength for the real world in which we live.
As conflict and rivalry persist in the world, our United States intelligence
capabilities must be the best in the world.
The crippling of our foreign intelligence services increases the danger of
American involvement in direct armed conflict. Our adversaries are encouraged
to attempt new adventures while our own ability to monitor events and to in-
fluence events short of military action is undermined. Without effective intelli-
gence capability, the United States stands blindfolded and hobbled.
In the near future, I will take actions to reform and strengthen our intelli-
gence community. I ask for your positive cooperation. It is time to go beyond
41
