[256]
March 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congressman Phil Burton, Congressman Joe Skubitz, and Congressman Wil-
liam M. Ketchum.
The decision to approve the covenant was not taken lightly by either the peo-
ple of the Northern Mariana Islands or by the Congress of the United States.
Its provisions and the significance of the islands becoming a part of the United
States were subjected to careful scrutiny and weeks and months of debate in the
Marianas and in Washington. The plebiscite of last June was conducted in a
fair and impartial manner under the able supervision of Mr. Erwin D. Canham,
the Plebiscite Commissioner. U.N. observers were also present. The final pleb-
iscite vote, with 95 percent of those eligible to vote casting their ballots, was a
resounding 78.8-percent popular approval of the covenant. Following months
of open hearings the final vote in the House and Senate resulted in equally im-
pressive majorities in favor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands in political union with the United States of America.
Next will come the challenge of planning carefully and well for the new
Government of the Northern Marianas under its own locally drawn and ratified
constitution. The framers of that constitution will draw on our 200 years of
experience as an independent democracy, and those residents of the Northern
Marianas who will one day be citizens of the United States will receive the full
protection of our Bill of Rights which protects the rights of all American citizens.
As I sign this bill, I cannot help but remember that these islands were once the
scene of bitter armed conflict. My hope now is that they will contribute to the
continuing maintenance of peace and stability and growing cooperation and
friendship among all of the peoples and nations of the Western Pacific.
Finally, to the peoples of the Northern Marianas, I extend to you on this his-
toric day my personal greetings and my best wishes as you move progressively
closer to your long-sought goal of self-government within the political frame-
work of the American family. Your entrance into union with the United States
is warmly welcomed in this our Bicentennial Year.
257
Remarks Announcing the National Swine Flu Immunization
Program. March 24, 1976
I HAVE just concluded a meeting on a subject of vast importance to all Ameri-
cans, and let me report to you the results of that meeting.
802
