February 13
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
want the public to know we have a good foreign policy. We are going to
keep it good, and we are not going to worry about some campaign rhetoric.
REPORT OF HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, do you agree with Secretary Kissinger's comment that
the House Intelligence Committee report represents to him a new brand of
McCarthyism?
The President. I think that is a fairly accurate description. I think that that
committee report, which the House of Representatives said should not be
published by better than a 2 to 1 vote, having been leaked, is an unfair, unjust
way to criticize an individual or a policy. And I think it certainly falls within
the parameters of McCarthyism.
Let me just add this: Under this administration, we are going to have a
strong intelligence community, and we are not going to permit the Congress
to dismantle America's intelligence community.
You were going to ask another question?
CREATION OF CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
[15.] Q. I was going to ask you if you agree with the proposal for one in-
telligence oversight committee for Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to make some recommendations to the Congress
very shortly involving the entire intelligence community. But I should say
that over the years, I have been very sympathetic to a joint House-Senate
intelligence committee. I am not saying we are going to recommend that, be-
cause that is a prerogative of the Congress, not a prerogative of the executive
branch. But I think there is much merit to that proposal.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA
[16.] Q. Mr. President, were you made aware of former President Nixon's
visit to China before and, if so, how? And, also, does that visit have any
effect on U.S. foreign policy with China and the Soviets?
THE PRESIDENT. The day that President Nixon called me and told me that he
had been invited as a private citizen to the People's Republic of China—I had
heard some advance notice that day, but I got the specifics on the phone call that
he made to me in mid-afternoon that particular day.
He is going as a private citizen at the invitation of the People's Republic.
I have said before and I will repeat here, I have no particular reaction, pro or
con, concerning that private visit.
269
