[60]
February 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
sides to move forward. Indeed, the constructive spirit which characterized those
discussions was translated on December 12 into an agreement by the Foreign
Ministers of Greece and Turkey to seek the prompt resumption of the inter-
communal talks. Acting on instructions from their governments, the Greek and
Turkish permanent representatives to the U.N. thereupon called on Secretary
General Waldheim to begin a discussion aimed at resolving questions relative
to the timing, venue, and content of intercommunal talks. Subsequently, dis-
cussions between United Nations officials and the two Cypriot communities
were initiated, and have been sustained over the past month. The task of re-
solving the existing differences was not an easy one, but the efforts of the Secre-
tary General have resulted in the parties indicating their agreement to a re-
sumption of the intercommunal talks in Vienna on February 17.
Throughout December and January the United States has urged upon all the
parties the earliest possible resumption of Cyprus negotiations. We have been
joined in this effort by our European allies. Major assistance was also provided
by Chairman Morgan and members of the House Committee on International
Relations who visited Athens and Ankara in mid-January. On January 23 in
Brussels Secretary Kissinger again saw the Turkish Foreign Minister who con-
firmed Turkey's support for the resumption of the intercommunal talks.
The decision to resume the intercommunal negotiations is encouraging, and
there have been other positive developments during the past sixty days. The
Turkish government announced on January 31 that during the first week in
February an additional 2,000 Turkish troops will be withdrawn from Cyprus,
thus bringing Turkish troop presence down approximately 12,000 since mid-
1974 to a figure below 30,000. Meanwhile, Greece and Turkey have begun a
process of reconciliation. Meetings have been organized at various levels in
December and January to discuss outstanding Greco-Turkish bilateral differ-
ences, including the problems of air space and of resource development in the
Aegean. An improved climate between Greece and Turkey will surely have a
beneficial effect on the Cyprus question.
Developments in December and January have convinced us that the process
of bringing a lasting and just solution to the island of Cyprus is moving in the
right direction, though the pace has been slower than any of us desire. The
knowledge that thousands of refugees are enduring a second winter in tempo-
rary shelters is reason enough to move faster—and try harder. This we intend
to do.
I believe it important that the talks which begin later this month provide the
basis for the development of a negotiating atmosphere conducive to prompt
150
