February 25
[136]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
million plus the amounts needed after 1980 to ensure that no State will in the
future receive less under this proposal than it received in fiscal year 1976.
The Financial Assistance for Health Care proposal is being submitted after
extensive consultation with organizations representing the publicly elected offi-
cials who will be responsible for administering the program. I believe this pro-
posal represents a major step toward overcoming some of the most serious defects
in our present system of Federal financing of health care.
My proposal is designed to achieve a more equitable distribution of Federal
health dollars among States and to increase State control over health spending.
My proposal also recognizes the appropriate Federal role in providing financial
assistance to State and local governments to improve the quality and distribution
of health services.
The enactment of this legislation will achieve a more equitable distribution
of Federal health dollars by providing funds according to a formula giving
primary weight to a State's low-income population. The formula also takes into
account the relative "tax effort" made by a State and the per capita income of
that State.
Let me emphasize that every State will receive more Federal funds in fiscal
years 1977, 1978 and 1979 under the block grant than it received in fiscal year
1976. My proposal also allows for a gradual phase-in of the distribution formula
in future years to ensure a systematic, orderly transition that will permit States
to adjust to the new program.
To assure accountability and responsiveness to the public, my proposal requires
each State to develop an annual health care plan as a condition to receiving Fed-
eral funds. This plan will be developed through a Statewide public review and
comment process which will assure participation by all concerned parties. Thus,
increased State responsibility will be coupled with expanded public participa-
tion, and accountability in the development of State health policies.
This proposed consolidation of health programs is essential to continue our
national progress in the field of health. It is designed to permit States greater
flexibility in providing for delivery of health care services to those with low
income. It eliminates the requirements for State matching. And it recognizes
the need for a cooperative relationship among governments at all levels. My
proposal would reduce Federal red tape, increase local control over health spend-
ing, and expand public participation in health planning.
While I am proposing to increase State control over health spending, we will
continue to concentrate our efforts in areas of appropriate Federal responsibility.
For example, my budget proposals for 1977 include the following:
431
