March 13
[212]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I have not because I don't think it is appropriate for me
to get involved when there is a judicial process underway.
CAMPAIGN TRIPS BY PRESIDENT FORD AND ADMINISTRATION MEMBERS
5
[7.] Q. Mr. President, we had Rogers Morton here last week in High Point,
we are having Mr. Bush tomorrow in Greensboro, we are told by your
campaign committee here we will have a number of other Cabinet people
here in the next week as well as yourself. With all respect, I would like to
ask you who is minding the store?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is a Saturday and a lot of people take Saturday
off, you know. [Laughter] And I am expanding my work schedule so I come
down and get better acquainted with all the fine people of North Carolina.
Q. Let's address ourselves to next week then, sir.
The President. Well, I am going to be back in Washington tonight. I will
be working probably tomorrow a good share of the time. And I will be working
in Washington because I firmly believe that my principal responsibility is to
carry out the responsibilities of being President. I have tried to maintain that
posture. I think I have. The campaigning that I have done has been minimal,
it has been mainly focused on weekends which is the right thing to do for a
President. If I am able to come to North Carolina 1 day next week, I can assure
you it will, under no circumstances, interfere with my Presidential respon-
sibilities. That is my prime duty, and I will maintain that.
Q. Well, who is paying for these political trips for these gentlemen?
THE PRESIDENT. The President Ford Committee is paying totally for my
political operations. Who are the other people that you indicated were coming
here?
Q. I understand next week that you would have three Cabinet members
that would be coming to North Carolina to campaign for you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if they are coming on a political mission the Presi-
dent Ford Committee will pay for it. If they are coming in their responsibili-
ties as Cabinet officers, they will of course come under the usual circumstances.
PRESIDENT FORD COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN CALLAWAY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I would like for you, sir, to elaborate on just what
are the accusations against Mr. Callaway, what do you know about them, and
did you willingly accept his request to step aside or would you have preferred
he stayed on?
5 George Bush, Director of Central Intelligence.
685
