[207]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
vis-a-vis the country, and what are you doing at the present time to achieve that
objective or those series of objectives?
THE PRESIDENT. Our interest is, I think, very pragmatic. Eight hundred
million-plus individuals, a tremendous mass in a very strategic part of the
world-it is an area where we have to continue the normalization process.
When I went to China in December, I had the opportunity of meeting with
Chairman Mao and the other leaders. We have a great many areas of agreement.
We obviously have many areas of disgreement as to their social system, their
economic system. We obviously prefer ours to theirs, but we do have areas
throughout the world where we have similar views. And I can assure you that in
those areas, we will work with them. In other areas where we disagree, it is a
recognition of different objectives.
I think it is vitally important for the United States to continue to improve,
to broaden, to normalize that relationship. I have done so. I will continue to do
so in the years ahead.
PRESIDENTIAL DECISIONMAKING PROCESS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, we deeply appreciate your taking the time to be with
us today. As a concluding question, I would like to ask you this: Because of the
awesome power of the position of the Presidency and because of the problems
of past administrations succumbing to the group-think syndrome of invul-
nerability and infallibility in decisionmaking, what means have you found to
avoid those kinds of things happening in your administration?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I have assembled one of the outstanding
Cabinets, certainly during my time. When you take such high class individuals
as the Attorney General, Ed Levi, the former chancellor of the University of
Chicago; when you take Henry Kissinger, who I think is one of our great Sec-
retaries of State; when you take one of your fellow citizens of Illinois, the new
Secretary of Defense, Don Rumsfeld; Bill Coleman, Secretary of Transporta-
tion—we could go on. I think having the opportunity to have a Cabinet of that
quality assembled to discuss alternatives is a great help, and believe me, they do
discuss these issues. There are differences, and I happen to agree with the
philosophy that it is good to have differences expressed frankly, freely. Some-
body in the process of a committee meeting has to make a decision. But it is
healthy and wholesome, and I am a beneficiary by having this diversity of
viewpoint.
We also have the National Security Agency which is the agency that gives to
me recommendations in foreign policy and defense policy. We have also the
642
