[208]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I am an optimist that the American people, if they are told
the facts and the logical arguments that can be given, will support an adequate
defense policy. We have had for the last 10 to 15 years, a declining trend in
support for our military capability. We have been spending a lesser and lesser
amount in real dollars. I think the time has come that we must reverse that
trend, and the budget that I submitted in January of this year for $112.7 billion
is the mechanism by which we can reverse that trend.
The American people went through a traumatic period during the war in
Vietnam. For reasons I think we all understand, whether we agree with them
or not, the American people became somewhat disillusioned with what our role
and responsibilities have to be throughout the world.
Perhaps in days gone by, we went too far, but whether we like it or not, we
have responsibility for our own security and to help others in a responsible and
constructive way. To do that, to deter aggression, to maintain peace, to protect
our own security, we have to have this change in the direction of our defense
programs and policies.
I am convinced, and I see a feeling coming through as I travel around the
country, as I listen to people, that the American people have gotten over that
traumatic experience of the last 10 or 15 years and are now beginning to have
the same fine attitude that they had in the post-World War II period. That is
essential for us and for what we stand for around the world. And I am an
optimist, the American people will support it.
Q. The second question, Mr. President: In his Boston speech yesterday, Secre-
tary of State Kissinger warned about Communist gains in Italy and France.
And the question is, what are the administration's plans in doing something
about this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. From my first visit to Brussels in May of last year, when I
met for the first time with the heads of the government of the NATO nations,
I said then, and I will reiterate now, we would have a weakened NATO if
the governments of any one of the NATO countries were controlled by the
Communist elements of that country.
We have a very difficult situation in Italy. The situation in Portugal has gone
through a very difficult period. But if any 1 of the 15 countries in NATO is
controlled or dominated by the Communist forces in those countries, I think
that NATO would be weakened.
In France, as you know, in the last election, the Communists joined with the
Socialists and came very, very close. We see evidence of the leader of the Com-
munist Party in France and the Communist Party in Italy attempting to dis-
648
