[242]
March 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the handicapped. The private sector can perform a creative role by contribut-
ing its talents and resources.
The White House Conference on Handicapped Individuals is a very impor-
tant occasion which should contribute significantly to the health, education, and
welfare of handicapped individuals everywhere.
243
Remarks Upon Receiving the Masonic Medallion From the
Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia Masons.
March 22, 1976
LET ME say, Worshipful Layton, distinguished officers of the Grand Lodge,
and honorable past Grand Masters, that this is a wonderful, wonderful thought
on your part, and I am most grateful for being included with the father of our
country on this silver medallion.
I, of course, have a very special allegiance to the lodge here in the District of
Columbia because although I started back in Grand Rapids, because I was in
Congress it was not possible for me to participate, and as a result the brothers
here in the District of Columbia were very helpful, and I actually got my degrees
here in Washington, D.C. So, I thank those that participated, and I am highly
honored to have had the opportunity here in the District of Columbia.
You noted that I am the 14th President that belonged to the Masonic fra-
ternity. I also noted that some 19 Vice Presidents also belonged to the Masonic
fraternity plus innumerable hundreds and maybe thousands of Members of
Congress over the years have likewise been a part of our fraternity. I can't, of
course, tell you how many judges and other high public officials have already
been a part of what we hold so dear.
It was also significant, I thought, that some of the original or some of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock,
Paul Revere and, of course, George Washington, and perhaps others—I don't
recall any of the others—were signers of the Declaration of Independence which
is, of course, a very basic document in the establishment of our concepts, the es-
tablishment of our Government.
I know Masonry has contributed over the years, the length and the breadth of
this country, a great moral spirit that has helped significantly in the building of
America. They have done it for two centuries. I am told that there were only
782
