[90]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
800 million people. And we will deal with them in a way that we benefit
and in a way that is good for the world as a whole.
We face the problem of dealing with the Soviet Union. Let me say one
thing categorically. I am a good Yankee trader and we are not going to get
out-traded in dealing with the Soviet Union.
But I think it is important, as we negotiate with the old traditions of American
Yankee traders, to recognize that if we can put a cap on the nuclear arms
race and push back the vast expenditures for more and more and more nuclear
arms, it is in the best interest of all of us. We will keep our powder dry, but
we are going to be darn sure that that agreement, if it comes about, is in our
interest and in the interest of world peace as a whole.
I don't think it is in the best interest for us to do two things: One, to increase
the proliferation of nuclear arms all over the world. And I don't think it is
in the best interest of the world to deal in this area with your finger on the
trigger. I think it is better to be strong and keep your powder dry.
Now let me close with just one final comment. I reiterate my appreciation
for your all being here. I know how hard you have worked and I know
how much of an impact you have had. We have about a month to go. What
we do in the weeks ahead, the days before us, is vitally important. The recep-
tion we have received here in Florida has been tremendous and I am deeply
grateful, but campaigns are won, and this kind of a campaign will be won,
by what all of you do and the policies that we pursue.
We are going to try, as we move ahead in the policy decisions of this ad-
ministration, to have this kind of a balance. I want a balance between the
taxpayer on the one hand and the recipient of Federal assistance on the other.
I want a balance between the private sector and the government sector. I want
a balance between the Federal Government and the State government and
local units of government. It is vitally important that we have that balance.
I want to free the individual from as much government control as possible.
I will make one statement that sort of puts all of my philosophy in a very
simple sentence. I say it often because I believe it. Some of you may have
heard it, but it wraps it all up: A government big enough to give us everything
we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
We want that balance. We want honest government. We want strong gov-
ernment. We want fair government.
And let me conclude with this final comment-as we move ahead, and
we are moving ahead both at home and abroad, I get prouder and prouder
298
