February 6
[61]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
consideration of all the key issues. I intend to stress this point in the weeks ahead.
In this regard I am looking forward to meeting with Foreign Minister Caglay-
angil of Turkey on February 11. His visit to Washington will provide us with
a timely opportunity to review bilateral issues as well as the Cyprus question.
I know that during the recent Congressional recess, members of both Houses
visited the Eastern Mediterranean, and came away with a greater appreciation of
the complexities of the Cyprus situation and the attitudes and concerns of all
the parties. At the same time, these legislators were able to convey our shared
conviction that no more time should be lost in the search for a solution.
The action of the Congress on October 2, easing restrictions on military ship-
ments to Turkey, has proved valuable in restoring momentum toward a nego-
tiated Cyprus settlement. If we are to continue to play a key role with the parties,
the support and understanding of the Congress is essential. Continued coopera-
tion between the Executive Branch and the Congress on this critical issue will
serve the common quest to ensure that the people of Cyprus can build a prosper-
ous future in a secure and stable environment.
The White House,
61
February 5, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget
Rescissions and Deferrals. February 6, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
three new deferrals of budget authority and revisions to a rescission proposal
and four deferrals previously transmitted.
New estimates increase by $2 million the amounts associated with my earlier
proposal to rescind the uncommitted balances of the Rehabilitation Loan Fund
administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Other
reestimates cause a net reduction of $8.7 million in deferrals previously reported
for the General Services Administration and the Departments of Agriculture
and Interior. The new deferrals total $37.6 million in budget authority which
would be used beyond 1976 to fund three programs of the Departments of
Agriculture and Interior.
151
