[311]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing for public service jobs under the CETA program. This request, contained
in my 1977 Budget, would provide funds needed to prevent layoffs from Fed-
erally supported public service jobs programs. A number of local sponsors are
already facing the prospect of terminating their programs because their funds
are running out.
This public service employment program is already employing people. What-
ever differences I may have with the Congress over other aspects of the job
creation issue, there is no reason why local officials and individual job holders
should be held in suspense or in fear of being laid off.
Action is essential on both the summer youth and the temporary employment
assistance supplemental requests. I hope the Congress will act quickly to pass
both measures.
The White House,
April 8, 1976.
312
GERALD R. FORD
Memorandum on the Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth. April 8, 1976
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
When schools close for the summer months, many young Americans will be
seeking temporary summer employment. This year, as in the past, Federal
agencies can help these young men and women put their vacations to practical
use.
I am once again requesting that Federal managers give their full support to
the Federal Summer Employment Program for Youth. Past experience clearly
indicates that young people are not only effective in the performance of duties
as replacements for vacationing employees, but are also useful in a variety of
other activities necessary in accomplishing the Government's missions. Also im-
portant is the fact that summer employment gives us a chance to expand relation-
ships with educational institutions and, at the same time, assist students who
need the income to help out with school expenses.
I urge all agencies to conduct balanced programs through the selection of
young people who have successfully competed in the summer employment ex-
amination, those who have qualified under merit staffing and the Federal Sum-
998
