March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
away from the Soviet Union and turned to the United States. That is 50 million
people, the largest population in the Middle East.
I think it is to the advantage of the United States to have Egypt turn away
from their former friends and become friends of ours. So, I think we should
encourage—we should give as much as we possibly can economically and in a
responsible way, militarily, to Egypt.
Now, I think we have to put this in proper perspective as well. This admin-
istration, as other administrations in the United States, Democratic as well as
Republican, have been committed to the security and the survival of the Govern-
ment of Israel. We will maintain that commitment. And to show the good
faith of our effort in this fiscal year and next fiscal year, the United States
Government-I have asked the Congress to approve $3,500 million in military
hardware for the Government of Israel.
Now, compare that, if you will, to put things in proper perspective—$3,500
million against $39 million. Now, we want to do both. I think it is the right
move to help turn the Middle East to a place of peace rather than a place of
war, and this is our total objective. The Sinai agreement was a major step for-
ward, and if we do it right, working with Israel as well as Egypt and others, I
think we can expect a responsible, constructive, permanent solution to those
volatile, complicated difficulties of long, long standing in the Middle East.
MINIMUM GROSS WEIGHT OF LIGHT TRUCKS
[3.] Q. Mr. Ford, what do you think of the EPA's proposal to raise the gross
standard of light trucks to about 8,500 pounds? That would put them in the
same category with car exhausts, and they would need catalytic converters.
What the manufacturers have done with vehicles, the ones that were under
6,000 pounds, which is the one that is currently-
THE PRESIDENT. Would you repeat that, please? I am not sure that I—
[laughter]————
Q. What I am trying to get at is, what do you think of the EPA's proposal
to raise the minimum gross weight from 6,000 to 8,500 pounds on light trucks?
If this is done, that will put them in the same category with car pollutants; it
will require catalytic converters.
THE PRESIDENT. I must confess that I am not intimately familiar with all the
prospective or inexistent regulations of EPA. I know that the Environmental
Protection Agency in the past has tried to push, perhaps, too far in some of their
regulations. I believe that they have become more realistic in recent months, but
I can't give you an honest answer to that because I am just not sufficiently
669
