[118]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
the new organization with the new restrictions that I have applied, there will
be no abuses. The Central Intelligence Agency will be precluded from under-
taking any of those things that, unfortunately, got some individuals and the
organization in some trouble.
I don't want to go into the details of how it is to be structured, but I can
assure you we are going to end up with an intelligence capability that will be
our best security in peacetime and the best security in case of any difficulties
around the world and, at the same time, the private rights of American citizens
will be totally protected. It is a good plan, and I think the Congress will approve
of it.
With those observations, Ray, I will be very glad to respond to any questions.
QUESTIONS
CYPRUS NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, as a member of the general audience I would like to wel-
come you to the city of Dover although I don't think that you have Hubert
Humphrey converted over to your way of thinking yet. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is nice to hear what he says.
Q. It is.
As far as the question goes, you might perhaps not know that the city of
Dover and the seacoast community has got a large Greek-American population.
The recent Cyprus situation as well as the Aegean situation with Turkey and
Greece has left some questions on our minds on how your administration is
handling the situation.
I am sure you know that you as well as Dr. Kissinger are not the most popu-
lar guys in Athens right now. But how are you proposing to improve that par-
ticular situation, especially our relationship with the Athens regime at this time?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that both myself and Dr. Kissinger have been
working since August of 1973 to try and get the Turkish Government and the
Greek Government to sit down and negotiate with the Turkish and Greek
Cypriots-Mr. Denktash and Mr. Clerides. And those two gentlemen met Feb-
ruary 17 to discuss and to try and resolve some of the difficulties and to solve
the problem.
I think we have to go back historically a bit. I don't condone what was done
2 Rauf Denktash, Turkish Cypriot leader, and Glafkos Clerides, President of the Cypriot House of
Representatives.
396
