February 26
[140]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
utilities and major industrial facilities from gas or oil to coal as permitted under
recently extended authorities.
We are also stepping up research and development efforts to find better ways
of extracting, producing and using coal.
Again, however, the actions we can take are not enough to meet our goals. Ac-
tion by the Congress is essential.
I urge the Congress to enact the Clean Air Act amendments I proposed which
will provide the balance we need between air quality and energy goals. These
amendments would permit greater use of coal without sacrificing the air quality
standards necessary to protect public health.
Oil
We must reverse the decline in the Nation's oil production. I intend to imple-
ment the maximum production incentives that can be justified under the new
Energy Policy and Conservation Act. In addition, the Department of the In-
terior will continue its aggressive Outer Continental Shelf development pro-
gram while giving careful attention to environmental considerations.
But these actions are not enough. We need prompt action by the Congress
on my proposals to allow production from the Naval Petroleum Reserves. This
legislation is now awaiting action by a House-Senate Conference Committee.
Production from the Reserves could provide almost one million barrels of oil
per day by 1985 and will provide both the funding and the oil for our strategic
oil reserves.
I also urge the Congress to act quickly on amending the Clean Air Act auto
emission standards that I proposed last June to achieve a balance between ob-
jectives for improving air quality, increasing gasoline mileage, and avoiding
unnecessary increases in costs to consumers.
Building Energy Facilities
In order to attain energy independence for the United States, the construction
of numerous nuclear power plants, coal-fired power plants, oil refineries, syn-
thetic fuel plants, and other facilities will be required over the next two decades.
Again, action by the Congress is needed.
I urge Congress to approve my October, 1975 proposal to create an Energy
Independence Authority, a new government corporation to assist private sector
financing of new energy facilities.
This legislation will help assure that capital is available for the massive invest-
ment that must be made over the next few years in energy facilities, but will not
451
