January 30
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the county of Wayne. A new judge took jurisdiction of that problem. He modi-
fied the court order, modified it very substantially, and apparently it is working.
So, I think some good judgment on the part of the courts, following the guide-
lines set forth in what is called the Esch amendment, is the proper way to treat
the problem.
ANGOLA AND U.S. COVERT OPERATIONS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, why was American involvement in Angola initially
secret, and do you think that has something to do with heavy congressional
opposition to further involvement in Angola?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the initial involvement in Angola was a covert opera-
tion, as there are in many cases. It was relatively small. Every committee-eight
committees in the House of Representatives and the Senate were properly noti-
fied as required under our arrangement with the Congress. Probably 75 Mem-
bers of the Congress, House and Senate, knew precisely, quickly, accurately what
we were doing there. So, there was no lack of knowledge as required in the
arrangement between the executive and the legislative branch, but it was a typi-
cal covert operation such as have been going on for 25 years in this country.
Q. Are you satisfied that the typical covert operation really gets results in
foreign policy with respect to Vietnam or Angola that you are having trouble
with Congress on?
THE PRESIDENT. There was no real covert operation in Vietnam; it was pretty
obvious. But there have been a number of covert operations that have been very
successful. The covert operations that have been successful have not been well
publicized and shouldn't be.
One more.
THE STOCK MARKET
[17.] Q. Mr. President, the tone of your administration's policy for an eco-
nomic recovery has been that it will be slow and difficult and much of the
impetus will come from the private sector. Since the private sector's mood is
generally gaged by the stock market, my question is this: Would you attribute
the recent dramatic gains in the stock market to (a) moves by your administra-
tion to make them feel happier, or (b) is it overly optimistic on the part of the
market, or (c)-[laughter]—do the blue chip boys know something that
we don't?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am no expert in the stock market. So, I am not going
to make any comment on what it really reflects, other than it must reflect the
growing confidence of a great many people in the steps that we are taking to
127
