March 27
[264]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, Woodward and Bernstein ¹ are being quoted quite a lot from
their latest book saying former President Nixon had been threatening suicide
and drinking heavily in his last days. Could you comment at all on that?
The President. I have not read the book. I can only say that in my personal
experiences in those last few days I saw no evidence of it.
It is very nice to see you all. It is beautiful here in Fresno. I wish we could stay
longer, but we will be back.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:10 a.m. at the Fresno Air Terminal.
264
Remarks in Fresno at a Meeting of the Republican
State Central Committee. March 27, 1976
Paul Haerle, Congressman John Rousselot, Congressman Al Bell, Congressman
Clair Burgener, and if Barry Goldwater, Jr., is here-Barry, it is nice to see you
again—Ev Younger, Mayor Pete Wilson, distinguished members of the State
legislature, delegates, and guests:
It is a very high honor and a very great privilege for me to be here in Fresno
and to participate in this Republican State Central Committee meeting of the
great State of California. Let me pay my deepest respects, of course, to the won-
derful people of Fresno, the hosts of this convention. I appreciate their very
warm welcome, and I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to say a few words
here this morning.
Let me add a very special word of encouragement and support for the Re-
publican Women's Task Force, and especially for the 27 outstanding women
who are candidates for the State legislature, as well as the United States Congress
this year. I wish you all the very, very best.
It is my understanding that this is more than twice the number of women
who ran for office in this area 2 years ago. I think this is a great and I hope a
growing trend, and I hope the example that you set here in California will be
followed in every one of the States of our great Union.
Obviously, I wish that I could stay for your reception and dinner tonight with
my good friend and, I think, our great national chairman, Mary Louise Smith,
1 Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, coauthors of a book on Richard Nixon's Presidency, entitled "The
Final Days."
827
