[118]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
But in the interim, because of steady, realistic, commonsense policies, this
economy has turned around, and it has turned around not only because of the
good policies I think we have but it has turned around because the American
people kept their cool, didn't panic. And what do we see at the present time?
Well, 2 weeks ago we got some excellent news that the unemployment had
dropped and that employment had gone up 800,000 in a 1-month span and
gone up 2,100,000 over a period of about 8 months. Last week we got some addi-
tional good news in the battle against inflation—we actually had no increase in
the Wholesale Price Index and if you go back for the last 4 months, actually,
there is a net decrease in the Wholesale Price Index which is, of course, the fore-
runner as to what we can anticipate in the Consumer Price Index.
Now, I have not seen the figures that are coming out this morning, but from
everything we have seen, we are going to get some good news this morning, in
addition, on the Consumer Price Index, which means that instead of 12 to 14
percent inflation 12 to 18 months ago, we are at 6 percent or less and it is going
down.
What we have done is to really get a handle on the most insidious of all adverse
economic factors. But there are some other things that I think generate the
kind of optimism that has now converted Hubert Humphrey to our point of
view. [Laughter]
We now have people working longer hours with more productivity. The real
wages have gone up. All of these things convince me that our free enterprise
system is good. It is the best way to solve our problems—not with some quick-
fix, make-work Government program. And the net result is America is on the
right road, and we are going to continue that way.
Two other points. I know because of the close proximity of Portsmouth
Naval Base that all of you, not only for that reason but because you are interested
in national defense-I would like to say a word or two about national security
and the Navy, particularly.
Last year, in January, I submitted the second highest defense budget in the
history of the United States. Unfortunately, the Congress cut it by $7 billion.
I think that was a serious mistake.
This last January, just a month ago, I submitted the largest defense budget in
the history of the United States. The question is legitimately asked: Why? The
reason is very simple. If we are going to be strong enough to deter aggression
and maintain the peace and if we are going to be strong enough to protect our
national interests, the United States must be second to none in military capability.
Some questions have been raised about the capability of the United States
394
