February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
this is a fairly decent, fair opportunity for a person. And there are many, as a
matter of fact, who recommend that it ought to be cut back.
I have listened to the arguments, and I have not heard of any proposal to
extend it. But the facts are, at the present time it gives a 10-year period between
discharge and when the benefits expire.
How long does the Congressman want to permit it—indefinitely?
Q. No, sir, the situation is that the individual, while in the service, has picked
up a certain amount of entitlement for educational benefits, I believe 36 months.
Now, many of these people, as I mentioned before, didn't go to school when
they got out of the service. They got married, they raised a family and now later
in life want to go to school. And many of them have a year to 2 years left to
get their degrees when their entitlement runs out. What the Congressman's bill
would do would allow them to continue to receive benefits until they receive
their degree as long as they were within their original entitlement.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the concept that began in World War II was that those
that served in World War II in combat and had been deprived of an educational
opportunity should be given an opportunity to go back to school. And there was
this cutoff first at 8 years, now at 10 years.
I will take a look at it, but we did find, or have found that there were some
professional students. [Laughter] And we have to look at the equity across the
board, and we will take a look at it. But I am somewhat dubious that it would be
extended.
Q. Thank you for your consideration.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Murray Clark. I am a representative to the Gen-
eral Court here in New Hampshire from the town of Lincoln up in the White
Mountain region-Sherm Adams' 5 town-where Loon Mountain and excellent
skiing is also available. [Laughter] And I am sure that the State of New Hamp-
shire would be glad to have you up at Cannon Mountain and Franconia Notch.
THE PRESIDENT. I would love to come there some day.
Q. Now to the matter. I would like to know what is your opinion on the
millions of illegal aliens now in the U.S. feeding at the public trough and filling
jobs that should be available to U.S. citizens?
THE PRESIDENT. We have anywhere from 6 million to 8 million illegal aliens
in this country, which is roughly the total amount of unemployment in numbers
in this country. It's a very serious matter. And let me tell you what we are trying
to do about it.
5 Member of the House of Representatives 1945-47 and Governor of New Hampshire 1949-53.
173
