February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But I have one more suggestion. You can't go wrong joining the Boy Scouts
and learning the Scout oath and the Scout laws, because those are good guide-
lines for anybody in public office.
BETTY FORD
Q. Mr. President, Polly Croteau. May I address my question to Mrs. Ford?
THE PRESIDENT. She does a good share of the good talking in the family so—
[laughter]—
MRS. FORD. I'm not used to this but I'll be happy to.
Q. Well, I understand from my reading that you are a very frank person,
and so, frankly, Mrs. Ford, outside of attracting celebrities to the White House
or making one dress designer more important than another, of what use is the
power of the position of the First Lady? Is there any area where you feel you
really influence events? Have you ever advanced any projects all your own?
MRS. FORD. I would be happy to answer that, and long before there was the
attraction of celebrities to the White House or any attraction of a designer for
clothes, I was already in the work for the retarded children and the under-
privileged children, actively working in Washington.
I have actually been a member of the PTA since, I think, our first year, both
the President and I, 1958 until just last year, when our daughter graduated from
high school and is now in college. I worked as a room mother, I worked with
the PTA, it gave me great association with the parents and their children in
school which I thought was a great advantage. And I feel that working as a
Sunday school teacher and putting in the hours that I have as a mother, I am
qualified.
Thank you.
CONGRESSIONAL AND FEDERAL PAY RAISE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Jim Hartman. Ronald Reagan has deplored the
lack of moral leadership evident in the secretive manner by which the congres-
sional pay raise scheme was passed. Governor Reagan, quoting Cicero, called
it the "arrogance of officialdom." I was surprised, Mr. President, that last Thurs-
day in a meeting with New Hampshire newsmen you discounted the con-
nivance and secrecy with which the pay raise was maneuvered.
Mr. President, do you categorically deny the reports here in my hand, pub-
lished in the Los Angeles Times, Christian Science Monitor, and Congressional
Quarterly, that the congressional pay raise rider was the result of 6 months of
secret meetings between congressional leaders and members of your
administration?
377
