April 8
[311]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is no reason why local officials and those already employed by CETA public
service jobs should be kept in suspense and in fear of layoffs.
I hope and trust that the Congress will act promptly on these important
matters, and I am now very pleased to sign these two measures.
I hope it is as easy to get the money as it is to sign the message. [Laughter]
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Governor Robert D. Ray of Iowa,
Secretary of Labor W. J. Usery, Jr., and Chairman
of the U.S. Civil Service Commission Robert E.
Hampton.
311
Special Message to the Congress on the Federal Summer
Employment for Youth and Public Service Jobs
Programs. April 8, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am formally transmitting to the Congress a request for a supplemen-
tal appropriation of $528 million which will support 888,100 jobs for disadvan-
taged youth this summer.
The Secretary of Labor has advised me that the unemployment picture for
youth is expected to improve this year over last year. However, the problem of
youth unemployment continues to be a difficult one, especially in the summer
months when students are out of school and seeking work. The action I am
proposing today, combined with other related summer youth programs, will
mean Federal efforts will produce a summer job for 1.5 million young people.
If Congress acts in a timely fashion on this request for a supplemental ap-
propriation, the Summer Youth Employment Program will get funds where
they are needed while they can be most useful. The appropriation I am re-
questing will create the same number of jobs at the local level as we achieved
last summer.
I have made my request to the Congress in the form of an urgent supple-
mental. Many areas begin their programs in May, and sufficient lead time is
required to ensure proper planning for so large a program. It is important that
the employment provided to these young people be meaningful, and that the
program operate with maximum efficiency.
I also want to call attention again to the importance of prompt Congressional
action on a related matter—my request for $1.7 billion in supplemental fund-
997
