[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Russ Train 2 is getting a better input, a broader input, and some of the things
that were done several years ago are being reviewed, and there have been some
modifications. I can assure you that with the changed climate—and I think
there has been—I think you will find that some of the future decisions of the
EPA will be with a broader viewpoint. At least that is what I hope takes place,
and I think it will take place.
Q. I could make a short statement. You spoke of the task forces. I recently had
the opportunity to review the list of task forces helping EPA. I failed to find
a task force in regard to the production of food.
THE PRESIDENT. We will look into that and see why not. I can't understand
why not.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much. I have enjoyed it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in the
Plaza Room at the Forum 30 Hotel. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Representative Paul Findley
and Governor Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-
73, chairman of the Illinois President Ford Commit-
tee.
182
Remarks in Springfield to Illinois Teachers of Children
With Impaired Hearing. March 5, 1976
IT IS really great to see you all. I want to apologize on the one hand and thank
you on the other. It is my understanding that this great group that helps handi-
capped children try to become active participants in the mainstream of our
American society had the contract for or the right to use this room next door,
and then some guy from Washington threw them out. [Laughter] So, you
were gracious and kind enough to take this room in place of the other, and for
that I thank you all very, very much.
I was trying to think about something that might be appropriate, and I prob-
ably should tell you the experience Betty and I had a couple or 3 weeks ago. She
has always been extremely interested in problems of the handicapped. She
worked at several of the clinics at home, and she has continued that work down
in Washington.
She is down in Florida trying to help me get my polls up to her polls. But the
point is, we were up in New Hampshire and we stopped by this wonderful
rehabilitation center. And, of course, there were those who had severe injuries
2 Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
542
