March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. If my memory is correct, I increased the research funds for
the Department of Agriculture in fiscal year 1977. I have just been verified by
the Secretary. My memory was that we had. As a matter of fact, I increased re-
search and development funds for the Government as a whole by better than 10
percent in the budget that I submitted to the Congress for 1977.
Now, as I understand, as I recollect the veto of that bill, it would have estab-
lished another categorical grant program in the Department of Agriculture
when they already had the authority to do what that bill proposed that they do.
Is that correct? That is my recollection. That took place about a year ago, as I
recall. And because we did not need the authority, I saw no reason to put another
law on the statute books. The authority is there. We added to the money for the
reasons that you have indicated, and I am sure that the Department of Agricul-
ture, under the Secretary, will spend it wisely. I don't think we needed any addi-
tional authority for that purpose.
Q. We certainly support the concept of a tight control on government ex-
penditures, along with many other people sharing this concern. But we do solicit
your support in adequate funding in the years ahead for animal agriculture in
particular.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I said, we increased the money for next year in re-
search. I strongly agree with you, not only in agriculture but elsewhere, that the
future of this country depends, yes, on the work you and I do on a day-to-day
basis, but more importantly on the results of research by scientists who are work-
ing today on those problems.
Q. Mr. President, I think you will like my first name. It is Gerald. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Are you saying the question won't be as friendly? [Laughter]
Q. I feel I have to put in a plug for a fine young Congressman, I think one of
the glowing lights in Republicanism. That is Ed Madigan. I come from his
district.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree. Stand up, Ed.
Q. Down to the serious business. As I look over my 1975 record—and I am
just a farmer and I am darn proud to be one-I see something happened to us,
and I would like to maybe get your ideas on what it was. Was it the embargo?
Was it the boycott? Was it the Russian grain deal? And do you think that the
Russian grain deal will prove profitable to American farmers in the years to
come?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last question first. I am absolutely certain
that the guarantee of a minimum of 6 million tons a year sale to the Soviet Union
with the possibility of increased sales over that figure will be beneficial to the
535
