February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
world in which we live. Our strength makes it possible for us to negotiate
with other great powers of the world from a position that commands their
respect and invites their cooperation.
We are now negotiating with the Soviet Union for a further reduction in
the level of strategic nuclear arms, a reduction in the potential terror and
destruction that each nation can inflict upon each other. We have entered
these negotiations with our eyes open, our guard up, and our powder dry.
Yankee traders have always known the score, and we continue in that great
tradition in 1976. With our military strength we can strengthen peace and
not return to the cold war.
One way to reduce the dangers to peace in the world is to have a reliable,
responsible, and effective intelligence-gathering capability. I have taken steps,
as I am sure you know, to reorganize and reform America's intelligence com-
munity, to make it an instrument of peace and an object of pride for the
American people. One thing is certain: We cannot improve our intelligence
capability by destroying it, as some would like to do. I have no intention of
seeing the intelligence community dismantled, and I know you don't want
it dismantled either. Its operations should not be paralyzed or its effective-
ness undermined. The irresponsible release of classified information by people
who should know better must cease.
The abuses of the past must be corrected and never, never repeated. I have
made concrete recommendations to ensure that the intelligence community
keeps out of politics and out of people's private lives. As President, I intend
to see that the Federal Government is under the people's control and not the
other way around.
This next sentence pretty much sums up my philosophy: We must never
forget that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a gov-
ernment big enough to take from us everything we have.
But the American people know that it is not enough to talk about the evils
of big government. They know that it just is not realistic nor is it wise to turn
back the clock and undo all the progress we have made with the help of
responsible and constructive government programs.
It is easy to say we ought to cut $90 billion or so from the Federal budget.
It is easy to say we ought to toss a lot of very worthwhile programs into the
laps of the individual States and let them administer those programs if the
local taxpayers will assume the extra burden. It is easy to say that people
who don't like the way the programs are administered in one State can just
vote with their feet and move to another State. I have always believed that
373
