[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. I was simply referring to the fact that when Greece started the coups
against Makarios, it was a military dictatorship supported 95 percent by the
United States Government, something which people do not appreciate.
Thank you for your time and consideration, sir.
U.S. ASSISTANCE TO SOUTH AFRICA
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student from Africa, and I understand, in
the past, American foreign aid to South Africa was stopped to demonstrate
the good will of a justified government. Right now, I think America is decid-
ing whether they should open that aid again. If this is true, why is America
deciding to reopen the foreign aid to South Africa if the South African Gov-
ernment still remains as it was before?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no foreign aid program for South Africa, none
whatsoever. We have no intention of instituting a foreign aid program for
South Africa, none whatsoever.
Q. My next question is, do you understand the situation in South Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me; I didn't hear you.
Q. If the American people understand the situation in South Africa, is
America doing anything to discourage that or stop that situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the United States should involve itself in any
internal situation in another country.
U.S. ASSISTANCE TO MIDDLE EAST COUNTRIES
[11.] Q. During the Egyptian-Israeli war————
THE PRESIDENT. Pardon?
Q. During the Israeli-Egyptian war, the Middle East war, the war in the
Middle East, during that time a million dollars in the form of military aid, in
the form of ammunition, was given to Israel, I think, and during that period
there was a drought in Africa. That, I think, is away from Americans, private
dollars to protect-
THE PRESIDENT. If I understand your comment or question, it is true that the
United States has given substantial military and economic aid to the legitimate
government of Israel and that has been for the purpose of trying to create
stability in that part of the world.
At the same time, we have sought over the years to help Jordan. We have a
new and far better relationship with Egypt, which is helping us keep some
stability in that very volatile area of the world.
If I understood your question, I have sought to answer it.
224
