[51]
January 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
government in the 200th year of our nationhood. Today, in this Hall of the
House of Burgesses, you continue our oldest representative legislative body, a
living shrine of the American heritage.
There would be no Bicentennial without the concept of self-government
which began in Virginia in 1619. We meet today where the representatives of
the people of Virginia perfected America's legislative process. It was here that
brave Virginians challenged the oppression of a distant and unresponsive
regime that sought to impose taxation without representation and government
without the consent of the governed.
The Virginians created a new way of life strikingly different from the lives of
the common people of Europe of that day. When the first settlers landed at
nearby Jamestown, they brought the seeds of an idea that would make men
strive for local control over the fate of local people.
America's most moving chronicle is how Virginians defied the centralized
authority represented by royal governors and tax collectors appointed by a king
of another continent. The momentous events that began in Virginia culminated
in this great Bicentennial.
The process that started in 1619 led to Patrick Henry's defiant outcry for
liberty or death, to George Mason's Virginia Declaration of Rights, to Thomas
Jefferson's role in formulating our Declaration of Independence, and the serv-
ices of yet another member of Burgesses, George Washington, as Commander in
Chief and the first President of the United States of America.
As 38th President, I commend those whose initiative and patriotism has pre-
served and restored colonial Williamsburg. The Colonial Williamsburg Founda-
tion serves the world by vividly reconstructing America's heritage.
Yet, in this Bicentennial Year, we must do much more than maintain the
treasured structures of our national legacy. We must revive the cherished
values of the American Revolution with a resurgence of the spirit that rang
forth in the streets of Williamsburg in colonial times. I commend the instructive
creed of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation: "That the future may learn
from the past." We venerate the contributions of the Founding Fathers with
timely and appropriate words of tribute. To keep faith, we must strive for the
responsible self-government that they sought.
Patrick Henry, advocating national unity in Philadelphia, said: “I am not a
Virginian, but an American." I believe that Patrick Henry would take one look
at today's America and proclaim: I am not only an American but also a Vir-
ginian who believes in local control over the fate of local people.
George Washington warned against the danger of the centralized power of
136
