[208]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
These are very complicated and emotional issues, but I am an optimist, based
on or predicated on the success that we had working with Prime Minister Rabin
and President Sadat. I think that world pressure is going to be helpful in con-
tinuing the momentum that we played an active part in, and I think it would
be in the best interests of the world as a whole and certainly, the best interests
of that volatile, complicated, controversial area if we could continue to move
ahead responsibly, bearing in mind that this country is dedicated to the security
and survival of the Government of Israel, that this country believes that we
have to work with some of the Arab nations to convince them of our good
faith, and they can trust us.
But if we stop and do nothing, if we don't move to help the momentum
going, I think we could have another outbreak. And we have had four in 25
years, and each one gets bloodier and worse with more world powers potenti-
ally involved. So we have an obligation to work with the Israelis as well
as their Arab neighbors. And this administration will, because we have their
faith, we have their trust, and we have shown results by working with them.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Palmer House in Chicago,
Illinois. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Augustin Hart, Jr., chairman of the board of direc-
tors, and John E. Rielly, president, Chicago Council
of Foreign Relations, and Governor Richard B.
Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman of the Illinois
President Ford Committee.
Prior to his remarks, the President attended a
reception in the Crystal Room at the Palmer House
for guests of the council.
209
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Members
of the Northern Illinois Newspaper Association in Chicago.
March 12, 1976
THANK YOU very much. I will try to answer some of your questions. It is
a pleasure to have an opportunity to meet with the Northern Illinois Editorial
Association or Newspaper Association, and I understand this is your 15th anni-
versary-congratulations.
But without further ado, I would be delighted to start the questions.
GENERAL REVENUE SHARING
[1.] Q. Mr. President, Federal revenue sharing has become a major source
of support for Illinois governmental units, and there is a great deal of concern
that is about to be shut off. What do you see as the future of this program? Will
652
