February 6
[62]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to be a part of the enjoyable, enthusiastic, and productive meetings held in your
respective areas.
I know how freely you—and I mean you—have given of your time, your
talent, and your enthusiasm, and I applaud you and thank you for it.
Let me assure you right now that in the coming months I will do my very
best, make my best efforts to help elect Republican candidates for the next
Congress and State and local office throughout the Northeast and across
America.
There is no doubt in my mind—and I am sure there is no doubt in yours—
about one thing. As we start our Bicentennial of independence, the two-party
system of free choice is still very much alive in America, and we are going to
keep it that way in the future.
Our two-party system works best when it presents clear alternatives to the
American people as to what course this Nation should take in the future. In
this election year, such clear alternatives have already emerged.
The American people in 1976 are not concerned with the polished image of
candidates, but rather with the hard issues facing this country. They are con-
cerned about jobs. They are concerned about the cost of health. They are
concerned about housing, education, crime, and they are concerned about the
cost of government and the price of groceries.
All Americans are concerned about their cost of living and the quality of
their lives. But each of our two major political parties has a different prescrip-
tion to cure our Nation's ills.
The difference can most dramatically be seen in the respective approaches to
economic recovery.
I propose to continue the commonsense policies of sound, responsible, self-
disciplined growth that have brought America out of its worst recession since
the 1930's.
It is all too easy to forget the fog of fear that enveloped our Nation just a year
ago because of double-digit inflation. Who in this audience doesn't remember a
year ago buying something in a store and finding a little mound of price stickers
on it, one above the other, each a few cents higher than the one below? We
wondered if it would ever stop.
In February of 1975 a prominent labor leader warned that everything was
pointing downward toward a depression. He forecast that a 10-percent rate of
unemployment by July was inevitable.
About this same time, a leading spokesman of the other party went on net-
work TV to say, and I quote: “Unless we take some very concrete and effective
153
