[126]
February 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
My administration will not dismantle programs that really work, that reach
the people and meet their needs. I will not retreat from my commitment to
wise Federal spending to meet local needs. But we need to improve these pro-
grams and, wherever appropriate, to return decisionmaking power to the State
and local level.
I think my actions have shown my willingness to work individually with
you or collectively with your group. Indeed, I have made it a point to confer
personally with every one of the 50 Governors since I assumed the Presidency.
As a Congressman, I listened to the warnings of President Eisenhower. He
said that unless we preserved the traditional power and basic responsibilities
of State government, we would not retain the kind of America previously
known. We would instead have quite another kind of America. The pendulum
has swung very far in the direction that President Eisenhower feared, but I am
very confident that the will of the people voiced all across America is beginning
to bring the pendulum of power back to a balanced center.
The preservation of the 50 States as vigorous units of government is very vital.
We must make sure, make certain that each level of government performs its
proper function, no more and no less, and we must do this to preserve our sys-
tem and to draw new energy from the sources of all government power-the
people throughout this great country.
I believe very strongly in the vitality of America. I reaffirm my faith in the
unique value of a governmental system of shared responsibility. I believe in our
capacity to foster diversity with unity, to encourage innovation and creativity,
both privately as well as publicly, and to achieve a proper balance between gov-
ernment and the governed.
The vision of 200 years ago remains valid today. It is a vision of States united
in action, united as a nation, where the government serves and the people rule.
It is a challenge, a very great challenge to those of us entrusted with the high
honors of governing. I am an optimist. I believe it is a challenge that will be met
by all of us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in the
Presidential Ballroom at the Statler-Hilton Hotel.
He was introduced by Governor Robert D. Ray of
Iowa, chairman of the conference.
420
