March 12
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
thing worth protecting. And with your help, we are on the right direction build-
ing together an even greater America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:34 a.m. at the Con-
vention Center in the Clock Tower Inn. In his
remarks, he referred to Representative John B. Ander-
son, Governor Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73,
chairman of the Illinois President Ford Committee,
Rev. Arthur O'Neil, bishop of the Rockford diocese,
Mayor Milt Lundstrom of Rockford 1953-57, David
L. Martinson, district director of the Illinois Presi-
dent Ford Committee, and Peter C. Kostantacos,
Winnebago County Republican chairman.
207
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at
Wheaton College in Wheaton, Illinois.
March 12, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Todd, Dr. Armeding, my good friend, Congress-
man John Erlenborn, and my good friend, Chuck Percy—I didn't see John
Anderson here but if he is, John Anderson, who is also a very good friend of
mine, Mayor Barker, students, faculty, and guests:
It is obviously a very great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the
opportunity of visiting the garden spot and particularly Wheaton College. Quite
frankly, I look forward a great deal to answering some of your questions, but
let me make a few opening observations and comments.
Wheaton College is, I think, a fine, fine example of those privately supported
institutions which have contributed so much to America's greatness and Amer-
ica's progress. The heritage of these private colleges and universities dates back
to the Middle Ages and to such great institutions as the universities at Paris and
at Oxford.
In America, it is interesting to note, more than a dozen colleges were founded
even before we became an independent nation. Wheaton College shares in this
very distinguished tradition of private higher education. Thanks to the vision
and to the dedication of private citizens and organizations, there are no
than 1,500 privately supported colleges and universities in America with a
combined enrollment of more than 2 million students.
now more
These institutions provide a reservoir and a training ground for national lead-
ership and talent. By both complementing on the one hand and competing with
public institutions of higher education, they help America to achieve the same
diversity in higher education that we are proud to have throughout our national
life.
633
