[208]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
that what they do is not politically oriented, because I think whether I agree
with them or not, or they agree with me, they have views that I have to respect,
and I trust they respect mine. I have been disappointed, however, in some of
the actions that were taken in the last 19 months by the Congress; I think they
have been harmful in the implementation of an effective foreign policy. Let
me cite several.
In the 1974 Trade Act, there were certain limitations placed on what we
could or could not do in trying to stimulate our trade relations with the Soviet
Union. This was bound up indirectly, if not directly, with our efforts to get
the Soviet Union to expand the emigration of primarily Jewish emigrants from
the Soviet Union to Israel.
In 1974, as I recall, some 35,000 Soviet Jews left the U.S.S.R. and primarily
went to Israel. In 1975 that dropped to about 12- to 15,000. Primarily because of
language which was written into the Trade Act of 1974, the Soviet Union felt
that the obligations in that legislation were such that they could not continue
the trade relationship with us. And I think it is perfectly obvious, the net result
was there was a slowdown in Soviet Jewish emigration to Israel. I think that
was a bad mistake that the Congress made, because I was personally confident
from assurances that I had, that instead of keeping the emigration at 35,000,
it probably would have increased if we had not had the action by the Congress.
Now, you can take another issue. The limitation by the Congress on what
we could do in delivering Turkish military aid was very harmful. I know the
intentions were the best. The Congress, or a majority of the Congress, felt that
if we put the pressure on Turkey, they would withdraw 40,000 troops from
Cyprus. Well, we had that limitation on for about 9 months, and no movement.
We want to solve the problem in Cyprus, and if we had been given a free hand
to do so, I am convinced we could have solved the problem of Cyprus months
ago.
The action by the Congress actually delayed, hampered, hindered the negotiat-
ing capabilities that we had at that time to work with both the new Greek Gov-
ernment, Karamanlis', and the Turkish Government under Prime Minister
Demirel. Finally, the limitation has been taken off-not totally, but in part—
and we are beginning to get some movement in the solution of the Cyprus
problem. But the action of the Congress, in my opinion, delayed and hampered
some action that I think could have solved it much, much quicker.
What I am saying is, if you go back to the debates in the Federalist Papers,
you will see that our forefathers who drafted the Constitution understood that
for a day-to-day implementation of foreign policy, you need one single person;
650
