[30]
January 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have a steadily improving economy now. And the policies that we fol-
lowed in 1975 and the policies that we are following today will improve the
economic picture in the months ahead.
I think we have to be realistic and look back at 1975, and know that this
country went through the sharpest, deepest recession since the end of World
War II. But we have made a great deal of progress.
It is encouraging, certainly, that we have as of December some 85 million-plus
Americans working in our economic system. Since March, which was the
bottom of the recession, we have added approximately 1.2 million to 1.3 million
more gainfully employed, and the prospects are that we will continue this
upward effort in employment and a reduction in unemployment. The unem-
ployment rate is far too high, but the trend is very encouraging.
If we look at the other concern of the American people-inflation—we also
have some very encouraging results at the present time and the forecast is also
encouraging. I was looking at the comparison between December of 1974 and
December of 1975. The Consumer Price Index in that span of time went up
7 percent, but in the previous 12 months the increase was something over 12
percent. The rate of inflation is still too high, but it is a lot better than it was
18 to 24 months ago.
The interesting thing is that there were a lot of scare tactics during the early
part of 1975. Some speculation involved a financial crisis in the United States. It
never materialized. There was speculation to the effect that foreign investment,
trade, and the like would also collapse; it never took place. There was some
speculation about a dollar for a loaf of bread; it never took place. There was
speculation about a dollar a gallon of gasoline; it never took place.
We came out of this very sharp recession in good shape. We laid a foundation
through good policies so that the future should be encouraging to all Americans.
The policies involved a firm, steady, long-range plan for the reviving of the
American economy. The policies included cushions to help those who were
unemployed, those who were in difficulty for economic reasons. And those pro-
grams will be continued as needed.
Lastly, we are seeking to remove and to eliminate those government policies
and institutions that handicap competition. As we look to 1976 I am very en-
couraged. The trends are all right, all moving in the right direction. We are
going to do better on unemployment. We are going to do better in trying to
control the rate of inflation.
So, I want to thank Alan and his associates for helping me decide some of
these tough questions in the last 18 months. Those policies, I think, have been
84
