February 28
[157]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And let me assure you that we are going to have a strong, firm, wise policy in
meeting our adversaries abroad, in strenthening our relations with our friends.
Freedom is dependent upon the strength of America, and the United States is
going to be second to none in strength in dealing with either friends or
adversaries.
Well I can't shake hands with everybody, but I will do it figuratively, if not
literally. I appreciate every one of you coming out here. It has been a great ex-
perience, a wonderful opportunity for me to see some old friends and make
some new acquaintances.
As I close, I would like to ask something of you. I hope what we have done
to keep America strong at home and strong abroad has met with your approval.
If it has, I ask that you help me on March 9. After we win on March 9, we are
going to win in November-November 2.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:07 p.m. at the Briney Breezes Town Offices.
157
Remarks in Del Ray Beach, Florida. February 28, 1976
GEE, IT is nice to be here in Del Ray Beach. The weather has gotten better, the
crowds have gotten bigger, and all of you are so warm and friendly, and I can't
thank you enough for just being nice. And I appreciate it very, very much.
Let me take a minute or two to talk to the older people, the younger people,
and some my age. [Laughter] All of us have a great stake in keeping America
strong, both at home and abroad, and let me tell you we are going to keep it
strong here as well as abroad.
But we have it do it not with some quick fix. We can't do it by spending all the
money that we can borrow. We have to do it by running this country responsibly,
constructively, and with good commonsense.
We have had too many patent medicine proposals that all of you know don't
work. In the last 19 months, we have had some difficulties. We have had high
unemployment, terribly high inflation. We have had some challenges from
abroad. But I think we can say in good conscience that we have made very sub-
stantial headway in meeting the difficulties of inflation. It is half now what it
was 19 months ago. We have gone through a tough recession. Unemployment
is going down, employment is going up, retail sales, personal income, you name
475
