April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in is getting vocational education to the beneficiary at the local level as efficiently
and as effectively as possible.
I can't give you an answer today because of the wide diversity one State to
another how they handle it, but it is a matter that we are studying and studying
very seriously.
ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, my concern is with the energy crisis we face and
why we don't have a stronger program to provide awareness of the problem,
conservation of fossil fuels, and develop resources that will supplement them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in January of 1975 I submitted an 18-point program
to the Congress for what we call energy independence or “Project Independ-
ence." The Congress took from January of 1975 until mid-December of 1975
to get anything to me, and they finally sent down to the Oval Office a bill that
had some good features-four of the titles or provisions that I recommended—
and then a mixed bag in the remainder.
It was not a totally satisfactory bill, but we had had uncertainty in the area
of stimulating more production for about a year and the uncertainty was causing
even more difficulty.
Now, the bill that I finally signed—and I concede with some reluctance—it
ended up over a 40-month period. We will deregulate domestic oil production,
and in the process of deregulation, we will at the end of that 40-month period save
3 million barrels per day in consumption, and we will, at the same time, increase
1 million barrels per day in production.
Now, if they had taken my program, we would have been a lot further ahead,
but this was sort of halfway between, and it is the best we could get out of the
Congress.
Now, one other point that I would like to make. The allegation has been made
that, as a result of that legislation, we are drilling for less oil today than we did
2 or 3 years ago. That is inaccurate.
As a matter of fact, in 1975 we had an alltime, all-year high average of 1,660
rigs drilling for domestic oil. That is a matter of record. And in the last month
of reports-I guess it must have been February—we were slightly higher. So,
even though the legislation is not the best, it has created certainty and we will
end up saving 3 million barrels per day in conservation, and we will increase
production by 1 million barrels per day.
And in addition, finally, again, after a year, Congress is sending down to me
for me to sign next week the removal of the limitations and restrictions on the
909
