January 31
[49]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have asked the Congress for authority to make reforms that will focus neces-
sary Federal help on the needy instead of the greedy.
I am shaking up and shaking out inefficiency and waste wherever I find it.
And I will do even more if the Congress will let me.
Waste and inefficiency are not only rampant in Government, too often they
are actually promoted by outworn Government policies. We removed the
shackles of Federal regulation from the Nation's farmers with astonishing and
beneficial results. And we are lucky to have Earl Butz as our Secretary of
Agriculture.
But we still cling to Federal price regulations on natural gas which discour-
aged the development of new supplies and distorts the distribution of our dwin-
dling domestic production. We need my long-range proposed deregulation if
we really want to stimulate production and make more jobs.
I say to my old friends in the House of Representatives—some of who are
here today—who keep talking about stimulating production and making more
jobs-let's vote for deregulation and do it now before the winter is over.
Every day this overregulation of an essential energy resource continues, short-
ages spread to factories and schools across America. Only a warmer than normal
winter in most parts of the country has saved a number of States from critical
shortages of natural gas, among them Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and
Ohio. But the short-term crisis can still hit us, and certainly the long-range
problem remains as long as we have this regulation.
The House of Representatives next week has an opportunity, and I think an
obligation, to act affirmatively as the Senate did just before the holidays in 1975.
So, I urge you to contact your Members of the House because the date for action
is next week. Convince them, as you can, that they should vote for deregulation
and provide an incentive so we can get over the short as well as the long-range
problem.
In all of these practical improvements I propose that we steer the same steady
course the patriots of 1776 took in their political revolution. They did not
renounce the Magna Carta and we are not going to repeal social security. They
did not throw off a distant government to become 13 totally sovereign nations;
rather they brought representative government and rule closer to home. They
devised the Federal system that combined the blessings of freedom with the
strength of unity. They were realists and men of experience, practical problem-
solvers as well as political philosophers. We can be everlastingly grateful that
they looked forward instead of back. And we should do likewise. In today's
developing debate, I am proud to say that our party is the party of change, and
133
