[185]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
and abroad, and that had to be pushed aside so that all of us—215 million Ameri-
cans—could concentrate on the future and forget the past, as bad as it was.
RELATIONS WITH THE SOVIET UNION
[5.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I'm from North Belmont, New York,
and a sophomore bio major here at Bradley.
Mr. President, you have come under fire lately by former Governor Reagan,
former Governor Carter, and others, concerning the State Department's han-
dling of détente. What is your justification for the foreign policy positions taken
by your administration in regard to the Soviet Union and China, in particular
U.S.-Soviet grain dealings, past and future?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say very specifically that we are going to forget
the use of the word détente. I said that back in August of 1975, when I spoke to
the American Legion in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The word is inconsequential.
What happens in the negotiations between the United States and the Soviet
Union, what happens in the negotiations between the People's Republic of
China and the United States-those are the things that are of consequence.
Now, this administration believes that we have an obligation not to go back to
the cold war where confrontation, in effect, took place literally every day of the
year. We have an obligation to try and meet every problem individually; spe-
cifically, every issue as it comes up, in an effort to negotiate rather than to con-
front, whether it's with the Soviet Union or the People's Republic of China.
And we can do this effectively if we have the strength, militarily and other-
wise, to have a two-way street. Now, the United States, despite what some critics
have said, has not under any circumstances gotten the short end of the deal.
We're good Yankee traders, and we've done darn well by the United States.
Now, let's take the grain sales to the Soviet Union. I know some candidates
for the Presidency have said that we ought to not make any sales, that we ought
to buy all the grain from the farmers and store them in Government-owned
warehouses, put that heavy lid over the price structure of our agriculture at a
cost, as it was some 10 years ago, of $1 million a day, about $400 million a year.
That's what it cost to store grain when we weren't selling it overseas. I just
don't think we should make our farm export problem the pawn of the interna-
tional politics. By strong, effective negotiation, we came out with a good agri-
cultural deal with the Soviet Union.
And if we get a SALT II agreement that will keep a lid on strategic arms in
the next 7 to 10 years, it will be to the benefit of the United States. Let me ask
this very simple question: Is it better to have a mutual limit of 2,400 launchers
552
