February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
gram would put them significantly over 1,320. So we've gotten a cap on their
growth of their program, and it puts equivalent MIRVing capability for them
as well as for us. This is a good agreement. It provides for equivalency. It pro-
vides for a cap so that neither country has to spend more money than what is
authorized for strategic nuclear arms. It gives both of us adequate deterrence
because nobody is going to use all that power. It would be foolhardy, and anyone
who says that that's a bad agreement just doesn't know what he's talking about.
I happen to think it is better to keep your powder dry than to have your pistol
out and launch an all-out nuclear holocaust..
Q. Mr. President, my name is Ron Sanson, city councilman from Del Ray
Beach, Florida. Sir, first off I would like to take this opportunity to commend
you and thank you for vetoing the common situs picketing bill and, secondly,
then, I have a question concerning the revenue sharing, which is really two
questions.
In talks with our Congressman, U.S. Representative Paul Rogers, and with
our U.S. Senators, Mr. Chiles and Mr. Stone, previously they have indicated
to me some concern on, of course, whether or not they can vote for a reenact-
ment of revenue sharing. And they base this concern on two facets which I
would like you to comment on.
The first is that they feel that most definitely there is perhaps a tremendous
discrepancy in how the funds are disbursed and whether these are equitable to
various parts of the country. It was shown to me by Congressman Rogers that
Palm Beach County and, particularly, my city-we have very, very small propor-
tions given to us.
So, I am asking whether there is anything that is going to be done to make
more equitable distribution of funds, and secondly—and I am sure I am going
to draw some wrath from some of my comrades here—I have had a hard time
accepting that in good conscience we can come before the Federal Government
and ask for the reenactment of revenue sharing when we are facing, I assume,
what is a $65 billion deficit.
I certainly think the program is one of the best. It certainly deserves reenact-
ment. But I wonder if it is, like, last on the priority list—whether we have the
right to come forward and ask to increase the Federal deficit.
The President. Let me answer the first question initially. In 1971 and 1972
when general revenue sharing was drafted and enacted, the Governors, the
mayors, and the county officials got together and agreed on a formula, and that
was mandatory. Otherwise, there would not have been sufficient unanimity to
get support for the legislation. But the representatives of the 50 Governors, repre-
279
