[34]
January 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think we must take inspiration from the founding fathers of both of our
Nations and the principles of justice and freedom which they have passed down
to you as well as to myself for the survival of those principles, which is our major
responsibility. You are dedicated to that end, Mr. Prime Minister, and all of
your people are likewise. And they are an inspiration to all of us.
Israel, Mr. Prime Minister, like the United States, has stuck to its principles
and persevered with courage and determination. The unbreakable spirit of the
people of Israel remains its strongest defense. And as we reflect on this Bicen-
tennial Year, we are both mindful of the indispensable role that the United
States has played in the world as a guardian of stability and defender of freedom.
I want to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that I am determined, as I think most
Americans are, that America will remain strong and America will remain com-
mitted to its allies and to its world responsibilities.
I know that Israel and our other friends and allies depend upon America's
strength and America's commitment. Our two nations have been working to-
gether for peace in the Middle East. No peacemaking process, as you well know,
is easy, but important steps have been taken. And we are proud of the role that
America has played in working with your country.
I know that all Americans deeply desire to see the process continued toward
its goal of a just and secure peace.
The United States has demonstrated many, many times, including yesterday
in the United Nations, that we will oppose measures that we consider unrealistic
or unworkable or that make peace harder to achieve. But we have demonstrated
at the same time we are committed to seek and to support positive measures,
positive moves toward peace.
We will continue the hopeful effort in which we are jointly engaged.
You and I began our discussions this morning in a spirit of friendship and a
spirit of common desire for peace. You stated this morning, and many times
otherwise, your nation's views eloquently and persuasively.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you join me in a toast to the Prime Minister
of Israel and to Mrs. Rabin, to the enduring friendship between Israel and the
United States, and to a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
In the ancient toast of the Jewish people, lechayim.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
Rabin responded as follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Ford, distinguished guests:
First allow me in the name of my wife and
myself to thank you, Mr. President, and you, Mrs.
Ford, for your kind invitation to come over to this
country as your guests.
We also cherish our personal friendship for the
time that I served here as the Israeli Ambassador.
I remember that many times I used to come to your
office as the minority leader in the House to ask
96
