January 27
[32]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Americans make the journey worthwhile. The year 1976 must be one in which
we will continue our progress toward a better life for all Americans.
January 26, 1976.
NOTE: The President's message, together with the
Annual Report of the Council of Economic Advisers,
is printed in "Economic Report of the President,
GERALD R. FORD
Transmitted to the Congress January 1976" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 282 pp.).
32
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin
of Israel. January 27, 1976
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Rabin, shalom.
Mrs. Ford and I are very delighted to welcome both of you to Washington,
our good friends of many years, and we are delighted to see you on this occasion
despite the weather.
We hope your visit here and across our Nation, Mr. Prime Minister, will renew
many happy memories and deepen the relationship of our two countries. We
are proud to have both of you as our guests.
As in the past, Mr. Prime Minister, we meet today in a spirit of warm good
will. Your visit gives me the opportunity to reaffirm, on behalf of all of the
American people, the enduring friendship of our two countries, the traditional
commitment of the United States to Israel's security and survival, and the dedi-
cation of the United States to seek, with Israel's cooperation, a peaceful, com-
prehensive, and just solution to the conflict in the Middle East.
The United States and Israel share a very deep devotion to democratic ideals,
a special affinity as two kindred peoples, and common moral and political values
that flow from the great Judeo-Christian heritage.
Just as you and I have been friends for many years, Mr. Prime Minister, our
two Nations are friends. For almost 30 years since and even before your inde-
dependence, our two peoples have worked together in many fields. My strongest
desire is that we continue to work together in the future. Today our cooperation
is more necessary than ever in the quest for an enduring peace in the Middle
East.
In the agreements we have already achieved by working together, we have
established a sound basis for further movement toward an ultimate peace settle-
91
