[206]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
206
Remarks at a Reception for President Ford Committee
Volunteers in Rockford. March 12, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John, and Senator Chuck Percy, Governor Ogilvie,
Bishop O'Neil, Mayor Lundstrom, Dave Martinson, Peter Kostantacos, ladies
and gentlemen:
Almost 73 years ago Theodore Roosevelt came to this city to dedicate Memo-
rial Hall. That was the same year that the Wright Brothers launched the age
of flight at Kitty Hawk. Since then Memorial Hall has entered into the rolls of
the National Registry of Historical Places and Americans have landed on the
Moon. That was the year also when the Federal budget was just over $500
million per year.
Since that day in June of 1903 when President Roosevelt journeyed to this very
vigorous, this very industrious community in northern Illinois, Americans have
faced many challenges-two world wars, a great depression, the atomic age,
and now the space age. Throughout those 73 years, we have tested our institu-
tions and found them very strong. We have mastered science and technology and
have made them serve humanity. We have challenged our national character
and found it resourceful and vigorous. And throughout those years, I think, as
a nation we have learned many, many lessons.
One of those lessons that we learned is that bigger budgets and bigger govern-
ment are not the magic answers to every problem that faces us as a nation. We
must never forget that a government big enough to give us everything we want
is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
Since Teddy Roosevelt's day, the Federal budget has increased 600-fold. Yet
only a dozen years ago many Americans sincerely believed that more Govern-
ment spending could heal all of our social ills.
We found that more government spending too often made these ills worse,
and there is plenty of evidence to sustain that position. And the resulting inflation
spread that illness to all Americans, especially to retired people and others
living on fixed incomes. It spread to the supermarket, to the department store,
and it struck where it hurt the most-in our family budgets, our savings, and
our take-home pay.
None of you here could manage a business or a household very long by spend-
ing more than you earn. Government can't be managed that way either. You
628
