[240]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
What we ought to strive for, and what I hope takes place in the third century, is
that we can have that century of freedom for the individual.
This is what we should concentrate on. We should free ourselves and this
country from mass government, from mass industry, from mass labor, from
mass education. The emphasis in the third century, when you grow up, ought
to be on individual freedom so that you, as a person, and the 215-plus million
like you, in a few years, will feel that they are not oppressed by the mob, but they
have a right and an opportunity to utilize their own talents, their own desires,
their own ambitions, and their own dreams.
MISSING IN ACTION IN SOUTHEAST ASIA
[3.] Q. Mr. President, what are you personally and your administration
in general doing on behalf of our MIA's in Southeast Asia?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what am I doing or the administration doing
on behalf of the MIA's who are in Vietnam, either in South Vietnam, North
Vietnam, Laos or Cambodia?
In the first place, we have continued working in every way possible with
the North Vietnamese Government, which is the controlling governmental
power in that part of the world. They are not a very flexible group of individ-
uals. They, of course, allege that they would be more helpful if we would take
away the trade embargo, if we would recognize them, if we would do a lot of
other things. We will continue to work to try and get their cooperation, and I
have worked closely with the congressional committee that went over and talked
to the top people in the North Vietnamese Government.
I can simply say that we will keep pressure on them, as we have, but we must
be certain that we do not capitulate to a government that has broken its word
every time we have ever made a deal with them. We can't trust them. We
shouldn't trust them. We have to make sure that there is a bona fide quid pro
quo. We want our MIA's back. I hope we can. But it is a very delicate situation.
I can simply promise you that we will continue our efforts and will do our
best, but we are quite actually and quite frankly-dealing with a bunch of
international pirates.
WATER QUALITY
[4.] Q. President Ford, I want to thank you for appearing in our city. I be-
lieve you are the first President in modern times to do so. We appreciate it.
President Ford, business and government, the Federal bureaucracy, the
burden of Federal bureaucracy is almost unbearable. City managers, Governors,
county managers spend most of their time working for the Federal Government.
774
