March 17
[223]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We are participating in the development of an international code to provide
guidelines for responsible corporate behavior. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development has made substantial progress toward drafting a
code, and similar efforts will be undertaken in the United Nations and the
Organization of American States in 1976. It is highly important that such codes
of conduct provide that both multinational corporations and host governments
share the responsibility for eliminating abuses.
Investment
The United States policy on international investment is based on our belief
that a free market system without artificial barriers or incentives leads to the most
efficient allocation of capital in the world economy. Accordingly we provide
"national treatment" of foreign investors in the United States, treating them
equally with domestic firms, and we expect similar treatment of U.S. companies
investing abroad.
Following a comprehensive review of Administration policy toward inward
investment, we concluded that it would be desirable to establish arrangements
to monitor the flow of foreign investments in the United States. By Executive
Order, I established the Committee on Foreign Investment in the
United States to monitor the impact of foreign investment in the United States
and coordinate the implementation of U.S. policy on such investment. A new
Office of Foreign Investment was established in the Department of Commerce.
We have also asked foreign governments contemplating significant investments
in this country to consult with us prior to making such investments.
Export Policy
U.S. exports continue to play a vital role in strengthening our domestic econ-
omy. We are continuing our efforts to expand U.S. exports by providing com-
petitive export financing, improved market information, and an increased for-
eign awareness of U.S. products. The United States prefers not to interfere with
competitive markets. We oppose the use of export subsidies and similar meas-
ures which artificially distort trading relationships. At the same time, we must
realistically take into account export polices of competitive countries, and we
will continue to promote U.S. exports by insuring that competitive credit terms
are available through the Export-Import Bank and the Commodity Credit
Corporation of the Department of Agriculture, and sufficient tax incentives are
available through the Domestic International Sales Corporation mechanism to
meet foreign competition.
729
