[174]
March 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
As a veteran myself of World War II, I have long admired and greatly re-
spected the outstanding role that the DAV has played in our national life. The
DAV, with over half a million dedicated members, has compiled a very enviable
record of conscientious and, perhaps even more importantly, compassionate
response to the very special needs of disabled veterans and their families.
Your efforts have greatly increased the educational, medical, and employment
opportunities available to disabled veterans. You have personally assisted—
and I mean really assisted-hundreds and hundreds of thousands of individual
veterans and their families in receiving the benefits that they have earned.
Working with the Veterans Administration, you and the members of your
auxiliary have promoted the rehabilitation, the welfare of literally hundreds and
hundreds of thousands of hospitalized veterans and your unique partnership,
which is not as well known as it should be, with the Boy Scouts of America
makes it possible for thousands of handicapped boys throughout our country
to enjoy the benefits of scouting.
Throughout all of these programs, I think this organization has uniquely
displayed a strong, healthy, and vibrant patriotism. You are rightfully proud,
as I am, of the great country we all were called upon to defend, as we did.
However, yours was the ultimate involvement. You gave your muscle, your
blood, your courage, and your years. It was a priceless gift to America that
America must never forget. And as President and as Commander in Chief and
as a citizen, I salute each and every one of you.
One of your very notable accomplishments, again not too well known, has
been to serve and to involve in your work disabled veterans of the Vietnam con-
flict. It is my understanding that more than 80 percent of your 280 National
Service Officers stationed throughout the United States today are from the Viet-
nam conflict. I think this clearly shows your success in meeting the new chal-
lenges confronting veterans and veterans' organizations.
We have exactly the same obligation to servicemen of that long and divisive
war as to any others. They served their country well in wartime and it is only
right that we serve them just as well in peacetime.
By maintaining, by improving our Veterans Administration we can ensure
that veterans will get the help that they so richly deserve. That is why, even
within the tight constraints of the Federal budget for fiscal year 1977, I have
recommended a record amount of over $4 billion for VA medical care.
Again, despite the fiscal constraints, I have requested funds for more than
9,000 new VA medical personnel in the budget for fiscal years 1976 and 1977.
510
