[245]
March 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions, better weather forecasting and better assessment and management
of our natural resources. Scientific exploration and observation in space can
add immeasurably to our understanding of the universe around us.
My Budget also provides funds for continued research and development in
environment, natural resources, transportation, urban development, and other
fields of social and economic activity here we will support work that shows
promise in meeting the problems of society and the new challenges we face as
a Nation.
Prompt and favorable action by the Congress on my proposal to create the
new Office of Science and Technology Policy and to approve my 1977 Budget re-
quests are vital to ensure that science, engineering and technology will continue
to contribute effectively in achieving our Nation's objectives.
The White House,
March 22, 1976.
246
GERALD R. FORD
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
National Science Foundation.
To the Congress of the United States:
March 22, 1976
I am pleased to submit to the Congress the Twenty-Fifth Annual Report of
the National Science Foundation, covering fiscal year 1975.
Science and Technology have dramatically benefited our Nation and the
world. During the NSF's first 25 years of operation, research supported by the
National Science Foundation—particularly basic research in universities—has
contributed much to our Nation's progress in science and technology. I expect
the Foundation to continue this valuable contribution.
As this Annual Report shows, the programs of the National Science Founda-
tion in 1975 addressed both the important search for new scientific knowledge
and its use in solving society's pressing problems. Also, these programs con-
tinued to assist in meeting the Nation's need to train tomorrow's scientists and
engineers. I commend this report to your attention.
My 1977 Budget now before the Congress recognizes the important role played
by the National Science Foundation and assigns high priority to increases in
788
