January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in slums or paying a disproportionate share of their income for housing. And
some estimates are up to 15 or 16 million. Congress has set a goal of 2.8 million
new housing units in this country as necessary to assure every American decent
housing, and you are proposing 500,000. How do you justify that?
THE PRESIDENT. The Congress passed several years ago a 10-year program
for 2,200,000 homes per year. That is the target over a 10-year period. We didn't
meet that target last year. But we met about 50 percent of it. I think in only 1
year, in the 4 or 5 years, has the housing industry been able to meet that 2.2
million program.
Now, the best way to get more housing is to make more money at lesser
interest rates available to the home purchaser. And as long as you have the
Federal Government going in this year with a deficit of $70 to $75 billion, you
can't possibly have enough money out there in the capital fields to make money
available to build 2,200,000 homes.
Now, the 500,000 program that Secretary Hills mentioned is what the Fed-
eral Government can do. And I think that is a good base from which the indus-
try can operate and still give enough capital in the capital market for the private
sector to meet the rest of the challenge.
Carla, do you want to add anything?
SECRETARY HILLS. I would only say that Congress suggested 600,000 units
to assist our poor. We are over 500,000 units at HUD, and there is a substantial
rural assistance program in the Department of Agriculture. For the first time
in many years, this administration has truly addressed the housing needs of
our poor. And I think it is a program that fits within budget constraints so
that we are not at the same time prejudicing others who would be adversely
affected by an increase in the mortgage interest rate.
Q. Mr. President, a year ago you and your staff made a series of projections
in terms of economic performance and budget deficit. I wonder what sort of
assurances you can give us that these projections are going to be a little bit
closer to the mark?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the projections on the budget deficit last year—and
I was checking them this morning-were not as accurate as I would certainly
have liked. As I recall, we projected a $50 billion deficit, and it is going to be
somewhere between $70 and $74 billion.
But bear in mind that that budget was put together in October and Novem-
ber and December of last year, when we were going through a serious infla-
tionary problem-with inflation over 12 percent. And not many, if any, experts
were telling us we were going into the kind of unemployment that we experi-
69
