[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
SECRETARY MATHEWS. Up until a minute ago, Mr. President, I thought that
our increase in the block grant was $263 million, but, roughly, an increase there
of some several hundred million dollars. The figures we have indicate that for
your 1976 budget, revised, you have recommended $6,451 million. This year
you are requesting $6,916 million, which is an increase.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you about the social security tax increase.
An increase in social security tax rates hits people below the poverty line as well
as those up to the wage base. It also raises labor costs to employers and helps
cause higher prices. Why did you opt for a social security tax rate increase
instead of either increasing the wage base very substantially or doing what the
original task force that helped create social security programs recommended,
which was to turn to general revenue financing for the welfare components of
social security, that initial unfunded liability you create when you raise benefits?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you go to the program that you have indicated, the
last option, you are in effect losing the concept that a person working is paying
for his or her retirement. I think it is important for us to retain that concept, that
a person, through social security, is in effect contributing to his or her capability
to retire at a date certain. I strongly oppose dipping into general funds to supple-
ment the Social Security Trust Fund.
The option of increasing the tax three-tenths of 1 percent, I think, is the most
responsible way to do it. To broaden the base, as I said last night, it will mean
that the person at the wage ceiling of $15,400 will pay no more than $47 a year
or less than a dollar a week. The person at the lower wage base will pay sig-
nificantly less-very limited increase. So, I think it is a fair way to distribute the
burden for having a retirement certainty at 65.
Q. Mr. President, on the question of jobs again, the Democrats are likely to
ask why it is proper, in your view, for the Federal Government to spend $17
billion on unemployment compensation and not take a portion of that money to
create jobs for the people who are out of work. How do you respond to that?
THE PRESIDENT. It has never been proposed in the Congress during the 25
years I was there—and the Democrats dominated the Congress in all but 2
years-that they would use that concept while they were controlling the Con-
gress. This must be a new idea of spending unemployment payments to create
jobs. I have never heard of that approach before.
What we think is the better way is to not take that money, which is a well-
accepted concept, and stimulate the economy so that we get more people off the
unemployment rolls and reduce our unemployment payments and get people
64
