March 12
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
"
limited area on the national level. We have some people that are now analyzing
that situation. I don't want to call it a study because some States have moved in
and solved it and some have not. But I don't think that problem in and of itself
dictates that we should have national health insurance with the Federal Gov-
ernment being the dictator as to what the doctors ought to do and how they ought
to be paid. I don't think it is an argument that pushes us inevitably toward na-
tional health insurance as far as the patient is concerned.
I have in the past felt that we could broaden the utilization of our private cov-
erage firms with the Federal Government participating, but the coverage for
broader health insurance would come from the utilization of our private health
insurers.
The one country that I am most familiar with-and I hesitate and won't use
the name-they started on national health insurance 15 years ago with expecta-
tions. They have been cutting it down step by step by step, and the net result is,
I think, that most objective observers say it has not worked.
So, if we are going to broaden your coverage, I think we ought to do some-
thing differently, and if we do, we certainly ought to use the private insurers
to get a better service to take care of those who are not adequately covered by
insurance.
And one final comment-I did recommend to the Congress this year that we
ought to provide, under Medicare, catastrophic insurance. There are roughly
25 million people who are now covered by Medicare, about 3 million of them are
affected adversely by some form of catastrophic illness where there is an
extended care period or heavy, heavy, heavy expenditures.
It can be done, I think it ought to be done, because I would venture to say every
person in this room knows a family or knows a person who has been affected by
a catastrophic illness, and there is nothing that is more worrisome to the mind or
has a more serious impact on the pocketbook than those kind of tragedies.
So, I think the Congress ought to move in that direction and move this year.
REORGANIZATION OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, as you well know, there is an increasing controversy
over CIA activities, both domestic and foreign. What measures would you take
to create a balance between abuses resulting from secrecy in these activities and
excesses of public revelation which may, of course, hinder American effective-
ness in foreign policy?
THE PRESIDENT. About 3 weeks ago, I released the information as to what I
would do to strengthen the intelligence community and at the same time prevent
639
