April 2
[282]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And any accusation to the contrary is a lack of knowledge or for political
purposes.
Q. Mr. President, if that is the case, and inasmuch as we are told that in
Texas today, Senator John Tower is going to challenge Mr. Reagan to debate
the Senator on the issue of national security, why do you not accept Mr. Reagan's
challenge to debate him yourself?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have indicated over the whole period of time that
I should talk affirmatively about the programs and the record that I have. I
think that is the way for me to proceed. If Mr. Reagan wants to make the kind
of political criticism that he has made on several occasions, including last
Wednesday, that is his privilege. But I don't think the American people will
buy it.
Q. Well, don't you think the American people would have a better opportu-
nity to weigh the arguments on both sides if you were to shape them at the same
forum?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think a debate is needed and necessary. The facts and
figures are outlined; I have stated them. As far as we are concerned, we have
more survivability, more accuracy, more warheads by a significant amount. We
have a 3 to 1 lead in strategic aircraft. Those are the facts, and those are the
recommendations of our Joint Chiefs of Staff. And any debate with a person who
is not familiar with the facts, I don't think would be helpful.
Q. Mr. President, may we have one more question, please ?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. Mr. President, following up on the $32 billion that you said was lopped
off the defense budget, well, if the present trend continues, couldn't the United
States very well find themselves in that number two slot?
THE PRESIDENT. If it went over a long period of time, yes. And that is one rea-
son why I strongly am trying to get the Congress to get along with the $112.4
billion defense budget which I recommended in January in what we call obli-
gational authority, and $101.1 billion in expenditures for the Army, Navy, and
Air Force and Marines in the next fiscal year.
And if we keep the trend that I have recommended, we will stay ahead of
any other military force in the world. And that is why I changed the direction,
or changed the trend, so we would maintain the fact that we are unsurpassed.
Q. Sir, if you are not able to push this legislation through, will then we be in
a position of being in danger of being number two?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if the Congress makes the cuts in this fiscal year like
they have made over the last fiscal year, yes, the trend would continue in the
891
