March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. You have opened one of my favorite subjects. At the present
time the Federal Government has roughly 27 categorical grant programs for
primary, secondary, vocational, and education for the disabled-twenty-seven
of them, as I recollect. Each one has their own bureaucracy. In each case separate
forms have to be filled out. It is an endless, discouraging process, I suspect.
Every educator that I talk to tells me that.
Now, the Federal Government in the last fiscal year or in the current fiscal
year is contributing roughly $3,100 million in all of these programs. In my
judgment, the best way for Uncle Sam to make an investment in primary and
secondary and other educational areas is to junk all those categorical grant pro-
grams and to put them all in a block grant program, add a sweetener to get the
support, and that is what I did.
I have submitted to the Congress a $3,300 million program and have said that
if we go to block grants from categorical grants, we will add $150 or $200 mil-
lion a year just to make sure that adequate funding is available. And we have
agreed to hold harmless every school district in every State in order to get away
from this papershuffling which must drive all of you crazy and just adds to a lot
of tonnage in paper down in Washington.
Let me summarize it this way. Instead of worrying about whether forms are
filled out correctly, we should be more concerned about how we educate our
children. That is the crux of the matter.
Just be quiet a minute. I am being urged to end the questions, but I also
heard as I was coming in the admonition that only questions could be asked by
all of the people in this distinguished group right out in front here. Now, if we
can do it orderly, we will take one question from over there in the seats and one
question from here, so if somebody in those seats will stand up and ask a ques-
tion, I will be glad to answer it. Speak up now.
HONESTY IN GOVERNMENT
[14.] Q. Mr. President, how can we restore more honesty in government?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been, unfortunately, instances of dishonesty in
government at the local and State and in the Federal level. But I do have to
say this—and I have had a great deal of experience with Federal as well as
State and local individuals—I think people in government do as well in that
area as people in other professions or in other areas. We have a few in business
and labor and education and others that don't meet those standards, either.
But I think the American voter group, or public, can spend more time looking
575
