March 8
[193]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Let me say I suspect, like all young Americans living in a great country like
we live in, I might have had a wild dream one time that it would be great to be
President. That's one of the blessings we have in America. There might be some-
body in this audience, somebody in this audience—it might even be you—who
some day could, under our system, be President of the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:05 p.m. in the
gymnasium. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Dr. Robert E. Tarvin, president, John A. Logan
Community College; Harry W. Abell, president,
Southeastern Illinois College; and Dr. Loren E.
Klaus, president, Shawnee College.
193
Remarks Announcing the Appointment of Jeanne Holm as
Special Assistant to the President for Women.
March 8, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody. I am delighted to announce this morning the
appointment of Jeanne Holm as the President's Assistant for Women in the
White House. She is taking the place of Pat Lindh, who is leaving to go to
the State Department.
I am delighted to have you, Jeanne, over here to carry on the very important
functions that relate the White House to women throughout the country.
Jeanne, as all of you know, has had a wonderful career in the military. She
was the first major general, I think, in the Department of Defense as a woman.
She was director of the Air Force activities relating to women from 1968 till
1973, as I recall, retired a year or so ago with great recognition.
She received a Ladies Home Journal award for the Outstanding Woman in
Diplomacy in Government. She has been very, very active in a lot of activities
concerning the rising, emerging role of women in government. So, we are very,
very pleased, Jeanne, to have you on board and to carry on the fine job Pat
Lindh has done.
With Pat going over to the State Department and you coming here, we're
going to have a first class team, and I am delighted to have you on board.
MAJOR GENERAL HOLM. Thank you, Mr. President. I certainly feel honored
and pleased to be here and to be able to work with you. I'm very impressed with
the record that you have made in support of the women's issues and certainly
with the magnificent appointments that you've made in the last several months—
Carla Hills and Anne Armstrong-and your stand on the ERA, an argument
involving women for some time.
593
