[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Well, Mr. President, I am very pleased to hear your revenue sharing
views, and I share the opinion of the last speaker regarding the limitations on
the funds, the time limit. And I think something should be done about that.
Also, I realize one of your problems, that the Congress is a do-nothing Congress
as far as I am concerned. And a lot of people that I know, and their idea that if
they haven't thought of it first, the idea isn't any good. I think a lot of your ideas
are great.
The President. Thank you.
Q. One of your ideas that you brought up is a fact that we should give more
incentives to businesses, small and large. I believe that the incentives could be a
tax credit, and I think this could be up to 50 percent for employers who would
hire extra persons over and above their normal staff and over their projected
growth.
This would be monitored by the IRS, would eliminate bureaucrats—more
bureaucrats, and it could be administered very easily. The money would be direct,
it would help the business, and it would help employment. This is the name of
the game right now, I think.
THE PRESIDENT. We looked into that program, and there is a great deal of
merit to it. But in analyzing it in depth, there are more administrative problems
than would appear on the surface. It is something that I think we ought to take
another look at because there is, in the broad sense, merit because it gets business
to keep people on the payrolls rather than putting them on unemployment
insurance or welfare. That is the overall approach.
But there are some pretty serious administrative problems. But I decided that
rather than go that route to stimulate business and to increase employment, to
recommend that there be an added investment tax credit to those companies
that would move into high unemployment areas with new plants, to buy new
equipment, if they would do it within the next 2 years.
We think time is of the essence. And the legislative proposal is now before
the Congress, and it would accelerate the amortization schedule in effect for
these companies that would move into high unemployment areas, build a plant,
buy equipment, and modernize their productive facility.
We opted for that over the program you suggested for reasons that we thought
were valid. We will continue to study the suggestion you have made. It was a
close call.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I also think that in doing this, we have to think
about the cost to administrate it. That's the big thing. Most of our bureaus that
166
