[103]
February 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
upon the current law. For instance, one section of the law provides for a one-
House veto of Commission regulations, a requirement that is unconstitutional
as applied to regulations of an agency performing Executive functions. I am
willing to defer legislative resolution of this problem, just as I hope the members
of Congress will defer adjustment of other provisions in the interest of the
prompt action which is now essential.
It is clear that the 30-day period provided by the Court to reconstitute the
Commission is not sufficient to undertake a comprehensive review and reform
of the campaign laws. And most assuredly, this 30-day period must not become
a convenient excuse to make ineffective the campaign reforms that are already
on the books and have been upheld by the Court. There is a growing danger
that opponents of campaign reform will exploit this opportunity for the wrong
purposes. This cannot be tolerated; there must be no retreat from our com-
mitment to clean elections.
Therefore, I am today submitting remedial legislation to the Congress for
immediate action. This legislation incorporates two recommendations that I
discussed with the bipartisan leaders of the Congress shortly after the Court
issued its opinion.
First, I propose that the Federal Election Commission be reconstituted so
that all of its six members are nominated by the President and confirmed
by the Senate. This action must be taken before the February 29 deadline.
Second, to ensure that a full-scale review and reform of the election laws
are ultimately undertaken, I propose that we limit through the 1976 elections
the application of those laws administered by the Commission. When the
elections have been completed and all of us have a better understanding of
the problems in our current statutes, I will submit to the Congress a new,
comprehensive election reform bill to apply to future elections. I also pledge
that I will work with the Congress to enact a new law that will meet many
of the objections of the current system.
I know there is widespread disagreement within the Congress on what re-
forms should be undertaken. That controversy is healthy; it bespeaks of a
vigorous interest in our political system. But we must not allow our divergent
views to disrupt the approaching elections. Our most important task now is
to ensure the continued life of the Federal Election Commission, and I urge
the Congress to work with me in achieving that goal.
The White House,
February 16, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
340
