March 4
[178]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
an essential number if we're going to get this job done. I will just end on this
last point. It has been proposed that if we don't increase our electricity capacity
by either nuclear or coal and make this kind of investment to do it, that we can
quite easily make up for it with imported oil.
Now, the cost of that in terms of paying for imported oil is fairly high. But
the other point I would make is that when you look at that electric capacity
need, in the event of an embargo—during those years if we travel that road—
we will turn off the lights in some parts of the country.
We didn't have to face that the last time around, but as our needs expand, if
we don't satisfy those needs with domestic sources, another embargo could be
really catastrophic.
Mr. President, that's the overall summary.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House where he met
with members of the Energy Resources Council and
received the report of the Federal Energy Adminis-
tration, entitled "National Energy Outlook Report."
178
Remarks at a Reception Honoring Representative
Elford A. Cederberg of Michigan. March 4, 1976
AL AND Peg, first let me say that Betty is very, very sorry she couldn't join us
tonight. She really looked forward to it. She worked so hard helping me get my
polls up to her polls in Florida last week that she is taking it a little easy this
week. But she wanted me to express to both of you, as I am going to express—
Betty and Jerry Ford not only like Al Cederberg, we love him.
Last year on my birthday, Al and Peg were over with some others to celebrate
and Al and Peg brought a very unique lamp-one where you could turn it on
and off by just touching the flowers that were around the lamp. Well, it was a
great gift and we really, really enjoy it, but they didn't know that it blew out
the fuses in the White House. [Laughter] Now, Al, I am not going to give you
anything on your birthday that would bring about such a disaster as that.
[Laughter]
I don't have to sell all of you on Al Cederberg. I am deeply indebted to him—
he got me started in all this trouble back on January 3, 1965, when he made an
impassioned plea on the floor of the House that permitted me to win by a land-
slide margin of 73 to 67. [Laughter]
But Al has been one of my dearest and closest friends for a long, long time.
521
