March 20
[238]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
our way in America to a new prosperity. Unemployment is going down, em-
ployment is going up, and the cost of living is getting under control.
Just yesterday we got some more good news out of the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics. The increase in the cost of living in February was one-tenth of 1 percent,
the smallest increase in 4 years.
I can remember back in the spring when everybody was blaming me and the
administration because we were in a recession. Well, we knew we would come
out of it because the American people had a lot of courage and wisdom, and we
knew we would come out of it because we had the right actions to take, and
now that we are doing well and everything is improving, they don't want to
give us any credit. But I think the voters will because they have more sense than
some of those politicians who have been doing all of this talking.
But, you know, gee, last March and April when the clouds were covering
the sky and there wasn't much sunshine, about every other day up on Capitol
Hill we would hear of some quick-fix formula. They wanted to solve our prob-
lems by adding to the Federal payroll not a few, but millions, and they wanted to
spend money like it grew on trees.
Well, those aren't the right answers. I call them budget busters, and in the
process of trying to send to us down at the Oval Office some of these wild spend-
ing programs, I vetoed 46 of them. The Congress sustained 39 and, because I
vetoed them, because we had enough people in the Congress who were voting
right, we saved the taxpayer $13 billion, and that ain't hay.
But there are also some people in Washington, and I guess around the coun-
try, a few who think that the way to do things better is to have the Federal
bureaucracy grow and
grow and
grow; put more people on the Federal pay-
roll to harass you on a day-by-day and a day-by-day basis. I don't agree with
that. I think that is the wrong solution. And there is a very serious danger in-
volved in that and, listen, because it is a very fundamental point. These people
who want a bigger and bigger Federal bureaucracy and more and more control
in the hands of a few all-powerful people never tell you what the ultimate is, and
here it is: We should never forget that a government big enough to give us
everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we
have.
Let me talk for just a minute about something that is very fundamental, I
think, to all Americans and something that I understand has a great significance
in this wonderful part of North Carolina. There are some people in Washing-
ton, not myself, some of the so-called liberals, who want to make every person
763
