February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
approximately $11.2 billion over a 5-year period. Now that money is earmarked
for mass transit exclusively.
If I recall accurately, there is a rural mass transit or transportation aid program.
I must admit that it is funded at a far lesser level than metropolitan areas, but
there is a program. And I know that some parts of the country are engaged today
in rural mass transit programs, if that is the right term. Has the State of New
Hampshire applied for any funds for that program?
Q. I don't know at the State level, sir, but on our city level—I am from Ports-
mouth—it is very hard for us to get the ear, the eye, or the attention of anyone in
regional and Federal offices. Maybe it is a matter to be dealt with at the State
level.
THE PRESIDENT. In the case of Portsmouth, the city of Portsmouth can take
whatever money it gets from the Highway Trust Fund and utilize it for a mass
transit program in the city of Portsmouth.
Now, there is another mass transit program that has been on the statute books
6 or 8 years, called UMTA [Urban Mass Transit Administration]—I can't
remember what it means, but it is UMTA. [Laughter] It is funded at around
$100 million a year, as I recall. Paul, is that-Well, I was too low. It is about
$1.8 billion.
Now, that program, again, I think, is probably aimed at the major metropoli-
tan areas. But there is a Federal program for rural transportation demonstration
projects and otherwise. And you can go to the regional office. If they don't give
you satisfaction, you call Steve McConahey* on the Domestic Council staff on
State and local unit relations, and we will find out what the problems are as far
as your community is concerned.
Q. Mr. President, I am Patty Blanchette, State representative from New
Market. You mentioned the unemployment figures which were released by the
Department of Labor yesterday. I know you know what I am going to ask you.
Yesterday morning when those were released, and we all heard that 800,000
more people were gainfully employed, we agreed that it was good news also.
But by the end of the day we were also hearing that those figures were inflated,
because for the first time the Department had used a new system in calculating
those figures. I was wondering if you care to comment on that or if this is indeed
true?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me go back just a bit. Under law, periodically, a group of
professional economists and statisticians take a look at how the Department of
4 Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs.
171
