[282]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
STRUCTURE AND FINANCING OF THE FEDERAL BUREAUCRACY
[11.] Q. Mr. Ford, this is another question on issues. So far as the campaign
rhetoric goes, there seems to be two candidates who have preempted the issue
of so-called bloated, stumbling bureaucracy—Carter and Reagan. Yet you are
considered by many voters a conservative, and early in your administration you
talked about this problem a good deal. If Reagan fades, is this something you
could pick up on as a campaign issue, is it something that concerns you?
THE PRESIDENT. I have done more than talk about trying to get the bureaucracy
under control. The first decision I made when I became President in August of
1974, was to insist upon a cutback in the projected increase in Federal employ-
ment of 55,000. And we achieved that reduction.
Number two, I ordered, about 6 months ago, the Director of OMB to cut
back on the number of forms that are required by the American people to fill
out and submit to the Federal Government. I ordered a 10-percent cutback. We
have achieved a 5-percent cutback already, and by July 1 of this year, I am assured
that we will have accomplished our record of a 10-percent cutback in the
forms that plague the American people, where they have to fill out this, this, and
this. It is a record of performance, both as to a reduction of U.S. Government
personnel and a reduction in the redtape and bureaucracy in the Federal
Government.
Q. How about the structure of the Federal bureaucracy which Carter talks
about completely reorganizing?
THE PRESIDENT. The structure of the Federal Government is always under
review, and the Office of OMB is constantly going into every Department to
try and get rid of functions and responsibilities in individual Departments to
improve their management. It is a possibility that in the next administration,
that we would undertake something comparable to the Hoover Commission,
which was set up first in 1946 and came through with its recommendations,
and a second Hoover Commission in 1953 or '54, as I recall. That is a possibility
in the next administration and, if I am the President, which I think I will be,
we will have something comparable to the first two Hoover Commissions.
Q. Would zero-base budgeting be one of the things you would look at?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Hoover Commission did not go into the financing
aspects; it went into the organizational structure of the Federal Government.
And a third Hoover Commission-if that is the right name-would probably
go in again, trying to analyze the existing structure of the Federal Govern-
888
