[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
look at the Ash report and converting some of these agency heads to become
accountable to the White House and accountable to the Congress.
I have one further thought, a regret which I have to express. I am sorry that
my regulatory responsibilities prevent me from campaigning-that regulatory
agencies don't allow me to to get out and do what I would like to do.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you. You have given us all some good thoughts to
consider.
Bill Anders of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, could we hear from you?
MR. ANDERS [William A. Anders, Chairman, Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion]. Mr. President, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's primary responsi-
bility is to assure effective public health and safety in the use of nuclear power.
We discussed this rule here about 2 weeks ago, and I want to assure you that
responsibility is being met.
In addition, a key personal motivation of mine was to make the regulatory
process not only effective but also efficient. By an efficient process, I mean one
not fraught with delay, but one that is consistent and predictable and which
facilitates industry planning.
My colleagues have given me their full support and share my belief that pro-
cedural regulatory improvement and the development of a realistic regulatory
ethic is completely compatible with our health and safety responsibilities.
I will hit some of the high points of what we have been doing. We have been
eliminating regulations that were unsuccessful or unproductive and making
cost impact value assessments. The Commission revised its requirements for
control of radioactive effluents from nuclear powerplants when we determined
the cost of additional equipment did not result in significant public health
benefits.
Furthermore, we revised our original implementation plan for these new re-
quirements when it was itself shown not to be cost-effective. Such impact value
review is now a basic tool used in evaluating proposed regulatory actions by our
Senior Regulatory Requirements Review Committee.
We have also taken a number of specific actions designed to increase regula-
tory efficiency, particularly in reporting requirements. These have been refined
and reduced substantially to improve the focus on safety.
We have arrived at a more realistic estimate of the frequency that informa-
tion is needed for regulatory purposes. First year operating reports have been
eliminated, and subsequent reports are now annual instead of semiannual. As
a result, the volume of paperwork provided from each reactor licensee has been
reduced by several hundred pages a year without adverse impact on safety.
1008
