January 5
[8]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
8
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the American Farm
Bureau Federation in St. Louis.
January 5, 1976
Thank you very much, President Bill Kuhfuss, Governor Bond, Senator Curtis,
Senator Hatfield, Senator Allen, Congressman Al Ullman, and my dear friend
and our wonderful Secretary of Agriculture, Earl Butz, fellow Farm Bureau
members and guests:
I really welcome this invitation to make my first major address of this historic
Bicentennial Year of 1976 before the farmers of America.
Our earliest heritage as a nation was created by the farmers. Today, the future
of all Americans and, I emphasize, the world depends upon you more than ever.
There is no Bicentennial forum more important than this convention of the
American Farm Bureau Federation.
The time has come for all Americans to join you, the farmers, in recultivating
America's old and cherished values, including our rededication to the highest
moral and spiritual values. You, the farmers of America, took the challenge
some 200 years ago. In the words of Ralph Waldo Emerson, describing the
heroic stand at Concord Bridge in 1775, “The embattled farmers stood, and fired
the shot heard round the world."
Today, the farmer is still embattled. Today's vital shots are not from guns,
but from grain; not from pistols, but from productivity. The Minuteman of
1976 is the man who drives the tractors in your fields. Two hundred years have
passed, but you remain central to America's future and America's freedom.
We start this Bicentennial Year with justifiable pride in our agricultural
strength and progress. The last 3 years have been the highest on record in the
terms of net farm income. I am fully aware that some farmers, because of
drought and other reasons, have not shared in this bounty. But the real test is
the net income of the total farming community.
I pledge to do everything in my power of the Presidency to keep farm income
high, and it will be.
You can anticipate that net farm income will approach $25 billion without
Government payments in this Bicentennial Year. This will be the fourth con-
secutive year that net farm income will exceed the 1972 then-record high of
$17.3 billion, which incidentally included nearly $4 billion in Government
payments.
Today, I want to remind those who would minimize our national strength
13
