January 31
[51]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and all across America, is beginning to bring the pendulum of power back to
the balanced center.
The preservation of the 50 States as vigorous units of government is vital to
individual freedom and the growth of real national strength and character. Yet,
it is useless to advocate States' rights without simultaneously honoring the
responsibilities of the States. An objective reassessment of State responsibilities
can reduce central authority while strengthening State and local governments.
The States can regain and reassert traditional rights and responsibilities if we
remove the Federal barriers to responsive government, restore responsible taxing
and fiscal systems, and encourage local initiative. But if the States fail to act,
Federal power will move even more deeply into a new vacuum created by
political expediencies and pressures.
We must, above all, see that government remains responsive to the real and
legitimate needs of the American people. And we must make sure that in meet-
ing those needs, each level of government performs its proper function—no
more and no less. This is essential to preserve our system and to draw new energy
from the source of all governmental power-the people.
Before the King's agents dissolved the House of Burgesses prior to the Ameri-
can Revolution, members of the Burgesses often disagreed, but they shared a
common faith that led to the common glory. It did not matter whether they
met in Raleigh's Tavern or in the designated chamber. They trusted one another
and worked together in the common interest. They shared their confidence with
like-minded people in every other colony.
This trust is manifest in our flag with its alternate stripes and stars, which
share the same galaxy. It is inherent in every presumption on which our free
system is based. Much has changed in American life. Yet, the Bicentennial can
remind us of those values we must preserve and the mutual cooperation and
confidence that we must restore.
Any real Bicentennial observance demands the capture of the new spirit from
the old. It is the redemption, in a new reality, of the essence of the Virginia
Declaration of Rights, of the Declaration of Independence, and of the United
States Constitution. These documents are something more than compacts of
government. They were and still are expressions of the will and the spirit of
the people.
If the Bicentennial is to be more than a colorful, historical pageant, we must
restore on local and State level the opportunity for individuals to have more say
in how their taxes are spent, in how they live, in how they work, in how they
fight crime, in how they go to school.
139
