[118]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
improve the exhaust situation which, I think, we all recognize had gotten to
be pretty unbearable.
But let me add something to that. You know, the Congress put this tough
deadline in and the industry went to catalytic converters and that solved one
problem. But it is now recognized by most analysts that in solving that problem
they have created another with sulphur dioxide which, in the minds of many
people, is more dangerous than what the other problem was.
So, I think we are trying to get some balance now between what was the
case and what we have to do, and I trust we won't get into the paradoxical
situation of solving one problem and raising the more serious one.
FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, in the wake of Vietnam and Watergate, it seems that our
Congress has done very much to limit the powers of the office of the Presidency.
I think this has cost us a tremendous price in international influence and prestige.
Could you comment on this and tell us what you can do as President to help
us regain some of our international prestige?
THE PRESIDENT. The Constitution, of course, puts the responsibility, as Com-
mander in Chief and Chief Executive for foreign policy, in the hands of the
President. Our forefathers knew you couldn't have 535 Commanders in Chief
and Secretaries of State. It just wouldn't work, and it won't work. That doesn't
mean that the Congress and the President shouldn't consult and work together.
We have in many cases. But in the last year, there has been a tendency on the
part of the Congress to limit and hamstring effective action by the President
to move quickly when we should have been able to move and prevent the kind
of, I think, disasters that have taken place in Angola. And I am very frank
about saying today, because we were hamstrung, the Soviet Union and 12,000
Communist-oriented Cuban mercenaries control Angola.
That is not good for the United States. With a very small investment of
dollars supporting two out of the three elements in Angola, with no U.S.
troops involved, we could have met the challenge and Angolans could have
solved their own problem in Angola.
But that is an illustration of how the Congress, I think, made a serious mistake
and refused to join me in meeting the challenge of a Communist government
in Asia and a Communist government right here in our own hemisphere. That
kind of limitation is unwise.
I hope if we face other confrontations-I hope we don't have those confron-
tations—I hope the Congress will recognize that a President, whoever that
402
