January 21
[22]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am proposing that we take steps to address the haunting fear of our elderly
that a prolonged, serious illness could cost them and their children every-
thing they have. My medicare reform proposal would provide protection
against such catastrophic health costs. No elderly person would have to pay
over $500 per year for covered hospital or nursing home care, and no more than
$250 per year for covered physician services. To offset the costs of this addi-
tional protection and to slow down the runaway increases in federally funded
medical expenses, I am recommending adjustments to the medicare program
so that within the new maximums beneficiaries contribute more to the costs
of their care than they do now.
My budget provides a full cost-of-living increase for those receiving social
security or other Federal retirement benefits. We must recognize, however,
that the social security trust fund is becoming depleted. To restore its integrity,
I am asking the Congress to raise social security taxes, effective January 1, 1977,
and to adopt certain other reforms of the system. Higher social security taxes
and the other reforms I am proposing may be controversial, but they are the
right thing to do. The American people understand that we must pay for the
things we want. I know that those who are working now want to be sure
that the money will be there to pay their benefits when their working days are
over.
My budget also proposes that we replace 59 grant programs with broad
block grants in four important areas:
—A health block grant that will consolidate medicaid and 15 other health
programs. States will be able to make their own priority choices for use
of these Federal funds to help low-income people with their health needs.
-An education block grant that will consolidate 27 grant programs for
education into a single flexible Federal grant to States, primarily for
use in helping disadvantaged and handicapped children.
-A block grant for feeding needy children that will consolidate 15 com-
plex and overlapping programs. Under existing programs, 700,000 needy
children receive no benefits. Under my program, all needy children can
be fed, but subsidies for the nonpoor will be eliminated.
-A block grant that will support a community's social service programs
for the needy. This would be accomplished by removing current require-
ments unnecessarily restricting the flexibility of States in providing such
services.
These initiatives will result in more equitable distribution of Federal dollars,
and provide greater State discretion and responsibility. All requirements that
49
