[195]
March 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
fiscal year budget for 1977, which I submitted to the Congress in January of this
year, I cut that growth rate in Federal spending by 50 percent. Since becoming
President I vetoed 46 bills, including one of particular interest to you. But it is
interesting to note that 39 of those vetoes were sustained by the Congress. That
is not a bad batting average. But most importantly, those vetoes will save the
American taxpayers $13 billion, and that's progress by any standards.
If we can keep that kind of pressure on and hold the spending down, we can
do three things that really ought to be done, and as I see it, must be done.
First, we can balance the Federal budget by fiscal year 1979; second, we can
cut taxes again; and thirdly, we can get the Government out of competition
with you and those associated with you in the private money market. And that
is exactly what we plan to do.
There is even more good economic news. The Commerce Department re-
cently announced that the index of leading economic indicators rose by 2.2 per-
cent in January, the largest increase in 6 months. That index showed improve-
ment in 9 out of the 11 components of our economy.
Just last week it was announced that new factory orders in January totaled
$88,400 million and new orders for durable goods increased by a very strong 2.2
percent over the previous month. Real earnings for the average American have
increased significantly in recent months and wholesale prices are actually going
down.
The index of consumer confidence is double what it was a year ago, and that
is a real key as we move forward in the months ahead.
I could say, in all honesty, the list goes on and on. However, it is easy to get
lost in a sea of statistics when we talk about economics. But let me assure you of
one thing-these figures are not political fiction, they are hard economic fact
and they are putting us on the road to a new prosperity in the United States of
America.
Some people, especially some politicians, may deny it because the prospect of
prosperity in 1976 didn't quite fit into their plans for this year. They may con-
tinue to deny it with every new announcement of economic progress and
criticize the policies we followed to work our way out of this recession.
But, as Winston Churchill once said, and I quote: "I do not resent criticism,
even when for the sake of emphasis, it parts for a [the] time with reality."
Yes, we have a lot farther to go, but there can no longer be any doubt that
America's economic recovery is real, it is strong, and we intend to make it
permanent. We are entering our Bicentennial Year with cause for hope, more
596
