March 13
[211]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. in the
gymnasium at Buffalo Grove High School. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Governor Richard
B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman of the
211
Illinois President Ford Committee, Mayors Edward
Fabish of Buffalo Grove and James Ryan of Arling-
ton Heights, and Dr. Clarence M. Miller, principal
of Buffalo Grove High School.
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Chicago.
March 13, 1976
FRANKLY, I am just overwhelmed to get this many wonderful people down
at, what is it, 8 o'clock on a Saturday morning. I can't express deeply enough
my appreciation for all of you, not only what you have done, the fact that you
are here, but what you're going to do between now and next Tuesday. And
after we win there, what you will do between now and next November 2, when
we are darn sure going to win.
I can't really claim any credit. I saw some wonderful signs—“I am for Betty's
husband for President." I saw a couple of other signs—“I am for Jack's Dad
for President." Pretty soon it will come down to what I have done. But I am
proud of them, and when we get the rest of the family moving, we're bound to
prevail. [Laughter]
I thought it might be very helpful for all of you to have me give you a quick
rundown, an assessment of what's happened, how we're doing, where we're
going. I think earlier this year it was fairly well recognized that we were not
moving as rapidly as some had hoped.
When we came to New Hampshire there were many who were skeptical
and were saying that we weren't going to win. We did win in New Hampshire.
I might say parenthetically at this point, I made a very conscious decision that
we were going to enter every one of the 31 Presidential primaries. I wanted to
disabuse once and for all that we could be a national candidate. So, we entered
New Hampshire, we won; we entered Vermont, we entered Massachusetts, and
we won, and won very, very well. We went to Florida, and despite the forecast,
the predictions that we were going to lose 2 to 1, we ended up with a good win.
Now, we are at the next battleground-Illinois. I think we are going to win
in Illinois. Let me assess why I think we are going to win in Illinois. Number
one, we have an outstanding organization and the attendance of this wonderful
group this morning here proves it. And I thank each and every one of you here
679
