[148]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
warn Fidel Castro against any temptation to armed intervention in the Western
Hemisphere. Let his regime or any like-minded government be assured that the
United States would take the appropriate measures.
With continued peace, this hemisphere faces a new era of opportunity. The
spirit of hemispheric friendship is strong. I can foresee new economic progress,
greater cooperation, and expanded trade. As the great gateway to Latin America,
Florida will reflect the growth with more jobs and more opportunities.
As America enters its third century we look inward as well as outward. To be
strong externally, we must be strong internally. Our strength is based upon the
freedom of the individual. To keep the individual free, we place a premium on
creativity and individuality. Together we challenge the massive conformity of
the modern world. Americans are determined to control institutions and not
be controlled by them.
I believe in a country where the people rule and the government responds.
I believe, as you do, in America. America builds unity from diversity and makes
advantage out of adversity. That is why today's proceedings are so much a part
of the finest American process.
A refugee child who landed on a fishing boat 10 years ago, is today a medical
student. Another who fled because authorities in his homeland permitted no
arguments, today argues cases in a Miami court as an attorney. Yet another who
arrived with an empty stomach now runs a fine restaurant. Such events are a
tribute not only to America but to the new Americans that we honor today.
For you, I see a future full of great hope, and I am dedicated to the good life
available to all of our people under a free government that checks and balances
its own excesses. I am dedicated to the opportunity and the soundness of our
dollar under a free economic system that corrects its own errors, and I am con-
vinced of the courage, the capacities, and the constructive cooperation of free
citizens in all our land.
Let us continue to be a nation of hope. Americans believe in the future because
of what we have achieved in the past. Our resources are rich, our genius unchal-
lenged, our freedom unequaled, and our opportunities unlimited.
Our fate is in our own hands, and I know, therefore, that our fate is in good
hands. America remains, in the words of Abraham Lincoln, the last, best hope
of Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:28 a.m. in the Dade
County Auditorium. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Judge Peter T. Fay and Chief Judge
Charles B. Fulton of the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Florida and Rev. George
McCormick, Jr., dean of the Episcopal Cathedral in
Miami.
1
466
