January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
put the money in to continue the research and development. And we will see
what happens in the negotiations.
Q. Mr. President, in May, sir, the Congress is due to invoke its first tentative
ceiling on the fiscal 1977 budget. If Congress' ceiling is higher than your $394.2
level, will you permit the current tax rates to be extended for the rest of the year?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the Congress, when they take a look at the
facts, will come to the same conclusion that I do, that $394.2 is a responsible
and attainable figure. I don't want to prejudge what they might do. And if
they do that, then I will do something else. I will stand by my figures and hope
that they will act responsibly and do the same.
Q. Mr. President, in answer to an earlier question you used the phrase, the
B-1 bombers that are coming along. Does that mean that the decision has already
been made?
THE PRESIDENT. The money in this budget, as I recall, provides for the pro-
curement of the B-1 bomber.
Bill, is that right?
DEPUTY SECRETARY CLEMENTS. That is right. And the long lead items related
to limited production. And I would further add, Mr. President, that the R. & D.
development program with the planes that we now have is progressing beauti-
fully. We have not run into any great difficulties with the program. And we
are extremely pleased with it.
Q. Can I just follow that? I thought the decision was going to be made at the
end of this year on whether to procure them or not. Am I wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. We put the money in, as Bill said, for the long leadtime
items. This is for a budget that begins October 1, 1976. But we have to make
some decisions because of the time lag. And it is our judgment at this time that
those long leadtime items be recommended.
Deputy Secretary CLEMENTS. Mr. President, your budget is anticipating that
production will start in FY "77. And we are asking, as I said, for that long lead-
time money to make that production as efficient as possible and as less costly
as possible.
Q. Mr. President, if I could get back to jobs, because that is a central area of
disagreement between you and the Democrats. While nobody disputes your
contention or your statement that it is better to have people working in private
enterprise than for the Government, isn't it common sense that it is better for
people who are now unemployed, especially the young, to have temporary gov-
ernment jobs than to have them be on unemployment compensation, on welfare,
or standing around on street corners figuring out how to commit crimes?
73
