February 7
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
thing important about America. It restored common sense and the same kind
of discipline that kept the First New Hampshire Regiment in the line through
Valley Forge to final victory.
The economic discipline we have maintained is justified by the statistics
released yesterday. They reported that the unemployment rate just took the
sharpest monthly drop in over 17 years.
The number of unemployed is today the smallest since December 1974.
Employment has increased by 2.1 million since last March, at the bottom of
the recession. Over 86.2 million Americans are now at work. Better than 92 per-
cent of the work force is actually gainfully employed.
We are today headed not only in a new direction but in the right direction.
It is the right direction because we follow the 200-year-old wisdom that national
problemsolving requires far more than a central government which promises
too much and delivers far too little.
A free society, according to Jefferson and Adams, depended upon qualities
that they called "republican virtues”—civic virtue, the ethic of honest work, and
local control by local people.
During the recent years of very rapid change, more and more people looked
to Washington to solve local problems. Too much was expected; too much was
promised. Some citizens felt automatically entitled to a constantly rising living
standard without regard to their own efforts, to their individual productivity, or
their personal contribution to the community and to the economy.
Freedom is today misinterpreted by too many to mean the instant equalization
of everyone's social and economic situation at the public expense through the
machinery of the Federal Government.
I pledge to you today that my administration will strive to deliver everything
we promise. I will never promise more than I can deliver.
The false premises and false promises of years of social experimentation dis-
torted the Federal system. Power was drained away from Nashua, from New
Hampshire, and from every community and every State to an increasing cen-
tralized Federal Government-always bigger, always more powerful, but not
always more efficient nor more responsive nor more protective of our traditional
freedoms.
The patriots who built America understood that poverty is abolished by eco-
nomic growth, not by government-imposed redistribution of money. They knew
that only initiative and work could create a society with economic prosperity
and political participation by everyone.
They knew that local problems are better understood and solved by local
189
