[308]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
$7.5 billion out of it. This tendency of the Congress in the past to slash our de-
fense budget cannot be tolerated.
So, I added $14 billion in more funding for the Department of Defense,
comparing this year to next year-$14 billion. It went from $98 billion up to
$112 billion, wasn't it, Paul? And in spending we went from the figure of
about $92 billion or $93 billion up to $101 billion, just because we had been
faced with this Defense Department slashing by the Congress for the last 6
years.
Now, the trend-if the Congress goes along with my budget for the Defense
Department in the coming fiscal year and if we continue that line, our mili-
tary capability will continue to be unsurpassed—continue to be unsurpassed.
I added $1,800 million in additional funding for strategic forces, $4.8 billion
more for our conventional forces, $1 billion more for research and development.
I added, as I indicated, $14 billion for next fiscal year over the current fiscal
year.
Now the Congress has to be responsible, and they can't go through this exer-
cise they have been going through for the last 6 years. They have just got to stand
with us and, if they do, we will continue to be unsurpassed militarily through-
out the world.
One more, and I guess I have to go, don't I, Terry?
Q. What is the status of the plan to cut down on the ever-growing-
THE PRESIDENT. Redtape and forms and-
Q.
agencies?
-obligations that businesses are being subjected to by regulatory
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you have two problems. The regulatory agencies, such
as the FCC, ICC, FTC-I think there are 11 or 12 of them-I have had one
meeting with all of the chairmen and one or more members from each of them,
telling them that they had to do something to clean up their individual com-
missions, get rid of some of the obsolete, obsolescent regulations, speed up the
processes. I am meeting with that group again, I think next week, to get a report
on how well they have done.
In addition, within each Department of the executive branch—and they aren't
independent, they do come under the President—we have given instructions to
every Cabinet officer, every other executive head, that they have got to reduce 10
percent of their forms and so forth by July 1 of this year. As I understand it, they
have now achieved about a 5-percent reduction. But we are going to get a report
from them July 1, and we will judge their performance by how well they do.
3 Paul W. McAvoy, member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
994
