February 12
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
Respect to Taxes on Income.
There is no convention on this subject presently in force between the United
States and Egypt.
The Convention is similar in most essential respects to other recent United
States income tax treaties.
I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Convention.
Conventions such as this one are an important element in promoting closer
economic cooperation between the United States and other countries. I urge the
Senate to act favorably on this Convention at an early date and to give its advice
and consent to ratification.
The White House,
February 11, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive D (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
80
Remarks at a Ceremony Commemorating the Birth of
Abraham Lincoln. February 12, 1976
Mr. Hunt, Secretary Kleppe, Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Ralph Edwards, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, may I congratulate Richard Barnes for his winning essay and
the views that he has expressed in it. And may I also, at the same time, con-
gratulate those who participated but who did not win, because the effort by
many, I think, is what we want, even though the competition ends up with just
one winner. But the net result is that all of us win by this kind of an effort, but
congratulations to you personally, Richard.
May I also express my thanks to all the members of the various patriotic orga-
nizations represented here for the opportunity to join you in this Bicentennial
tribute to Abraham Lincoln on the 167th anniversary of his birth. In time,
Lincoln was closer to the American Revolution than we are to the Civil War.
His grandfather, in Virginia, heard the news, the great news from Phila-
delphia in 1776. Only fourscore and seven years had passed when President
Lincoln stood among the graves in Gettysburg.
To the young Lincoln growing to manhood in Kentucky, Indiana, and Illi-
249
