[82]
February 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
In our country today, 9,400,000 small business firms employ about 55 percent
of the private sector labor force and produce approximately 48 percent of our
gross business product. The continued growth of small business is critically
important if we are going to generate the expanding number of productive jobs
our country will need in the coming years.
To provide small businessmen with the advice they need and the assistance
that they require and to promote the interests of the small business sector, the
Small Business Administration was established in 1953, under President Eisen-
hower. The intent of this legislation, as written in the statute, was to aid, to
counsel, assist, and to protect the interests of small business concerns in order
to preserve competitive enterprise as the basis for economic well-being and the
security of the Nation.
In 1953 I was in the House of Representatives and supported, as I think vir-
tually every Member did, the creation of SBA. And I support it strongly today.
As tangible proof of this commitment, in order to increase the ability of SBA
to assist in financing the many, many small businesses which are unable to obtain
financing in commercial markets, my fiscal year 1977 budget calls for an in-
crease of 33 percent in SBA's major loan guarantee program—and we can blame
Tom Kleppe for twisting my arm in that regard.
I am very pleased—I am sure it is obvious to have someone with Mitch Kobe-
linski's ability, his perception, and his dedication assuming the lead role in aiding
and assisting the small business community and heading up the handling of
such matters for my administration. I look forward to working with Mitch in
furthering the interests and the needs and the requirements of the small business
community.
Now it is my great personal pleasure and privilege to participate in the swear-
ing-in ceremony, and I ask Justice Stevens if he would administer the oath,
please.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the State Dining Room at the White House.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Thomas S.
Kleppe, Secretary of the Interior and former Ad-
ministrator of the Small Business Administration.
John Paul Stevens, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, administered the oath of office.
Mr. Kobelinski's response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Pres-
idential Documents (vol. 12, p. 182).
254
