February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Federal Government to work with Governors and local officials to put pressure
on the Congress.
It is a proven program. All they have to do is simply extend the date from
December 31, 1976, to 1982. I think we are making some headway. But, believe
me, if all of you in the State of Florida would join with your friends around
the country and join with us, we can get the Congress to move. But, time is
essential.
Oh, I know they say we have got lots of time; it doesn't end until December 31.
Now, I don't know what the circumstances are in Florida, but I was talking to
some mayors from Ohio the other day, and under their State law they have to
have their budget for the next calendar year in writing by July 1 of this year.
So, if they don't have a general revenue sharing law on the statute books, they
can't include that proposed revenue for the next calendar year. And so what they
are faced with is, if Congress sits on its haunches and doesn't move, they either
have to cut services or they have to raise taxes, and I don't think that is fair to
mayors and to Governors across the country.
So, twist a few arms and get them moving, because this program has worked,
and it ought to go for another 5½ years.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jack Moss from Broward County, Florida-county
commissioner. Many of us in local government are concerned about the impact
that the Federal budget may have on health and social welfare programs at the
local level. Could you please tell us about your proposals to the Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. At the present time, the Federal Government provides some-
thing slightly under $10 billion in various health programs throughout the
country. It is provided through 15 different categorical grant programs, which
means there are 15 different agencies or sub-agencies that have a piece of the
action, and the net result is you have a very heavy administrative burden and
cost. And the net result is the recipients of that Federal money for health doesn't
get well delivered.
So, we have recommended what we call block grant health delivery services,
so that the money will go from the Federal Government to the State govern-
ment with a pass-through for a proportion of the amount to local units of
government. We think this will simplify it. It will provide a far better delivery
system to the beneficiaries or the recipients, and we no longer would require,
under my proposal, any matching funds. And we have recommended $10 bil-
lion, which is slightly more than in the current fiscal year, and we propose
another $500 million for the following fiscal year.
277
