[292]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I see strong signs all over the country that people and government are work-
ing together because they trust one another a lot more. We are going to keep
that up.
Then, we have had some challenges from abroad. Some of our allies in the
last year and a half have wondered whether the United States would stand by
its commitments, whether the United States really wanted to continue to be a
leader in the world. And some of our adversaries, I think, might have been
tempted to try and challenge our capability. But, you know, the main thing is
our allies today know that we can be trusted, they know that we have the
strength to work with them to achieve what we all want, and our adversaries
have not challenged us because they know we are strong in capability and strong
in will.
Let me just make one final comment. Some people have alleged, some people
have challenged whether the United States is number one. Let me put it this
way: The United States is unsurpassed in military capability; the United States
has the greatest industrial capability in the history of the world; our agriculture
out-produces any other nation in the history of mankind; we are ahead in science
and technology. But the most important thing is that the American people—plus
all of these other things—we have a deep conviction morally, spiritually, and
religiously. And when you put all of this in one package, America is num-
ber one, and those that challenge us don't know what the facts are.
I want to thank every one of you. We have got a big ballgame Tuesday, and
you up here in Green Bay know what you mean by a big ballgame. It is a game
that we have got to win, but it is a game we are going to win, and it will be the
kickoff for a great victory November 2 of this year. And, boy, at the end of that
we can all say we're proud to be Americans, and we're proud of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:14 p.m. at the Brown County Veterans Memorial Arena.
293
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a
Public Forum in Green Bay. April 3, 1976
Thank you very much, Bart, Governor Knowles, Congressman Bill Steiger, Mel
Laird, Mrs. Starr, Mr. and Mrs. Dilweg, and all of the other wonderful people
who have been helping on the President Ford Committee and, most import-
antly, all of you great people here in Green Bay and this part of Wisconsin:
952
