[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION
[2.] Q. Mr. President, my interest is in career education and Federal fund-
ing for schools. The trend is towards funds going to the State and then being
divided up or allocated to the schools. Is there any chance that part of these
funds, instead of going through the States, can be funded directly with special
school projects that are having a problem getting around to State headquarters?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you talking about elementary and secondary, or higher
education?
Q. Vocational, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Vocational?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, vocational education, I found, is handled differently
in all 50 States. There are some States where they now have the procedure in the
individual State where the State handles the Federal and State money, and it is
allocated directly after that from that level. In other cases, the Federal Govern-
ment, in effect, goes directly to the community. There is apparently a wide divi-
sion of opinion in the professional area of vocational training and education.
It is not uniform in the United States.
Here is the practical problem we face. I happen to believe that the best way for
the Federal education funds to be handled is to take the Federal money, give it
to States or to local communities, and let either the State or the local community
make the decision how they want to spend education funds.
In the case of elementary and secondary education, we found that it is no
problem to move from the present categorical grant program to a block grant
program, because in most if not all States, just plain elementary and secondary
education is handled through a State educational director or commissioner or
whatever they call him.
And we thought we could do this in vocational education, but we find there
is a vast difference in how it is handled. So, we have taken the vocational educa-
tion program out of the block grant program and are going, at least for the next
year, to a continuation of the existing system.
Now, apparently here in Wisconsin, at the local level you have trouble with
the people at the State level, so a block grant program to the State would not
help you. As I understand your problem, it would compound it.
Just because of this difference, we have decided not to go for a block grant
program in this coming fiscal year, and we are going to undertake in-depth
studies to see if we cannot find a better way, because what we are really interested
908
