March 12
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The Sinai agreement between Israel and Egypt reached last September is
working well and is a milestone toward a permanent settlement in the Middle
East. We are strengthening old and new friendships with the nations of Latin
America and Africa, and I have warned Castro's Cuba and its Soviet sponsors
against any further armed adventurism in either continent.
We are standing up and speaking out for our principles in the United Nations
and will continue to do so. We are promoting our overseas trade and have
reached or restored a favorable balance, in large part through the efforts of the
American farmers, whose productivity is one of the Nation's greatest strengths
for peace.
Peace and strength are a part of a single policy-two sides of the same coin.
Secretary of State Kissinger and Secretary of Defense Don Rumsfeld are carry-
ing out a single policy for the United States. A good example of this appears in
this week's U.S. News and World Report, which contains extensive interviews
with both of my Cabinet members.
They were questioned separately, and neither knew that the other was being
questioned, and obviously didn't know the answers the other was giving. But
the policy they set forth is clearly and completely consistent.
They have different responsibilities, but a single goal. That goal, peace
through strength, is the right policy for this country in the very difficult and
very dangerous times in which we live. Lincoln told troubled Americans of his
time to have faith, that right makes might. He did not neglect the strength that
material might provides, nor can we.
But neither must we forget the rightness of what we stand for throughout
the world. We stand for freedom, because freedom is right. We stand for peace,
because peace is right. We stand for strength, our national strength that makes
both peace and freedom secure for ourselves and for others, because that kind
of strength is right and will certainly prevail.
Thank you very kindly.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will lead off with the question for
you to be followed by questions from the audience. And the first question is:
As you know, a number of your critics of American defense policy have stated
that the American people are no longer prepared to pay the cost of a defense
budget that is required to support our foreign policy role as we have defined it
for the past two decades. What is required, they argue, is a fundamental re-
definition or cutting back of our commitments and our interests in the world. I
wonder if you would respond to that question?
647
