February 15
[100]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
what I am most proud of, as you are most proud of—we are all proud to be
Americans, and we are proud of America.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 p.m. in the Plaza
Room at the Howard Johnson Hotel. In his opening
remarks, he referred to John C. Malloy, chairman.
of the Dade County President Ford Committee, and
Representative Louis Frey, Jr., chairman of the
Florida President Ford Committee.
100
Remarks at the Professional Athletes Prayer Brunch.
February 15, 1976
I THINK many of you know that about once a month or thereabouts we have
state dinners with the heads of various governments around the world. Some
of you have joined us on those occasions. When those events take place, the State
Department and Betty preempt all the invitations, except I get a little leeway—
I can ask about two or three people that I feel comfortable with, and they are
usually people who have competed in athletics. This is the first meeting in the
White House where I've really controlled the situation. [Laughter]
I do feel happy and comfortable with all of you who have done so beautifully
in your area of excellence, in your profession, and it's nice to see you. And on
behalf of both Betty and myself, we welcome you on this occasion to the White
House.
Before making my personal remarks, on behalf of Betty and my-
self, if all of you would like, we would invite you to take a look at some of
the more private rooms up on the next floor, the Lincoln Room and the Queen's
Bedroom, where we hope to have the Queen of England come and spend a day
or two with us on the Fourth of July, which is an appropriate date for the—
[laughter]-but they tell me she is a great lady, and so she's coming to help us
celebrate Independence Day. So, after we're through, the people from the usher's
office will see to it if you would like to go upstairs and see some of these great,
traditional, wonderful rooms that are in this house.
It is a great honor and a very special privilege for Betty and myself to welcome
you to this house. As I said earlier, I have always had a great envy for those of
you who have really made it in your various fields of athletics.
As a young grade school, schoolyard, street corner athlete, my ambition—
really, lifetime ambition-was to be somewhat proficient in one or more fields of
athletic endeavor. Good or bad, I didn't make it, and so I sort of get a secondary
335
