February 25
[137]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
strain cost increases in the Medicare program and provide training [financing]
for the hospital insurance trust fund.
I request that the Congress give both these measures the earliest possible
consideration.
The White House,
February 25, 1976.
137
Remarks at a Reception for Delegates to the
16th Mexico-United States Interparliamentary
Conference. February 25, 1976
GERALD R. FORD
Senator Olivares, Senator Mansfield, distinguished members of the Mexican-
U.S. parliamentary group:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to welcome the delegation, the dele-
gates and their spouses to the White House.
It is my understanding that last year President Echeverría hosted the delegation
when they were in Mexico. It is my understanding that this is the 16th gather-
ing or getting together of the Mexican-U.S. parliamentary group.
I was never privileged, when I was a Member of Congress, to be a member of
this parliamentary group, and I regretted that failure very much. My inability
to make the U.S. delegation when I was in Congress doesn't mean I don't have a
great interest in interparliamentary or parliamentary gatherings of nations
around the world. I was on the U.S. interparliamentary group on four occasions,
and I was privileged to serve on two occasions in the Canadian-U.S. parliamen-
tary group.
I am a very strong believer in the annual gathering of parliamentarians on a
bilateral, as well as a multilateral basis. This method of getting together by
parliamentarians is, I think, a great help and assistance to those in the executive
branch of the Government.
The first trip outside of the United States that I took on becoming President
was to the country of Mexico, in October of 1974. In my opportunity to meet with
President Echeverría, we had extensive talks both on the United States side as
well as the Mexican side. And it is my strong feeling that parliamentarians
getting together add to the substance of the talks between the executives of two
great countries.
433
