[237]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
percent, or one-tenth of 1 percent, which is, if you annualize it, an annual rate
of increase of 1.2 percent.
That is real progress, and I think the trends—whether it is lower unemploy-
ment or higher employment or a better handle and a better grip on inflation—
this country is moving ahead, and we are doing it in the right way.
With those observations, I will be glad to answer any questions.
Reporter. I think you surprised a lot of people when you vetoed the antitrust
legislation. Why did you change your mind?
The President. We haven't vetoed it. It is still in the Congress. It has only
passed the House of Representatives, and it is now going over to the Senate for
consideration. There were some very undesirable features in the House bill, some
of which were amended; some are still somewhat undesirable. But when the
legislation gets through the congressional legislative mill, then we will make
a final judgment.
Q. Mr. President, Senator Helms went across eastern North Carolina yester-
day and said the Bo Callaway incident ¹ represented the second major scandal
for the Republican Party in 2 years. What is your reaction to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a great exaggeration. I take it in the context of
a last-minute political charge that I don't think the people in North Carolina
will believe. But I understand those kind of charges in this atmosphere.
The truth is that as soon as the information came to my attention, Bo Callaway
asked to step aside. We did agree to that. The charges are being investigated.
When the full investigations have been completed, why then we will know
what to do.
Q. Mr. President, if Mr. Kissinger becomes a liability to your chances of be-
coming President again, will you consider releasing him or firing him before
the next election?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no possibility that our foreign policy will not be
successful. We have a successful foreign policy now. We are at peace. We are
making headway with our allies, and we are negotiating from strength with
our adversaries. So, our foreign policy is in good shape. I think the Secretary
of State ought to be praised, and I think our foreign policy ought to be
commended.
Q. Mr. President, along that same line, it has been charged that your Secre-
tary of State, Mr. Kissinger, is going to give away the Panama Canal through
some sort of secret negotiations now going on. Since that relates to the posture
of our hemispheric defense, I would like your comment.
¹ See Item 212, footnote 3.
760
