[206]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
And when I say the elimination of forms and the simplification of what in-
dividuals have to do, it is not just that business will benefit. I saw the other day-
it is hard to believe—the number of forms and the depth of information that is
asked of people who are, unfortunately, on welfare. They are as confounded by
and irritated with the government as businessmen are. This is a proliferation in
government agencies, period. And it has to stop, and it will stop.
Now, with five out of every six jobs in our economy in the private sector, it
just makes sense that real, secure permanent jobs can best be developed in the
private business and industry sector of our country. I think the private sector
must be encouraged by healthy economic policies to grow, to expand, and to
provide more jobs. And as John said in the tax proposals that I have recom-
mended, one, I urge that beginning on July 1 of this year we will have an addi-
tional $28 billion tax decrease across the board, 75 percent of it going to in-
dividuals and 25 percent of it going to business.
In addition, I think, as was indicated by John, the best way to get unemploy-
ment reduced in individual areas or metropolitan portions of our country is to
have a tax incentive for more rapid amortization so that business will expand
in those high unemployment areas more rapidly.
Those are the kinds of jobs that will produce permanent, encouraging em-
ployment, but as also was mentioned, I announced last week to sponsor or to
favor the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. It was indicated to an
agricultural group that the facts are that that proposal will help small business
just as much as it will help those who own family farms.
Yes, family farms will benefit. Small business will benefit. It will permit both
categories to pass from one generation to another without forced liquidation or,
as John more dramatically said—what was the term you used ?—auction. I think
in either case it is bad for the small business or for the small family farm. I
think it would help to provide continuity, enterprise, and bring added stability
to the business and farming communities throughout our country.
Let me say, at least I believe so, it takes some experience in government and an
intimate understanding of the Congress and our government institutions to
take the courses that we have taken and to pursue them successfully, to stick
with them, to see some results. I think this experience is helpful, and I am con-
fident it was beneficial in keeping us on the right course. That does not mean
I have to agree or they have to agree with me, Chuck and John, every single time.
But you do get some special benefit knowing people on both sides of the aisle,
knowing how the Congress works, whether it agrees with you or disagrees with
630
