[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
we chart for America's future. In the last 19 months, we have made a lot of
progress by doing what is right, but there is much more to be done.
But if I might add a comment, I don't think there is any reason to trade in
your Ford on another model in 1976. And, therefore, I invite you all, our Wis-
consin neighbors from Michigan, to walk with me in the path of peace on the
road to prosperity and the way to victory in 1976.
Why don't we all sit down and get to the questions. This is the greatest audi-
ence. I have to call Betty and get her to change her mind.
QUESTIONS
NATIONALIZED MEDICAL SYSTEM
[1.] Q. In view of all the news items about social medicine in Britain, do you
feel that socialized medicine in the United States could succeed without being
a burden to the taxpayers?
THE PRESIDENT. I think any nationalized medical system, anything compa-
rable to that which they have had in Great Britain and in a number of countries,
won't work, and I would vigorously oppose it.
HONESTY IN A PRESIDENT
[2.] Q. I have a Ford, and it is for sale. I want to know if you are, too. This
goes along with, I think—after the wake of Watergate, a lot of people are won-
dering is it possible to be President or to run for President without getting in-
volved in some sort of corruption?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a very good question, and the answer is a person
can be a President, he can run for President and be totally and completely
honest.
FEDERAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FUNDS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I have a question concerning our technological prog-
ress. What changes do you propose, if you are elected in 1976, in the way the
Nation's scientific effort is conducted, and particularly, are you willing to give
greater stress to basic research as opposed to applied research?
THE PRESIDENT. In the budget that I submitted to the Congress for the next
fiscal year I submitted it in January, it is for what we call fiscal year 1977—I
made a very conscious decision to increase research and development funds for
the Federal Government by 11 percent, and I specifically increased basic research
money in the Federal Government by, I think, 14 and 15 percent.
838
