April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ing terms and conditions of proposed joint agreements by ocean cargo car-
riers or others.
So that, in a nutshell, I think, are the salutory consequences of the Commis-
sion's attention to areas that are susceptible of its own initiative. There are other
more serious problems of a substantive nature that, much as we would like
to institute reform, we would require legislation. And I think the most diffi-
cult single problem and the most persistent problem that we have with respect
to regulatory reform is the fact that the Congress has not yet established a com-
prehensive national transportation policy.
The result of that is that the agencies find themselves at cross-purposes or
even in situations of head-on conflicts, as in the case of ICC Docket 261, that
I am happy to say was resolved by amicable negotiation rather than litigation.
But a year ago at this time it didn't look quite as promising.
Moreover, the shipping laws that we are charged with administering today
just don't take into account present-day technology and, again, in the context of
a national transportation policy, this creates a great many difficulties. For ex-
ample, ocean carriers may absorb inland transportation charges to permit con-
tainerized traffic to go to a single staging area rather than requiring the vessel
to go into many ports in the same area. This is done for many practical reasons
because, if they can get all their containerized ocean cargo into a single staging
area, the costs required for handling containerized traffic can be minimized.
Now, this particular issue of absorbing inland transportation charges is a
major issue in a substantial number of cases before the Federal Maritime Com-
mission at this point. This involves the so-called minibridge, maxibridge, land-
bridge modes of transportation which puts us over into the ICC's area of exper-
tise and I am sure George will say regulatory peremption. But, be that at it
may, it is a serious problem. And the question before the Commission, very
frankly stated, is whether absorbing inland transportation charges under cir-
cumstances I outlined are a violation of the shipping statute or permissible with-
in a rank of construction of the statute at the outer end of the spectrum.
The consequence is that the Commission staff and, above all, the shippers and
the carriers and ports and hangers-on, in general, are spending an exorbitant
amount of time and do not reflect the impact in the real world of technology.
In this case, it is the containerized ocean cargo but there are others as well.
Containerization also impacts on port development and internal facility plants
because of the capital intensive nature of the shore areas needed. If there is a
tremendous area of economic impact that is absorbing an inordinate amount
of time of our agency—and I am sure the ICC and perhaps even the Civil
1019
