[90]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
this morning, I must admit, 50 people fitted into one category or another
that were friends of the past or newly made acquaintances.
This is what makes a candidate feel good, because of their feeling of close-
ness and their feeling of knowledge about whether you are good or bad. And
I want to thank not only all of those old friends but to thank all of you who
have done so much and are so important in this crucial campaign.
Let me just take a minute to talk about what has happened in the last 18
months. About 18 months ago, the burden fell on me to become President
of the United States under very difficult circumstances. I think we have made
a tremendous amount of progress. We have restored the public faith in the
responsibilities of the Oval Office.
But as I look back in that month of August of 1974-what were the cir-
cumstances? We were suffering as a nation from inflation of over 12 percent.
We were on the brink of a very serious economic recession. Our allies abroad
had some fear and apprehension as to whether or not a new President could
rally the American people and contribute to the growing and essential strength
of our alliances abroad.
Instead of panicking, we took a firm, steady, realistic, commonsense course
of action. And the net result is we have made tremendous progress. And
we are not coming up with any quick-fixes that look good on paper, but burn
up about as quickly as it possibly could.
So here we are in February of 1976, roughly 18 months after those circum-
stances faced us squarely in our eye. I would like to add a little extra comment.
I know from the mountains of mail that I have received and Betty has received
over this 18 months, we have had the prayers of young people and old people.
We have had the prayers of the American people, and that has been extremely
helpful to us. And we thank all of those who were kind enough and thoughtful
enough under those circumstances.
But here we are in February of 1976, and the skies, all of a sudden, seem
to be opening up and brightening considerably and they are that way because
we have done the right thing. We are coming out of the depression. Employ-
ment is going up. Since March of last year we have added 2,100,000 more
jobs. We regained 96 percent of the jobs lost during the recession. The unem-
ployment trend is down, and it is going down.
We had some encouraging news just yesterday in two respects. One, the
Wholesale Price Index, which is the basis of the Consumer Price Index-if
you get that under control, you have got a great big handle on trying to cut
296
