[119]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
important thing for the public as they look at the political problems that they
face?
I think one of the most important, if not the most important ingredient for a
person in public office is candor, frankness, and complete and total honesty. I
don't believe that anybody in public office should promise more than they can
produce. I think we have got to be frank and promise what we can do.
But the most important thing for all of you to have—and I don't know how
many are Democrats or how many are Republicans, that's immaterial—you
are all Americans and all of you should have an open mind as you look at can-
didates, as you look at political parties, as you look at political philosophy.
You are well educated. You have an opportunity to make major decisions
and you should look at the candidates and the political parties and the political
philosophies with an open mind. And once you adopt that attitude you can
contribute very, very significantly to a better America.
I thank you all for the wonderful chance to be here. Mrs. Ford and myself
are just delighted to be in New Hampshire, and New Hampshire is an im-
portant State. And some time next year we are going to bring the family up
here and enjoy your wonderful skiing again.
May I introduce my wonderful wife, Betty, to all of you.
Thank you again. I appreciate it, Elizabeth Gardner and Mr. Huddleston.
We're just overwhelmed. We think you are great people. Thank you for being
so nice to us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m. in the
school cafeteria. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Elizabeth Gardner, president of the stu-
dent council, John S. Huddleston, principal, and
Dennis McDevitt, member of the varsity basketball
team.
120
Remarks During a Visit to the President Ford Committee
Headquarters in Dover. February 20, 1976
LET ME take just a minute first to thank all of you on behalf of Betty and
myself and to express our appreciation as deeply as we can for what you are
doing for us, and I know that we will not disappoint you. We will work
at the job, and we will do a first-class job for you and for the country, which
is really what it is all about.
One of the young ladies in here asked me what we could do to maybe convince
some of those who have been undecided. We have had, as I think all of you
406
