[308]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Consumer Price Index is also moving decisively in the right direction.
When you consider that 19 months ago we had over a 12 percent rate of in-
flation, now the rate of inflation is 6 percent or less. I think that trend is going
to continue, and we are certainly going to keep the pressure on it.
When you look at employment, the figures we got last week were extremely
encouraging. In the month of March alone, nationwide, 375,000 more people
were gainfully employed. If you look at the add-ons to employment, from the
depths of the recession last spring to the present time, we have added 2,600,000
more people gainfully employed. And if you look at the overall figure that
was released last Friday, we had 86,700,000 gainfully employed, the most gain-
fully employed in the history of the United States.
Now, we still have unemployment that is too high, and I know in Michigan
we have problems, as we have in several other States. But the trend is in the
right direction. More people will be gainfully employed, unemployment is
going down, and as we continue to get this consumer confidence moving, I
think you are going to see these figures do even better than some of the experts
forecast.
You people know better than I that the automobile industry is doing far
better than they anticipated, not as well as we would like, but the trend again
is in the right direction. With consumer confidence coming back very strongly,
I think we can see nothing but increasingly brighter clouds every month.
Now, I will be glad to answer any questions, if you have any questions.
Q. The weather was good in Grand Rapids this morning when they left.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, a lot of people from Grand Rapids went over to Wis-
consin last week and were very helpful, and we appreciate it. It had a good
reaction. I understand Betty went out there and participated, and Tom and
Dick also were there. Our son Jack went there last week and did very well.
So between what the family does and friends do, I am doing all right.
[Laughter]
I think there is another matter that I would like to say a word or two on. Some
critics have indicated that the United States is not adequately prepared to meet
any challenges militarily. That is a totally inaccurate statement.
The United States is unsurpassed in military capability, and when you add
to that strong military strength that we have-Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines, which I repeat is unsurpassed by any nation in this world in which
we live—if you add to that our tremendous industrial capability, which is far
stronger than any other nation in the world, when you add to that the tremen-
988
