[48]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
improve the economy. And what is more indicative is the increase in the various
surveys that are made of consumer confidence. Within the last 2 months, in
every one that I have seen there has been a very perceptible increase in consumer
confidence. That is a good sign, and the stock market in a different way must
be reflecting the same thing, and I think for good reason.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House to members of the as-
sociation attending a briefing by administration of-
ficials on the President's State of the Union and
budget messages.
49
Remarks at the Midwest Republican Conference in
Dearborn, Michigan. January 31, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Chuck. Governor Milliken, Governor Bennett,
Senator Griffin, Congressman Vander Jagt, other distinguished Members of the
House of Representatives and the Senate, Mary Louise Smith, our wonderful
chairman, members of the national committee, delegates to the Midwest Repub-
lican Conference:
I thank you very, very much for this warm welcome, and I congratulate you
for this tremendous turnout, which is important as we move into 1976.
I remember very vividly the warm welcome that many of you gave me 2 years
ago when, as Vice President, I attended the Midwest Conference in Chicago at
the start of the 1974 campaign. Our party was in very low spirits, and some
people said our party was dead and gone. The burden of my remarks, as I
recall, was that we would come back fighting, if we remembered and remained
faithful to the historic mission of the two-party system in America. Parties exist
to mobilize the grassroots participation of citizens, to forge party principles from
a broad spectrum of opinions and goals, and to recruit, train, and support candi-
dates who will carry out and advance those principles in public office at all levels.
Over the past 2 years we have all given freely of our efforts to accomplish
this. Thank goodness, as we start our Bicentennial of independence, the whole
world knows the two-party system of free choice is still very much alive in
America. And we must continue to preserve it.
And very early in this landmark year, the contending principles and the basic
issues before the voters are coming through loud and clear. Already emerging
128
