[261]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Naturally, I am very proud of what I think the administration has achieved.
And when I look back over the obstacles and the roadblocks and the disappoint-
ments of the last 20 months, let me assure you it has not been the easiest job I
have ever had.
Furthermore, I don't intend to let any political tremors undermine the ad-
ministration's successful and responsible policies, whether at home or abroad.
Our prime function, regardless of what happens in any political year, is to stay
on the job and work at the job for the country which all of us love.
But I think we have to also have under our system a necessary look at what is
going to happen and transpire between now and August in Kansas City. But it
is also of vital importance that we take a broader, broader look as to what our
ultimate goal is—a victory for the philosophy, the principles and policies that we
stand for in November of 1976.
When I became President 19 months ago, I think most of us would recognize
that the country was in somewhat serious trouble. The credibility of govern-
ment was low; inflation had reached frightening heights; too many people were
out of work, and many more were to lose their jobs in the near future; there
was no effective energy program; Federal spending was escalating beyond com-
prehension; the crime rate, tragically, was rising. As I sampled the mail that
came into the office and as I traveled around the country, I had the distinct feel-
ing that many, many Americans were understandably fearful of the future.
Today we have to be honest and frank-we are not yet where we want to be,
but by any measurement or standard we have made great progress. We are mov-
ing ahead, I think, with new realism and with new effectiveness. And certainly
public confidence has been restored. And if any of you read the Wall Street
Journal this morning you might have seen a survey put out by the University of
Michigan that checks and analyzes the public feeling on a 3-month basis. And
they said in their report, that was published yesterday, that there had been a
greater restoration of public confidence in the last 3 months than at any time in
recent years.
I think this is indicative of how we have turned around affirmatively the
attitude and the atmosphere of the American people. And I think for good
reason. The rate of inflation has been cut in half, employment is going up, un-
employment is going down, real income—and that is the real thing that people
have to judge has been increased.
We have started a comprehensive energy program. The Congress took much
too long in its consideration of it—almost a year, in 1975, and its final version
814
