March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
farmers, do to assist you in making your plan become a law real soon, and I
mean real soon. [Laughter] Not that I am planning on leaving here. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. The place such legislation starts is in the House Committee
on Ways and Means, the taxation committee. That committee is under the
chairmanship of a Congressman from Oregon, but there are several from the
State of Illinois on that committee-Danny Rostenkowski of Chicago, Phil
Crane, and Ab Mikva of the area around Chicago.
If I were you or if I could get your organizations I would just go pound on
their office door. Because if you don't get it out of the committee, as all of these
good Congressmen know, you are not going to get it on the floor for considera-
tion, and if you don't get it started in the House, you can't get it started in the
Senate. So, the place to start is right with the three or four Congressmen from
the State of Illinois who are on this committee and just get your organization,
get yourself. It is a good plan. I think there is a lot of sympathy for it in that
committee and in the Congress, but that is where you start. And I think it will
have an impact, and I think you are the kind of a guy that will start it.
[Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, I am from Mr. Railsback's congressional district. I am a
livestock producer and I would like to speak today as a member of the Illinois
Livestock Association. We wholeheartedly applaud and support both the spe-
cific content and the entire tone of your address today. We are very thankful
for your approach.
I would like to call your attention to and ask your support for Section 206(b)
of House bill 8410 currently in the House Agricultural Committee dealing with
payment assurances for livestock. Essentially, this section, by providing what
might be called a prior lien to the extent of the value of livestock sold to the
farmer feeder, would provide a good deal of protection in case of packer in-
solvency, and all this without adding one man to the Federal bureaucracy.
THE PRESIDENT. I have talked to the Secretary of Agriculture about that. This
matter was called to my attention out in Iowa about a year ago, as I recall. I came
back and talked to the Secretary. I promised the people in Iowa that we would
take another look at the administration's viewpoint, and we have decided that
we will support that I can't say that is the precise provision, but it sound like
the provision—that would give the seller a protection against the insolvency of
a meatpacking organization.
Q. Mr. President, I am a farmer here in Morgan County and also on the
County Board. And I would like to express our appreciation to be able to have
537
