[261]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic capability, industrial might, agricultural production. This is what we
have to look at as we talk about the United States being number one. It is our
economic, industrial, agricultural, our educational capacity, plus our mili-
tary strength and will that gives America the opportunity to be the leader that it
is.
As I look around the room here, talking about this subject, I think many of
us will never forget the lessons of the 1930's and the 1940's and the history that
was written on the great ocean that actually touches your coast.
Yet, in this election year, there are some who have forgotten history in the
hysteria of a political campaign. I mention the chairman of the House Budget
Committee who I think has recommended some very unwise actions. They say
they don't want to lock-or I should say here he says he does not want to
lock a new Democratic President into continuing my defense programs. Paren-
thetically, for his information, I don't think there will be a new Democratic
President elected in November. This same committee chairman has asked the
Nation to put off-and those are his words—to put off action on our defense
needs until after the election.
He has indicated that my administration should not be permitted to pro-
vide for our defense because it would bind in advance the hands of a Demo-
cratic administration which—and I quote precisely-"may have a very different
philosophy."
Yet, in this very critical time and crucial period they would try to bind my
hands and this administration in providing the continuity and the credibility
so essential to America's defense success. They would play politics with world
peace and the national security interest of the United States. They seek a
strangely unilateral moratorium on America's security while the Soviet Union
increases its defense expenditures.
I am determined, as I have been for 28 years in public life, to provide our
Army, our Navy, our Air Force, and Marines with the full capability to deter
aggression, to maintain our peace and freedom, and to protect our national se-
curity. The American people are entitled to no less, and we will not play
Russian roulette with so basic an issue.
Our challenge, as I see it, yours and mine, is to maintain that 200-year-old
dedication to our economic system that has done so much for so many people
and for such a great nation. Our challenge is to have the courage and the will
and the capability to stand tall and strong against any aggressor that would
818
