February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
with that? When a person applies for a job-and in this case it is the voters
in New Hampshire, and the voters in 49 other States-those prospective em-
ployers ought to look at your qualifications.
My qualifications are on the record, and I think it is a very legitimate experi-
ence for the voters here, as well as elsewhere, to see what the record is. Every
employer does that, and in New Hampshire you have thousands and thousands
of prospective employers. I think it is a very proper thing. Look at the factual
record.
Q. What I am trying to drive at—the people who are asking the questions are
not the voters, not the prospective employers, but your supporters, your em-
ployees, you might say. What the things your supporters are saying against Mr.
Reagan-are they yours?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there has been any serious questioning by them.
I understand a number of the New Hampshire State legislators have raised most
of the questions about the $90 billion proposal. That is what I understand. The
thrust has come concerning that proposal because those State legislators—if
they don't get the money from the Federal Government for these many pro-
grams-they either have to cut out the services to the people of New Hampshire
or raise New Hampshire's taxes. And I think those are very legitimate questions
by responsible State legislators.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION
[16.] Q. Rolene Chamberlin, University of New Hampshire radio station
WUNH.
Mr. President, in your proposed 1977 budget, why have you given such a low
priority to solar energy and energy conservation, allotting only $91 million for
energy conservation out of a $1,975 million ERDA budget?
THE PRESIDENT. Well I am very glad you brought that question up. Let's take
solar energy to begin with. I may be a million dollars or so off, but in the current
fiscal
year for solar energy research, Government-wide, it is about $84 million.
I increased it in the next budget by 35 percent, something over $120 million. I
personally disregarded the recommendations of some of the people in the
administration who wanted to spend less money for solar energy, and I said no.
And I personally increased in at least three cases, extra research and develop-
ment money for solar energy. It is the biggest solar energy program in research
and development in the history of the United States.
Now, I don't recall precisely the figures for conservation, but on energy
211
