February 7
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
800,000 more people at work in the month of January than in the month before.
The unemployment rate is down from 8.3 to 7.8. This is the largest reduction
in percentage since 1960. We have regained 96 percent of the jobs lost to the re-
cession, and most of it has come in the private sector, where the greatest oppor-
tunity exists for future improvement.
The Nashua Telegraph is correct in saying editorially that I want to create
"concrete and lasting jobs in the private sector rather than manufacturing styro-
foam cutouts which the public sector would have to prop up artificially with
public funds."
I appreciate that dramatic description of what some people want to do, but
which I categorically resist, and I thank Herm Pouliot¹ and the Nashua Tele-
graph for those, I think, very perceptive words. I might add with a postscript, it
was a very nice editorial.
I also strongly believe-and have for some time-tax changes to encourage
people to invest in their own future and that of America. I want to give moderate-
income families tax deductions or tax deferrals when they make long-term
investments in common stock. I want as many people as possible in this great
country to be partners, however modestly, in the growth and the strength of
America.
We must also preserve the vigor and the continuity of the family-owned small
business and family farm. These enterprises are bastions of the real American
values. And I will submit to the Congress the estate tax legislative changes
to assure that a family business and a family farm can be handed down from
one generation to another. Too much labor and too much love go into these
enterprises for them to be sold to pay Federal taxes.
Those who invest in new enterprises invest in American progress and in jobs
for their fellow citizens. An example of job creation is the brewery opened here
in 1970. It represents an initial investment of some $40 million and now employs,
as I understand it, some 400 people.
But I hope no one will contend that the cure for unemployment is to build
Government breweries to brew Government beer. Quite honestly, I don't think
the United States Government could make beer for less than $50 a six-pack.
[Laughter]
A very necessary condition for the success of your brewery and all of your
other industries is the entrepreneur spirit. This cannot be achieved if the
Government is to go on piling regulation upon regulation and stringing red-
¹ Publisher of the Nashua Telegraph.
191
