February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Last year I recommended a defense budget of about $100 billion, which was
about 25 percent of the total expenditures by our Government for our national
security. The Congress cut $7,200 million out of it. It was a mistake. This year
I have recommended expenditures of $100.1 billion, which is for the second time
in 10 years that a President has recommended a change in that curve.
If the Congress is wise enough to support my defense budget, we will spend
roughly 25 percent of our total expenditures for our national security. I think
that's right. You can't have the freedom in America unless you have the neces-
sary military capability to deter war or to defend America.
PRESIDENT'S DUTIES
Q. Mr. President, I am Pamela Barrett of Walpole, New Hampshire. I would
like to ask you this question: What do you do as a President, and may I shake
your hand?
THE PRESIDENT. Did I understand the question—what do I do as President?
[Laughter]
Well, I spend about 14 hours a day at the job, but it is a complicated job,
dealing with some 2,100,000 civilian workers, 2,100,000 military personnel, and
making sure that our country is strong economically and internationally or in
foreign policy. I have to deal with the Congress, and believe me, that is a prob-
lem. [Laughter] All except for Jim Cleveland over here.
Now, if you would like, just stroll up here and I would be glad to shake
hands with you.
[The President shook hands with the questioner.]
Let's do two more, and then we will call it quits. I enjoy it. It's great.
FORMER PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON
Q. Mr. President, could you reiterate the justification of originally saying you
would not pardon President Nixon and then going ahead and pardoning him?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear what you said.
Q. Would you please repeat why you first said you would not pardon Presi-
dent Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. I never said I wouldn't. I said that I did, and I thought it was
right at the time and for good reasons, period.
REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bob Croteau and I'm from Troy. I would
like to know, you said you like good relations with the People's Republic of
China. What about the Republic of China on Formosa?
385
