February 23
[131]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
131
Toast at a Dinner Honoring the Nation's Governors.
February 23, 1976
Governors and your delightful wives and guests:
It is a very great pleasure for Betty and myself to have all of you here on the
second annual dinner where we have honored all of you who have come to the
National Governors' Conference.
As I was sitting here talking to Reubin and Jim and Bill and Cal,' I thought
to myself how many times I have been in three States. Of course, coming from
Michigan, I have been there a couple of times, but I thought to myself how
many times I have, over a period of some 25 years or more, visited every one of
the 50 States. And I have cherished in many, many ways the warm welcome
that I have gotten from chief executives of every State, whether they were Demo-
cratic or Republican.
And as I met all of you in the receiving line tonight, every one of you, when-
ever I have come to your State, have been most generous and very kind. And
for that, I thank you, and Betty joins me in that expression of appreciation.
But as I had the opportunity this morning to speak to all of you, I thought
of the high degree of unanimity that we appear to have—those of us who are in
the executive branch of the government, whether we are at the Federal or at
the State level—and I thought of my conflicts with my old friends in the Con-
gress, who are still my friends, but with whom I disagree quite violently on
some occasions—not all.
I think it is a totally different experience to be in the executive branch than
it is in the legislative branch, and you get a different perspective. And all of you
have shared that with each other, and I have had the privilege of sharing it
with you.
Somebody has to be in charge, at least as far as the day-to-day operations are
concerned. We respect, we seek to work with the legislative branch, and it is
vitally important in our system that we do. It is better if we can, but until you
have had the experience of being in the executive branch of the government
you really don't understand the day-to-day trials and tribulations. So I con-
gratulate all of you who have done your job of responsibility in the executive
¹ Governors Reubin Askew of Florida, James Longley of Maine, William G. Milliken of Michigan, and
Calvin L. Rampton of Utah.
425
