February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
up in State funds. Our association, which is the National Alcoholic Beverage
Control Association, which is based in Washington, has been reviewing and at
the present time there is some $115 million tied up in all these 18 controlled
States. Specifically for New Hampshire, of our $10 million inventory, we have
some $6 million of excise taxes tied up.
We have been looking at it carefully with DISCUS, which is the Distilled
Spirits of the United States, that if at some time will the Federal Government
look quite favorably to either the deferment of taxes or possibly the return of
some of these funds to the individual-controlled States and the open States?
The President. Let me see if I understand the problem. When your com-
mission or the one in Michigan buys liquor, they have to pay the Federal tax,
and you have the inventory on hand until you sell it through your various
channels.
Q. Which includes the Federal taxes.
THE PRESIDENT. Right. I wish I could say yes.
Q. I wish you could, too. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. But we would be treating you, your State differently than we
would any other wholesaler. And that is what you are, you are a wholesaler. If
we treated Michigan and New Hampshire differently as a wholesaler than we
treat others, I think we would have a significant number of complaints.
Q. Our proposal would be that all States be treated equally, that the deferment
of taxes be made and then a creation of bonded warehouses within each respec-
tive State to monitor those taxes that are due the Federal Government.
THE PRESIDENT. You know we need a little money, too, and you are making
money. [Laughter] I am sure your organization, you and Stan Thayer, will be
talking to my people in the Treasury and others in the Congress, but give us a
little breathing space on that, will you?
Okay, two more.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Peter Shapiro, and I represent Concord in
the General Court and also in the city council. We don't have any ski areas, but
there is a great cross-country area in my backyard around the corner, if you
want to go.
My concern is—and I think it is the concern of a lot of my friends—that edu-
cation is the strength and the backbone of the country. My son, at the end of your
next term, Mr. President, will be getting ready to go to college. And I am
wondering what plans you have or what programs you propose to present that
will allow those people in the middle areas the ability to have their children at-
183
