[107]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
L
MISUSE OF THE SECRECY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you are concerned considerably over leaks of classi-
fied information, national security information, and so on. So, I would like
to ask what steps you are taking to assure the public that no one in your admin-
istration misuses the classification system or the secrecy label to cover his own
policy mistakes.
THE PRESIDENT. The recommendations that I will make include that every
employee of the executive branch of the Government sign a statement to the
effect that he will not divulge classified information and that he expects pun-
ishment for such a release of that information. In addition, I will ask for specific
legislation making it a criminal offense for the release of such information.
And that, I think, protects the Government against any unauthorized leaks
of classified secret information. Now, the Oversight Board and the NSC will
take care of any failure to act properly in a noncriminal matter.
Q. I would like to ask the question again, because I think that perhaps
we are talking about two different things. Suppose, for example, a member
of your administration misused the label "official secrecy" to cover a policy
error or a mistake that he made, and clamped a secret label on it so that this
mistake would not get out. What steps are you taking to assure the public
that this does not happen?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made the head of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, the head of the other agencies
responsible for the conduct of people working for them, and we have an
inspector general system that, I think, will make sure that the other people
do their jobs properly.
PHILOSOPHICAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PRESIDENT FORD AND RONALD REAGAN
[17.] Q. It is my recollection, Mr. President, that a couple of weeks ago
in an interview with Walter Cronkite² you said that there were no real philo-
sophical differences between yourself and Ronald Reagan. I just wonder,
when did you decide that there were some differences?
THE PRESIDENT. Fundamentally, I don't think there are any philosophical
differences. There are some pragmatic differences, and these I tried to explain
earlier today. I have to make hard decisions as to what legislation I will sign
or what legislation I will recommend. That is quite different from being able
2 The President was interviewed by Walter Cronkite of CBS News on February 3 in the Oval Office
at the White House.
358
