[112]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
represent the United States to the Court of St. James. So it is an historic first
with really one of our most outstanding women.
And with those words I will ask Mr. Justice Powell to perform the swear-
ing-in ceremony.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Tobin Armstrong, Mrs. Arm-
strong's husband.
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court, administered the oath of office.
Ambassador Armstrong's response to the Presi-
dent's remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 246).
113
Statement on Senate Action Sustaining Veto of a Public Works
Employment Bill. February 19, 1976
I AM pleased that the Senate of the United States has sustained my veto of
H.R. 5247, the Public Works Employment Act of 1975. Their action this after-
noon in sustaining this veto is commendable, and those Members of the Con-
gress who stood firm against enormous political pressures in favor of this bill
deserve the appreciation and gratitude of all Americans.
As I said last Friday in my veto message to the House of Representatives
on this bill,' the best and most effective way to create new jobs is to pursue bal-
anced economic policies that encourage the growth of the private sector with-
out risking a new round of inflation. This is the core of my economic policy, and
I believe that the steady improvements in the economy over the last half year
on both the unemployment and inflation fronts bear witness to its essential
wisdom. I will continue this basic approach in dealing with the economy,
because it is sound and it is working.
114
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Guatemala Disaster
Relief Legislation. February 19, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
On February 4th a devastating earthquake struck Guatemala. That earth-
quake, together with its aftershocks, has left over 22,000 dead, more than 75,000
injured, and one million homeless.
1
See Item 83.
368
