February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in fiscal year 1977 than they have in fiscal year 1976, so it is not possible to have
any kind of a mass increase in Federal employment for the purposes that
you stipulated.
As a matter of fact, what we are trying to do not only in the Defense Depart-
ment but in other Departments is to contract out to private industry some of
these maintenance contracts on housing facilities, on Federal installations,
which is just the reverse of what I think you were talking about.
I can assure you that it is not possible for that kind of an increase in Federal
employment, for that reason. I became President in August 1974, and within
2 weeks after I was President, I issued an order that there should be a 40,000-
person cutback in Federal employment.
I am glad to report that at the end of the fiscal year, as a result of the pressure,
we had about 50,000 fewer Federal employees. And we have not increased the
total Federal employment in the fiscal year 1977 budget. So, it is just not possi-
ble to have the kind of a situation develop that you describe.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I am glad to hear that, because we were greatly
disturbed. A recent speaker brought this out to us, and he said out of these
60,000 people there was not one realtor. So I am very happy to hear that, because
we love our profession and we love private enterprise and we know you are
going to help us. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, my name is W. Phil McConaghey, I'm a Port Everglades
commissioner here in Broward County. I wonder if you are aware that there is
a large percentage of middle-class America that wished we would maybe call a
constitutional convention and change our form of government, maybe keep
the Defense Department, the President-I am not too sure about the Supreme
Court―the Justice Department and a few other necessities, and have everybody
else in Washington turn out the lights and shut the doors and go home. And we
won't have to send our $6 billion to Washington and have some bureaucrats
collect one-twelfth of 1 percent of it. And that is the feeling that we have in the
United States today, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not sure that that would work too well in some
cases. The Federal Government does a great deal of good in the National Insti-
tutes of Health-in research on heart, cancer, arthritis. The Federal Govern-
ment does a lot of research on energy for solar energy, for geothermal energy,
for nuclear energy.
I just don't think the State of Florida or your community could handle that
kind of a problem. I respect your point of view, if that is your point of view, but I
just don't think it will work.
287
