January 27
[34]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
34
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Rabin
of Israel. January 27, 1976
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Rabin and distinguished guests:
It is again a pleasure for us to say shalom.
Betty and I have—of course, and all of our guests feel a very special warmth
as far as you, Mr. Prime Minister, and Mrs. Rabin are concerned. And our
friendship on a personal basis has been one of long standing and a very enjoyable
and very pleasant one.
Your 5 years in Washington as the distinguished Ambassador of Israel created
many and very warm friendships. Betty and I are two of those friends, and we
are deeply grateful for that relationship. And we are obviously delighted to be
your hosts tonight.
We are very proud that you are the first head-of-government guest during our
Bicentennial Year. And I think that tells us something. The celebration of our
Nation's history gives Americans a deeper appreciation of basic values that we
share with the State of Israel-the tribute that your country and ours pay to these
ideals you expressed in Philadelphia last night.
Both of our nations have had a very painful birth as well as growth. As havens
for men and women fleeing persecution, both of our nations find their vitality
as well as their strength today in a commitment to freedom and a commitment
to democracy and the spirit of free peoples.
Both of our nations, Mr. Prime Minister, have tasted the bitter fruits of war
and the struggles that are necessary to preserve independence and security. Both
of us know full well in today's world that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.
And we, individually and collectively, will not fail.
I applaud your statesmanship, Mr. Prime Minister. You have shown it over
and over again. It has contributed so much that has been achieved so far. I am
gratified that our personal friendship and relationship now facilitates the closest
consultation on the very complex problems that we face in the problems ahead.
From the moment of Israel's independence, all of America's Presidents, as
well as the major political parties, have identified with your freedom and your
progress.
America now completes its second century. Israel counts its heritage in thou-
sands and thousands of years and its modern history in decades. Yet, our
heritage, your country and mine, are the same.
95
