[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
vironment of innovation that will provide excellent private sector vocational
opportunities for all of you after your graduation.
I want you to have real, permanent, challenging, satisfying jobs rather than
temporary, dead end, make-work jobs provided by the Government.
The new figures announced in Washington on Friday show that genuine jobs
are being generated by the demands of our economy, not by the commands of
the Government.
The employment figures for January show that 800,000 more jobs were created
last month. Ninety-six percent of the jobs lost during the recession have now been
recovered, and we are going to do better. The pessimists were proven entirely
wrong.
Then we must ask ourselves this question: How can we ensure that your
hopes and your jobs will not be threatened by international events? Your lives
are inseparably linked with the stability of the world. In a nuclear age there can
be no lasting accomplishments without a lasting peace.
Here, too, I think we can be proud of our achievements. We are now at peace.
Strengthening this peace remains our primary objective, and we will keep it
as such.
Our principal alliances with the industrial democracies of the Atlantic com-
munity and Japan have never been stronger. We are improving relations with
the world's most populous nation, the People's Republic of China. Our many
traditional friendships throughout the globe continue in the world.
A limitation on strategic arms to curb the nuclear arms race with the Soviet
Union is being sought on a mutually beneficial basis. Such a treaty would give
hope to all humanity that despite different ideologies, great nations can interact
in good faith for peace. In our relations with the Soviet Union, we are working
with firmness and frankness to consult rather than to confront.
To deter war and to preserve our national security, we maintain the world's
most efficient, alert, and best equipped armed forces. They are all volunteers.
And we intend to keep it that way. And they serve in a very high state of readi-
ness for the benefit of all of us. We remain the world's greatest democracy,
symbolizing human aspirations for liberty as well as for progress.
course,
The time has come to stop downgrading ourselves as a nation. We must, of
learn from our past mistakes. It is our duty to see that we do not repeat
past errors, but it is our duty to look to the future and provide an enlightened
world. Our positive accomplishments far, far outweigh our setbacks.
216
