February 5
[59]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act, which I am
privileged to sign today, is the first significant reform of transportation regu-
lation by any administration or any Congress.
I hope and trust that we will continue in other ways in regulatory reform. And
I ask my friends in the Congress to cooperate in those instances as much as they
did in this. I think it will be in the best interests of our regulated industries and,
particularly, in the best interest of our consumers.
It is now my privilege and pleasure to sign this rather substantial document.
[Laughter] And again, I congratulate Secretary Coleman and his staff, as well
as the Members of the Congress who labored long and hard and effectively in
the best interests of our Nation as a whole. I congratulate all of them.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the East Room at the White House. In his
remarks, he referred to Secretary of Transportation
William T. Coleman, Jr.
As enacted, the bill (S. 2718) is Public Law
94-210 (90 Stat. 31).
59
Statement on the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory
Reform Act of 1976. February 5, 1976
I AM pleased today to sign the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform
Act of 1976. For more than a century, the railroads have been the backbone of
our American transportation system. However, our rail system has recently
been through troubled times. Now, this historic legislation will help restore the
health and vitality of our Nation's private railroad system in a number of ways.
First, this legislation encourages revitalization of our deteriorating rail freight
system, both in the Northeast and nationwide. Second, it will provide substan-
tial improvements in rail passenger service in the densely populated North-
eastern United States. And finally, it will remove many unnecessary regulatory
restrictions which for too long have hindered the ability of our railroads to
operate efficiently and competitively. The actions set in motion by this legis-
lation will make a significant contribution to our objectives of economic growth
through private job creation, energy independence, and a strong private trans-
portation system.
The task of revitalizing the Nation's rail freight system will not be easy.
ConRail, the new corporation established to operate the properties of the bank-
rupt railroads in the Northeast and Midwest, certainly does not have a smooth
road ahead. Nevertheless, I believe that this legislation provides the tools to
147
