[166]
February 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
that economic indicators point to good news ahead almost every day of every
month.
The Department of Commerce just announced 2 days ago, that the index of
leading economic indicators rose by 2.2 percent in January and, listen to this,
the largest gain in 6 months. We should be darned proud of it.
That crucial, that critical index showed improvements in the length of the
average work week, the job layoff rate, wholesale prices, vendor performance,
stock market prices, contracts and orders, net business formation, new orders
and building permits. That's a sizable list of things on the up. This shows that in
almost every segment of our economy, there is a rebounding, strong, dynamic,
encouraging way.
We are on the road to a new prosperity in America, and we are not going to be
sidetracked now. We are going to move ahead strongly, affirmatively, and
healthily.
Let me speak for just a minute about some things that concern all of us. Em-
ployment has gone up. In January alone, we gained 800,000 new jobs, the biggest
monthly increase in nearly 16 years. And that's progress by any measurement.
In January alone, unemployment fell by five-tenths of 1 percent, the biggest
monthly drop in more than 16 years. We are still not moving as fast as I would
like it, particularly in Florida. But we are moving and moving in the right di-
rection, and I am not going to let up until every American who wants a job will
have a job. That's a promise to you.
During 1974—just let your memory go back a bit—inflation was raging at an
annual rate of more than 12 percent. The latest indicators show we have cut it
almost in half. Again, I am not satisfied; that's still too high. But by any stand-
ard, that's real progress. And the American people know it, and I think they
kind of like it, because we are going to do better and better as we move ahead.
The latest index of consumer confidence—and that is all of you, how you and
your family and your neighbors look at the future—it is double that of a year
ago. The American people know that we have gone through a tough time. But
they know we are on the way back up, and so consumer confidence is indicated
in every place in almost every household.
Real earnings for the average American worker rose significantly in January,
well above the rate of inflation. That means that your purchasing power is on the
increase. Now, when you get a bigger paycheck—and I hope you get a lot of
them—it doesn't buy a smaller bag of groceries, and that's the real test for the
housewife.
494
