February 10
[76]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
proceeds with the right focus, with the right energy, and certainly, with the
right results.
Bill, it is a privilege for me to ask Chief Justice Warren Burger to administer
the oath at this time.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the East Room at the White House.
Secretary Usery's response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 174).
76
Remarks Upon Presenting the Presidential Medal of Freedom
to David K. E. Bruce. February 10, 1976
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary General, Ambassador Bruce:
This is one of the nicest opportunities I have to recognize one of our fore-
most, if not our foremost, present-day diplomats in David Bruce. I was looking
over the record. Five Presidents have recognized 139 individuals with a Medal
of Freedom for outstanding, exemplary, dedicated service on behalf of the
United States.
But this happens to be the first Medal of Freedom (I have) given with added
distinction. All of you, or many of you, know David Bruce's long, long career,
which I did not know, starting in the Virginia Legislature, as I recall—or was
it the Maryland Legislature? I was half right.
But I think that shows his versatility when you can be elected to the State
legislature both from Virginia and Maryland. And if you look at the record
going back a good many years, you see he has been called upon by many, many
Presidents to do many vitally important, very crucial jobs. And although he is
leaving his present job in NATO, I suggested to him that he leave his tele-
phone number, because as we face problems from time to time, I am certain
now that someone with that prestige, that ability, that experience, and that
dedication can still be used most effectively on behalf of our country.
So, I would call upon Terry O'Donnell to please read the citation, which
will lay out most appropriately the justification for this very, very high honor.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of
State Henry A. Kissinger and Joseph M. A. H. Luns,
Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization.
Terrence O'Donnell, Aide to the President, read
the citation.
Ambassador Bruce was U.S. Permanent Repre-
sentative on the NATO Council. His response to the
President's remarks is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 176).
245
