[203]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. TEDRICK. Mr. President, we have time for one more question.
Q. Mr. President, in view of the grain scandals at some of our export points,
do you favor a Federal agency to police this, or can we still use our private
companies?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we've got to make a change in the present system.
The present system has resulted in, I think, 74 indictments, primarily in the gulf
coast area. There have been some pleas of guilty. There have been some convic-
tions. The system has been exposed, and there have been, undoubtedly, abuses.
Under the present setup, as I understand it, the Federal Government really
doesn't control the grain inspection, and the Federal Government can have an
impact, but it is minimal. And the net result is all of these scandals have cast a
very bad public image on American grain shipments, unfortunately.
And it is unfortunate for two reasons-primarily, the one that you see, an
allegation of bad inspection. You see allegations of a ship or two that may have
had faulty inspection, and the grain isn't up to standard, and it casts a black eye
for all American agricultural products. So in order to try to have a better inspec-
tion system, the administration has recommended to the Congress a new
approach which permits the Department of Agriculture to have a better handle
and a better control over the inspection service.
There are hearings, I think, in the House and Senate, more or less, at the
present time. The administration is testifying for a new approach, and I think
it will be a better approach, and I hope the Congress passes it. We are in favor
of a change from the present system.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. in the Con-
vention Center at the Clock Tower Inn. The forum
was sponsored by the Winnebago County Farm
Bureau.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Del Tedrick, executive secretary, and Robert Winters,
president, Winnebago County Farm Bureau.
204
Remarks on Greeting Members of the Greater Rockford Tool,
Die and Machining Association. March 11, 1976
Thank you very much, Don Metz, members and guests of the Rockford Tool and
Die and Precision-Machining-[laughter]—that was close anyhow.
It's real nice to be here and I apologize for interrupting your meal. I know
you not only are enjoying that but you are about to have afterwards somebody
else in the political arena. [Laughter]
620
