February 22
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in the United States of America. Americans have heard it ring for 200 years,
and I hope and pray it will ring forever in this great land of ours.
The commandments and the laws of God were of very special importance
to our Founding Fathers and to the Nation that they created. I believe it is no
accident of history, no coincidence, that this Nation, which declared its depend-
ence on God even while declaring its independence from foreign domination,
has become the greatest nation in the history of the world. We are taught in
the Psalms, that blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. I believe that very,
very deeply, and I know you believe it, too.
Looking back over 200 years, we can see that America has always been a
uniquely blessed nation, that we have had a very special role to play in the affairs
of mankind. In our Nation's youth, we became living proof of the fact that
men could govern themselves successfully, that the divine right of kings was a
false doctrine for Americans and that, in truth, all men are created equal in
the sight of their Creator.
We proved that hard work and self-sacrifice and a freely extended helping
hand could build a nation and a people to greatness in the space of just few
generations, a timetable unheard of before the American experience began.
We have demonstrated time and time again, that the cause of freedom in
the world has no better friend, no stronger ally than the United States of Ameri-
ica. We have demonstrated that we are among the most compassionate, most
generous people on Earth. We have demonstrated that the world-famous Amer-
ican ingenuity is still very much at work, still able to keep us on the frontiers
of progress, in every field.
Our leadership in all of these endeavors has enriched mankind everywhere.
While seeking out the path of peace with other nations, we have declared our
enemies to be disease and ignorance and poverty and injustice—and war itself.
I remember President Eisenhower observing that America is not good because
it is great; America is great because it is good.
The early history of our country was written by men who valued the freedom
of religion and who had in common a deep faith in God. We read of George
Washington on his knees in prayer at Valley Forge, seeking divine guidance
for himself, his men, and his fledgling Nation in the terrible winter of 1777.
We read of Benjamin Franklin calling the Second Continental Congress to
prayer when that body of strong-willed, independent men was in disarray and
in discord.
We read of John Adams proclaiming of love of God and His creation, stating
that the Ten Commandants and the Sermon on the Mount were the sum of his
413
