[83]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
after the Congress replaced a nearly identical program—as well as other categori-
cal grant programs-with a broader, more flexible Community Development
block grant program.
I recognize there is merit in the argument that some areas of the country are
suffering from exceptionally high rates of unemployment and that the Federal
Government should provide assistance. By budgets for fiscal years 1976 and 1977
do, in fact, seek to provide such assistance.
Beyond my own budget recommendations, I believe that in addressing the
immediate needs of some of our cities hardest hit by the recession, another
measure already introduced in the Congress, H.R. 11860, provides a far more
reasonable and constructive approach than the bill I am vetoing.
H.R. 11860 targets funds on those areas with the highest unemployment so
that they may undertake high priority activities at a fraction of the cost of H.R.
5247. The funds would be distributed exclusively under an impartial formula as
opposed to the pork barrel approach represented by the bill I am returning today.
Moreover, H.R. 11860 builds upon the successful Community Development
Block Grant program. That program is in place and working well, thus per-
mitting H.R. 11860 to be administered without the creation of a new bureauc-
racy. I would be glad to consider this legislation more favorably should the Con-
gress formally act upon it as an alternative to H.R. 5247.
We must not allow our debate over H.R. 5247 to obscure one fundamental
point: the best and most effective way to create new jobs is to pursue balanced
economic policies that encourage the growth of the private sector without risk-
ing a new round of inflation. This is the core of my economic policy, and I
believe that the steady improvements in the economy over the last half year
on both the unemployment and inflation fronts bear witness to its essential
wisdom. I intend to continue this basic approach because it is working.
My proposed economic policies are expected to foster the creation of 2 to 2.5
million new private sector jobs in 1976 and more than 2 million additional
jobs in 1977. These will be lasting, productive jobs, not temporary jobs pay-
rolled by the American taxpayer.
This is a policy of balance, realism, and common sense. It is an honest policy
which does not promise a quick fix.
My program includes:
-Large and permanent tax reductions that will leave more money where
it can do the most good: in the hands of the American people;
-Tax incentives for the construction of new plants and equipment in areas
of high unemployment;
256
