February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we have-money doesn't get filtered down to the objectives properly, and I
think that is what we have to really study.
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure you know we do have a program where the
Federal Government subsidizes for a limited period of time a portion of the
wages of an employee who is employed who is not qualified at the time he takes
the job.
This is a way to permit the employer to hire someone who has very little skill
and put him on the job so he earns both from what he gets from his employer as
well as from the Government so he can take care of his family. This is another
approach, somewhat like the one that you are suggesting. That is, in effect, in a
somewhat limited way.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President, and good luck.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, sir. Yes.
Q. Mr. President, I am Mary Keenan from Portsmouth. Mr. President,
under your recommendations under impact aid, our small city stands to lose
over a quarter of a million dollars. We have many students whose parents are
employed in Federal installations, who live in private housing. I would like to
ask you to reconsider the inclusion of item B under your impact aid.
THE PRESIDENT. That is a longstanding area of disagreement. I am sure you
are familiar with category A programs where the pupils live on a base. They
are imposed on the local school district. We fully funded that program.
Q. Yes, I understand.
THE PRESIDENT. Category B is the one you described. There is a category C
which Congress added which I strongly disapprove of, and they have added
another one for public housing. And the net result is, in the budget for this
fiscal year, there is roughly $800 million or thereabouts. Isn't there, Paul? ³
Now, category B, we finally agreed, would be funded at about 70 percent, not
in this next year budget, but in the existing budget. The practical problem is,
how can you justify people who live in the town but work in the Federal
installation and add extra money for the subsidization of the local school system ?
Let me give you the grossest example. My wife and our four children lived
in Alexandria, Virginia, for 17 or 18 years. Our children went to the public
schools in Alexandria. I was a Federal employee. My children were counted as
Government employees, and the city of Alexandria got a subsidy for each of
our four children. Now, that just doesn't make sense.
Q. Well, Mr. President, we are not getting any taxes from this Federal installa-
3 Paul H. O'Neill, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
167
