[278]
March 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is not only our duty but our great opportunity to work together this year,
1976, our Bicentennial Year, for a common victory—a victory for the principles,
for the programs that unite us as Republicans philosophically.
So, I close with this comment. Let us work together and then walk together
for the great American people, some 215 million of them, in the path of peace,
on the road to prosperity, and on the way to victory in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:22 p.m. at the
Washington Hilton Hotel. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, chair-
man of the National Republican Senatorial Com-
mittee, and Representative Guy Vander Jagt of
Michigan, chairman of the National Republican
Congressional Committee.
279
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Membership of the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
April 1, 1976
LET ME first welcome the new members of my Foreign Intelligence Advisory
Board and all of the other guests who are here, including Justice Powell.
The new members, of course, are joining a very distinguished institution es-
tablished by President Eisenhower some 20 years ago. It has served every Presi-
dent since that time in providing advice essential to our national security.
I recently announced, as all of you know, the first major change in our for-
eign intelligence community since the end of World War II. My actions were
designed specifically to strengthen our foreign intelligence agencies to be cer-
tain that America has the information it requires both in peacetime as well as
in war.
I also announced very specific reforms that ensure individual rights of Amer-
ican citizens to make certain that they are fully protected. My decision to enlarge
this Advisory Board demonstrates our full intention and determination to
achieve the best possible foreign intelligence.
This panel of very distinguished American citizens acts as a bridge between a
basic strength of America, the genius and innovation found in our private sector,
and the Government's responsibility to maintain effective foreign intelligence.
Such capacities are absolutely vital to our national security and to our foreign
policy.
The strength of America has never been found in government alone; it is the
support of American citizens who contribute to the government as a whole. I
878
