[140]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is essential that the Congress act if we are to take timely advantage of our
nuclear energy potential. I urge enactment of the Nuclear Licensing Act to
streamline the licensing procedures for the construction of new power plants.
I again strongly urge the Congress to give high priority to my Nuclear Fuel
Assurance Act to provide enriched uranium needed for commercial nuclear
power plants here and abroad. This proposed legislation which I submitted in
June 1975, would provide the basis for transition to a private competitive ura-
nium enrichment industry and prevent the heavy drain on the Federal budget.
If the Federal Government were required to finance the necessary additional
uranium enrichment capacity, it would have to commit more than $8 billion
over the next 2 to 3 years and $2 billion annually thereafter. The taxpayers
would eventually be repaid for these expenditures but not until sometime in
the 1990's. Federal expenditures are not necessary under the provisions of this
Act since industry is prepared to assume this responsibility with limited gov-
ernment cooperation and some temporary assurances. Furthermore, a commit-
ment to new Federal expenditures for uranium enrichment could interfere
with efforts to increase funding for other critical energy programs.
Coal
Coal is the most abundant energy resource available in the United States, yet
production is at the same level as in the 1920's and accounts for only about 17
percent of the Nation's energy consumption. Coal must be used increasingly as
an alternative to scarce, expensive or insecure oil and natural gas supplies. We
must act to remove unnecessary constraints on coal so that production can grow
from the 1975 level of 640 million tons to over 1 billion tons by 1985 in order to
help achieve energy independence.
We are moving ahead where legislative authority is available.
The Secretary of the Interior has recently adopted a new coal leasing policy
for the leasing and development of more coal on Federal lands. To implement
this policy, regulations will be issued governing coal mining operations on Fed-
eral lands, providing for timely development, and requiring effective surface
mining controls which will minimize adverse environmental impacts and re-
quire that mined lands be reclaimed. As a reflection of the States' interests, the
Department proposes to allow application on Federal lands of State coal mine
reclamation standards which are more stringent than Federal standards, unless
overriding National interests are involved.
I have directed the Federal Energy Administration and the Environmental
Protection Agency to work toward the conversion of the maximum number of
450
