April 3
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the local or State level, and the Federal Government should not get involved in
them.
Now, the first question that you asked. We have 50 States, and we have 39,000
governmental units below the level of statehood. I don't think that somebody in
Washington ought to tell 39,000 governmental units or 50 States how they
should handle their labor-management relations. That is the prerogative of
those units of government. If a government in Green Bay wants to handle it
with the right to strike—and I just use that as an example—and Waukesha
wants to have a different policy or the State of Wisconsin wants to have a
different policy, that is the responsibility and obligation of those units of
government.
And if a city council or a State legislature or Governor passed some legislation
one way and the people don't like it, they know who to get rid of, and I think
that is the way it ought to be handled. Washington should keep its fingers out
of the situation. The responsibility and the obligation rests here, right in your
State and your local units of government.
Q. Thank you.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE YOUNG
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I was wondering, what can you do to help us teen-
agers get more jobs so we can go on to school and make money, so we can afford
our education?
THE PRESIDENT. Would you ask that again? I missed the first part.
Q. What can you do to help get us more jobs so we can have enough money
to go on to college and that?
THE PRESIDENT. You are talking about high school graduates?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, about 2 million young people enter the labor market
every year as they go from either high school into the labor market or from
college into the labor market. As I said a moment ago, we have picked up
2,600,000 jobs since last year, but that is not enough. Our unemployment is still
too high, and it is still too high particularly among our young people, and espe-
cially among our young people in the minority categories.
Now, what we have to do is to stimulate our economy primarily in the private
sector where five out of every six jobs in this country exist today. And how do we
do that? We do that by providing an incentive to business to expand, to mod-
ernize, to improve so that they will be more competitive and more jobs will
be available in the private sector.
959
