February 9
[71]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
work on Aging. We believe that this program will help to resolve individual
complaints, facilitate important citizen involvement in the vigorous enforcement
of Federal, State and local laws designed to improve health and safety standards,
and to improve the quality of care in these facilities.
Today's older persons have made invaluable contributions to the strengthening
of our nation. They have provided the nation with a vision and strength that
has resulted in unprecedented advancements in all of the areas of our life. Our
national moral strength is due in no small part to the significance of their con-
tributions. We must continue and strengthen both our commitment to doing
everything we can to respond to the needs of the elderly and our determination
to draw on their strengths.
Our entire history has been marked by a tradition of growth and progress.
Each succeeding generation can measure its progress in part by its ability to
recognize, respect and renew the contributions of earlier generations. I believe
that the Social Security and Medicare improvements I am proposing, when
combined with the action programs under the Older Americans Act, will insure
a measure of progress for the elderly and thus provide real hope for us all.
The White House,
71
February 9, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks at a Meeting on the Bicentennial Exposition on
Science and Technology. February 9, 1976
I AM very impressed with the development that has taken place in the last few
months. I can recall very vividly when the idea was first presented to me, and
it is very encouraging to see some 20 agencies in the Federal Government, plus
American industry, join together in putting together a project that talks about
the future of America in relationship to science in our third century.
When we look at what can be done with science, whether it is in climate or
energy, in food, in health, or a wide variety of other areas, we should be empha-
sizing very dramatically to the people who will come and see it, the prospects
for a better life in 1976 and for the next 100 years thereafter.
I think our faith in research, research and development, is best exemplified
in this demonstration, but also in the funding that we have incorporated in the
239
