February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. And there is another one I cannot pronounce. Well, as I
understand the history of this situation, several years ago a highway had to be
built across the channel. At that time, it was decided by the Coast Guard that
they had to give a permit and they determined that those were Federal waters.
Now, I have never been to those lakes, so I can't describe the situation in detail,
but the matter has gone personally to the Secretary of Transportation. He has
written to the Governor, and he makes two suggestions for the solution.
Number one, there is a possibility of remedying the situation by the State.
Instead of putting a State tax on the boats, puts a State tax on the use of ramps
on the two lakes. That is one possibility.
The other possibility is for the Congress to pass legislation which is being
drafted by the Department of Transportation, which excludes those two lakes
from Federal jurisdiction. I am sure the Department of Transportation will be
working with your Members of the House as well as the Senate. It seems to me
the better way to solve the problem is to get Congress to make an exception in
this case.
As I understand the geography, until they put this highway bridge across
there, they were never considered navigable waters. But some bureaucrat decided
that they had to grant permission under the existing highway legislation, so they
granted the permit on the basis they were navigable waters. And once they are
navigable waters then the Federal Government has jurisdiction and your State
tax is illegal.
I think the better way to do it is one of the two alternatives recommended by
Secretary Coleman to get specific legislation, which I believe can be passed
without too much trouble, and it would exclude those two lakes from the cate-
gory of navigable waters. If that is done by the Congress, I will sign the
legislation.
Q. Mr. President, I am John Scorpo, selectman from Hudson, and I am happy
to hear you are going to continue to try to expand the general revenue sharing,
because that has allowed Hudson to obtain very good services without having to
increase our tax rate almost 10 percent.
However, when we try to get some assistance to comply with the Water
Pollution Control Act, we seem to run into all kinds of restrictions. I noticed in
your proposed budget that you are recommending a 60-percent increase in
sewage treatment facilities. But then as I read further down the line, you
mention there is pending legislation that might reduce the Federal commitment
from 333 billion down to 45 billion on a long term basis. I was wondering if you
would comment on that.
181
