[283]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
And thirdly, we ask in regards to the 1980 Federal Census-this is very im-
portant to the ethnics—we ask that all ethnics be included in the census. Now,
only the first and second generation is included. You forget about the third,
while the blacks and the Latins are always counted. This is important in many
areas. And we request that-
THE PRESIDENT. One more, and then I have got to get on here.
Q. I agree with you. [Laughter]
We request that the United States publications that appear in Poland and other
satellite countries have the same privilege-and they are allowed to be circulated
in America—that these publications be allowed to be circulated in Europe.
The last point that we wanted to get support of—and this will take 10 seconds—
is that the House bill number 9466, in regards to establishing a commission on
security and cooperation in Europe, so we can follow through on the deals that
we make with Russia and other countries.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. On that last point, the European Security Conference agree-
ment provided that there should be, within 2 years, another meeting to deter-
mine whether the agreements that were signed were lived up to. And we have
people in the Department of State who are following it very closely, and we
will be prepared in 1977 to go there and to make certain that what was agreed
to in Helsinki is being carried out.
Q. Mr. President, we, here in Milwaukee, are very appreciative of the fact
that in your administration you have appointed someone as the Special Assistant
for Ethnic Affairs-the office that was long overdue, and I think this will help us
in our area of making ourselves heard to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we have a great person. I think we have an
excellent representation of the ethnic groups in the White House. And so I am
sure that I will hear if I make any mistakes, and he will forewarn me if I am
about to. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, Bronko Terzich from the Serbian-Americans. As we spoke
a little earlier, I indicated that if there is anything this group can offer you, it is
the firsthand experience and knowledge of communism and totalitarian govern-
ment. And I hope that you accept the counsel of those people here-that first gen-
eration that fought its way out of Eastern Europe and sought out the United
States as the ideal homeland for their families.
Along with that line, there is a concern now about our current defense stand,
our current strength. We spoke a little earlier about the National Guard and the
fact that numbers are down-our military budget is the smallest as the percent-
896
