[146]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Act would make documentary records of business transactions admissible
as evidence in any civil or criminal judicial proceeding in the courts of the
District of Columbia. This "shop-book rule” is substantially identical to the one
adopted by the D.C. Superior Court which took effect on June 30, 1975.
The issue is whether the City Council was acting within its authority under
the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization
Act (Home Rule Act) in passing a law affecting the judicial procedures of the
D.C. courts. The Federal interest is whether the intent of Congress in delegating
legislative authority to the Council under the Home Rule Act has been appropri-
ately carried out in this instance.
I am advised by the Department of Justice that this "shop-book rule" is clearly
in the nature of a procedural rule which could properly be encompassed within
the rules of civil procedure and that promulgation of the rule is clearly within
the express power of the District of Columbia courts to adopt rules of civil pro-
cedure and, as such, is beyond the power of the City Council.
Therefore, since the Council has exceeded its statutory authority in enacting
this bill, I am disapproving Act 1–88.
The White House,
February 27, 1976.
147
GERALD R. FORD
Statement on Decisions Concerning Two Bills of the District of
Columbia City Council. February 28, 1976
THE DISTRICT of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorga-
nization Act (the Home Rule Act) provides that acts of the D.C. Council which
have been vetoed by the mayor and overridden by a two-thirds vote of the council
shall be transmitted to the President for his review. The President shall then have
30 days in which to disapprove these acts or allow them to become law.
D.C. enrolled acts 1-87, relating to affirmative action in D.C. government em-
ployment, and 1-88, relating to the so-called shop-book rule of evidence, are the
first such acts to be sent to the President for his review since the Home Rule Act
was enacted.
If home rule for the District is to have real meaning, the integrity and respon-
sibility of local government processes must be respected. The Federal Govern-
462
