March 20
[239]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
going to lose here, here, and here. What happened? We came from behind in
New Hampshire, and we won. We won in Massachusetts overwhelmingly. We
did very well in Vermont. We surprised them and beat them quite badly in
Florida, and we walloped them in Illinois.
We have the momentum going, and we need your help on Tuesday to keep
that momentum going so we can go to Kansas City and get the nomination,
which will be the clincher for a victory on November 2.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:12 p.m. at Asheville
Mall. In his opening remarks, he referred to Wayne
Montgomery, chairman of the Buncombe County
President Ford Committee, and Orville Coward,
chairman of the 11th Congressional District President
Ford Committee.
Following his remarks, the President greeted Presi-
dent Ford Committee reception guests at the Ashe-
ville Mall movie theater.
239
Remarks on Arrival at Spruce Pine, North Carolina.
March 20, 1976
Governor Jim Holshouser, distinguished sheriffs, honored guests, all of you
wonderful mountain folks:
It is nice to be with you. We got halfway up here this afternoon by helicopter
and then this mountain dew kind of interfered a bit. [Laughter] So, we had to
go back and then drive up here. For the hour and a half, or whatever the time
was, that Jim and I were in the car, I learned more about this mountain area than
I could have learned anywhere else, because Jim is proud of the fact that he
comes from here, and he praises you, he commends you. You are just great peo-
ple, and I thank you very, very much.
I want to thank these Avery High School Mountain Cloggers. I just wish I
could be there a little closer and see all that fancy, intricate footwork and those
pretty girls and nice fellows.
I thank all of you for staying out here under the adverse weather conditions.
It just makes me feel awfully good. I know that you sacrificed a lot, but I just
have the feeling that you are not going to let me down on Tuesday, just like
you are here today.
Now, let me take just a minute or two to talk about some of the things that I
think are significant.
First, I am not a stranger to North Carolina. Quite a few years ago I went to
your great law school at the university. I spent 9 months at the Navy preflight
765
