March 5
[180]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
hometown that shaped his political career, the capital city where his "house
divided" speech struck the conscience of our entire Nation.
If we were visiting in Mount Vernon, and the ghost of George Washington
suddenly appeared, I am sure that every one of us would all stand at attention
until George Washington spoke first. But here, I almost expect Mr. Lincoln him-
self to open that door behind us and invite us in to sit a spell.
You may have heard something about the Lincoln ghost that is supposed to
haunt the White House. Frankly, I'm not much of a believer in ghosts, and I've
never seen any, including the Lincoln ghost, but I can tell you that the presence
of Abraham Lincoln is surely there in the White House, perhaps more than
that of any other President in our long and wonderful history. It is a comfort-
ing presence, gently reminding his successors that no matter how worrisome,
none of their problems can be worse than those that he faced, none of their
critics more cruel, none of their decisions more difficult.
I know you will appreciate how much encouragement I find myself today in
Lincoln's philosophical reply to political attacks on his leadership. Lincoln
told a visitor at the White House, and I quote, "If I were to try to read, much less
answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any
other business. I do the very best I know how-the very best I can; and I mean
to keep doing so until the end. If the end brings me out all right, what is said
against me won't amount to anything."
Those were Lincoln's wonderful words. Abraham Lincoln kept on doing the
very best he knew how. He stuck to a steady course, and he saved the Union.
What sustained him? I'll tell you—his faith in the ultimate justice of the
American people.
"Is there any better or equal hope in the world?" Lincoln asked. I still believe
there is no better hope. The strength and the wisdom of the American people
have become the hope of free men everywhere. The great legacy of Abraham
Lincoln is that the government of the people, by the people, for the people, did
not perish, but endures here in these United States of America. Ours is a more
perfect Union than the Founding Fathers created because of this one man. It is
to Abraham Lincoln that we owe the opportunity to observe our National
Bicentennial at peace among ourselves and with all nations.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. following
his tour of the Lincoln Home. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Representative Paul Findley,
Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz, Bishop Joseph
McNicholas of the Springfield diocese, and Albert
W. Banton, Jr., superintendent of the Lincoln Home
national historic site.
525
