[281]
April 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet, to millions of fans across the globe, Arthur Rubinstein has given some-
thing more than the joy of music-he has also given the joy of life itself.
"I love life unconditionally," he has said, and he has communicated that sheer
delight to generation after generation. It was his late and very fine friend, Sol
Hurok, who wrote, after first hearing Mr. Rubinstein in 1921: "The power
of
his personality and the sense of grandeur and poetry that enveloped his playing
filled me with almost unbearable excitement."
The multitudes who have packed concert halls in Europe, in the Soviet Union,
and Latin America, and in the United States—they, too, have felt that unbear-
able excitement from this man.
Here in the United States we feel a very special bond with Arthur Rubinstein
because in 1946, some 30 years ago, he chose to make America his home. Arthur
Rubinstein has been decorated and celebrated in almost every land, but it is said
that above all else he values the document that made him an American.
I know that many of you here today have long looked forward to this mo-
ment, and I feel proud that on this 200th anniversary of our Nation, I have the
great privilege to present this medal to one of our greatest national treasures, Mr.
Arthur Rubinstein.
And now, Mr. Rubinstein, if you will please step forward, I will read the
citation and will present to you the Medal of Freedom.
[At this point, the President read the citation, the text of which follows:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AWARDS THIS
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM
WITH DISTINCTION
ΤΟ
ARTHUR RUBINSTEIN
Musician, gentleman, and bon vivant, Arthur Rubinstein has shared his singular and deeply personal
mastery of the piano throughout the world. For over seven decades, his ceaseless vitality, his luminous
spirit and his profound depth of mind have brought a fresh sparkle to the lives of people everywhere. His
audiences love him; his colleagues and friends revere him; and his country, the United States of America, is
proud to proclaim him as a giant among artists and men.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Following the ceremony, a reception was held in
the State Dining Room after which Mr. Rubinstein
and his family had a private lunch with the Presi-
dent and Mrs. Ford.
Mr. Rubinstein's response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 527).
882
