[250]
March 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
gion, or national origin against any credit applicant in any aspect of a credit
transaction. The act currently prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex or
marital status.
This bill carries out my recommendations. It applies to business as well as
consumer credit transactions and, thus, reaches discrimination against Ameri-
cans in the extension of credit which might arise from foreign boycott practices.
In addition, this bill permits the Attorney General, as well as private citizens,
to initiate suits where discrimination in credit transactions has occurred. It also
provides that a person to whom credit is denied is entitled to know of the reasons
for the denial.
It is with great pleasure that I sign a bill that represents a major step forward
in assuring equal opportunity in our country.
251
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Child Nutrition
Reform Legislation. March 23, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am presenting today to the Congress the Child Nutrition Reform Act of
1976. This proposal is designed to facilitate the States' efforts to feed needy chil-
dren by consolidating 15 food programs—including forty different meal sub-
sidies-into a single block grant.
Good nutrition is a key factor in the physical, mental and social development
of the Nation's children. It is essential that children not be denied a healthful
diet because of limited family resources. For this reason the Federal government
has developed subsidy programs to provide lunches for needy children.
Children from all families, regardless of income, may receive Federal subsidies
for meals served by eligible institutions. The Federal government now provides
approximately 20% of the total cost of school lunches served to all children,
regardless of their nutritional need or income.
However, due to program changes enacted by the Congress, the Federal gov-
ernment will be required to spend even more money on non-needy children. At
the same time, there are at least 700,000 children from poor families receiving
no benefits whatsoever.
I believe that the Federal government has a responsibility to provide nutrition
assistance to those most in need. At the same time, I believe that the existing
792
