February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
mately a billion dollars more over the 5-year span than under the present
program.
We have added roughly $175 million a year as a growth factor. I think this
is a sound program. And if some of the charts would be opened up here—this
chart shows the figure of $75 million as of this date. It shows the distribution:
State government, $25 million; counties, $6.6 million; municipalities, $23.7
million; and townships, $19.9 million.
Here is the distribution for the total of $96 million which will be paid or will
have been paid at the end of the present legislation on December 31. And this
is the figure for the program that I recommended last year to follow on to the
present program, which expires on December 31.
You see it is a growth factor that I described a minute ago.
Now, here are some of the individual payments that have been made to a
sample of townships, counties, cities. It also shows what would be expected with
the new program that I have recommended.
Now, the thrust of this program—and this is the important point—this is
Federal money that goes to States, cities, counties with no strings attached. And
it shows here the kind of distribution, and it covers in the utilization, education,
public works, community programs, hospitals, et cetera.
Now the interesting part about this program: We hear a great deal of com-
plaint about the overhead. This year there will be approximately $6 billion dis-
tributed. Less than 100 Federal employees take care of it at a total cost of one-
twelfth of 1 percent for the whole distribution of the Federal money. Actually,
for less than $3 million, $6 billion goes back to the State, to the county, and to
the cities. I think that is a pretty good record of efficiency. And you in your
respective areas have virtually total jurisdiction on how you spend the money for
your constituents.
I think this is a good program. I urge you to help us get the Congress to move,
because the new program of 534 years of almost $40 million has to be extended.
I was talking to some mayors from the State of Ohio last week. They, under
their State law, have to present their budgets or prepare their budgets by July 1.
And if this law isn't extended shortly, every mayor in the State of Ohio will
either have to provide more taxes to pay for services that have come from Federal
revenue sharing or they will have to drop the services because they can't in
Ohio, as I understand it, operate their cities in a deficit.
So, it is vitally important that we get this larger and longer program enacted
into law so that you can budget in your respective communities and your State.
161
