April 7
[308]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Wednesdays, for the last several months, have been days of looking over what
happened on the previous day, and I can say that this Wednesday made us
very encouraged. We got some excellent news from Wisconsin. We got all 45
delegates, every one of them. We got approximately 55 percent of the vote.
Obviously, this gives us a big lift.
We also had an election in New York State. But in New York State, it wasn't
a head-to-head confrontation. The delegates can, if they wish, be committed.
But the State organization in New York on the Republican side wanted to have
an uncommitted delegation. There were some of my opponent's delegates who
ran. As I recall, they picked up 3 out of 154. The uncommitted delegation,
headed by the State organization, is an outstanding organization. We have ex-
cellent relations with them, so I believe we will get a fair percentage of those
uncommitted delegates which, added to our previous numbers, will be very
significant.
And, of course, when we go to the next primary, which is Pennsylvania, I am
entered, my opponent is not entered. And Pennsylvania has 104 delegates, as I
recollect, so I think we will do quite well in Pennsylvania.
Then we have a couple of convention States that meet this week-Mississippi
and South Carolina. We are in there pitching. We are hoping to do well, al-
though we recognize there are some problems.
But then we go to Texas, and I am going down there Friday and Saturday.
Again, I think we have got some difficulties, but we are going to make an all-
out effort. I think we have a good many friends in Texas. We have some ex-
cellent delegates, and in Texas it is not one against another. It is again a case
of where the delegates run, representing one candidate or another.
I think yesterday was awfully good news. It gave us a lift, and when we get
to Kansas City, I think we will do all right-in November, too.
But now,
let's talk about some of the things that are of deep interest to all
of you in Michigan. I want to thank Bob Griffin for the wonderful help he has
given me, not only politically but also in helping on some of the most con-
troversial and difficult problems we have had on Capitol Hill. Bob has been a
tower of strength not only to me but I think to the country. And I thank him
for myself, but also for the country. You do a great job.
All of us here, and you, of course, in Michigan, are deeply concerned about
where we are going on the economic front. For the last 2 months, we have had
continuous good news. We have had good results in the inflation area. The
Wholesale Price Index for the last 5 months has had no movement upward.
When you average it out, it has been flat.
987
