April 7
[309]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
One more.
Q. Since the ladies are in a minority here today, I was wondering, if you are
elected, if you have any plans to appoint a woman to an important post?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have done very well. We have a Cabinet officer,
Mrs. Carla Hills, who is Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. We have
the head of the NLRB Betty Murphy. We have a number of other top execu-
tives in sub-Cabinet posts that are occupied by outstanding women. Of course,
we appointed for the first time to the Court of St. James, Great Britain, an Am-
bassador, Anne Armstrong, the first time in the history of U.S.-British relations.
I have also appointed within the last month two additional women as top grade
Ambassadors, noncareer. So, we are doing very well, I think. I hear about that at
home occasionally. [Laughter]
Thank you all very much. It is good to see you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:13 a.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. In his remarks, he
referred to Senator Robert P. Griffin of Michigan
who had attended the President's meeting with the
bipartisan congressional leadership earlier that
morning.
309
Remarks Upon Presenting the Boys' Clubs Boy of the Year
Award. April 7, 1976
I MIGHT say, John, and reiterate what I have said to these boys, that we are
proud of them, and I think they should be proud of what they have done. I
think all of us recognize the tremendous job that the Boys' Clubs have done
throughout the country not only this year but over a long period of time, some
20 years or more, since the Boy of the Year program has been initiated.
The added thing is, I am very proud to be Honorary Chairman of the Boys'
Club. It is a recognition of my interest in the organization and my full support
for it. To see these fine young men here coming in and having the opportunity
of getting their awards in the Rose Garden is a way, I think, we can build up
and expand and further increase the influence of Boys' Clubs throughout the
country.
I do want to thank, also, the Reader's Digest Foundation, which I under-
stand sponsors or supports the Boy of the Year program. Without it, we couldn't
have these fine young men down here getting these awards today.
So, we thank them; we thank all of you who handle the programing and,
995
