March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
My question relates to the Federal highway system, which was constructed
basically on a cost pro rata of 90-10 percent, Federal and State funds. What
would your position be for proposal for proportionate funding of maintenance
of this rather vital asset since the Federal Government today puts in no funds
whatsoever toward the maintenance of that construction?
THE PRESIDENT. The Federal Government, as you indicated, since the mid-
1950's, under the interstate highway program, has contributed 90 percent of the
construction costs. I think our first obligation is to complete the construction of
the interstate system. We are roughly 85 percent completed, as I recollect the
latest figures. And in 3 years, or maybe 4, we anticipate, with some very minor
exceptions, to have the interstate system of, I think it is, 42,000 miles completed.
I don't think that we should get into maintenance until we have completed
construction. Once we have completed construction, I think the President, work-
ing with the Congress, ought to take a look at what our resources ought to be
and where we ought to spend them.
Now, even though the interstate system is completed, we have got a lot of
primary and secondary roads in Illinois, in Michigan, in Wisconsin that still
have to be constructed. So, we have got to balance the completion of the inter-
state system, the completion of our primary and secondary roads, our so-called
farm-to-market roads. And then I think we can take an honest look to see what
we ought to do in the area of maintenance. I don't think I should make you
categorical promises because we are 3 or 4 years away from the completion,
certainly, of the first segment of the interstate system.
WOMEN IN PRESIDENT FORD'S ADMINISTRATION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Champaign. You have given women all
the equal rights they want to work in your campaign for reelection. Many
women hold responsible positions in your local, State, and national campaign
organizations. If you are reelected, in part through the efforts of these women,
how do you plan to let women participate in your administration? For example,
would you consider a woman as your Vice-Presidential running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. I have already said, and I will repeat it, that I think we ought
to judge people in public office on the quality, not necessarily on whether they
are a man or a woman.
We have some outstanding Republican women, along with some outstanding
Republican men, who ought to be considered by the convention and myself
and other leaders in the consideration of a Vice-Presidential candidate.
567
