[239]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
that the United States of America will stay strong, will be strong, and will keep
the peace in the future.
You know, back in January of this year there were a lot of doomsayers say-
ing or writing or talking that President Ford couldn't make it. And they looked
at the polls, and they said, "He never won an election outside the State of Michi-
gan." We went up to New Hampshire; we were behind. We had good people
as volunteers; we worked hard; we had good programs. And, by gosh, we won.
Then we went to Vermont and Massachusetts, and we won real well there.
Then we went down to the State of Florida, and some politicians down there
were saying that President Ford is going to lose 2 to 1. All these doomsayers
and pessimists were predicting the worst results. We had a lot of fine people—
just like you are—down there in that State of Florida. They went to work. We
went down and campaigned. It rained a little bit down there, too, but people
came out. We had a lot of enthusiasm, and we won real good.
Then we went up to that area that I come from, the Middle West, and in Illi-
nois we had again some tremendous inspirational leadership. We had lots of
enthusiastic people, and we just walloped the devil out of them out there in
Illinois. [Laughter]
Now we are right here in North Carolina. What are you going to do in North
Carolina? As I look over this great, great crowd here tonight that came out and
stayed out and are here now, I can look in the eyes of those old people and
young people and everybody else. I just know that this mountain area is going
to give us a great big victory on Tuesday.
We have five victories. Let's make it six. In North Carolina let's get a real
good margin. Betty and I will be watching, and I can't wait to see those results
come in because they are going to be good, because all of you, and all of the
other people in the great State of North Carolina, they want a winner in No-
vember, and I can win.
Thank you very much, Jim. Thank all of you who have come and stayed and
are here. Again, I am deeply thankful. I wouldn't let you down and, boy, you
haven't let me down.
Thank you very, very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:47 p.m. at Morrison Field.
768
