[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
the modernization of its naval force. We did a lot of repair and rehabilitation,
but few, if any, new capital ships were started.
But 3 years ago we came to the conclusion that we were, in a short span of
time, going to be outdistanced by the Soviet Union on the seven seas. So, the
Navy shipbuilding program we have at the present time, both in submarines
and carriers and frigates and the rest of them, if we keep the pressure on, will
give us high quality ships, very versatile, and a sufficient Navy to meet the
challenge of the Soviet Union or any other naval force.
Q. The shipbuilding industry and the electronics industry that goes along with
it is very important for Massachusetts, and Senator Jackson recently made some
remarks that Massachusetts may have been punished, so to speak, by the Repub-
lican administration, since it was the only State that didn't vote with the rest
of the Nation. How do you respond to that remark?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, if you will look at the contracts that have gone to
the shipyards that are in operation on the east coast, we've got a fine naval
shipyard here at Portsmouth—which we are not going to close, incidentally—
and we've got another private yard—I have forgotten the name of it here—but
then all along the eastern seaboard we have very fine Navy, as well as private,
yards, and any allegation to the effect that I or my predecessor said you can't
award a contract to a Massachusetts shipyard just doesn't know what he is
talking about.
U.S. ASSISTANCE TO ISRAEL
[14.] Q. President Ford, I would like to know, can you tell me what your
Government is doing to increase my support of Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me be very specific about that. At the time of the Yom
Kippur war in 1973, when the United States supplied tremendous amounts of
military hardware, tanks taken from our own forces in Western Germany, and
other equipment sent from the United States to Israel to replace the losses they
have, in the period of 18 months the United States spent $3,200 million on behalf
of Israel's military and economic assistance.
In the budget that I submitted for the current fiscal year, that is in this 12-
month period, I recommended $2 billion in additional military assistance with a
forgiveness feature of 50 percent, so they got half of it for nothing and, in
addition, about $750 million in what we call defense support.
So, for this 12-month period that began July 1, last July 1, I recommended
$2,750 million for the State of Israel in military and economic assistance. And
for the next fiscal year coming up, I recommended $1 billion in military assist-
ance and around $750 million in economic aid and assistance. They got more
226
