[140]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
into law on December 22, 1975. That law includes four of the original proposals
I submitted to the Congress over a year ago. Eighteen other major legislative
proposals still await final action by the Congress.
Natural Gas
The need for Congressional action is most critical in the area of natural gas.
We must reverse the decline in natural gas production and deal effectively with
the growing shortages that face us each winter.
Deregulating the price of new natural gas remains the most important action
that can be taken by the Congress to improve our future gas supply situation.
If the price of natural gas remains under current regulation, total domestic pro-
duction will decline to less than 18 trillion cubic feet in 1975. However, if deregu-
lation is enacted, production would be about 25 percent higher by 1985. Natural
gas shortages mean higher costs for consumers who are forced to switch to more
expensive alternative fuels and mean, inevitably, an increasing dependence on
imported oil. Curtailment of natural gas to industrial users in the winters ahead
means more unemployment and further economic hardships.
Therefore, I again urge the Congress to approve legislation that will remove
Federal price regulation from new natural gas supplies and will provide the
added short-term authorities needed to deal with any severe shortages forecast
for next winter.
I also urge prompt action by the Congress on a bill I will be submitting shortly
which is designed to expedite the selection of a route and the construction of a
transportation system to bring the vast supplies of natural gas from the north
slope of Alaska to the "lower 48” markets. This legislation would make possible
production of about 1 trillion cubic feet of additional natural gas each year by
the early 1980s.
We expect imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to grow in the next several
years to supplement our declining domestic supply of natural gas. We must
balance these supply needs against the risk of becoming overly dependent on
any particular source of supply.
Recognizing these concerns, I have directed the Energy Resources Council to
establish procedures for reviewing proposed contracts within the Executive
Branch, balancing the need for supplies with the need to avoid excessive de-
pendence, and encouraging new imports where this is appropriate. By 1985, we
should be able to import 1 trillion cubic feet of LNG to help meet our needs
without becoming overly dependent upon foreign sources.
448
