[144]
February 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the variety of ways in which our people can use and enjoy them. Because of the
competing demands upon these areas, we will face a continuing challenge in
assuring their best uses and in providing protection of their environmental
values.
International activities over the past year have provided a helpful perspective
for understanding the global scope of many environmental issues. Our com-
munity of nations is beginning to come to grips with this reality and, through
the United Nations Earthwatch Program, is making a major attempt to monitor
environmental conditions and trends throughout the world.
Our experience and our growing knowledge about the scientific, technical and
economic aspects of environmental effects and controls has given us a basis for
considering "mid-course corrections" in existing environmental laws. The at-
tention now being given in the Congress and the Administration to a review of
the requirements of the Clean Air Act and the Water Pollution Control Act are
important examples of this new level of awareness.
In these and other efforts, we must set our goals carefully, pursue them vig-
orously, and maintain the balance among our national objectives. This is es-
sential if we are to enjoy the continued public support for our environmental
objectives that is necessary to future progress.
We have made an excellent start. I am confident we shall continue in this
vital area.
The White House,
February 27, 1976.
NOTE: The message is printed in the report entitled
"Environmental Quality: The Sixth Annual Report
GERALD R. FORD
of the Council on Environmental Quality-Decem-
ber 1975" (Government Printing Office, 763 pp.).
145
Remarks Urging Congressional Action on Proposed Legislation
To Reconstitute the Federal Election Commission.
February 27, 1976
ONE YEAR ago, the Federal Election Commission was set up because voters
across the country wanted a strong watchdog to ensure that we have clean and
honest elections.
Now, as a result of a Supreme Court decision and a delay in congressional ac-
tion, the essential powers of that Commission are in jeopardy. Unless Congress
460
