[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
on behalf of the Federal Government in universities themselves. And we
have, I should add, a massive dormitory program for State universities and
other universities. I saw a very substantial facility as I drove in to the campus
today. I suspect that is a federally financed-although I can't be sure—but it
looked like one of the many all over the United States where the Federal Gov-
ernment puts up the money, in effect, for the construction of dormitory facilities
in many colleges and universities.
Q. Mr. President, do you have any new programs in the works to help stu-
dents who are applying to institutions like the University of New Hampshire,
where State assistance is low, and perhaps they have been cut out by the recent
cuts in education funding? Are there any new things aimed at particularly
the low-income and middle-income students?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there are any new programs of that kind. Of
course, it we get tax reductions for the middle-income wage earner the way
I proposed, the middle-income wage earner will have more money to help
send his son or daughter to a college or university.
There is one other Federal program that I didn't mention. It is a very sub-
stantial one. It is the GI bill, which costs the Federal Government, as I recol-
lect, $3 billion to $4 billion a year to send ex-GI's to colleges and universities
so they can complete their training, based on their 36 months entitlement under
the Vietnam war program.
FEDERAL INCOME TAX REFORM
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am Tim Clark from the New Hampshire Network.
We have seen reports that Treasury Secretary Simon recently proposed, pri-
vately to you, that the Federal income tax system be simplified by doing away
with all tax deduction and lowering income tax rates across the board.
First of all, did such a proposal reach your desk? Secondly, what was your
response, and if it didn't reach your desk, what would be your response to
such a proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Simon has talked to me in generalities about a
Federal income simplification program. The objective would be to lower
income tax rates, but it would take away all or most of the exemptions that
are currently in our existing Internal Revenue Code, such as the deduction
for contributions to educational institutions, deductions to charitable organiza-
tions, and a wide range of other deductions, such as those to the United Fund,
to the Red Cross, to the rest. That would be the thrust of the proposal made
by Secretary Simon. We had a good discussion about it.
206
