[190]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
peacetime budget in the history of the United States; Congress cut it $72 billion.
They shouldn't have done it, but they did.
In January of this year, I submitted the biggest peacetime budget for the
Defense Department in the history of the United States-$112.7 billion-the
largest peacetime military budget in the history of the United States. But it's
important, and Congress had better not cut it. They just can't, because while we,
for the last 10 years were spending a corresponding lesser amount of our where-
withal in national security, the Soviet Union was adding to their expenditures.
Now, we are strong. We have the necessary capability to deter aggression, to
protect our national interest, and to maintain the peace through strength. But I
need your support to make sure that we get what we want, so the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines can continue to do the outstanding job
with the best equipment, the best personnel, the best training—just the best.
I need your help, and I say I think the Members of the House and Senate here
will support me. But keep your eye on them. [Laughter] Don't let them cut it.
If they want to add to it, that's all right with me, but we've got enough and we
will be strong. We can reassure our allies, and we can negotiate from strength
with any adversary.
It's great to be here. It is just a wonderful day here in Rantoul. It has been a
great day and a half in all of Illinois. And I wish Betty were here, but she wore
herself out last week down in Florida trying to help get my polls up to hers so
I might win. [Laughter]
I do thank you very much. It's great to be here with all of your fine Congress-
men, and I thank you very much for the chance to come to Redwood Inn.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. at the Redwood Inn.
191
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
on Arrival at Marion, Illinois. March 6, 1976
GEE, it's wonderful to be down here in Williamson County. It's wonderful to
be down here in this just great part of Illinois.
I've had one of the most exhilarating, inspiring experiences in the last day and
a half, and I found this out-I knew it before, but it has been reemphasized-
what great agriculture you have in Illinois, what great industry you have in
578
