February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
economic, more military assistance than any other country supplied by the
United States.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
[15.] Q. There has been an increasing problem to apply a price tag to the
environment. By this I mean how much should you charge a factory to pollute
waters, foul airs, and dispose of wastes? Our quality of these environmental
necessities is deteriorating. How do you propose to immediately deal with this
threatening problem on the Federal level?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Federal Government has to make a major effort
to help local communities with waste water treatment plants. And let me give
you the facts concerning what the Federal Government is doing. In the budget
that is on the Hill now for the next fiscal year, we are going to spend $6,500
million to help local communities build modern waste water treatment plants.
That is a 65-percent increase over the current fiscal year and a 90-percent increase
over the past fiscal year. This is a major effort, and it is beginning to pay
dividends.
I don't know if you are familiar with the situation in Lake Erie. Lake Erie
was rapidly becoming a dead body of water. Because of the things that have
been done—and they all aren't done yet-Lake Erie has turned and is now
becoming again an inland lake that can and will be swimmable, will be a very
viable body of water in our economic and overall society in the United States.
We are making a massive effort in this regard, and we are tightening the
screws—I hope in a responsible way—on the private sector. But you can't make
up 100 years of neglect in 3 or 4. It takes a little time, and we are taking the
right steps.
WELFARE SYSTEM
[16.] Q. Good evening, President Ford. My name is Brian Shaughnesy, and
I am from Buffalo, New York, which is right on Lake Erie, so I know it is
getting a lot cleaner, and in fact, this summer we were even able to swim there,
so he is telling the truth. President Ford, what concerns me today is the Federal
welfare system that just last week you seemed to categorize it as being in a mess.
Could you kind of tell us what we can expect in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Unfortunately, our Federal welfare system has grown like
Topsy. It has, over the period of years, come from the welfare system that devel-
oped in the Depression. And there hasn't been any really honestly fashioned
program that coordinates all of the programs where people who are disad-
vantaged get what they need.
227
