[308]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
strike. And that, of course, would have been a serious impediment to any eco-
nomic recovery, as we are now seeing throughout the country. I hope that is
what Bill said.
Q. He did. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. Will the trucking industry automatically receive a freight rate increase?
The President. It is my understanding that some of the trucking industry
has asked for an 8-percent freight rate increase. And after the settlement they
have now gone to the ICC and asked for a 6-percent freight rate increase. So,
it must appear to them that they did reasonably well.
I can't tell you what the ICC will do because that is an independent agency,
or independent commission. But the withdrawal by themselves of a 2-percent
lesser figure in a freight rate increase does signal something to us. But it is
up to the ICC to make any judgment on it.
Q. The ICC has the authority to do that?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes, they have the authority, as I understand it, to deny
it if they want to. And I presume, therefore, they could do anything up to the
6 percent. Isn't that right, Bill? That is the way I understand it.
Q. Mr. President, after Jimmy Carter's win in Wisconsin yesterday—
THE PRESIDENT. I thought Mo Udall 2 won as of 11:30 last night. [Laughter]
Q. So did I, but apparently they changed their minds. Do you see him as your
opponent this fall?
THE PRESIDENT. He certainly has tremendous momentum going, and if I
had anything to do with the Democratic Party process, I certainly would look
upon him as a very strong contender for their nomination.
On the other hand, I still stick with what I have been saying for the last year
or year and a half, that I think Hubert Humphrey will end up being their
nominee.
Q. Is that in any way a comment on the political system that is working
within, apparently, the Democratic Party, that you go through primaries and
have the primaries point to one man and then have the simple historical and po-
litical tide select another? How would the American people feel about the overall
selection process in terms of the candidates they have presented?
THE PRESIDENT. That is the way the Democrats might do it. [Laughter] We
in the Republican Party do it differently. We fight it out, and I guess we will
fight it out right down to Kansas City. So, the American people won't have any
U.S. Representative Morris K. Udall of Arizona.
990
