[234]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
looking up for America this year. There is no reason whatsoever that we should
change or alter our course, because we have been right.
Obviously, there is more that we ought to do for America, but it ought to
be done in the private sector, not in the public sector. We still have our share
of problems, but the trends are all in the right direction. Where we have the
problems, we have to face up to those difficulties and decide what is the right
course, with the emphasis on the private sector.
But it is one thing to admit our problems and another to be hypnotized by
them and refuse to see the strength and the resolve and the courage and the con-
fidence and the pursuit of progress which characterizes the American people.
The very fact that we have weathered so many difficulties, so many challenges,
proves to me that the United States of America is still the greatest nation in
the history of mankind.
We have endured shocks to our system and to our people that might have
paralyzed a lesser country or a weaker citizenry. But, as I look at the record,
we have emerged from these challenges stronger and stronger on each occa-
sion. This is a great country. We are lucky to be Americans, and I don't think
any of us would trade places with anybody from any other country.
It seems to me that we should emphasize, instead of downgrading America,
the future and the prospects and the benefits. We should emphasize trying to
make America an even better country. You and I both want to make America
prosperous, and we want America to walk the path of peace.
If I can close with one final comment: I hope that I can get some help and
assistance—and I would appreciate it-next Tuesday.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:12 a.m. in the
Alexander Room at the Holiday Inn-Woodlawn.
The reception was hosted by the Mecklenburg
County Republican Party.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Repre-
235
sentative James G. Martin, Representative Charles R.
Jonas of North Carolina 1953-72 and his wife,
Annie Elliott, and Dr. Arthur M. Martin, Sr., father
of Representative Martin.
Remarks in Charlotte at the North Carolina State Annual
Convention of the Future Homemakers of America.
March 20, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Jim Holshouser, Congressman Jim
Martin, Dr. Tripp and, especially you, Ann Cooper, and all of the wonderful
Future Homemakers of America, ladies and gentlemen:
754
