March 20
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
yesterday that consumer prices increased only one-tenth of 1 percent in the
month of February, the smallest monthly increase in over 4 years, and that is
progress by any standard.
On an annual basis, that represents an inflation rate of a little more than
1 percent per year, and that is a whole lot better than the 12 percent that we
were experiencing in 1973 and 1974. I won't try to mislead you and say that
the news on the inflation front will always be this good in the months ahead.
But this new announcement is powerful evidence that we are really getting
inflation under control, and we are not going to let down under any
circumstances.
There is still some other good economic news. The rate of growth in Federal
spending has been cut in half in the budget that I submitted for the new fiscal
year.
Charlie Jonas, as I indicated, served with me on the Committee on Appropri-
ations, and we used to go into the budget in detail. He was on several sub-
committees; I was on several others. But, he knows, as I know, that for the
last 10 to 15 years the rate of growth in Federal spending has been between
10 and 11 percent, much too high. You cannot possibly sustain it, and it is
unjustified otherwise. The budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year calls
for a reduction in 50 percent of the rate of growth in Federal spending—a rate
of 5 to 52 percent.
If we can get a handle on that rate of growth in this coming fiscal year and
maintain that control in the months and years ahead, we can have a balanced
budget, and we can have a tax reduction, a sizable tax reduction in 3 years. And
that is what we want, and that is what we have to get.
Let me speak of some other good economic news. The last report from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics indicated that our total U.S. employment in the
month of February was 86,300,000. It reached the alltime peak. The rate of
unemployment was still too high, but we made substantial progress in that
regard. But the main point is we have gone from the depths of a recession in
March or April of last year, where we lost several million jobs, and we have
regained every one of those jobs numerically. Our aim and objective, with sound
policies, is to continue that progress, and we will.
But one of the most important factors is-and you here in this room
represent that—consumer confidence is up, and for good reason. Industrial pro-
duction is up, housing starts are up, the gross national product is up, real earn-
ings for the average American are also up. In short, just about everything is
753
