[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
our President in our midst here and to speak to you personally. I consider this
quite an honor.
Being a farmer all my lifetime, I have noticed—and I am sure many others
have, too—that when the cattle market or hog market is good, the grain boys
suffer, and when the grain market is good, the cattle and hog boys suffer. We
live off each other.
THE PRESIDENT. Where does that leave me? [Laughter]
Q. We feel like we both deserve a profit.
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me. Go ahead.
Q. That is it. [Laughter] We feel like we both deserve a profit. When one
makes money, the other loses. We are living off each other.
THE PRESIDENT. What we want—and I don't say this with any feeling that I
am just saying words and it can't be done-I am not as pessimistic as you are
that we have to go through this yo-yo operation that you described. It seems
to me that we can have a prosperous agriculture pretty much across the board.
Now, that does not mean there won't be some erratic movements from time to
time between the two groups that you described. But I think over a 5-year period
we will have—and we are certainly going to try to have—both elements pros-
perous in America.
Q. President Ford, I am from Coles County, a farmer and livestock man. I
would like to say thank you for Secretary Butz. I am director of the Illinois Corn
Growers Association, and we think he has certainly spoken out for us, and we
have a much better image as farmers. And he tells it as it is, as they say.
My question would be, what about our grain export, grain inspection down at
New Orleans? What are you thinking of doing to correct this situation? We
produce some mighty fine corn here in Illinois and we run it through our clean-
ers and our combines and screen it and then we get it down there in New
Orleans and they dump trash in it. So, what are you thinking about doing down
there?
The President. First, let me say I never saw anybody from Indiana who got
people from Illinois and Michigan to praise him as much as we have Earl Butz
here today. [Laughter] He must be a pretty good man.
Q. He certainly is.
THE PRESIDENT. Under the present law, the Department of Agriculture does
not have the specific authority to go in there and perform the inspection itself.
These grain scandals in New Orleans have been indefensible. As I recall, there
have been 70-some indictments, 50-some convictions. Almost every day it seems
538
