March 22
[244]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
about 3,000 Masons at the time this country was formed, 3,000 out of some 3
million who were in the Thirteen Colonies that made America.
Well, Masonry has contributed in the 200 years. I am confident it will do like-
wise in the third century and longer than that. So, I thank you for the honor,
Worshipful Layton. And I thank all of the members, and particularly those who
are here today, for their coming to the White House to participate in this
ceremony.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:24 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to John B. Layton, Grand
Master of the District of Columbia Masons.
244
Remarks Upon Signing a Special Message to the Congress on
Fiscal Year 1977 Budget Requests and the Creation of an
Office of Science and Technology Policy. March 22, 1976
Dr. Stever and distinguished scientists from both the private as well as the
public sector:
This is a great occasion, and I am delighted to participate in the signing of
these two messages.
Since its beginning, America has derived great, great benefits from the in-
ventiveness and creativity of its people. From Benjamin Franklin's first experi-
ments with electricity to the most recent discoveries in space-age medicine,
research and development have been crucial elements in our Nation's remark-
able growth. They have never been more important than they are at the present
time.
Science and technology are daily becoming more and more vital for the peace
and security of our country and for the world at large. It is no exaggeration to
say that the future well-being of our Nation depends on putting our best minds
to work now to solve the problems of tomorrow.
In recent years we have made major investments in research and develop-
ment and this investment has paid rich dividends in economic growth, in the
quality of our lives, and in the strength of our defense, but we must do more.
The budget which I recently submitted to the Congress in January of this
year is one measure of the importance that I personally attach to a continued
national investment in science and technology. In it, I requested $24.7 billion for
783
