March 12
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
with religious values that you hold so dear here at Wheaton College. For a
number of years, I have enjoyed a warm and friendly relationship, discussed
many times the problems that I am sure all of you do, with two of your honored
graduates of Wheaton, the Reverend Billy Graham and the Reverend Billy
Zeoli.
America and the world need the moral and spiritual values which you offer.
Young men and women motivated by faith in themselves and in God must keep
the flame of faith burning. In the words of the Holy Bible, man becomes what
he thinks upon, and a nation ascends to its highest potential all through the
ideals and aspirations of its people.
Your involvement in our Nation's spiritual and political life is also important.
It is important not only to you as individuals but to our Nation's future. There
are many, many ways to make our world a better place, but one very good way is
to make certain that the United States of America has enlightened citizenship
and a responsible government. Your participation, your commitment to that
ideal, not just this year but for every year, will keep America strong, will keep
America free.
Thank you, and now I will be glad to answer your questions.
John Anderson is here. John, where are you? I understand John was given
an honorary degree here at Wheaton. Also a very good friend of mine, your
former fine Governor, Dick Ogilvie is here.
Yes, I am ready for the first question.
QUESTIONS
EFFECT OF WATERGATE ON PRESIDENT FORD; SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[1.] Q. Mr. President, the recent Nixon testimony from a sworn deposition
points the finger at Secretary of State Henry Kissinger as choosing the 17 White
House officials and reporters for wiretapping. Do you feel continued connection
between Kissinger and Watergate will be detrimental to your election? If so,
can we expect his resignation soon?
The President. As I understand the questions, there are three in number.
[Laughter] First, I do not think that I should comment on the litigation that is
now involved between Mr. Halperin ยน and the defendants. It would be inappro-
priate for me to make any comment concerning that matter which is now before
the courts.
ยน Morton Halperin, former member of the National Security Council.
635
