March 31
[276]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The full dimensions of this problem are not yet known but it is clear that a
substantial number of U.S. corporations have been involved in questionable
payments to foreign officials, political organizations or business agents. The pos-
sibility exists that more can be done by our government. There would also ap-
pear to be some interest in guidance as to what standards should be applied to
the foreign sales activities of the overwhelming majority of American business-
men who are deeply concerned about the propriety of their business operations.
The Task Force should explore all aspects of this problem and seek to obtain
the views of the broadest base of interested groups and individuals. While the
problems are complex and do not lend themselves to simple solutions, I am
confident that your labors will contribute to a better international and domes-
tic climate in which American business continues to play a vital and respected
role.
GERALD R. FORD
276
Statement on the Task Force on Questionable Corporate
Payments Abroad. March 31, 1976
RECENT disclosures that American-based corporations have made questionable
payments during the course of their overseas operations have raised substantial
public policy issues here at home.
The Federal Government is already undertaking a number of firm actions to
deal with this matter. Full-scale investigations to determine whether U.S. laws
have been violated are currently underway in the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, the Internal Revenue Service, and elsewhere. In addition, I have directed
my advisers in the areas of foreign policy and international trade to work with
other governments abroad in seeking to develop a better set of guidelines for
all corporations.
To ensure that our approach to this issue is both comprehensive and properly
coordinated, I am today establishing a Cabinet-level Task Force on Questionable
Corporate Payments Abroad.
The task force will be chaired by the Secretary of Commerce, Elliot Richard-
son, and it will include among its members the Secretaries of State, Treasury,
and Defense as well as the Attorney General and other high-ranking members
of the administration.
869
