February 14
[97]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The time has come for society to act in its own self-defense. I favor the use
of the death penalty in the Federal criminal system in accordance with proper
constitutional standards. The death penalty in appropriate instances should
be imposed upon the conviction of sabotage, murder, espionage, and treason.
Of course, the maximum penalty should not be applied if there is duress or
impaired mental capacity or similar extenuating circumstances. But in murders
involving substantial danger to the national security, or when the defendant
is a coldblooded, hired killer, the use of capital punishment is fully justified.
We realize today that passivity and permissiveness invite crime and that the
certainty of punishment prevents crime, and I mean positive, swift, and just
punishment. But the criminal justice system need not be vindictive to be
effective.
As President, I will give no comfort to those who make false allegations
of police brutality but excuse the real brutality that exists in America today,
the brutality of hoodlums in the streets of our cities throughout America. I
have no patience with those who would portray the violent criminal as the
helpless victim of society when such offenders are actually anti-social criminals.
Millions of our citizens, including the elderly and poor, lock themselves
up in their homes, fearing violence. I would instead lock up the criminals
who make them afraid.
A legal system that is exploited by the criminal but ignores his victim is
sadly out of balance. I ask your help and that of all Americans in restoring that
balance. I applaud the Federal, State, and local citizen coalition against crime
that is emerging in Florida. The 10,000 volunteers now active in the citizen's
crime watch of the Dade County Public Safety Department deserve particular
commendation, and I am glad with the many others who have passed that
on to those public-spirited citizens.
As you know, these crimewatchers have provided information leading to
significant arrests, including the seizure, as I understand it, of some 23 tons
of illegal drugs.
The responsibility of local officials in dealing with the alarming increase in
violent crime is primarily under our Constitution. Yet crime is so pervasive
that it can be brought under control only by the concerted efforts of all levels
of government-Federal, State, and local, by the closest possible cooperation
among the executive, legislative, and judicial branches, and by nonpartisan
political unity against a common enemy.
The primary duty of government is to protect the law-abiding citizen in
the peaceful pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness. The preamble to our Con-
327
