March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
hearings and act in the committee and take action in the Senate. There are a lot
of good points in there. There are controversial points, but those who object
ought to get the committee, get friends on the floor of the House to take their
cause. But just to ask categorically for another year of study when we have had
4 or 5, I can't say that I will do that.
DEREGULATION OF ENERGY RESOURCES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Rantoul. I am in the petroleum business,
also. I was very encouraged by remarks you made about the Government getting
out of the free enterprise system. I think everybody would look forward to that.
However, as early as December of 1975, you signed a bill into law that gave the
FEA 40 additional months of control over the oil companies, and you con-
tinued the present entitlement program.
Now, according to the oil company experts—and I realize there are Govern-
ment experts and there are oil company experts-but this will create more
dependency upon foreign crude, which is climbing every day and is up to over
40 percent at this time. We talk about these things, but when will government
quit tinkering in free enterprise?
The President. In November of 1974, I got the results of about a year's study
called Project Independence that gave us a blueprint for making us independent
from foreign oil sources. In January of 1975, I submitted an energy program to
the Congress and, in effect, it would, number one, deregulate natural gas. It
would, in effect, deregulate the domestic oil industry. But the Congress, after
milling and hauling and taking 12 months, sent down to my desk this legisla-
tion to which you refer. It was about half-good and about half-bad. But, the
alternatives of vetoing it, in my opinion, were worse than accepting it. And with
great reservations—and I so stated—I accepted it.
Now we are implementing it, and we are going to get rid of the redtape and
the limitations under it just as quickly as we can. The Congress set the 40-month
period. I did not ask for it. They set it, and we are going to get rid of it just as
fast as the law will provide. And we are going to permit the escalation over the
40-month period so that we can hopefully stimulate more domestic production.
Q. We could use all your help.
The President. Well, we have a more important issue right now. The Senate
passed a good deregulation bill for natural gas. The House really did a bad job,
and the net result is, we are going to have no incentive to increase domestic nat-
ural gas production. And every day that we get less and less U.S. domestic nat-
573
