March 24
[253]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
253
Remarks at a Meeting With Members of the Texas
Republican Delegation. March 24, 1976
GEE, it is nice to see my old friends, Bill McKenzie and all of you from
Dallas County. I think it is very appropriate, because it is very meaningful to
me and, I think, to you.
The Texas Republican delegation is high on quality. We could stand a
little more quantity-[laughter]—but they certainly are the top people. John
Tower is one of the outstanding Members of the United States Senate. He is a
very close and very dear friend of mine and, as you all know, he does a superb
job representing you as well as doing a fine job for the country.
But you also have three outstanding Members of the House of Representa-
tives in Jim Collins, Bill Archer, and Alan Steelman. I just wish that they
had a few more compatriots to help us up there in some of the legislative prob-
lems we have from time to time. They are all staunch; they are able; they have
fine committee assignments, and they are great teamworkers.
You might be interested, speaking of politics and the convention, I am an-
nouncing at this time that John Tower, who I spoke of and spoke of very glow-
ingly, is going to be the President Ford floor leader at the convention in Kansas
City. This is recognition of John's outstanding ability not only in representing
all of you but as a friend of mine and a very ardent and devoted advocate of
my own candidacy.
There have been some Wednesday mornings that have been happier recently
than this one. We had five good ones and this one that did not turn out as well
as we would have liked. We knew it would be a close race. We expected to win.
We didn't. And I might say that in politics, it is never good to come in second.
What we intend to do in the months ahead, starting this morning, is first on
to Wisconsin. And we expect to make a big effort there. We know it will be
close, but we expect to win. And then, of course, that same day, we have the
New York primary where we are entered and our opponent is not. So, the
situation there looks very good.
In Pennsylvania, which is another large delegation, we are entered and there
is no opposition, so that looks good. But whether the results yesterday will have
any impact or not, it is my judgment it will not in the final conclusion.
We expect to go to Kansas City, and we expect to be nominated. But the im-
795
