March 22
[242]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Convention on the Political Rights of Women, signed by the United Nations
General Assembly in 1953.
Our ratification of the 19th amendment to our Constitution in 1920 granted
women in this country equal voting rights with men. The ratification of these
two conventions serves to underscore our firm dedication to the principle of
equality of political rights for women. Indeed, the Preamble to the Charter of
the United Nations to which our Nation and others subscribe provides that we
"reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the
human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and
small."
International Women's Year, 1975, has just concluded. We have now entered
the United Nations Decade for Women, as adopted by the 30th General Assem-
bly of the United Nations. This decade, 1975–85, will provide an opportunity
to put into action the recommendations and suggestions resulting from IWY.
This will serve as an opportunity for effectively measuring our commitment to
continuing the advancement of the status of women. It is highly appropriate
that the ratification of these two conventions by the United States Senate took
place during the beginning of our Bicentennial Year.
242
Statement Announcing Plans for a White House
Conference on Handicapped Individuals. March 22, 1976
AT THE request of the National Planning and Advisory Council to the White
House Conference on Handicapped Individuals and the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, and with the authorization of the Congress, I hereby
declare that the White House Conference on Handicapped Individuals shall be
held in spring 1977.
A spring 1977 Conference is strongly supported by many of the States and by
various organizations for the handicapped. This will allow the States time to
plan their conferences properly and involve more people, especially the handi-
capped. This should contribute to a better National Conference.
I feel that this involvement is important. As I said when I announced the
Conference last November, a major purpose of this Conference is to generate a
responsive national awareness of the problems facing the handicapped. Concern
for the handicapped should not be limited to the Federal Government. State and
local officials and private citizens as well, must turn their attention to the needs
781
