April 5
[302]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
laborers, not the more skilled workers exempted today by the legislation that I
am signing, I think this one exemption makes a great deal of sense.
I am committed, as I think all of the Members of Congress know, to reducing
and resisting regulation in areas such as this where it is not needed or, certainly,
is not appropriate. So, it is a privilege and a pleasure for me to sign this legisla-
tion and to provide this exemption, which I think is badly needed in the field of
agriculture.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:57 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House. Prior
to his remarks, he met in the Cabinet Room with
officials of the Kansas Farm Bureau, who attended
the ceremony.
In his remarks, he referred to Secretary of Agri-
culture Earl L. Butz and Senator Robert Dole of
Kansas.
As enacted, H.R. 6346, is Public Law 94-259
(90 Stat. 303).
302
Remarks at the Biennial Congressional Dinner of the American
Hellenic Educational Progressive Association. April 5, 1976
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ambassador, Members of Con-
gress, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. Chirgotas, it is a great privilege for Betty and myself to be here with the
AHEPA family this evening. And it is a very special pleasure for me to greet you
and, through you, more than 65,000 active members of AHEPA, including the
Daughters of Penelope, Sons of Pericles, and the Maids of Athena on your 22d
Bicentennial [Biennial] gathering in the Nation's Capital during our Bicenten-
nial Year. And I thank you for warmly welcoming Betty and myself.
If memory serves me correctly, I have attended 14 out of the 22 meetings you
have had here in Washington, D.C. I think that is a better record than many in
the audience. [Laughter] But every year it has been great, and it is delightful for
us to be back.
Last year, I met with Bill Chirgotas and your other officers at the White House.
And just about 2 years ago, I had the honor of addressing you as Vice President.
I congratulate Bill on his reelection this year as supreme president of AHEPA.
You know, I have been a member of AHEPA myself for more than a quarter
of a century, and I am darned proud of it. I have felt Greek in spirit, if not by
ancestry, for a good many years since I first studied the glorious history of Greece.
Furthermore, Americans of Greek heritage have occupied a very special place in
my life.
Who can ever forget their first regular-paying job? My present job is very
975
