March 5
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I think we're right down to the barebone facts. We either
have to achieve greater economies in the operation of the Postal Service and
have a smaller deficit, or we have to charge the people who use the Postal Service
for the service that is rendered. Or if we don't achieve more economies in the
operation or the people who use the Postal Service aren't going to pay more,
then the taxpayers, as a whole, have to pay the deficit.
It's just one of three options. Now, I happen to believe we can do a better job
running the Post Office. There is no reason in the world why the Post Office
should have a $1,300 million deficit in a 12-month period. So, we come right down
to how we can eliminate the deficit, and there are three options. And I think
the Congress has to work with me, but the people in the Post Office Department
have to work with us in order to solve the problem.
Q. Mr. President, before we let the last question go with the lovely lady, I'm
the director of the Dirksen Endowment Fund, and on behalf of the Dirksen
Congressional Research Center and, particularly, Louella Dirksen, we wish to
thank you for your continued support to the Dirksen name and, particularly,
to the Center. And I want to say tonight that you're not only playing well,
you're going to continue to play well.
CONSOLIDATION OF EDUCATION PROGRAMS
[14.] Q. Thank you, Mr. President, I am from the city of Peoria. The
Peoria Journal Star has reported that you have asked Congress for block grants
for education at the elementary and secondary level. These block grants would
replace 24 aids-in-grants. This sounds great, but would you assure us that we
would have less restrictions? Title I and some of the titles are extremely
restrictive to us in the local area and to handling these funds.
THE PRESIDENT. You are exactly right. I have recommended to the Congress
that we take 24 primary, secondary—or elementary and secondary education
categorical grant programs, consolidate them in one block grant program, and
that the money should go to the States and to the local units of government
without any matching requirements, so that at the local and State level, inde-
pendent decisions could be made as to which area there should be local emphasis.
The local emphasis in Peoria might be different than the legitimate needs and
local emphasis in Miami, or the local emphasis or needs in Grand Rapids might
happen to be different from what they are in San Francisco. So, the block grant
program gives flexibility. And we have promised every State and every local
unit of government they will get no less money than they've gotten this current
fiscal year, and they have much more decisionmaking responsibility at the local
557
