March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that would limit corporate holdings in agriculture. I wonder if you would sup-
port this type of legislation.
THE PRESIDENT. It is not legislation that has been very widely advertised. I
have heard just the title. I know nothing of the details and to make any commit-
ment to a piece of legislation only knowing the title, I think, would be irrespon-
sible. I like to read the fine print before I say yes or no to something and until
I have, I cannot, in all honesty, give you a categorical answer. I want the family
farm to be run by the farmer who owns it and lives on it, but to make a sweep-
ing generalization, I don't think is the proper role for me at this time knowing
only what the title says.
Q. I would like very much to compliment you on your recent, just now an-
nouncement of something that will alleviate a very serious problem and that is
the estate tax inheritance problem. My question has to do with imports. Due to
the fact that Indonesia is the second largest exporter of palm oil in the world and
since in the past year they have tripled their exports of palm oil into this country
completely duty-free, have increased the amount they have shipped into our
country from 250 million pounds to 750 million pounds—which has, we think,
largely contributed to the decline of soybean oil prices from 43 cents a pound to
16 cents a pound-why then, Mr. President, has the U.S. just approved an $11.3
million loan through the World Bank to Indonesia to help them increase still
further their production?
The President. I first think you have to understand the United States does
not control the World Bank. We have an interest in it. We are partici-
pants. But that is an organization that is separate and distinct from the U.S.
Government.
I fully recognize the problem that you have raised. It is a serious one. It is a
matter that is being carefully considered at the very highest level in the execu-
tive branch of the Federal Government, and I can assure you that this review
and this analysis will be completed in a relatively short period of time, and we
will make a specific recommendation.
But this is the responsibility of the new committee that I have just announced,
but the review has been going on for a month at least, to my knowledge, and I
can assure you that it will get the top consideration by Secretary Butz and his
associates.
Q. Mr. President, I was very pleased when you said you would not use food
as a pawn, but I am very concerned about the fact that how are you, as the chief
administrator of our country, going to be able to resist the pressures that I feel
will build up over the years to use food to help develop foreign policy?
531
