March 12
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
today's world. We must have this life insurance because we face a powerful
adversary armed with deadly weapons, whose principles and whose purposes are
fundamentally different from ours.
We will work to reduce confrontations and avoid nuclear catastrophe, but
we must also be prepared to meet challenges wherever and whenever they occur.
It is no secret that the United States and the U.S.S.R. have fundamental differ-
ences in political and economic ideology. We will never cease the defense of
the principles for which we stand-freedom, individual rights, and our deep
belief that government exists to serve its citizens. Our task is a dual one: to
defend and promote the ideals of the American people and to seek to reduce,
whenever possible, the tensions and confrontations which could lead to nuclear
holocaust.
To do this, we must maintain a position of unquestioned strength. That is
why a few months after becoming President, I sent to the Congress the highest
peacetime defense budget in the Nation's history, more than $104 billion.
Regrettably, Congress cut over $6 billion from the budget.
This year again I have gone to the Congress with another record peacetime
defense budget request of $112.7 billion. My current defense budget request
before the Congress at the present time reflects my determination to maintain
America's defenses, both strategic and conventional, at the levels our national
security requires. They include an increase in real dollars of $7.4 billion to buy
new weapon systems, to continue to improve the readiness of our existing forces,
and to increase selective forces while trimming off all the fat that we can.
Funds are included for 16 new Navy ships and continued modernization of
the fleet, including nuclear-powered submarines and guided missile frigates.
I will ask for more in the way of Navy shipbuilding if a current study shows
we need a faster buildup. Work will continue on the Trident submarine, the
B-1 strategic bomber, cruise missiles and ballistic missiles, a new combat fighter
for the Army and for the Navy and the Air Force, and advance tanks, amphib-
ious and infantry vehicles for the Army.
Just as I have persistently worked to maintain elements of America's strength,
I have also diligently sought peace through strength. Three times as President,
I have gone to Europe to reaffirm our NATO commitment with our Western
allies, to coordinate our economic and energy policies with the industrialized
democracies, and to improve our trade and contacts with the peoples of Eastern
Europe and reassure them of the bond between us.
I went to Europe to say to the leaders of the Warsaw Pact nations, indeed to
the 33 European nations, East as well as West, that the descendents of Europeans
645
