[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
How has your administration definitely distinguished itself in its policies
from those of the former President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think one very significant difference is that we have
different people in the vast majority of major offices in the Cabinet, in regulatory
agencies. We have a new team in many of the major areas of policy determina-
tion and policy direction—the Cabinet, regulatory agencies, et cetera.
We have followed a very middle-of-the-road to conservative view in economic
policy. It has been a policy decided by me. I didn't go back and look at what the
former President did, because he didn't have the hard decisions like we had in
1975. If there is a similarity, it is pure happenstance. The decisions I made in
1975 were mine, predicated on the problems that we faced.
Now, in the field of foreign policy, there is an area of similarity. I believe that
SALT I was a good agreement. I believe that if we can get a SALT II agree-
ment, it is in the best interest of this country.
Let me just point out some of the things that will happen if we don't get a
SALT II agreement. In the first place, Backfire¹ will run free. There won't be
any
limitations or constraints on it. If we don't get a SALT II agreement, there
won't be any definition of a launching weight or throw weight. If we don't
get a SALT II, there will be no limitation on launchers or MIRVs after Octo-
ber 1977.
I happen to feel very strongly that SALT I was a good agreement, and it is
desirable for a good agreement for SALT II. If that is a similarity you are com-
plaining about, I think it is a similarity that is worthy of support. Where we
are similar, fine; where we differ, it is just one of the differences that are likely
to take place.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, Ron Amadon from WGIR Radio in Manchester.
Would you accept Ronald Reagan as your Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. I said, I guess a month ago, that that was within the realm of
possibility. But I also said quite recently, there is a long list of very able United
States Senators, present Governors, other public officials, who certainly ought
to be considered. Any former Governor, I think, certainly would qualify for
consideration.
DEBATES WITH RONALD REAGAN
[13.] Q. If I may follow up on that, sir, would you agree to debate Mr.
Reagan during the primary campaign?
1 The Soviet Backfire bomber.
208
