February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I said I would not embrace it. I thought the better way to proceed would be
for him and the Treasury Department to study it and then present to me not
something orally, but something on paper so that I could analyze it very con-
cretely and very specifically.
I had some experience with a somewhat comparable proposal that I think
President Johnson proposed to the Congress 8 or 9 years ago which, on paper,
was a very simple proposal lowering rates but eliminating virtually, if not all,
deductions.
I don't think I got any more mail under any program, because every church
group, every university, every charitable organization-they didn't want to lose
those deductions, because that is how we supply the wherewithal for a great
many scholarships, a great many worthy projects to help the poor, to help other
people in need.
So, until Secretary Simon comes to me with a concrete proposal that I can
analyze the pros and the cons, I am not going to give it the go-ahead sign. If
and when that comes, we will make a decision.
Q. Some of the Democratic candidates for President this year are speaking
loudly and often about tax reform. If you are not in favor of the Simon proposal,
what are your thoughts on reforming the tax system?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think this proposal to which you refer is the kind of
reform that some of the Democratic candidates are talking about. They are
talking about a wide variety of many other things.
We have sent up through Secretary Simon some specific reductions or loop-
hole closings. They are in part incorporated in the bill that passed the House of
Representatives in the last session that is now before Senator Long's Senate
Committee on Finance. Even though that “reform bill" has some things in it
we don't approve of, it does have some we recommended.
So, depending on what the Senate does, I will have to make a decision. I would
hope that Senator Long's committee in the Senate would make some modifica-
tions. If they do, we could embrace a tax reform bill.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, Marc Capobianco, The Dartmouth, student paper
of Dartmouth College.
As a Congressman, your voting was never less than 70 percent in support of
Nixon's policies. As Vice President, you lobbied for Nixon's programs and
staunchly defended him against impeachment. As President you consulted with
your predecessor and pardoned him.
207
