[184]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very optimistic with my prospects as far as Peoria is con-
cerned. Illinois has always been a good State. I had many opportunities to visit
it. I have virtually been all over the State. I think I have a friend or two, and I
think they will be helpful.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 5:45 p.m. at the Greater Peoria Airport.
185
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the Everett
McKinley Dirksen Forum in Peoria. March 5, 1976
Thank you very, very much Dr. Abegg, Congressman Bob Michel, Congressman
Tom Railsback, Congressman Ed Madigan, my outstanding Secretary of Agri-
culture, Earl Butz, Mayor Carver, friends of the Everett McKinley Dirksen
Chair, students, faculty, and guests of Bradley University:
At the outset, let me say I don't think we would have scheduled this tonight
if I had known that Chet Walker¹ was being honored last night. [Laughter]
I probably would have been here last night if I could have, because I am a great
fan of his, and I am a great fan of all that Bradley University stands for in the
field of basketball, as well as academic standing, and I congratulate you. And
I'm darn glad and lucky to be the recipient of the Everett McKinley Dirksen
Honorary Chair here tonight. I thank you very, very much.
Bob Michel was much too generous and far too kind, but it's nice to hear in
1976. And I thank Bob for not only his kind words but his long friendship.
And I could reciprocate in kind for the outstanding job that he does for all of
you in the Congress of the United States.
Obviously, it's a great pleasure and privilege and a very high honor for me
to be here tonight, not only in Bradley but in the city of Peoria. And I thank
Mayor Carver for his warm and very kind reception at the airport.
I have been here—yes, back in 1949, but I have been here subsequent to that,
and I am impressed with your people, your administration, and the objectives
and the kind of morale that you have here in Peoria. You set a high standard
for other communities around the country.
The trustees of this university have been very kind and honored me in a very
¹ Former basketball player at Bradley University and member of the Chicago Bulls professional basketball
team.
546
