April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I cut the food stamp program. I ordered no new starts in public works and
a whole raft of things.
Now, I think it is a sound budget, but even that budget provides that we
will have a deficit of $43 billion. The one major program—major, I say—where
we increased, was in defense. Let me take a minute to show you the trends that
have been developing here.
Seven or 8 years ago, out of a total pie of Federal spending, the Defense Depart-
ment got roughly 44 percent of every dollar spent by the Federal Govern-
ment. The Defense Department got 44 percent, roughly, out of every dollar in
taxes that you paid, and domestic programs got roughly 32 to 33 percent.
In the current fiscal year, because of this growth factor primarily in domestic
programs and the relative stability of spending for defense, in this fiscal year,
out of the total pie, Defense gets 24 percent and domestic programs get over 50.
It is just an almost total reversal.
Now, in the budget that I submitted for the next year, we turned the corner.
I cut back on domestic programs, and I increased the spending for the Defense
Department by 11 percent because we cannot keep squeezing Defense down.
Because if that rate of increase in domestic spending and the rate of decrease
in defense spending were to go on, in, I think, 25 years you would not have one
soldier with one gun.
The defense budget that I recommended this year, the biggest in the history
of the United States in dollars, reverses the trend and takes us up to roughly 25
percent in defense spending and the corresponding reduction in domestic spend-
ing. I think it is the right decision. It increases readiness today, it increases our
capability in the 2 or 3 years ahead, and I add this: If the Congress were to take
the budget that I submitted for next fiscal year and the 2-years' projections, we
would have a balanced budget in 3 years and we could afford to have a reason-
ably sizable additional tax reduction.
Q. You just answered my question, Mr. President, in that I was going to ask
you, if you were elected would the budget be balanced during your next
administration?
THE PRESIDENT. I guarantee that.
Q. You just said 3 years.
THE PRESIDENT. I guarantee that.
DEFENSE BUDGET
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I presently have the privilege of commanding a Naval
Reserve unit here in Milwaukee. You touched on my question in answering the
915
