April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We all believe in safety, health, and the environment, but the farmer is also
entitled to safety from those who would create an environment in which his farm
cannot function. Under this administration, we have worked toward a minimum
of Federal regulation. We are making some headway, but we have got a long
way to go. And with your help, in the next 4 years, we will make the kind of
progress that is need and necessary to make a better America.
Had it not been for your productivity, it would not have been possible to
increase agricultural exports to $22 billion in 1975. Wisconsin depends mostly
on imported petroleum. Without the increase in farm exports, we would have
been hard put to pay the increased price for foreign oil. Imported petroleum cost
America—this is the 1-year cost-last year $27 billion, and the figure, unfortu-
nately, will be even higher in 1976.
I appreciate very deeply what the American farmer is doing for America.
Whether you are a dairy farmer, raise hogs, or grow soybeans, you bolster our
economy. Farm families also enhance our ethical, religious, and moral values,
our patriotism and our national character.
To be strong externally, we must reassert traditional values that strengthen
us here at home, and we must reject big government concepts in favor of a true
partnership in which private landowning men and women can achieve pros-
perity without undue Federal interference. Farming is far too important to be
left to the politicians in or out of Washington.
To the dairy farmers of America, I say you must have every opportunity to
make a fair profit out of your milk. You must have adequate incentives for
full food production. We must keep the dead hands of Federal regulation off
your farms, so that you can use the live hands of the farmers and produce and
produce and produce.
As one travels around the world, you see some nations with other economic
and political philosophies. They have virtually the same tractors and the same
bailers that you use, but those nations do not have the greatest piece of farm
machinery ever built-the free enterprise system of the United States of
America.
We have turned things around in rural America, but we must keep moving
in the right direction. We have much more to do. I am ready, willing, and able
to work with you to get that job done. I am fighting to cut Government spend-
ing, to curb inflation, to assure a growing economy for the future. But this
struggle can only succeed if you, our farmers, also succeed. I am on your side.
Let's work together.
935
