[253]
March 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
portant thing, I think, for all of us is that we have to make certain that the Re-
publican Party and the philosophy that it represents prevails November 2.
The Republican Party, as we all know from surveys and polls, is a minority
party. We are outnumbered by the Independents; we are outnumbered by the
Democrats. So the Republican candidates must find a way to get people, certainly
from the Independent side, and to also woo some of the Democrats, who philo-
sophically more nearly agree with us than they do with whoever the Demo-
cratic nominee might be.
So, as we move down in trying to get the nomination, we have to be most
careful that we don't alienate Republicans. We have to be certain and positive
that in the process of the Presidential nomination, we keep the party together
and that personal ties must be secondary to the philosophy and to the cause for
which we are all working so very, very hard.
I was looking over a list this morning of people from Texas who are in the
administration. It is a very, very imposing list. Of course, you can start with Bill
Clements, who is number two over at the Department of Defense. And we are
all very, very pleased with Anne Armstrong, who is the first woman who has
ever served our country as the Ambassador to the Court of St. James. And then
we have got Jim Baker, who is number two over at the Department of Com-
merce. We have Jim Hargrove down in Australia. We have Al Fay. We have
Bob Mosbacher, who is doing a great job.ยน You probably heard from Bob over
at the President Ford Committee, but he has done a superb job over there. We
are delighted to have so many Texans. They do a good job, and they significantly
contribute to the success of the administration.
Speaking of that, as I take a look at the situation that has developed in the
last 19 months-just about the time that I took over this very, very great
honor-we have gone through some tough times. We have had a tough eco-
nomic situation with inflation on the rampage, something like 12 to 14 percent.
It is now down very significantly, and the news we got last Friday showed
that the increase in the cost of living for the month of February was the lowest
in 4 years. That is awfully good economic news.
We are going to continue the pressure that has been exerted in this area,
because inflation hurts everybody. It hurts those who have a job; it hurts equally,
if not more so, those who are unemployed. So, if we can continue the progress
we are making on inflation, it would be a very significant achievement.
1
ยน James W. Hargrove, U.S. Ambassador to Australia; Albert B. Fay, U.S. Ambassador to Trinidad; and
Robert Mosbacher, President Ford Committee national finance chairman.
796
