April 2
[282]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ment and make structural recommendations and consolidations and
eliminations.
Q. You are not interested in zero-base budgeting as an idea?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very interested in reducing the expenditures of the
Federal Government, and if the Congress would go along with my budget for
fiscal year 1977, we would cut roughly $28 billion out of the projected Federal
budget for that fiscal year. And so I am very definitely interested in reducing
the growth of Federal spending. And if the Congress goes along with the budget
that I submitted for fiscal '77 and does what I have projected in the next 2
fiscal years, we can have a balanced budget and we can have an additional tax
reduction.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, at this point in the campaign, who are you con-
sidering as your running mate should you win the nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a great number of very qualified Republican poten-
tials for Vice President. I have named them from time to time. We have some
Governors, some former Governors; we have some Members of the Congress-
House and Senate; we have some others outside of government. So, we have
a vast potential of excellent candidates, but it is premature now to identify any
one or even several.
Q. You haven't narrowed down the list?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not concentrated on that in recent weeks, but I re-
assure you, we have plenty of excellent potentialities.
REPUBLICAN PARTY UNITY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, it has been said that, perhaps, at least after Kansas
City and maybe before, you would like Ronald Reagan's support. Does that
cramp your style now in answering him? Is that why you're saying that you
don't care to get into a discussion with him on the issues?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is important for the Republican Party and its can-
didates to maintain as much unanimity and unison as possible, and I have
tried to keep down any personal attacks. I have sought to discuss my programs
affirmatively, both foreign policy as well as domestic policy. I think that is the
way to keep this unity within the Republican Party. And furthermore, never in
my history of some 13 campaigns, have I ever personally attacked any opponent.
I don't think that is productive.
889
