March 16
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. It is beautiful. Thank you very, very much, Mrs. Murchison.
I can assure you that Betty will be delighted with this, and I thank you on her
behalf, as well as myself.
I can tell you something I have done already that is wrong. I can see those
fingerprint marks—[laughter]—that she will reprimand me about. But I will
turn it over to her, and she will keep it the way it should be kept.
Both of us are most grateful and very appreciative of your thoughtfulness.
You will express to the people from Fayetteville our appreciation as well.
It is nice to see you all. This is a great occasion, it is one I particularly like.
So, I congratulate you again and wish you the very, very best. They are lucky
to have you as a teacher down there.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:12 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Gov. James Hols-
houser of North Carolina, David Mathews, Secre-
tary, Dr. T. H. Bell, Commissioner of Education,
and Virginia Y. Trotter, Assistant Secretary for Edu-
cation, Department of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare.
220
Message to the Congress Transmitting Quarterly Report of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability. March 16, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5 of the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the Congress the fifth quarterly report of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability. This report contains a description of the
Council activities during the last quarter of 1975 in monitoring both prices
and wages in the private sector and various Federal Government activities that
lead to higher costs and prices without creating commensurate benefits. It dis-
cusses in some detail the Council's studies in steel, automobiles, and industrial
chemicals, as well as its filings before various Federal regulatory agencies.
During 1976, the Council on Wage and Price Stability will continue to play
an important role in supplementing fiscal and monetary policies by calling pub-
lic attention to wage and price developments or actions by the Government that
could be of concern to American consumers.
The White House,
March 16, 1976.
NOTE: The report, covering the period September 1,
1975-December 31, 1975, is entitled "Quarterly Re-
GERALD R. FORD
port, January 1976-Council on Wage and Price
Stability" (Government Printing Office, 37 pp.).
721
