March 6
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
marketplace, play a very important role in making us energy independent.
Under the national energy policy that I have recommended, this means a vital
and essential, important role for the great State of Illinois, which has bigger bi-
tuminous coal reserves than any other State in the Union. You're so lucky,
you're so fortunate, and so are we.
Coal is our Nation's most abundant energy resource. But production now—it's
hard to believe, but it's true—is about the same as it was a half century ago,
roughly 600 million tons a year.
I have urged a comprehensive coal policy to assure that our coal production
will top 1 billion tons in 1985. My policy includes measures aimed at improving
coal production, transportation, and its use. In the 1977 budget that I sub-
mitted to the Congress in January, I included a 28-percent increase in the fund-
ing for coal research and development, so we can make the best possible use of
our vast energy resource. And you have thousands and thousands and thousands
of tons of that, right here in this area.
We also have to make sure that we can get our energy to where it is needed.
This demands a strong and efficient railroad system to make sure energy is avail-
able to fuel America's industry. The Rail Revitalization Act of 1976, which
Congress passed and I signed into law about a month ago, will help ensure the
strong transportation industry that we need to achieve our goal of energy
independence.
The act authorizes over $6 billion in appropriations and loan guarantees.
Over $2 billion of that money will go to support a new rail system, Conrail,
and enable it to upgrade its tracks and the quality of its service. This includes
lines stretching across Illinois eastward from St. Louis, and also south into
this region, right through Williamson County, improving transportation of
coal. That's just one way the Federal Government can play a positive, construc-
tive part in an area like this rich and productive future.
I intend to continue making government more responsive to your needs and
the needs of all Americans, not by tilting the Federal Government on its ear,
but by giving it a new balance—a balanced fiscal policy, a new balance of power
between the Federal, State, and local authorities, a new balance between those
who pay taxes and those who benefit from them. The word balance may not
sound very dramatic, but I don't believe government should be theatrical,
just effective.
And now, I'll be glad to answer your questions.
585
