April 7
[308]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. It appears right now that the Nation seems to be taking a less liberal and
more moderate stance. Has this meant that the Democrats are tending now to
be moving more or less toward a traditional Republican stance?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my impression that they have, as Democrats, caught the
public sentiment which, in my opinion, is a more moderate stance, particu-
larly when it comes to the Federal spending. The only problem some of my
Democratic friends might have is that we have been talking about it. We are
used to the words, we are used to the programs of trying to have fiscal responsi-
bility, and they seem a little awkward in using those programs or those words.
But maybe their learning curve will improve. [Laughter] Maybe they will do
what we have been trying to do and, if they do, the country will be better off.
Q. It would be helpful if they would vote the way they talk.
THE PRESIDENT. A friend of mine over here—and I won't identify him—
says it might be helpful if they would vote the way they are talking.
One thing, now that you mention the budget-and I know all of you are
vitally interested-when I sat down for about 100 hours in November and
December working with the people from the Office of Management and Budget
trying to put the budget for the next fiscal year together, we first came to the
conclusion that if we didn't add a new program, not a single new program in
the Federal Government, and just had the escalation in cost predicated on the
cost-of-living increases that come in many, many programs and, at the same
time, more people become eligible for benefits under many existing programs,
the added expenditures for the next 12 months would be $53 billion—if you
don't change a program. That is an 11-percent increase in Federal spending with-
out Congress doing what it has been doing lately of adding one program after
another. And this 11-percent increase in Federal spending has been more or
less the case for the last 10 or 12 years. And if you extend that over the next 25
years, believe me, it scares you.
So, I made a very firm decision to cut that rate of growth in Federal spending
from 11 percent to 5½ percent. Now, that took some belt-tightening. Some
of these programs had to be squeezed, but we came up with a budget expendi-
ture figure for the next 12 months of $394.4 billion. In effect, we cut off about
$28 billion in anticipated spending under the curve of the rate of growth that
had existed.
Now, at the same time, we had to make a tough decision to add more money
for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines because Congress, in the last 6
years, has cut $32 billion in defense expenditures. Last year after I submitted
the largest military budget in the history of the United States, Congress cut
993
