March 6
[190]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I might add, I had a wonderful experience out there listening to that delight-
ful chorus. They sang just the kind of songs I like, and I suspect all of you do, too.
But I also understand that the band from Rantoul High School postponed, at
least, if not didn't go to the State Band Championship to play while I'm here.
And if they delayed their departure, I'm thankful. And I am most appreciative,
obviously, if they forewent the opportunity to go down to the championship.
That kind of dedication I am most grateful for.
Now, let's talk about farm policy and let's say a word or two about defense.
Let's take farm policy first. I, of course, have long believed in the kind of farm
policy that Earl Butz has been promoting—full production, exports of the
greatest amount that the United States has ever done. We were checking some
figures last night. Between our commitments to sell to Japan, to Eastern Europe,
to Western Europe, to the Soviet Union, we are expanding America's greatest
resource in a very responsible way. And farmers will be prosperous and America
will be prosperous because of the importance of agriculture to all of us.
But let me assure you that we are going to support the exports to the maximum,
and I can assure you of one thing: Farm exports will never be used as a pawn
in international politics.
But let's take a minute to talk about national security. The United States
today is second to none in military capability, and that's because we have the best
weapons, we have the best personnel, we have the best aircraft, we have the best
trained people. The United States is strong. It can handle the problem of deter-
ring aggression, it can handle the problem of protecting our national security,
and through strength we can maintain the peace.
But I have to warn you that if the trend that has gone on for the last 10 years,
where we are spending relatively less a percentage of our overall Federal ex-
penditures for national security and a correspondingly greater percentage of our
total expenditures by the Federal Government for domestic programs-we will
be in jeopardy.
Ten years ago, out of the total Federal expenditures, we spent roughly 42
percent for national security, and we spent about 31 or 32 percent for various
domestic programs. Last year, we spent about 24 percent for national security and
about 51 percent for all our domestic programs. Now, we can't tolerate that
situation.
Domestic programs have been going up at the rate of about 11 percent a year,
and the military spending has been under pressure to hold the level or to go
down. And the budget that I submitted a year ago, at that time was the largest
577
