March 9
[197]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
policy are actually a single national policy which can be summed up in three
words-peace through strength.
Let's take a moment to look at what those three words mean. We are all in
favor of peace, and for a veteran the word "peace" has a very special meaning.
Those of us who have seen war cherish the comradeship that we enjoyed as in-
dividuals brought together under uniquely demanding circumstances, and each
of us in our own way could recite instances where those comradeships have
meant much to us over the years. But we remember the friends we lost as well as
the friends we made. We will never forget the terrible cost of war in terms of
human suffering, in blood and pain, and lives cut tragically short.
Another world war, as we are all aware, would mean death and destruction on
a scale so vast that human minds could hardly comprehend it. And so peace
today is more imperative than ever. Whatever our field of endeavor—in private
life, in business, in government—we know that in a nuclear age there can be no
lasting accomplishments without a lasting peace.
The United States, we are proud to say, is a peaceful nation and we are a
strong nation. History has taught us that we can remain at peace only if we
remain strong. We can remain free only if we remain firm. And most impor-
tantly, we can remain proud Americans only if we stand ready to defend
America.
One measure of our strength as a nation is our deep rooted belief in freedom.
For 200 years our faith in government by the people, for the people has endured.
We have had the strength to resist the strains that might have broken the will
of others. Our strength has meant that we as a people are not easily intimidated.
We can recognize and respond to real danger without crying wolf at a false one.
Our national strength is surpassed by no other nation. Our fighting forces are
second to none. We are a strong nation in physical equipment and will, and to
suggest otherwise, in my opinion, is irresponsible and reckless. But we must con-
tinue to make sure that we will stay a strong nation.
The defense budget I submitted as President last year, the first one I had the
privilege of submitting to the Congress, was more than $100 billion. I think the
Congress went too deeply in cutting it, but that is history. This year I have
gone to the Congress with a record peacetime defense budget of more than $112
billion. It sounds like a lot of money, and it is, but that money is well spent.
It is well spent if we deter aggression, maintain the peace, and make certain
and positive that our national security is secure. It is the best investment that we
can make. And I urge all of my former colleagues and the new ones in the
603
