[240]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions at that time had moved in and stopped Mussolini from moving into
Ethiopia, a lot of the potential problems of World War II never would have
materialized.
Now, the circumstances are not identical, but there is enough similarity that
we ought to learn from history. And I felt at the time that we should have acted,
and I believe there is a growing sentiment that we should have done it.
But a President has to make some decisions that are not always popular, as
long as he thinks they are right. And I can assure you that I will do what is right
and, hopefully, have the backing of the American people.
SCHOOL BUSING
[10.] Q. Mr. President, my question is, how do you stand on school busing?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had the same position for the last 10 years, so it is not
something that has been developed in relationship to this Presidential campaign.
I have never believed that court-ordered, forced busing was the best way to
achieve quality education.
I firmly believe that our goal should be quality education. I firmly believe that
we have to make certain that the constitutional rights of people are upheld. In
other words, we can't just have segregation in our public schools. But, there is a
better way to get quality education and to achieve desegregation than by court-
ordered, forced busing to achieve racial balance.
As Jim Broyhill knows, I have vigorously, from the beginning, said we've
got to find another answer. And I can assure you that the pressure that we have
exerted across the board is getting some better results today than we got 5 years
ago in some of the decisionmaking process.
Let me conclude by just thanking all of you. It has been a long night. I have
enjoyed the opportunity to see so many of you, to respond to your questions. I
ask you again, I would most gratefully appreciate your support next Tuesday.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. in the gymnasium.
241
Statement on Signing Two Conventions Concerning Political
Rights of Women. March 22, 1976
I AM pleased to have the opportunity of signing the Inter-American Convention
on the Granting of Political Rights to Women, signed in Bogota in 1948, and the
780
