April 2
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
age of the GNP it has ever been. Many of the people here that have been in the
countries prior to World War II skimped on their military, now find themselves
in enslaved nations. I wanted your comments on the military budget and the
defense spending.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me first tell you that in January of 1975, I submitted to the
Congress the largest peace-time military budget in the history of the United
States. Unfortunately, the Congress cut it by $7.5 billion. The cut was too big,
and if reductions of that magnitude were to go on, we would be in jeopardy.
On the other hand, in January of this year, to make certain that we keep the
momentum going for our military capability so that we are unsurpassed, I recom-
mended the largest military budget in the history of the United States, peace-
time or wartime. It is $112.4 billion, with a $1,800 million increase in strategic
funding, $4.8 billion in conventional force increased funding, a $1 billion increase
in research and development, and a number of other increases. It was an increase
of about 11 percent and, as you know, the budget for next year in many domestic
programs is being reduced.
So, in defense, for the budget of the fiscal year 1977, I recommended a military
budget that turns the trendline upward to maintain our unsurpassed military
capability.
Now, let me take our strategic forces. Before I do it, I want you to know that
I spent 14 years in the Congress of the United States, spending most of my time
in military appropriations hearings. We would go 7 months a year, 5 hours a day,
5 days a week listening to Secretaries of Defense, Secretaries of the Army, Navy,
Air Force, Chairmen, and Joint Chiefs of Staff. I think I know something affirm-
atively about military programs and the history of what we have had, what
we have now, and what we need.
All right, let's take our strategic forces right now. Our ballistic missiles are
more accurate than those of the Soviet Union. Our ballistic missiles in the covers
that they are in, the launch pads they are on, are more survivable than those of
the Soviet Union. But the most important fact is we have a ratio, as I recall, of
roughly 2 to 1 more warheads than the Soviet Union has.
Now, it is warheads that do the damage if they are called upon to be utilized.
So if we are ahead in warheads, I think we have the necessary capability. For
what reason? To deter aggression, to maintain the peace, and to protect our na-
tional security.
But this is not all of our strategic capability. We have a 3 to 1 ratio over the
Soviet Union in strategic bombers-3 to 1—and we are following on the B-52's,
which is our current strategic bomber capability, with the B-1, if we can get the
897
