March 6
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Illinois, what great resources you have in Illinois, but most important, what
great people you have in Illinois.
And I have had the privilege and the pleasure of being, in the last day and a
half, with some of your outstanding public officials-Senator Chuck Percy,
Congressman Paul Findley, Congressman Bob Michel, Congressman Ed
Madigan—well, they're great. And I brought along with me one of my favorite
people not only from Washington but elsewhere, a great guy who does a lot
for one of your most important industries. And I am talking about the Secretary
of Agriculture, Earl Butz.
But let me take a minute, if I might. I mentioned agriculture, industry, your
resources, and your people.
In industry, what are we trying to do? We are trying to come out—and we
are doing it very successfully-out of the recession that we had that bottomed
out last March. And every week for the last 5 weeks, we have more people em-
ployed; we have less unemployment. And we are doing it at the same time that
we are cutting inflation.
In other words, your factories in Illinois are beginning to hum, and they're
going to be producing more and more and more in the months ahead. And that's
because we have had the right policies, and the American people didn't quit; they
didn't panic. They were strong, and they believed in the free enterprise system.
But as I said, you also have in this great State the most production in all
areas of agriculture. Agriculture is vitally important for all America. It is
important for a wide variety of reasons. It is important for the farmers. Some
5 percent of the farmers in this country-5 percent of the population works on
the farm, and they produce more food and more fiber than we can eat and
wear. And thank goodness for their productivity. And their products are
vitally important as we sell overseas, as we send the message from America
that we are a great nation. And the farmers of this country contribute signifi-
cantly to that greatness.
But let's talk now about the resources. As I was flying in, I couldn't help but
notice—and I've done a little reading, too—that in this area of the country,
this great State, the Land of Lincoln, you have probably the greatest inventory
of bituminous coal in all of the United States. And what does that mean?
It means that as we move ahead, as we try to solve the energy problem, as we
try to free ourselves from the talons of the oil cartel in foreign lands, America
has to come to this area of the country and utilize those great natural resources
that you have right here, among them bituminous coal.
Let's talk for a minute about the people. I have had the great experience,
579
