[22]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
States match Federal funds will be eliminated. Such reforms are urgently
needed, but my proposals recognize that they will, in some cases, require a
period of transition.
These are only samples. My budget sets forth many other recommendations.
Some involve new initiatives. Others seek restraint. The American people
know that promises that the Federal Government will do more for them
every year have not been kept. I make no such promises. I offer no such illusion.
This budget does not shrink from hard choices where necessary. Notwith-
standing those hard choices, I believe this budget reflects a forward-looking
spirit that is in keeping with our heritage as we begin our Nation's third
century.
January 21, 1976.
NOTE: The President's message is printed in the re-
port entitled "The Budget of the United States Gov-
GERALD R. FORD
ernment, Fiscal Year 1977" (Government Printing
Office, 385 pp. plus appendix).
23
Remarks at a News Briefing on the Fiscal Year 1977
Budget. January 21, 1976
[Delivered January 20, 1976. Released January 21, 1976]
Good morning.
It seems to me I have seen some of you before in the last 24 hours.
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabinet, members of the press, and guests:
Let me welcome you to this briefing on the budget this morning. I am
going to break with tradition of the recent past and begin with a very few,
or very limited, remarks. Then I will respond to your individual questions about
the specifics in the new budget.
I might note that over a quarter of a century ago, when President Truman
used to conduct similar briefings he sent up a budget for $43 billion in expendi-
tures. His message to the Congress on that occasion was over 80 pages long,
and here is a copy of it.
This year the budget is $394.2 billion, but my budget message is only four
pages long. So at least we are beginning to achieve some economies in those
areas over which we have some direct control. [Laughter] Naturally, I hope
we have an equal amount of success with the Congress in this regard.
50
