[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now the question is whether in peacetime you should continue giving educa-
tional benefits to those who serve under an all-volunteer system?
Q. I think you should. How do you feel?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me raise a question. We want an all-volunteer service,
and we have got it. There is no more draft. I am all for it. But if you give edu-
cational benefits to an all-volunteer force, and you want them to stay in so we
have career personnel, and at the same time, you give them educational benefits
so that is an incentive for them to get out, it doesn't make much sense from the
point of view of the Government.
So, we are going to give every GI who entered the service his GI benefits, if
it was a matter of law at that time. But it raises a serious question, whether you
should give it to some fellow who volunteers on his own initiative and then
provide an incentive for him to get out at the end of 3 years so he can go to school.
Now, I think we can solve it, and this is the way it ought to be solved. If
a young man volunteers, he has a high school education, we ought to give
him educational opportunities in the service so that he can go to school, get
his college degree so the service will have him with a higher education, rather
than having him get out to get an education. That is the better way to solve
it.
THE PRESIDENT'S VOTING RECORD
[23.] Q. Mr. President, sir, my name is Bonzo, and I am an escapee from
an old Ronald Reagan flick. I have been challenging him all over the country
as the candidate of big business, as the fat cat's candidate. The way you talk
about freedom for the giant corporations, I will be forced to challenge you
as well, sir. Why should you not be called the big business candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. Why should I not be?
Q. Why should you not be called that, sir?
The President. Well, I think if you look at my voting record for 25-plus
years in the House of Representatives, where I voted over 4,000 times, if you
will look at the voting record, you will find that it could not be categorized
as a candidate of big labor, big business.
It was a voting record that called them as I saw them for the overall benefit
of the United States, and as President I have carried out precisely the same
policy.
POST-ELECTION PLANS
[24.] Q. President Ford, my name is Paul Walton, and I am on the Cali-
fornia Exchange Program from San Diego. I would like to know that if you
232
