[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
that it is more effective and more efficient, and in the meantime, we are
trying to stop Congress from flooding us with new departments, new agencies,
and I think we are making some headway.
One other point. When I was in the Congress, when I was Vice President,
and now as President, I keep hearing that individuals and businesses are over-
whelmed with forms, government information requests, so I asked the Office
of Management and Budget how many Federal Government forms are there
that are sent out to individuals or to groups or businesses. It was 5,200. I issued
an order—and it darn well better be lived up to—that they had to cut that 10
percent in the next 12 months, and they have a couple of months to go.
ANGOLAN SITUATION
[12.] Q. Congress finally ended a slaughter in Vietnam, and now you want
to get us involved in a similar situation in Angola?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is categorically no. The firm commitment made
to the Congress was that not one single U.S. citizen, military or otherwise, would
be sent to Angola, but we did say that we would give to the two groups in An-
gola who wanted to establish an Angolan Government—not a Cuban or a
Soviet Government-the money to help establish that Angolan Government.
There was a firm commitment that we would not become involved.
Q. Yes, Mr. Ford, but weapons kill people.
THE PRESIDENT. What do you think the Cuban 12,000 mercenaries did to other
Angolans?
Q. They made the same mistake we made in Vietnam.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we would be delighted if Cuba would withdraw those
12,000 mercenaries and let the Angolans establish and run their own govern-
ment. That would be the proper solution, and that is what we wanted.
Q. I just want to say one more thing.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. If we had sent arms to Angola, the truth is that war would still be going
on, just as it did in Vietnam. For 10 years that war went on; people were need-
lessly killed.
THE PRESIDENT. I respectfully disagree with you. But I know that Angola is
not well off with 12,000 Cuban mercenaries and the kind of influence that the
Soviet Union now exercises in that vital part of South Africa, it is just not
healthy.
844
