[39]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
know that the Young Republicans throughout the country are alive and kicking,
are going to help us win in 1976.
As I was walking over from the Oval Office I was thinking about my first
experience in politics. It was in the Young Republicans. The YR's were signifi-
cant then, the YR's are important today, and the YR's are going to make great
contributions in the future. And I thank you all for your efforts now as well as
in the future.
I was also thinking about the contributions that younger people are making
to this administration. I believe we have more younger people in positions of
responsibility in this administration than in any recent administration that I am
familiar with. The chief of staff of the White House West Wing is Dick
Cheney-34 years old. We have other people not only in the White House but in
many other agencies who are able, active, vigorous young people who are laying
the foundation not only for success of the administration but for the benefit of
the country. And so, we welcome not only your efforts in the YR's but your
contributions to good-to better government.
Let me speak, if I might, for just a minute about what we are trying to do and
how we are seeking to make it a stronger, more meaningful country as far as
you are concerned and literally thousands and millions of others.
In the State of the Union Message, in the budget that I submitted, and in the
economic plan or program that was submitted to the Congress just a few days
ago, we have tried to do in broad terms the following: number one, a proper
balance between the Government on the one hand and the private sector on
another; a better balance between the taxpayer on the one hand and those that
receive Federal benefits on the other; a proper balance between the Federal
Government and State and local units of government; and a proper balance
between domestic programs which are essential and our national security.
And let me give you an illustration or two in each instance of what we are
seeking to accomplish.
Let's take the role of the national defense-the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines—and the contribution that they make, and the role of our domestic
programs on the other hand.
In the budget that I submitted for fiscal year 1977, for the first time in the
last 10 years we gave a slightly larger percentage of total Federal expenditures
for our national security so that the defense of this country will be second to
none.
During the last 10 years the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines have been
getting a lesser and lesser, a smaller and smaller share of total Federal expendi-
106
