March 31
[278]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the affairs of government. It is obvious to you that you are not to blame in any
way whatsoever for the results of a recent survey which showed that only 9 per-
cent of the American people have a great deal of confidence in the Congress
as an institution. And I think that is a very, very bad situation in our country
today.
However, it is just as obvious where the blame does lie-with the 2 to 1 Demo-
cratic majority in the House as well as in the Senate. The record of that majority
is a record of failure, it is a record of timidity—it is a record of failure. And I
hope and trust that the American people will repudiate that record and rectify
the lopsided ratio on November 2, 1976.
The American people should be very, very grateful for the solid and responsi-
ble Republican votes in the United States Congress in 1975 and 1976. And let
me say from a very personal basis-without hesitation, qualification, or reserva-
tion-I am deeply grateful for the help and assistance that they have given me.
But I say it is high time the Republicans have a majority in the Congress once
again. And you have my solemn pledge, every one of you who are seeking reelec-
tion, that I will do my very, very best in any way I can to make sure that we get
that majority in 1977.
The Democratic Party has controlled the Congress 38 out of 42 years. Either
Ted or Guy said 40 out of 44, but in either case it is much too much. On issue
after issue after issue Democratic Congresses have failed to meet the needs of the
American people. They have frustrated, in my own case, my attempts and your
attempts to meet those needs.
Control, as we all know, carries with it responsibility, and two-thirds control
makes that responsibility inescapable. They can't avoid the fact with those kinds
of majorities that they have the responsibility to do what is in the best interests
of the American people across the spectrum, either domestic or international.
The legacy of 21 years of continuous Democratic control in the Congress is
found in the layer upon layer of Federal bureaucracy, it is found in the multi-
plicity of Government regulations, redtape, and those 5,200 forms that have to
be filled out by our fellow citizens. It is found in the heavy burden of taxes im-
posed on the American people, all segments of our economic society. It is found
in higher and higher and higher levels of Federal spending for more than 1,000
Government programs.
The American people should know that it is useless to look to the controlling
elements of the Democratic Party for relief from big government. The Demo-
cratic Party is the cause of big government—the Republican Party is the cure.
873
