January 23
[28]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
28
Remarks to Members of the U.S. Industrial Payroll
Savings Committee. January 23, 1976
Thank you very much, Bill, Gabe, George, members of the savings bond
committee:
As I was walking over, I was reminiscing a bit about a number of occasions
that I have had to meet with the new chairman of the savings bond committee
and his committee.
Back in January of 1974, as Vice President, I was privileged to attend a
meeting that John deButts was then the new chairman—and had an opportunity
to say a few words to the members of that committee.
That campaign was a very successful one. It was a tribute to John and to the
committee members that were associated with him. Then, last year, I had an
equally enjoyable time when Gabe Hauge took over the responsibility with his
committee.
As I was walking over, I noticed the fine accomplishments of the committee
under Gabe's leadership, as Bill said, some 2,700,000 either new payroll savers
or people who have added to their payroll savings on a weekly or monthly basis.
But what impressed me the most was the fact that you met not only 100 per-
cent of your quota, Gabe, but 109 percent. That is a darn good batting average
by any standards. And now I have the privilege of saying a few words with
your new chairman, George Stinson.
We were talking, just before we came in, that the $7 billion that you all raised
or got Americans to save is a part of our deficit for the current fiscal year of
some $70-plus billion. That is a fair share, and I think the Americans who
participated made a good investment for themselves and made an equally good
investment for their country.
I was impressed with Gabe's slogan, "Good For Americans and Good For
America," but I am glad to report to you that the target that George and all of
you have will be a much larger percentage of the anticipated deficit for fiscal
year 1977. [Laughter]
It shows that with good fiscal management and good direction in the handling
of our budget, we will have a smaller deficit, and therefore, your participation
and success will be a much larger share of what we have to finance or what Bill
has to try and finance.
I know what a big effort it is for all of you to take the time to rally those who
are going to be called on by you to get individuals in your plants or their plants
81
