[149]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
enthusiastic. They look just forward to the opportunity to be a participant in
this great experience that we have had for 200 years. How fortunate we are to
have them and how much they are going to contribute to a better America.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:33 a.m. in Salon A
at the Marriott Motor Hotel. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Joseph F. Fogarty, Jr., chairman of
the board of American Marine Underwriters, and
Thomas A. Welstad, owner of Americable, a cable
television service in Homestead, Fla.
150
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at West Palm Beach,
Florida. February 28, 1976
WE WERE in Florida about 2 weeks ago. I want to thank Lou Frey, Skip
Bafalis, Herb Burke, Bill Young, and all of the other people who have done
superior jobs.
I am very optimistic. We have the momentum going. In New Hampshire, we
came from behind and won, and I think we are going to do the same thing
here in Florida.
I am confident we will do extremely well in Illinois. The momentum is going
because of a lot of fine people who have cooperated, volunteered—telephone
callers, walkers—it is just a great organization and a fine effort. It is real nice
to be here and to see you. This is not a typical day in Florida.
REPORTER. Mr. President, if you win here in Florida, do you think Ronald
Reagan is finished in the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is up to him to decide.
Q. Do you think there is a place for him possibly on your ticket?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a wealth of excellent Republican talent for Vice
President. I have said it is conceivable that he, of course, could be on the ticket,
but we have a wide variety of Federal officials, State officials—the Republican
Party has a great group of younger people coming along. So, we don't have to
worry about one, we have many.
Q. Mr. President, you said he is too far to the right to be elected President.
Do you think he is too far to the right to be elected Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to read my words very carefully. I said I
was in the middle, and anybody to the left couldn't make it. And I put it again
on that basis. I am in the middle, and all or most of the others are on the right
or the left.
468
