[270]
March 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
270
Letter to Senator Edward W. Brooke Expressing Reservations
About the Foreign Assistance Appropriations Bill.
March 29, 1976
Dear Ed:
I wish to inform you of my serious reservations regarding several pro-
visions of H.R. 12203, the foreign assistance appropriations bill, which you will
soon consider in conference committee.
The security assistance levels I requested for FY 76 and the Transition Quarter
were subject to the most rigorous study and analysis before their submission, and
in my judgment represent a balanced and adequate program, sufficient for the
minimum needs of our friends abroad but within the budgetary limits required
in a period of austerity at home. Accordingly, I must oppose both the significant
reductions and additions which have been made to my original budget proposals.
I strongly oppose Senate action adding nearly $800 million in program terms
to my budget requests for Foreign Military Sales Credits and Security Support-
ing Assistance for the Transition Quarter. In formulating my proposals for FY
1976, I took into account the added requirements of the Transition Quarter.
Although I would like to be able to do more for our allies and friends, I am
firmly convinced that the total level of funds already requested in FY 1976, as
distributed in my original request, are adequate to meet the minimum needs
of the recipients, without placing unacceptable strains on our budget. In view
of pressing and unmet needs in other areas of the budget, such an increase in
funding for FMS and Supporting Assistance in the Transition Quarter is not
warranted. Moreover, its proposed narrow distribution—particularly when taken
together with the cuts in MAP-will be seriously disruptive of our relations with
many countries. I will regard as unacceptable foreign assistance appropriations
which include such substantial and inequitably distributed additional funding.
I am further deeply disturbed with the "express approval” requirement con-
tained in Title I of the Senate bill. This provision represents an unwarranted
and unconstitutional intrusion on the powers of the Executive Branch by at-
tempting to substitute the judgment of congressional committees for that of the
Executive Branch agencies duly constituted to administer our foreign assistance
programs. It raises the spectre of lengthy delays while individual projects or
project amendments are reviewed in detail by congressional staffs, thus hamper-
ing the ability of the United States to respond rapidly to unpredictable changes
854
