[238]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I have no idea. We make our schedule. We enjoy coming
here. We love the people here.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:18 p.m. at Asheville Mall.
238
Remarks in Asheville, North Carolina. March 20, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Governor Jim Holshouser, Wayne and Orville,
and all of you wonderful people from Buncombe County in the mountain area.
Gee, it is great to be here, and thank you for coming out.
You know the Ford family isn't a stranger to North Carolina. Let me give you
a quick recitation. I went to law school at the University of North Carolina one
summer, and for 9 months I was with the Navy preflight school down at Chapel
Hill. Then my son, Mike, and his wonderful wife, Gail, graduated from Wake
Forest.
But, in addition, during 27 years that I have been in public office in Washing-
ton, I visited, time after time after time, the great State of North Carolina, trying
to help Republican congressional candidates or senatorial candidates or guber-
natorial candidates, trying to help to get good government. And let me say one
of the finest efforts that has ever been made-and I can't take credit for it, but I
am sure proud of him—and that is Jim Holshouser, your great Governor.
Let me take just a minute and talk to you right from the shoulder, straight
talk. This country needs some language that all of us can understand. What
we need is somebody in public office who won't promise more than he can
produce and produce everything that he promises.
Now, let me take a minute or two to review what we said we would do and
what we have done. Let's take in the first instance the economy. Nineteen
months ago when I became your President, we were going through inflation at
12 to 14 percent per year. We were on the brink of the worst recession in the
last 40 years in this country. We were about to see unemployment soar and em-
ployment drop off precipitously. But instead of panicking, all of the American
people knew that the right thing to do was to have a firm, steady, constructive
course.
The American people didn't buy these quick fixes, these phony proposals that
so many wanted to sell around the country, and the net result is that we are on
762
