April 6
[304]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for FMS are adequate to enable Israel to maintain its security. Our previous
estimates of this need have been carefully rechecked and reaffirmed.
At a time when our own country's budget pressures are very great, when our
nation faces many other urgent and pressing program needs and our own deficits
for FY '76 and the Transition Quarter are already too large, I cannot justify
more funds than have been included in my budget request.
Therefore, if I am presented with a final appropriation bill that includes
additional funds for the Transition Quarter, I will be forced to exercise my
veto-an alternative which could seriously disrupt our efforts to assist our
friends and allies in maintaining their security and development growth ef-
forts. I naturally hope that the House will not make necessary such a course
of action, but will instead reach the only responsible conclusion.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable, The Speaker, House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
304
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Lyndon Baines Johnson
Memorial Grove on the Potomac River. April 6, 1976
Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Mrs. Johnson, Lynda, Luci, Chuck,
Mr. Vice President, my friend and former colleague in the House of Repre-
sentatives, George Mahon, distinguished guests, and friends all of Lyndon
Johnson:
I really welcome this opportunity today to join in the ceremonies honoring
a good friend and a great American patriot.
It is entirely fitting that in this city of bronze and marble monuments, we
choose to remember Lyndon Johnson with a living memorial of pines here
along the banks of the Potomac. Lyndon Johnson and his dear wife, Lady
Bird, were ardent conservationists in the spirit of Teddy Roosevelt, whose own
memorial stands among a grove of trees very nearby.
Washington, D.C., has not always been kind to the needs of the environ-
ment. During his Presidency, Lyndon B. Johnson worked hard to respond to
those needs in a more sensitive way. His goal, he once said, was to leave to
future generations a glimpse of the world as God really made it, not as it
looked when we got through with it. This grove of pines helps to fulfill Lyndon
Johnson's dreams for America.
979
