February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, I strongly believe in a nuclear power program. We have to.
Now, in the meantime, to get over some of these questions that are being
raised, I put into the budget—again, this budget—a significant increase in fund-
ing to check reliability of these powerplants, and there has been some evidence
where there have been breakdowns.
Two, safety. With the money that we have recommended here, I think we
can improve not only reliability but safety. If that is done, I am convinced that
we should move much, much faster in our nuclear power program.
We have a new nuclear regulatory agency that was split off from the Atomic
Energy Commission, and that agency is supposed to be working on an acceler-
ated basis to handle the applications and the challenges that come on individual
plants.
I do not think that I should speak specifically about any particular matter that
is in litigation before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission because I am advised,
if I should, that it might be, under the court action, another reason for delaying
this Seabrook project down here in your State.
I am strongly for nuclear energy. I think it has to be accelerated. And with
the research and development, with the pressure on the NRC, and with the
better financing situation, I think we are going to see more movement in nuclear
power throughout the country.
Now, overall, again in January of last year I proposed a comprehensive energy
program that would get us energy independence or sufficiency by 1985. It in-
cluded a number of things: One, something to stimulate domestic production.
Domestic production of oil and gas in the United States has been going down
dramatically since 1972. We are now producing considerably less gas and oil
today than we did 3 or 4 years ago. We have to give an incentive for people to
go out and drill for gas and drill for oil.
In the meantime, we have to have conservation programs. We have to have
programs that permit an easier transfer from oil to coal. We have to provide an
incentive for insulation of homes. We have to put pressure on the automotive
industry to increase the efficiency of their automobiles. And I am glad to report—
it is public knowledge—that in the last 2 years, under this pressure, the auto-
motive industry in the United States has increased their efficiency about 27
percent, and they are selling more cars because of it. They are going to have a
good year this year as our economy burgeons.
Now, all of these things put together are aimed at getting us away from de-
pendence on foreign oil. The Congress thus far has passed 4 of the 13 programs
185
