April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Dick Dunham, may we hear from you and the Federal Power Commission?
MR. DUNHAM [Richard L. Dunham, Chairman, Federal Power Commission].
The problem we found ourselves faced with in the last 3 years is that the num-
ber of filings with the Federal Power Commission have increased from 7,200
to 15,315. Now, during that same period of time, the major decisions reached,
the resolutions increased by a great percentage, from 72 to 317, but, nevertheless,
we are very much at the present time on a treadmill running faster but going
backwards all the time.
So, some of the procedural steps we have undertaken is first to establish a case
control system for the commission itself. It has been alleged by many people
that we regulate that some of their applications and filings have gotten lost in
the commission. We found that we could not disprove that complaint. So, essen-
tially we adopted a case control in order to get the track of filings.
We have adopted what we call a top sheet procedure. Under the former prac-
tices every item of an application was subject to the entire evidentiary process,
and both staff and all intervenors had to introduce testimony on all items of a
pending application even though there was no dispute on the facts or anything
else. So, we have adopted this procedure where, if there is no dispute or differ-
ence of opinion in terms of the facts or the issues or the policies that are involved
in a particular application, they will be automatically settled up, which will
allow, I hope, to raise to the surface the issues probably subject to litigation in
a more formal procedure. We are very hopeful that will help.
One thing this Commission cannot take credit for-but we are now seeing
fruition from—is the regulatory agency processing procedures. We expect in 30
days that the number of forms that we require in the regulated industry will be
reduced from 50 to 15. That is an even higher proportion in terms of the amounts
of information that the regulated industry should furnish to us. It is not com-
bining 50 forms into 15 forms.
THE PRESIDENT. I was going to ask that.
MR. DUNHAM. I anticipated that.
Some of the forms required a lot of historical, redundant information, and we
will up date that. It is a substantial improvement and, assuming we get it
through, I think it will have a very profound effect on the amount of informa-
tion required from the industry and thereby the means of exchanging infor-
mation with us.
THE PRESIDENT. Why do you have to go to GAO?
MR. DUNHAM. Because new forms have to be cleared by law.
THE PRESIDENT. I thought it was OMB.
1015
