[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
enced in 1975. And a substantial increase in the deficit for the current fiscal
year is in the additional amounts, some $12 billion in unemployment compen-
sation.
Now, we believe that the economy is moving in a much steadier way, with
no anticipated, unexpected events coming up. So, our projections should be
much more accurate.
Alan, do you want to add something to that?
ALAN GREENSPAN [Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers]. Yes, Mr.
President. It is certainly true that we overestimated the decline in economic
activity in 1975 in the last year's report. We had a 3-percent decline in real
GNP. It was actually only 2. The unemployment figures, however, were mis-
calculated because of very difficult problems with respect to the period in
which the estimate between the economy and unemployment was taken.
It is exceptionally difficult to make estimates, both of economic activity and
its reflection on the budgetary process. And I think if you go back and look at
the data last year, I think you will find that the forecasts were reasonably accu-
rate, specifically in the context of how active you can tend to be, and that the
translation to the budget was, I think, missed in part on the deficit side, as far as
economic assumptions were concerned, by our misestimating the relationship
between the levels of economic activity and the level of unemployment.
Even though, as you recall, at the time we had a very high rate of unemploy-
ment and at the meeting a year ago we sort of startled everybody by the type
of level of unemployment we were forecasting. We were still too low by sev-
eral tenths.
Q. Mr. President, I want to get back to jobs.
THE PRESIDENT. Somebody who has not asked a question.
Q. Mr. President, last night Ways and Means Chairman Al Ullman said
it seemed to him that what you were saying was that if Congress has any
spending over $394.2 billion, that you would veto it. Now, was that the case?
Would you veto anything over that level?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not hesitate to veto any legislation or appropria-
tions that would go beyond $394.2 billion.
Q. Is there no room for compromise?
The President. I carefully used the words, I would not hesitate to veto any-
thing over that spending limitation.
Q. Mr. President, do you think your budget is fair to Federal employees?
There have been charges you have been making Federal employees pay go
down, inflationary problems, by putting a 5-percent cap on Federal pay and
70
