[86]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Siberia. Just how do comments like this affect the conduct of American foreign
policy?
The President. First, let me say I am very proud of the accomplishments
of our American foreign policy. We are at peace. We are at peace because we
are strong. I have submitted strong, affirmative Defense Department budgets
to the Congress so we will stay strong. With that kind of military capability,
we have been able to implement a policy of peace with strength in foreign
policy.
Since I became President 18 months ago, we have strengthened our alliance
in Western Europe. It has never been better. Our relations with Japan, a very
important ally in the Pacific, are excellent. We have been able to reaffirm
our relations with our many other friends around the rest of the globe.
We have made tremendous success in diffusing the volatile situation in the
Middle East. We were able, because we were strong, to have the confidence
of both Israel on the one hand and Egypt on the other. That is a tremendous
stride forward under this administration in foreign policy, and we will make
other successful efforts in that area.
We have maintained a growing relationship with the People's Republic
of China. At the same time, we have been able to negotiate with strength
with the Soviet Union. We are negotiating right now to put a cap on the
nuclear arms race. If an agreement is reached, it will be an agreement beneficial
to us, equally beneficial to the Soviet Union. It will be an agreement that
will keep our powder dry and not put our finger on the nuclear trigger, and
it will relax tensions between the two super powers.
That is the kind of a foreign policy that is in the best interest of the United
States. I won't comment on any rhetoric concerning a policy that has been
successful. I am proud of it. I think most Americans are proud of it, and
they should know that it will continue-a policy of peace with strength under
the next 4 years of the Ford administration.
CAMPAIGN TACTICS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, do you feel like the comment, however, by Mr.
Reagan, in particular, violates the so-called 11th commandment that he has
pledged to abide-that he will not speak evil of you during the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, things get disappointing, and I think people forget
what they might have said at one time, and so it does not bother me. I just
268
