[95]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, first I would like to welcome you to Ft. Myers. I would like
to know if you have any ideas for programs in which to create jobs to alleviate
the unemployment situation.
THE PRESIDENT. I have, I think, the best program for permanent jobs, for jobs
that offer a future. I have a program that is not a quick fix—that is a phony
answer. I happen to believe because five out of the six jobs in this country are
in the private sector, that is where we ought to try and find more jobs for more
people.
Now, how do we do that? Number one, we have recommended and we are
still pushing for additional tax incentives. Let me cite one. We believe that with
a tax incentive, business will build a plant more quickly, so in an area of high
unemployment, my recommendation is to give a tax incentive to a company to
build a plant to buy equipment. If they will do it within a relatively short period
of time, it gives them a more rapid amortization. It is an incentive for them to
create jobs right now.
That is the whole philosophy that I think is the right one to get our economy
moving. Now there are some other things that we are doing in this temporary
hiatus. For example, I have recommended more expenditures for local water
and sewage treatment plants than this year and 90 percent more than last year.
This is constructive, beneficial local public works. We have more money put in
the budget for the next fiscal year for highway construction than at any time in
the history of the United States. We have more money in the budget for ongo-
ing, fully justified public works programs, not quick-fix proposals that really
don't do much. So between incentives for the private sector and responsible
public works programs at the local and State level, I think we are going to accel-
erate the increase in job opportunities and reduce the unemployment rate.
VETERANS HOSPITALS
Q. Mr. President, your honor, my name is Marvin D. Mulkey. I'm the district
commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars in the State of Florida. The
veterans of the State of Florida and the United States are quite concerned about
the deterioration of the veterans benefits and the closing of the veterans hospi-
tals over our country. Now, I understand this deterioration is happening in
Washington, D.C., and we are quite concerned about it. And we would like
some sort of explanation on it as to where we stand and what is going to happen.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, let me talk about the situation in Florida. I under-
stand you have four VA hospitals here. Today, I visited Bay Pines. I went
316
