[28]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
to join in this contribution for themselves as well as for their country in our
Bicentennial Year.
I think we can generate, because it is our Bicentennial Year, a greater enthu-
siasm and greater participation. It can be a patriotic effort, one over and above
what it does for their own retirement or what it does for the country in the
broad sense.
If we can stimulate in this Bicentennial Year, in our beginning of the third
century, the kind of enthusiasm that I feel can materialize, your efforts will be
more rewarding not only for yourselves but for the country as a whole.
I thank you very much for undertaking the burden and responsibility, and I
am positive under George's leadership that you will be successful.
I thank all of you very, very much for doing it in 1976.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:47 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. He was intro-
duced by William E. Simon, Secretary of the
Treasury.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Gabriel Hauge, 1975 committee chairman, and
George Stinson, 1976 chairman.
29
Exchange With Reporters Following Annual Physical
Examination at Bethesda Naval Hospital. January 24, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
REPORTER. How do you feel, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel fit as a fiddle. Getting healthier every day.
Q. Passed all your tests, as far as you know?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I did with flying colors. Comes from good living, you
know.
Q. You are smiling. I guess things are going pretty well then.
THE PRESIDENT. I feel fine, really—a little bright light with the things that
are in my eyes, for whatever it is. But other than that, I feel great.
Q. Whatever happened to your experiment with contact lenses? Did that fall
by the wayside?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wear glasses so infrequently I decided it wasn't worth
the effort.
Q. Did you get any advice from your doctors, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. To keep doing all I'm doing-recreation, exercise, watching
the calories.
Q. Does that exercise include swimming in this weather?
82
