[53]
February 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
sense. They don't raise false promises or false hopes. They are aimed at generat-
ing the kind of constructive action that our system of government and our
economic system will need in bringing real jobs, permanent jobs to the workers
of this country. They will be permanent, and they will have a future.
I believe that Elliot Richardson is the person who can move in and carry out
these policies with dedication, with intelligence, and with a background of
experience that he has had in the Federal Government.
It will be a great addition to the Cabinet. He will be a great deal of help to
me. And I know that he will have the full confidence of the American people,
based on his outstanding record and all of the other accomplishments and
achievements that will be evident to everyone.
And it is now a privilege and a pleasure for me to ask the Chief Justice to
swear Elliot in, I understand for the fourth time, as a member of a President's
Cabinet.
Mr. Chief Justice and Secretary of Commerce-designate Elliot Richardson.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. Warren E. Burger, Chief
Justice of the United States, administered the oath
of office.
Secretary Richardson's response to the President's
remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 120).
54
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Ambassador Daniel Patrick
Moynihan, United States Representative to the United
Nations. February 2, 1976
Dear Pat:
Your letter of January 31, expressing your desire to return to the teaching
profession, reached me today. I will, of course, accede to your wishes with the
deepest regret and reluctance.
In your letter you mentioned the years you have devoted to public service in
the last two decades. You did not mention the enormous positive impact that
those years have had.
In every task you have undertaken you have consistently elevated public dis-
course by puncturing pretense and by eloquently advocating the cause of
reason. Nowhere has this been more evident than in your service at the United
Nations, where you have asserted our position forcefully, cogently and honestly.
In doing so you have not only reminded Americans that we take that institution
142
