[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
and this budget represents my view of what the Government can do and should
do.
When I speak of millions or billions of dollars, I see more than a number of
zeros. I see those figures in terms of people and in terms of what this money,
which comes from the people, can actually do for the people. We must very
carefully control and husband Federal spending, but we must do this by
eliminating Federal programs that don't work and improving those Federal
programs that do work.
We just can't dump them wholesale in the laps of local government and
say, “Okay, fellows, you find the tax money to pay for them." With a realistic
and very responsible approach, we can provide a new balance between gov-
ernment and the individual citizen, a new balance between State and local
communities and the Federal Government, a new balance between those who
pay taxes and those who benefit from them.
My budget is a commitment to constructive action. I want to achieve a
better, brighter life for all Americans, the sort of life that brought so many
Americans to your State of Florida.
And now I will be glad to answer your questions.
Q. What we are concerned with is the timeframe of the revenue sharing.
We couldn't agree more with what you said about it, but I understand that
it is stalled in the intergovernmental relations subcommittee in the Congress.
What can we do to get going? When we heard Mr. Mills'¹ speech at the
National League of Cities last November, he was quite pessimistic about
passage of general revenue sharing. What are the odds for action?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you raised a very, in fact, a very fundamental ques-
tion. The present law expires December 31, 1976. Last July, I urged the Con-
gress, in a special message to the Congress,² to act on the legislation last year.
We have been working with the House and Senate committees, trying to get
them to hold the hearings and to report the bill and to get action on the
floor of the House, as well as the Senate.
There has been, I think, unfortunate, unconscionable delay. If we all join
together-we in the executive branch of the Federal Government and you at
the local, as well as Governors at the State level-we can get Congress off of dead
center.
But they are not moving, so it is going to take some concerted action. I
have asked Vice President Nelson Rockefeller to head up a task group in the
Representative Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas was Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
2 See 1975 volume, Item 214.
276
