March 12
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a U.N. or former League of Nations mandate, now more or less in the same
status as far as the U.N. is concerned-I think there has to be some progress
there.
Now, to get to the question, what would the United States do if 12,000 Cubans
and Soviet superiors were to move into Rhodesia or other areas. We have been
very firm in saying that no Soviet, no Cuban adventures beyond Angola ought
to be undertaken, but for me to give you in detail what the United States would
do, not knowing how they would operate, I think would be improper.
We have all kinds of contingency plans for all kinds of potential action that
might be taken by the Soviet Union or Cuba in circumstances you have indi-
cated, but I can't answer a speculative question. We have to deal with reality.
And if and when reality develops in that area, I can assure you that we will
strongly oppose any action by the Soviet Union and Cuba because that is pure
international adventurism. The problems ought to be solved differently, and we
are working to help in that regard.
Q. Mr. President, I have a question concerning what critics consider the next
African hot spot, the area around Djibouti, Ethiopia, and Somalia. In the event
of a crisis, how will you approach French interests and Soviet interference? And
how do you expect Congress to feel, and how do you think the American people
feel about this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the problem in Djibouti is a serious one. The French
have not yet given up that territory. It is moving, I think, in a dangerous trend,
but at the moment it certainly is a French responsibility with the nationals or
the locals.
We, of course, are concerned not only with southwest Africa and the devel-
ments in Angola but also eastern Africa with Somalia, Djibouti, and any
of the other areas. We, in all of Africa, feel that the Soviet Union is going beyond
any legitimate interests that they might have. But I have to give you the same
answer I gave the other gentleman, Steve, that we can't speculate, we have to
deal with reality. And right now the reality has not developed to the point where
it requires any specific U.S. action, but we are familiar with it. I keep close tab
on it myself, and other than to say I don't think the Soviet Union or Cuba should
continue its adventurism in Africa, I can't give you any specific answer to a
hypothetical question.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[8.] Q. Mr. President, the question I have relates to our foreign policy to
the People's Republic of China. In your view, what is the U.S. national interest
641
