February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, let me tell you what we have, or what I said in the veto message
today. There is a proposal in the Congress to add roughly $600 million or
$700 million to the present community development program, which would
add to the funds of those cities that had high unemployment, which would
give those cities that had high unemployment added money to undertake
local construction projects.
I think if my veto is sustained, I could support that kind of an alternative.
It is a quicker way. It is a better way, and it is $5 billion-plus less money.
So, I think it is a better choice.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Kathleen Wright, a member of the school board
of Broward County. My question is: In view of the increase in revenue sharing
at the local level, what is going to happen in the direct-funded programs in
the area of education from the Federal Government? In other words, what
are we going to have to give up in order to get some other money under
revenue sharing?
THE PRESIDENT. You are not going to have to give up anything. As a mat-
ter of fact, in the budget—and here is a copy of it-I have added $150 million
to the primary and secondary education funding program. But I want to
add this. I could show you a mess chart for education programs just like this
one from the Federal Government. It would have 15 programs, and it would
be just as big a mess as this one is.
Now, I have recommended that we take primary and secondary education,
that we take vocational education, that we take aid for the handicapped and
library programs which total roughly $3,300 million, add $150 million to it
and have a block grant program. I think that is a far better way of getting
Federal money from Washington to Gainesville or to Tallahassee—to your
community—so that you have flexibility in the decisionmaking process as to
where and how you want to put that money. Now, we would require that
75 percent of that total money would go to the disadvantaged under the
definition, but it would do away with 15 programs and have one program.
Q. So the money will come to the States and then to the local government
as part of the revenue sharing, and then the school districts will get their
portion of that?
The President. That would be an automatic passthrough, and it would
give you the flexibility to make your decisions at your local school board level.
Q. President Ford, Your Honor-Dr. Sweeting. I was to the last time that
the Government grants was issued to the different organizations, and I was
sitting in for quite a few people. And to my surprise the way their grants
283
