[209]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, the courts make that judgment. Nobody in the executive branch can
change that judgment. The problem is that when Congress has tried to change
the laws to meet the problem, there is always the constitutional question in-
volved whether the law violates the Constitution just as the practices did for
a good many years. I do think, however, that the courts, in applying the con-
stitutional principle, have begun to use more reasonable and rational remedies.
That is the real problem.
So the courts, when they have used radical remedies, have torn the local
communities' society asunder, but when the courts use a rational remedy for
the solution of the constitutional issue, there is a great deal more acceptance
by the community.
Now, I have asked the Attorney General and the Secretary of HEW to sub-
mit to me any thoughts that they might have or recommendations they might
have for what I or we in the executive branch might do. They submitted this
a week or so ago. I asked them to take two or three of the suggestions and to
refine them more precisely.
I have not gotten their final recommendations back, but I think the final
answer really comes in how the Federal courts interpret the Brown decision
and utilize it in individual cases at the local level. And I have found some of
the more recent decisions more moderate.
I strongly disagree with the radical remedies of forced busing to achieve
racial balance. I don't think that accomplishes what we all want, which is
quality education. I think it is harmful to quality education, and I think there
are some recent studies that prove that.
So, if the courts will be more moderate, and we can help in any other way,
I think that is the real answer.
Q. A very quick followup. Do you believe any of the candidates that are
now running for President of the United States, if elected, could change the
busing situation in this country in the next 4 years?
THE PRESIDENT. No, because it is primarily within the jurisdiction and re-
sponsibility of how the Federal court system interprets the constitutional issue
and what remedies they utilize. So, there is no law that can underline a con-
stitutional issue, it is a matter of the judicial interpretation of the factual situa-
tion, the constitutional problem, and the remedy that is used.
I don't see how any Presidential candidate, other than to have an impact
or an influence indirectly on the judicial system, would have any capability of
changing it dramatically.
658
