January 3
[6]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
affairs and the potential of H.R. 6673 to enrich the cultural life of the Nation, I
am granting my approval to the measure.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6673, approved January 2, 1976, is Public Law 94-201 (89 Stat. 1129).
6
Interview for an NBC News Program on American Foreign
Policy. January 3, 1976
TOM BROKAW. Mr. President, do you think that it is possible for you to make
decisions in the name of national security if those decisions do not reflect the
popular will of the people?
THE PRESIDENT. It does make it somewhat difficult, Tom, but I think it is the
responsibility of a President to fully inform the American people and convince
them that what we are seeking to do in foreign policy is in our best interests.
And if a President carries out that responsibility, then he can and will have the
support of the American people.
MR. BROKAW. Is that the situation now in Angola? Do you have to convince
the American people of what you consider to be the national security of the
United States there?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe there is a need and necessity for that. I don't believe
that enough Americans understand the great responsibilities we have as a nation
on a worldwide basis, and that includes, of course, Africa as a whole. What we
really want and what we are seeking to do in Angola is to get an African solu-
tion to an African problem, and through bilateral negotiations, through work-
ing with the Organization of African Unity, through relations with the Soviet
Union and others, we are trying to achieve that African solution to an African
problem.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, the Soviet Union quite clearly has signaled in a
TASS article that it wants all major powers to withdraw militarily from Angola.
Has Moscow privately communicated that to you as well?
THE PRESIDENT. We are working with all powers, including the Soviet Union,
to try and permit the Angolan people, the three different groups there at the
present time, to get a decision or solution that will reflect a majority view of
the Angolan people. And we are doing it, as I indicated, with a number of
major powers, including the Soviet Union, as well as the many, many African
countries that are a part of the Organization of African Unity.
7
