[221]
March 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
221
Telephone Remarks at a Lincoln Day Dinner in
Grand Rapids, Michigan. March 16, 1976
LET ME say on behalf of Betty that we are both delighted to have an oppor-
tunity to express to all of you our gratitude for the great support that every-
body has given us in the Fifth District and in the State of Michigan over the
years.
I think a good many people there know that I have attended Lincoln Day
Dinners as far back as 1946, and it seems that every one of them gets better
and better. With all of the senatorial candidates there, as well as the Lieutenant
Governor, I am sure this will be a first-class Republican Lincoln Day Dinner
in Grand Rapids on this occasion.
I still read the local newspapers. I have noticed that you had a kind of
rough time last week with all of the bad storms, the ice and sleet, and the high
water flooding of the Grand River. Obviously, we were deeply concerned about
the fact that the water was high and the power was out. And I hope that the
damage to western Michigan was not too severe, and, particularly, I hope it
wasn't bad as far as those great fruit ridge orchards up there in the northwest
corner of Kent County.
On a happier note, I wish I could see some of your faces tonight because the
support that I have gotten over the years from so many people has made my
job easier in the Congress in the first place, and my job easier as Vice Presi-
dent, now as President. And I thank everybody for what they have done over
the years on behalf of my candidacy, and I hope that what I have done justifies
continued faith in the future.
We know, Betty and I, how hard so many of you have worked, how much
time you have given, and how much energy you have expended over the years
for a good cause, which I trust will be justified in the primary as well as the
general election on November 2.
One of the great thrills that we got, Betty and myself, was that 91 of you paid
your own way to travel to Florida on my behalf, and believe me, that group
that went down there, Pete,¹ did a great job. It had superior press-the radio,
television, and the writing press was tremendous—and I think it had a signifi-
cant impact on the election results last Tuesday.
¹ Peter Secchia, Kent County Republican chairman.
722
