February 25
[137]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And, therefore, President Ford, we come here once more to this home of the
Presidents of the American people. That emphasizes the great significance that
we attribute to the mutual respect and friendship that exists between our two
peoples.
Sixteen years have passed since, for the first time, legislators of this great coun-
try and of our own gathered to discuss the problems that are common to us and
also to consider the aspirations that each one of our peoples has and tries to win,
and we have continued this fruitful dialog.
Throughout these years, we have been able to bind together with special dedi-
cation and effort the friendly relations based on respect and understanding that
today permits both Mexicans and Americans to offer an example of cordial and
civilized relationships.
Members of Parliament of both of our countries are dedicated to prove that
politics is a peaceful confrontation between our ideological principles and the
programs with which each people wishes to open a path towards a brighter fu-
ture of welfare and of justice.
We have come to Washington to present our respects to the President of the
American people and to tell him that with renewed trust we begin our 16th
meeting, convinced that the path towards international understanding—noth-
ing can replace a direct relationship between leaders, between legislators, be-
tween social leaders.
Our very extensive geographic border brings with it complications and phe-
nomena that we cannot ignore and that also cannot be resolved by magic and all
of a sudden.
Never before in the world have we seen such a rapid development in every pos-
sible field. Never before have the captive forces of nature, converted into mili-
tary power, placed in certain danger and grave risk mankind itself. But within
the context of this reality, we believe that the positive prospective for the de-
velopments of humankind are greater and have more energetic possibilities than
the threats for its destruction.
In the past fews years, every society has had to change and adapt its own struc-
tures of society in order to try to satisfy the aspirations of its people, to change
its structures according to the demands of the people to meet their needs and to
build an international society that is based on equity, welfare, and peace. As
never before, the destiny of mankind is indivisible, as was stated by President
Echeverría when he proposed the charter of the economic rights and duties
of states.
The vibrant reality of everyday life shows that, in effect, no society can think
435
