[207]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
On the question of whether my candidacy or the Republican Party will be
affected by Watergate, I can only comment on my own situation. When I was
nominated to be Vice President, the House Committee on the Judiciary and
the Senate Committee on Rules held extensive hearings as to my total back-
ground-financial, political, well, it covered everything. The volumes are about
that thick with testimony by individuals.
After the two committees recommended that my nomination be confirmed,
there was a vote in the House as well as in the Senate, and, as I recall, in the
Senate the vote was about 92 to 3, and in the House it was 380- or 90-something
to 37. I think that record of investigation by two committees, that vote by a
Democrat-dominated Congress proves beyond any doubt whatsoever that I had
no connection, period, with Watergate.
Now, to answer the last question. I feel very strongly that over the period of
the last 7 years, and particularly during the period that I am intimately familiar
with, the foreign policy direction given by our Secretary of State under my
final direction and answer, we have made a lot of progress. We have moved
forward in that volatile, very, very difficult area in the Middle East with the
Sinai agreement, we have kept the normalization of our relations with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China moving in the proper context. We have reassured our
allies in Western Europe, and we are negotiating from strength with the Soviet
Union. I think our foreign policy is moving forward constructively, and under
those circumstances, I would not, under any circumstances, want Henry Kis-
singer to quit, period.
SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUND
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question on the economy.
Aside from calling the social security tax an insurance, what remedy do you see
for reducing the regressiveness of this tax which hurts primarily the low- and
middle-income groups?
THE PRESIDENT. The problem of the solvency of the Social Security Trust Fund
is one we have to face up to. I think it is wise to take a look at what has been hap-
pening this year and what will happen in the next several years unless something
is done. This year the deficit between income and outgo in the Social Security
Trust Fund is about $3 billion. Next year it is estimated that the deficit will be
$32 billion. It will go up in about that range each year, and eventually, if we
don't do something, the $43 billion we now have in the Trust Fund will be
emptied.
636
