March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Real nice to see you all, and thank you very much.
Q. President Ford, you are going on live over the air on local radio on WRC.
Would you like to say hello to all your farmer friends here in east-central
Illinois ?
The President. Thank you very much, Steve. It is a pleasure to have an
opportunity to say hello to them. We talked with the outstanding farmleaders
in the State of Illinois yesterday, and I think it was an excellent give and
take. They asked a lot of penetrating questions, and I think I answered their
questions very satisfactorily.
With our tremendous exports and their hard work and the leadership of
our outstanding Secretary of Agriculture, I think agriculture in Illinois, as
well as elsewhere, is bound to be prosperous.
Thank you all very, very much. Nice to see you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:20 a.m. at Willard Airport.
189
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum in Champaign. March 6, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Ed Madigan, Senator Chuck Percy, Congressman
Paul Findley, Secretary Butz, my good friend, Governor Ogilvie, Mr. Fink,
Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Rasmus, ladies and gentlemen:
It is wonderful to be here in Centennial High School. You won't believe
it but I picked out this University of Illinois tie this morning. Obviously, it is
very, very wonderful to be here with you today, and I was told before I came
in that this is the season of March madness in the great State of Illinois. I don't
have to remind you that this is the time of the year for those great Illinois
basketball tournaments.
But there are, of course, different kinds of March madness. Do you remem-
ber what the doomsayers were saying a year ago in March? It was just about
12 months ago when many, many were predicting that this Nation was liter-
ally on the brink of economic collapse. Forecasters were competing with each
other to see who could make the gloomiest predictions. I am sure you all
remember some of them.
Gasoline was going to be selling for a dollar a gallon; foreign investors were
going to pull out their money from the United States as a bad gamble; trade
with the rest of the world was about to dry up; inflation and unemployment
563
