March 13
[212]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sector is expanding, and all the indicators prove that. Cars are selling more
rapidly, retail sales are up, consumer confidence is increasing very rapidly. So,
the opportunity for the private sector to employ more is obviously there, and
I am confident they will. And I think they will do it on the basis that it is good
for them, it is good for the country. And I am optimistic that the private sector
will have greater opportunities in the months ahead to add to their employment
rolls and every indication we see confirms that.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, on the subject of jobs, college students, particularly,
are a little worried about it now because they have been talking about how they
are overqualified, the job market is tight, many of them don't get to use their
training in skilled jobs because there is a shortage. Now, can you offer tomor-
row's graduates any encouragement?
The President. I think the job opportunities for graduates in 1976 from col-
leges will be far greater than the job opportunities that existed in June of 1975
because the economy is improving and it will get increasingly that way.
We have about 2 million new jobseekers every year because we have a bur-
geoning society in population. So, our job is not to be satisfied with 86,300,000
now gainfully employed, but to absorb in the private sector primarily the new
college graduates, the new high school graduates.
I believe that as we move ahead-and this is March-by June the job oppor-
tunities for college and high school graduates will be infinitely better. The cir-
cumstances certainly point that way very optimistically.
Q. Is the government going to be involved in any of this hiring?
The President. Well, we have of course many job opportunities in the Federal
Government. In the civilian side, the Federal Government employs roughly
2,100,000 people. There are always retirements. There are some agencies that will
be expanding, there are some that will be contracting. But there will be job op-
portunities in the Federal Government. And I am certain at the State and local
level there likewise will be job opportunities.
REDUCTION IN U.S. ARMED FORCES ON TAIWAN
[12.] Q. Mr. President, evidently, there has been some sort of an agreement
between this country and the People's Republic of China under which we are
going to withdraw about half our troops from Taiwan this year. My first ques-
tion is, we have been told after your trip to China and Mr. Kissinger's trip that
687
