[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
a State representative, because our welfare workers are spending as much as
85 percent of their time on paperwork, 15 percent of their time with clients.
I am concerned because I am associated with a private agency that administers
a homemaker service, and I have talked to other people in agencies. Their
staffs are spending so much time in the paperwork, in verifying whether some-
one is eligible.
If a mother comes in and has six children, 20 forms have to be filled in for each
one of those children and for herself, and this is absurd.
We find that we are spending an enormous amount of time just doing paper-
work, shuffling papers, at the private agency level, at the State level trying to see
what happens to those papers. We've got to look at them when they come in.
I just wonder, who is accountable to us for all of this waste of our time?
THE PRESIDENT. The points you have made convinced me that we ought to
approach the problem of delivering these services in a different way. And the net
result is in one of the four block grant programs that I have recommended, we
attack the problem that you are talking about.
Here is what we call a mess chart. [Laughter] What that shows is the 15 health
service programs from the Federal Government to the local and State units of
government. That shows where the money comes from, who runs it, from the
Federal Government at the top and all the crosslines that end up down here
with the beneficiary.
The one on the right-no, that is all the same one. We have one here on edu-
cation, too. But what you are saying is best illustrated by this particular mess
chart. You've got 15 categorical grant programs with all the verification, all of
the applications, and the net result is you waste half of your time and a good
share of your money in paper shuffling.
Now, what we propose to do is to take the money from the Federal Govern-
ment and give it to the States, and with a passthrough in some cases for local
units of government, and let them take the total amount of money and utilize it
at the State or the local level as you in New Hampshire decide you ought to
spend it. And you—or the people working in the program—are only account-
able to the Federal Government in total. You don't have to apply for it except
for one application.
Now, we have to get the Congress to go along with this. But it will save you
money, it will save you time, and your clients will get much better service and
more funding in reality.
So, I recognize the problem you are talking about. We've got to get the Con-
gress to do this. And any help you can give us would be gratefully received.
176
