[213]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment is limited in scope. They believed in the ability of individuals to govern
themselves.
In this Bicentennial Year North Carolina and other States are striving to
restore the necessary and effective balance between the States on the one hand
and the massive, centralized power of the Federal Government. You know all too
well how State and local authority has eroded as the Federal establishment has
grown and grown and grown. When your State constitution was adopted, you
took great care to preserve the basics of self-government. But power has been
drawn away from your State, your county, your city, your town, your farm to
an increasingly centralized National Government—always bigger, always more
meddlesome, but not always more efficient nor more responsive to local and
individual needs.
This process undermines the individual resourcefulness and pride. It threatens
our economic prosperity, it dims our vision of a future in which you can control
your own life.
I pledged that I would never transfer serious problems from the Federal
Government to State governments or to local governments without regard for
human needs or fiscal realities. I want to preserve a constructive partnership
with North Carolina and the many communities and the many people that live
in this great State.
I am likewise determined to cooperate with North Carolina to move the
decisionmaking process back to the people here in North Carolina and in the
other 49 States. If the Bicentennial is to have any real meaning, we must restore
to you on a State and local level a real voice in your own destiny. Should this
Bicentennial Year accomplish nothing else, this alone would be a fitting tribute
and a fitting triumph.
"What was the Battle of Guilford Courthouse all about?" I asked myself before
coming here. Americans dared to challenge the oppression of a distant and
unresponsive government that tried to govern without the consent of the gov-
erned and to impose taxation without representation. Our struggle for inde-
pendence, as we read in the pages of history, was really a fight to assert the
elementary principle of local control over the fate of local people.
The soldiers who stood here under General Nathaniel Greene did not dribble
away their resources in foolish experiments. They made very wise use of their
terrain, they made every shot count.
The time has come for a resurgence of the commonsense that made men be-
come heroes on this precise battlefield. To keep the faith with the Americans
694
