[65]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
All Americans in all 48 or 49 other States can learn from your example of the
"can do" spirit, and I congratulate you for it.
As you join in the national celebration of our Bicentennial, we are reminded
by the historical archives in Washington that New Hampshire was a “can do”
State from the very, very beginning.
The First New Hampshire Regiment fought from the first repulse of the
British on Bunker Hill. Through Valley Forge and Trenton to the surrender
at Yorktown, your regiment had the longest service record of any unit in George
Washington's army, a total of 8 years and 8 months in strong, tough, military
action.
The first warship to fly the American flag, the Ranger, commanded by John
Paul Jones, was built in your great shipyard at Portsmouth, which we are not
going to close.
If any State can take pride in the Bicentennial, it is New Hampshire. And if
any community can take pride in the achievements of this Bicentennial Year,
it is Greater Nashua, and I salute you for your thriving enterprise and individual
initiative as you day by day and month by month build for the future.
What I like most about the Nashua story is that you expose the Nation's pessi-
mists as exemplified in that fable about Chicken Little. You may recall Chicken
Little was hit on the head by a single acorn and then ran around telling every-
body that the sky was falling.
The fact is that America has been hit on the head by some very heavy acorns
in recent years and recent months—recessionary acorns, inflationary acorns, un-
employment acorns, energy acorns.
Just a year ago, I heard many fearful outcries that we needed massive Federal
programs spending billions and billions of dollars to save the economy, that a
terrible depression was descending upon us, that bread was going to $1 a loaf,
and that unemployment lines would only get longer and longer and longer.
But I was convinced that we had to take consistent and balanced action,
neither too much on the one hand or too little on the other, the right steps and
not the wrong steps. I knew that measures taken in panic would be counter-
productive. The proper response would prove, as has been established, that our
Nation is resilient, resourceful, and very, very sound, and we should be very
proud of it.
Make no mistake, things were not good this time last year. Nineteen hundred
and seventy-five was the year of very hard decisions and very difficult compro-
mises, but it was also a year of new realism that taught us something—some-
188
