[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
tolerate foreign government-subsidized dairy products, period. And we will
use the best wisdom we have to make sure that there is a fair treatment as
far as your products competing with any foreign products, subsidized or
nonsubsidized.
But I think we do have to be honest with one another and say that if we
expect to sell $22 billion worth of farm commodities overseas, there are some
foreign imports that have to be sold in the United States. There has to be some
balance. We can't sell to them unless we buy from them, but there certainly
will be no subsidization of foreign farm exports to the United States—that is
absolutely clear.
In the other areas, like I mentioned on the nonfat dried milk mixture pro-
posal-when they did that we cut them off, period. And we will act just as
decisively on other matters of that kind.
Q. Mr. President, this will be the last question.
THE PRESIDENT. We will take one more over here after this. Okay.
Q. Mr. President, Manitowoc County Ford Headquarters, head coordinator.
My major concern is what is happening in the postal department. We have
just had this 3-cent raise, and unless I heard very incorrectly last night on the
media, somewhere within the near future we could go up to 36 or 38 cents for
1 ounce of first-class postage, which could put small businessmen who depend
on the charge system or perhaps mailing as a major part of their business out
of business. Do we in Federal Government have any plans beyond just simply
trying to cut back small Post Offices, or will we perhaps make our American
people have to cut back a little bit of their services or do something about this,
so that some of us small businessmen can stay in business?
THE PRESIDENT. The Postal Service problem is one of the most perplexing
ones we have. We had a system up until about 4 years ago that was rampant with
politics. Democrats abused it; Republicans abused it. And it was in a mess, to
be honest with you. The Federal subsidy was growing every year. We went to
a Postal Service and supposedly, and I hope it is true, wiped out all politics in
the Postal Service. They have been trying to put it on a pay-as-you-go basis. It
was recognized that during this transition period there would have to be a
subsidy. At the present time, the Federal Government is contributing about a
billion dollars a year to subsidize the Postal Service, plus whatever other revenues
they get.
I must say in many respects, I am disappointed the way it has turned out,
except I think it is better than what it was. Now there are some areas where
944
