[196]
March 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
I happen to have heard on the way over here that you have a great theme for
1976, one that ties in with the Bicentennial of our country, that we should be
celebrating this beginning of a third century because of the great heritage that
we have inherited from our forefathers who gave us what we have through
their hard work, their wisdom, their knowledge for the last 200 years.
There is an old saying that I used to hear in Sunday school—and that goes
back a long time—that the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors. The
strength, as I see it, of America today is what our forefathers gave us through
their hard work and all of the other wonderful characteristics that they exhibited
during this period of two centuries.
We started, as you know, with something less than 3 million Americans when
the Constitution and our government was actually formed, but over the years
America has welcomed people from all over the world. We have opened our
doors and the net result is, we have a special character, a special strength in this
country because we are—as I said, the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors.
And in the future, the United States must equally welcome those who come
from other shores because we have been given an opportunity here that exists no
place in the world except America to enjoy the blessings of freedom, the bless-
ings of opportunity in politics, in economics, in professions, and elsewhere. We
are so fortunate in this great country, and it is our obligation and our responsi-
bility, regardless of any political persuasion we may have, to stand tall and
strong for America at home and America abroad.
And let me just close with this final comment. I know that in the breasts and
the minds of each and every one of you, as it is in all of your fellow Americans, a
great sense of pride in this country. And I, literally, at night, when I go to sleep,
say to myself—and I think you probably do, too—that I am proud to be an
American, and I am proud of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:18 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House to delegates from the
United States, Canada, Israel, Europe, and South
America attending the 4-day women's convention at
the Shoreham Americana Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Mrs. Helen
T. Smith, international president of B'nai B'rith,
Mrs. Happy Rockefeller, wife of Vice President
Nelson A. Rockefeller, and Susan Ford.
600
