[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
I recommended. We hope to get them to do some other things, to free up the
Navy petroleum oil in California, which would give us 300,000 barrels a day
more. If we can get them to move in the relaxation of some of these tests and
these limits that they have imposed by law, we can, I think, move more rapidly.
We got a setback last week. The House of Representatives made a bad mistake,
in my opinion, in not deregulating natural gas. It is unbelievable. It lost by 4
votes, or 202 to 196, as I recall. It is just unbelievable. All they are going to do is
keep gas in the ground, and we will be buying more foreign oil.
That doesn't make any sense, but that is what they have done temporarily.
We hope to find a way out of it. But I am convinced that we have made a little
headway, not enough, and I am going to keep pressure on the Congress, because
we have to get some of these laws changed, we have to get some new laws.
One final comment. There are some so-called exotic fuels-let me tell you,
solar energy, geothermal energy, and even some more exotic than those-in
the research and development fund in this budget, I increased research and
development money for solar energy by, I think, 35 percent.
It went from around $85 million a year up to $112 or $115 million in this
budget. We are pushing as rapidly as we can on solar energy. We've got a con-
siderable amount of money in here for geothermal energy. We have some for
even more exotic fuels. But that is the long term. It is not going to come over-
night. But with research and development money of the magnitude I have pro-
posed, we can make significant progress, and we are going to keep after it.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. May I first thank you for being so patient and asking tough,
unrehearsed questions. And I have benefited from them, and I hope it has been
helpful to you.
I invite you now to go down the corridor, where there will be a reception in
the gymnasium, and I would like to meet as many of you as I could personally.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. in the cafeteria at Rundlett Junior High School at the briefing
for New Hampshire officials.
186
