[264]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
but Betty wants me to get home tonight. And, as all of you well know, Betty
and I never disagree about anything. [Laughter]
Let me also thank those of you who participated in this morning's precinct
walk. Grass roots politics is a lot of hard work, but it also can be an awful lot
of fun. And I hope that all of you, as you did this constructive work in the city
of Fresno, did enjoy it.
We who are in public office know very well the great contribution that this
kind of an effort does, and I hope and trust that in the months ahead that you
can do it in every community in every State, because it produces results. I con-
gratulate you, and thank you for all of us who are the beneficiaries of your efforts.
We meet in 1976, in a year of important decision for the America people, a
year in which they will choose their political leadership for the remainder of
the 1970's, a year which begins in the third century of American independence.
I am waging my campaign this year on the powerful issues of freedom, peace,
and rising prosperity for the American people. This is a record of solid accom-
plishment, which I am presenting to the American people, the record that we
have tried to build in the 19 months that I have had the honor and privilege of
being President of the United States.
In those 19 months, we have cut the inflation rate in half. In this year's Fed-
eral budget, I have cut the rate of growth in Federal spending also in half. We
have recovered 100 percent of the jobs Americans lost during the recession, the
worst recession in the last 40 years. Consumer confidence is more than double
what it was a year ago. Industrial production is up, housing starts are up, per-
sonal income is up, prices are stabilizing.
There can be no doubt whatsoever that America is on the road to a new pros-
perity, and we are not about to take any detours now thrust upon us by a Demo-
cratic Congress.
We will pursue a steady, constructive, firm course, the same kind of a course
that I chartered for America at the outset of the recession when I proposed tax
cuts for individuals, tax incentives for business expansion and job production,
and extended assistance for those Americans who lost their jobs during the
recession.
I rejected the attempts of the Democratic majority in the Congress to try and
spend our way out of the recession rather than doing it the typical American
way of working our way to prosperity. In fact, I vetoed 46 bills in the last 19
months, and they tell me that is something of a record. If it is, I am darned
proud of it. But the most important record is that we got the Congress to sus-
828
