[49]
January 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
government taking too much money from the people and borrowing even more.
It is also a matter of reviving freedom-the freedom of each individual and
family to make day-to-day decisions affecting their own lives.
I recently saw a survey of the 158 nations in the world which concluded that
only the United States and 39 other countries provide their citizens with what
we call freedom. But even in the free world, freedom can be invisibly threatened
by overtaxing and overregulating people to the point where they no longer have
the time or the money to do anything except make ends meet.
These are not philosophical abstractions any more than the tax on tea in Bos-
ton was 200 years ago. The people are about as fed up with the petty tyranny of
the faceless Federal bureaucrats today as they were with their faraway rulers in
London in 1776.
But we should remember that our American revolution was unique in that it
did not destroy and root up all the institutions of law and representative govern-
ment which had been implanted on this side of the Atlantic. Instead, it cherished
the great principles of the past and improved upon them. The American experi-
ment has been one of trial and error and improvement for its full 200 years. And
it is far from finished.
For more than 40 years we have experimented with the notion that the Federal
Government can effectively control the economy, provide everybody not only
with their needs but also with their wants, decide what is best for Michigan in
the same sweeping law that decides what is best for Mississippi, and regulate
people in California by the same regulations as in Connecticut.
We have found that much of this just does not make sense. We have found
that individuals and families and neighborhoods and communities and cities
and counties and States and regions have more important things in common but
also important concerns that are different. They know what they need and what
they don't need. They can solve their own problems better providing they have
the resources to do it.
The Federal Government can help them in the following ways: through Fed-
eral revenue sharing, a concept long advanced by our party, which has returned
$23,500 million of Federal taxes to State and local authorities to spend as they
see fit under local citizen control; through consolidating scores of complicated,
overlapping, wasteful Federal programs into a few broad and flexible grants.
With this Federal money, the 50 States and their subdivisions can better handle
their obligations in such fields as health, education, and welfare. We are all
familiar with the food stamp scandals. We all know about the shocking abuses
in other welfare programs.
132
