[178]
March 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I can never repay you, Al, for all the many things that you did for me as
minority leader and the things that you have done while I am President.
I just want to thank you from the bottom of my heart because I mean it, I feel
it, and you just express to me, in the day-to-day actions that you take, the finest
in public service.
I congratulate you and thank you, and you are darn lucky to have Peggy as a
wife.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:15 p.m. in the Crystal Room at the Sheraton-Carlton Hotel.
179
Remarks at a Reception for Participants in the Legislative
Conference of the National Federation of Business and
Professional Women's Clubs.
March 4, 1976
LET ME thank Mrs. Hays, Mrs. Culbreth, Mrs. Shriver, and all of you for
letting me come here without Betty. [Laughter] She did ask that I extend her
apologies for not coming. She spent 6 days down in Florida last week trying to
get my polls as high as hers. [Laughter] And she is going out to Arizona and
California next week, and she just asked me to hope that you would understand
that she couldn't come so she sent a substitute on her behalf. [Laughter]
1
I do want to thank all of you for the wonderful experiences I have had going
back to the days when Hazel Myers ¹ and the local chapter of the Business and
Professional Women used to invite me to their meetings at least once a year.
And I am delighted to see some of the people that we have in the White House
and the administration who are interested in and have been active in your orga-
nization—Virginia Allan, who, as you know, is the Deputy Assistant Secretary
over at State for Women's Affairs [Public Affairs] and is doing a great job
with the International Women's Year program, and Karen Keesling, who, of
course, handles women's programs in the White House for me.
Betty did ask me to say to all of you that she will be out there in the frontline,
as she has been, with all of you on behalf of ERA. She has never been very
subtle, and I don't think she will be subtle in the future. [Laughter] But if I
could add a postscript to that. I know those of you who were active in the effort
a few years ago know from Martha Griffiths, one of my former colleagues in the
¹ Michigan State president of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs
1940-41.
522
