March 11
[203]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
From the rural beginnings of America some 200 years ago, poets, painters, and
politicians have celebrated the virtues of the American farmer. In this era, the
American farmer remains our Nation's greatest natural resource. I am con-
fident that as long as American agriculture remains strong, America itself will
be strong and free and prosperous.
With those observations and comments, I will be glad to respond to any
questions.
Q. Mr. President, we, as farmers, feel that we have the ability and the desire
to produce an abundance. However, this efficient production requires that we
have open markets in order to make a profit, stay in business, and still keep
consumers' prices reasonable. You have stated that farmers should be allowed to
operate without interference. Is there some way that you, as President, can
communicate to the consumer that open markets are really to their advantage?
THE PRESIDENT. I repeatedly, in talking to nonfarm groups, tell them how
fortunate they are that we have in America 5 percent of our total population
producing more than enough food and fiber for us to wear and to eat, and that
if they go any other place throughout the world, no other population is as fortu-
nate as our nonfarm population is.
I think we have to convince the other 95 percent of Americans of the fine job
that American farmers do, and point out to them that under the new farm
policies, where the Government doesn't pay a cent, basically, for you to
produce and for you to sell or for you to store it, that these policies are a great,
great asset.
I can assure you the balance of trade that we had last year was significant,
because we sold $22 billion worth of American agricultural products overseas
that helped to pay for the exorbitant prices we were paying for foreign oil from
the Middle East, primarily. It is a selling job. I try to do it because I honestly
believe that the American farmer is probably as great, if not a greater contributor
to America's prosperity as any other segment in our society.
Q. Mr. President, you answered my question. As it is now, the Federal Gov-
ernment is destroying the family farm with its estate taxes, but what about the
farmer's wife? If I should go today, according to the Federal statutes, the
farmer's wife-they don't recognize joint tenancy. And at our house, my wife
works just as hard as I do, maybe harder.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is my recollection-and I am not a tax lawyer or I
don't, or haven't practiced tax law for some time-that there is under the
estate tax provisions today and would be under the amendments that I sug-
gested, some capability for the passing of property from husband to wife where
613
