February 14
[91]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the fact that I am an American, and I get prouder and prouder of America.
And I know you do, too.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:25 a.m. in the
Commodore Ballroom at the Bahia Mar Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Joel Gustafson,
chairman of the Broward County President Ford
Committee, and Representative Louis Frey, Jr.,
chairman of the Florida President Ford Committee.
91
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at St. Petersburg, Florida.
February 14, 1976
GOOD MORNING. How are you all this morning? It has been a great day
so far, not only yesterday but so far this morning, and I am looking forward
to a real fine time on this trip to Florida. And we hope to come back.
REPORTER. When you said anything to the right of your philosophy cannot
win in Florida, are you speaking specifically of the philosophy of Ronald Reagan
and Ronald Reagan in particular?
The President. I have said that anyone further to the right than my philoso-
phy, on a nationwide basis, can't win the general election. I think it is important
for that philosophy, which is a middle-of-the-road philosophy, is the right
philosophy for the United States. And anyone on the right or on the left of
my philosophy just can't win because most Americans believe in a moderate,
middle-of-the-road philosophy.
Q. Would you put Ronald Reagan in that category?
THE PRESIDENT. I will let the American people make that decision. I am not
going to.
Q. Also, how do you plan to alter your campaign strategy to have at least a con-
fident victory or feeling of victory in Florida?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been tremendously encouraged by the fine turnouts
that I have received in Orlando, in Ft. Lauderdale, and elsewhere. And the one
here this morning, which was supposed to be a closed reception, is tremendous.
So, I think we have got the initiative, we have the right programs, we have
some great leadership in Lou Frey and Bill Young and Skip Bafalis¹ and all of
the others.
Q. But have you got the votes for it?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the votes will turn up on March 9.
¹U.S. Representatives from Florida.
299
