February 29
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Nearly 2,100,000 jobs have been recovered since last March. That's 96 percent,
almost 100 percent of all the jobs lost during that worst recession in more than 30
years. And we did it—this is the encouraging thing—we did it without strapping
fiscal responsibility, without massively tapping the Federal Treasury, and with-
out sapping the American taxpayer. Again, that's the way to do it, and that's
the way we have done it.
We didn't resort to expensive, temporary, quick-fix Government solutions.
Through the commonsense ideas that I initiated and promulgated-listen to
them—these were the good polices: tax cuts for individuals, tax incentives for
business expansion and job production, and extended income cushions for those
Americans out of work. With all of these programs and with your help, and the
fact that you didn't panic, we have weathered the worst of the storm. As a re-
sult of this administration's action, we have begun a vigorous economic recovery.
But the price of America's economic recovery was not a new round of double-
digit inflation, nor was it billions and billions of extra dollars from the Federal
taxpayer.
I think all of you here know where I stand on the critical issue of unnecessary
Federal spending. I vetoed, and I underline “veto,” 46 bills since becoming Presi-
dent—and without endangering or weakening the economic recovery. Listen to
this: These vetoes will save the American taxpayer $13 billion. That's a lot of
headway. And let me assure you, let you in on a little secret, I will continue to
veto those extravagant spending bills again and again and again, until we restore
some self-control in the United States Congress.
We have to keep our financial house in order, and you have every right to
expect that the Federal Government, your Government will do the same thing.
If we can hold the line on Federal spending, if we can keep the budgetbusters
in Congress under some control, then another major tax cut will be entirely
possible in the latter part of this year and another one in 1979, and we will bal-
ance the budget at the same time.
As I've said, I think we've got a strong economy, and I intend to make it even
stronger. I want more jobs for Americans, and I want those jobs to provide
Americans with a future to give you pride, as well as a paycheck. I want to sus-
tain our prosperity not only as a goal but as a fact of life in the United States of
America.
But economic progress is not the only progress we have made. Today America
is at peace. Today, there are no Americans fighting anywhere in the world. I
495
