March 13
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
If I think it is important, it is vital, it is crucial for us to undertake some opera-
tion for the security of the United States, it will be done. I can assure you of
that. I will look at the facts and make the decision. I think what I did in the
case of the Mayaguez¹ is a good example of the decisiveness that I can act with
when we are faced with a problem. I would do it again.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, how does it feel being a President? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I kind of like the job. [Laughter] And I like it better
every day. And let me tell you one reason why I do—because I have an oppor-
tunity to come to a great place like West Wilkes High School and see so many
nice people.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF AMERICAN YOUTH
[10.] Q. Mr. President, this is my question. What are some things that
young people can do to assure us of a strong America tomorrow?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Patricia, I think what you and all the young people can
do to make a strong America tomorrow is to be the best students you can in
school, to mind your mother and father every day, and to have the faith in this
country which I know your mother and father and your neighbors have.
THE PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO WILKES COUNTY
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I would just like to ask you, how do you like Wilkes
County?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear that. How do I like Wilkes County? I love it.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I was wondering, what are your views on capital
punishment? Do you believe in it or what?
The President. I believe in capital punishment for very clearly defined crimi-
nal acts. In the Federal Government, I believe there should be capital punish-
ment for espionage, for subversion, for things or acts that are against the
national security of the United States. And in addition, I think capital punish-
ment for kidnaping is a legitimate area.
Now, what a State does, of course, is within the jurisdiction of the State legis-
lature, as well as the Governor. But there are certain acts committed against the
United States where I think capital punishment is the proper remedy.
1
¹ See 1975 volume, Items 256, 257.
707
