March 26
[262]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
These are all signs of a springtime economy. These are some of the signs that
show our recovery is going to be full and complete and that the American econ-
omy is going to be just as strong and healthy in the future as it has been in the
best years of the past.
I am going to make sure that our economy stays on the right track. I am not
going to risk our economy or our recovery by giving way to another onslaught
of the budgetbusters in the Congress.
Some of you may know that I have already used my Presidential veto 46
times in the last 19 months. They tell me that is a record. But we have gotten the
Congress, or a sufficient number of them, to sustain 39 of those vetoes, which
means that we were able to save you and all of the American taxpayers $13 bil-
lion. And that is not bad.
I want to thank Chuck Wiggins, Clair Burgener, and John Rousselot, who
are here. Without checking the record, I would say that the odds are that they
voted to sustain 39 out of those 39 vetoes. But if this spendthrift Congress—and
they know it better than I—comes back to me with more reckless spending bills,
then I am going to use my veto again and again and again.
We are going to hold down the cost of living by holding down the cost of
government. We are going to make sure that your tax dollars work as hard for
you as you do for them. The Democrats in the Congress have a slightly different
idea. It looks like they are going to send me a budget for the next fiscal year
some $20 billion more than I recommended in January of this year. And on top
of that, they are talking about taking away the $10 billion tax reduction that I
recommended to go into effect on July 1.
That may be the Democrat's idea of fiscal responsibility, but let me tell you,
Ford has a far better idea. My idea is to cut the growth of Federal spending and
give the tax cut to you and to millions of others who need it and deserve it. And
to the best of our ability we will do so in 1976.
Our experience in the last year and a half has shown once again that the
American economic system is strong and capable of meeting great, great chal-
lenges. Our experiences have confirmed our belief in the great, free economic
system and the great, free society established by our forefathers 200 years ago.
And the returning strength of other free economies-in Europe, in Japan, and
other parts of the world as well—is now adding to that momentum of our own
recovery here in the United States.
Our experience in the last year and a half has also shown that the administra-
tion's policies have been the right ones. The mistakes of the past have taught
us to recognize that short term solutions are what they are—no answer. Quick-
823
