[315]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
315
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration Efforts
To Settle the Cyprus Conflict. April 9, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, I am submitting a further report on the
progress of Cyprus negotiations and the efforts this Administration is making to
help find a lasting solution to the problems of the island. In two previous reports,
I detailed the Administration's major effort to encourage the resumption of
negotiations between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities. My
most recent report, submitted in February, indicated that the two sides had
agreed to resume the intercommunal negotiating process later that month. That
round of talks did, in fact, take place.
The Greek Cypriot negotiator and his Turkish Cypriot counterpart met in
Vienna February 17-21, 1976, under the aegis of UN Secretary General Wald-
heim. The meetings concluded with agreement by the two sides to exchange pro-
posals on the key substantive Cyprus issues—including control of territory—
within six weeks. Moreover, the parties agreed to meet again in Vienna follow-
ing the exchange of written proposals for the purpose, according to a joint an-
nouncement made on February 21, of establishing a common basis before the
proposals are submitted to mixed committees which will function in Cyprus
during recesses in the Vienna-level talks.
The commitment of both sides to introduce negotiating proposals on the key
territorial and constitutional issues must be viewed as a significant advance. Until
the recent Vienna meeting, the two sides had never been able to agree on a pro-
cedural formula which would allow the exchange of their respective positions on
these key issues of the Cyprus problem. That obstacle has now been overcome.
At the recent Vienna talks, the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot negotiators
also agreed to resume talks in Nicosia on humanitarian considerations. To date,
six meetings have been held which have dealt with the problem of missing per-
sons, among other issues, and the situation of the Greek Cypriots living in the
Turkish sector. There is evidence that these talks are producing concrete results.
For example, according to a United Nations communique issued at the conclu-
sion of the March 27 Nicosia meeting, nine schools will be reopened in the
Turkish sector on the island to provide for the educational needs of the Greek
Cypriot population that has chosen to remain in that area.
The United States continues to remain alert to any opportunity to assist the
1026
