[215]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
like to say, also, that I look forward to the coming years, the coming 4 years,
to your leadership with excitement.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. My question is this: I think Secretary of State Henry Kissinger is one of
the most intelligent, probably one of the most diplomatic Secretaries of State
that this country has ever had. When you are elected in November, do you
plan to keep him on as Secretary of State? Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I have asked the Secretary of State to stay on in that capacity
as long as he will, and I hope it is a long, long, long time.
But let me tell everybody in this wonderful audience why. Secretary of
State Kissinger, working with me at my direction has done some of the out-
standing diplomatic work on behalf of the United States and world peace,
I think, of any Secretary of State in the history of the United States.
He has had the confidence of the Government of Israel, the Government of
Egypt, and many other Arab nations and, as a result, we have made significant
progress in the Middle East with the Sinai Agreement, which was signed in
September. That is the most controversial, volatile area of the world, and if we
don't continue to have peace in that area of the world, we will have another oil
embargo; there will be another war. This is a diplomatic achievement, one of
the greatest in the history of American diplomacy.
But you could go down a long list of things that have been accomplished
while Secretary Kissinger has been Secretary of State and as an assistant to the
President. We are fortunate. We have a good foreign policy. It has got us at
peace, and it will keep us at peace, and we are very lucky to have that Secre-
tary of State.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Wake Forest, and I only missed you in
Winston today so I could hear you in my hometown.
I want to know, since you mentioned oil and energy a minute ago, about the
nuclear reactors with the problems of the danger and the storing of nuclear
wastes, if you are in favor of building more nuclear reactors or pursuing a
cheaper or maybe not cheaper, but safer way of producing energy for this
country?
THE PRESIDENT. We have about 50 operating nuclear powerplants at the pres-
ent time. If we are going to become less and less dependent on Arab or Middle
East oil, we have to, in the next 10 years, develop a total of about 250 nuclear
powerplants throughout the country. There have been some questions raised
702
