March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, it is getting late, and thank you for coming.
THE PRESIDENT. We ought to take a few more. We will take two more over
here and two more over there. Betty won't mind if I get home a little late.
Q. How about three over here. I have a good question.
THE PRESIDENT. All right, three on each side.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN EFFORTS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am a precinct chairman here, and as I recall, when
you were here before, we were talking, and I told you I would try to find "There
is a Ford in your future" sign for the background. Now, to help us ensure a
Ford in our future again for the next 4 years, what sort of advice could you give
us precinct workers for a grass roots support in getting people out to vote?
THE PRESIDENT. I spoke to the California State Republican Convention this
morning in Fresno, California, and they had a woman's organization—I have
forgotten the precise title—among the Republicans. They said they called it
"Walk the precincts to get the grass root vote out." They go door to door, and
they are going to do it all over the State of California. I think that kind of a man-
power effort, plus good programs, both domestically and internationally, is the
best way to ensure that our philosophy is favorably considered in November of
1976. You can't beat that kind of effort.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO NEW YORK CITY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question on New York.
What will you do if New York City still finds themselves in trouble, and also,
there are other major cities across the United States also in economic problems.
Will you give them aid if it comes down to the time they will default?
THE PRESIDENT. The program that finally resulted from negotiations with the
Congress means that on June 30 New York City will pay back everything they
have borrowed in the last 3 months, and the word I got just before I left Wash-
ington several days ago was they were going to make that payment.
And I am delighted that they have made the reductions in their employment
in the city. They have renegotiated some of the contracts that they have had.
They have cut back on a number of the services that were bloated. In all honesty,
New York City has done everything we expected them to, and they are going
to make that payment on June 30 with interest, incidentally. So, we came out
of it pretty well. I have to say it was not easy, though, and I was not sure that
I would have been too welcome in New York City for a while.
845
