March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
who have been involved in public service. So, we have a wide variety of out-
standing talent from which we can pick.
I could go through the list, but a number of them would be outstanding run-
ning mates and would make outstanding Vice Presidents. And I don't have any
worry that we can have a first-class person on the ticket, I hope with me, running
after that convention in Kansas City.
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
[8.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I have so many questions, I don't
know where to start, but I suppose I will start with the one that I think affects
me mostly.
As a young working girl of 23, I am starting to look ahead, even now,
40 years to my retirement, which I think is what any good counsel would
advise. And I am starting to look at what percentage of my salary I am putting
now into social security and what percentage of it I am putting into taxes, and I
am thinking that 40 years from now-social security is in bad shape now—
what am I to expect? And what am I going to work for for the next 40 years?
The President. I think you raised a very legitimate question, but I think
there are some very good answers to it.
In the first place, I hope you understand that social security is just not for
retirement when you reach 62. A good many people don't realize that if you
are married and have children, that if you should pass away at 35, they get
very substantial benefits right then for a substantial period of time.
If you should become disabled—and I hope that never happens—but if you
should become disabled at the age of 25, you would have disability payments
for the rest of your life.
So, there are many, many additional benefits over and above just what
you will get when you are 62 or whenever you retire. That is one reason why
social security payments are as high as they are, because there are broad-gaged
benefits that are not known by, or not used by the mass of people who are
covered by social security.
Now, to get to the other question. Is there going to be a Social Security Trust
Fund available to pay you when you do retire? That is a very legitimate ques-
tion, because at the present time we have about a $43 billion trust fund. At
the present time, this calendar year or fiscal year, the deficit of income and outgo
is $3 billion; next year the projection is it will be $32 billion, and the next
year it will be over $4 billion.
673
