January 5
[8]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
unloaded. There is every likelihood that we may sell even more this year to the
Soviet Union.
This new agreement now assures that the Russians will purchase at least
6 million metric tons of U.S. corn and wheat each year for the next 5 years. This
is more than a bushel a person in terms of the entire United States population.
Poland has also indicated it will buy about 100 million bushels of U.S. grain
annually for the next 5 years.
In addition to the annual Russian purchase commitment of 228 million
bushels of wheat and corn, this agreement provides an option to purchase an
additional 76 million bushels annually. All purchases will be at market prices
through the private sector.
If the Russians wish to purchase more than 304 million bushels in any year,
it is possible under the agreement. There is no arbitrary and inflexible ceiling.
For example, we have already sold them more than 500 million bushels out of
the current 1975 crop.
This agreement is in the interest of both the American farmer and the
American consumer. It prevents the Soviets from disrupting our markets. As
we have seen over the years, disruptive and unpredictable purchases led to such
problems as congressional demands for export control and the refusal of unions
to handle grain shipments. We have now assured American grain producers
that at planting time they will have a much more reliable indication of how
large an export market there will be at harvest time. And that is good for all of
us. The American livestock producer will have a better idea of his feed supply.
The American consumer will know that grain will be moving overseas in a
regular flow and be assured there will be adequate food at home.
We have transformed occasional and erratic customers into regular customers.
We have averted an outcry every year that the Russians are coming to make
secret purchases in our markets. The private marketing system has been pre-
served. Record exports are moving right now.
The alternatives were and are intolerable. The prospects of massive pileups
at docks with crops backed up all the way to local elevators is totally
unacceptable.
I ask you: Should we run an obstacle course through Congress and other
roadblocks each year on whether to sell any grain to the Soviet Union? I say
no, and I hope you do, too. Should we turn our crop over to a Government
control board to manage and sell overseas? I emphatically say no, and I
hope you do, too.
15
