March 4
[177]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we'll actually make up the depleting old field. And you can see what happens
to the old onshore that has been depleting for some time, where it is in 1985. It
simply dries up, and if we don't do something to rejuvenate the system, why,
we're in trouble.
Now, Naval Petroleum Reserve [No. 4], since that chart was drawn has been
passed, and that's part of that onshore development green box.
THE PRESIDENT. Frank, that's only the conference report. We do expect it,
and I would think it certainly would get down to the White House sometime
the latter part of this week, or surely the first of next week.
MR. ZARB. That's worth in excess of 1½ million barrels a day by 1985, and it's
worth 300,000 barrels a day within the next 18 months. That's a rather important
provision.
The question of natural gas, because of the current legislative battle, is a rather
popular issue. I think this fairly well demonstrates what will happen. If regula-
tions are continued, the production of natural gas domestically just drops like a
rock. And you can see what happens to it.
Under deregulation-without the accelerated scenario which provides for the
additional gas pipeline that you proposed to the Congress last week, and some
other measures, we could take to even possibly improve the situation—deregu-
lation will bring us back to about where we were in 1974.
But the point is, with absent deregulation that line demonstrates what will
happen to that product. And it will all be made up in imported oil. And that is,
of course, a very expensive way to get the job done.
We talked earlier about coal and that we needed to double our coal production
over the next 10 years. And the question is, where is it going to come from?
Our best analysis demonstrates that the West will increase substantially.
For the most part, the way that coal is produced is surface mining. The recent
trends of less deep mining will change—and low sulfur coal from deep mines is
getting to be an economic necessity if we're going to use coal-will increase so
that we see surface mining in the East—and many are unstable—and deep min-
ing increasing and surface mining in the West increasing.
I point out before you take that down, that if we are going to provide for
electric growth in this country, we only can provide for it if we do it responsibly
with coal, and that's what this is all about—and nuclear power-and we've talked
about that earlier.
But if we don't have this coal produced and delivered to those markets, then
we're going to have to produce new electricity with either nuclear power or oil,
519
