March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
anticipated deficit. But for the next fiscal year, as we project it out, we anticipate
on the basis of economic conditions that we believe would be in existence in
fiscal year '78—and bear in mind we are forecasting in December of 1975 and
January of 1976—we would have a deficit, as I recall, of about $19 billion. And
then the following fiscal year, which is fiscal year 1979, we would have a bal-
anced budget. That is what is reflected in the budget that I submitted in January
to the Congress of the United States. With the Congress holding the line, and I
hope they will, and with improved economic conditions, we can do even better.
RELATIONS WITH THE SOVIET UNION AND THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[5.] Q. I would like to know why the détente with the Russians is alienating
the Chinese?
THE PRESIDENT. Would you repeat that again, please?
Q. The détente with the Russians seems to be alienating the Chinese
because-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our policies with the Soviet Union on the one hand, and
the People's Republic of China on the other, are predicated on what is good for
the United States, not what is good in our relations with one country or with
another country.
Our whole foreign policy is based on what is good for America. That is the
basis of it. We deal with the Soviet Union on the one hand, and we deal with
the People's Republic of China and any other friends or adversaries on the basis
of what is good for our country. And we don't play one against the other,
whether it is the People's Republic or it is the U.S.S.R.
We are seeking to improve, to move to normalize our relations with the
People's Republic of China. And when I visited Peking in December of last
year, I had extensive talks with Chairman Mao and others. And I can assure
you that in many areas the United States has a total agreement with the People's
Republic of China; in other areas we have vast differences. We don't agree with
their political philosophy, their economic system. We totally reject it, but we
can have an identity of interest in some areas with them.
On the other hand, we can have an identity of interest with the Soviet Union
in certain areas, and we can totally disagree with them as we did in the case of
their aggression and adventurism in Angola. When we agree, that does not
mean that we agree with the philosophy or the ideology of the Soviet Union;
we totally reject it. But in the world context, the United States has to deal on a
day-to-day basis in a realistic way in trying to do what is best for ourselves
primarily, our allies, and in order to maintain a world in which we can have
671
