[283]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
say
it is
The record is positive, consistent, responsive to your concerns, and I
indisputable. The United States strongly supports the aspirations for freedom,
for national independence of peoples everywhere, including the peoples of
Eastern Europe. I have followed this policy in my visits to Eastern Europe and
in my meetings with Eastern European leaders here as well as overseas.
Our policy is in no sense—and I emphasize this—in no sense to accept Soviet
dominion of Eastern Europe or any kind of organic union. Nor is it in any way
designed to permit the consolidation for such dominion. On the contrary, the
United States seeks to be responsive to and to encourage as responsibly as pos-
sible, the desires of Eastern Europeans for greater autonomy, independence, and
more normal relations with the rest of the world.
This is the policy that I will continue to pursue with patience, with firmness,
and with persistence—a policy from which the United States will not waiver.
Thank you very, very much.
Now, I will be very glad to answer any questions. And as I said, you can
ask them about the subjects that I have discussed, but if you want to broaden it,
I will be delighted to do so.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an extraordinary privilege to
welcome you to Milwaukee—a truly cosmopolitan, ethnic cross section of
America. This is exemplified by the fact, Mr. President, that every fall we have
an international folk fair here, and we have over 30 different ethnic groups.
We have 100,000 people attending this affair.
I intend to be brief and concise.
First of all, the Americans with ethnic ties are very appreciative of your serv-
ices to America during the time of immediate post-Watergate. And we will
always remember this, and our prayers were with you every day during this
period. However, this is a two-way street, and the name of the game, off the
record, is voting. And I feel that we would like to offer you a service for your
consideration in loyalty to fairness and justice of the Eastern and Southern
European countries. Consequently, I would like to make a few brief observations.
The different nationality groups have been in the camp of the Democratic
Party since Roosevelt's time. This is a known fact. Now, during the 1972
campaign of Nixon, I was surprised and amazed to see this ethnic group go
along with Nixon and his campaigners. And it was amazing in my own office
among the patients and the factories, the areas I traveled in America, and it
was a surprise.
894
