March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
your support, as farmers and as members of farm organizations, to help me to
remove this obstacle to increased American productivity.
Quite frankly, I am as proud as you, and I know how proud you are, that there
is now more confidence in rural areas, that more young people are coming into
agriculture, that the enrollments in our agricultural colleges are running at an
alltime high.
All citizens are concerned about estate taxes but this is a particular problem
for farmers whose savings are tied up in farmland. The value of an average farm
throughout the country today is now about $200,000. To prevent the forced sale of
family farms to meet inheritance taxes, I previously proposed a plan to defer
estate tax payments at greatly reduced interest rates over a 25-year period. If
adopted, this plan would have provided substantial relief.
But an additional problem must be solved. While the value of the dollar has
eroded, our system of estate tax law has changed very, very little since 1930 or
1934. To ease the burden of estate taxes on many Americans with modest estates,
I am proposing an increase of the present $60,000 estate tax exemption to
$150,000.
The Treasury Department will present the full details of this proposal to the
Congress later this month. Along with my tax deferral proposal, this exemption
increase should help owners of family farms and small businesses to hand them
down from generation to generation without the forced liquidation which today
happens all too frequently.
I want to maintain the continuity of our family farms. Too much love and
too much labor go into the development of a paying farm to dismantle it with
every new generation.
Let us never forget that American farmers must profit if America is to profit.
There must also be enough income for each of you to replace machinery, to
conserve and enrich the soil, to adopt new techniques, and to buy essential sup-
plies. That is what keeps the American economy going.
Some nations with other economic and political philosophies have virtually
the same tractors, the same combines that each of you use, but those nations do
not have the greatest piece of farm machinery ever built—the free enterprise
system.
We have turned things around in rural America and we must keep it that way.
We have more to do and I want to work with you to get it done. I fought
hard, as my friends in the Congress know, to cut Government spending, to curb
inflation, and to maintain a sound economy. This fight can only succeed if our
farming economy also succeeds.
529
