February 17
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to propose a plan or a program in words. One is a very hard decision; the
other is very easy to say. And I tried to illustrate those pragmatic differences
in the carrying out of a basic, moderate, conservative philosophy.
Q. But you are saying when he is much to the right of you and so forth,
that that is not a philosophical difference then?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think he is to the right of me in a pragmatic and
practical way.
DISCRIMINATION BY PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS
[18.] Q. Mr. President, during the Nixon administration, guidance was
issued to Federal executives that their activities should never support or appear
to lend support to private organizations which practiced exclusionary discrimi-
nation. Does your administration follow that same rule?
THE PRESIDENT. Was that an Executive order?
Q. It was an order that Federal executives' activities should never lend sup-
port or appear to lend support to private organizations which practiced exclu-
sionary discrimination.
THE PRESIDENT. I would assume that we carry out the same policy.
Q. Then, can I ask you, Mr. President, why then you lend the prestige of
your high office to discrimination by golfing at Burning Tree Country Club
which excludes women?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are—no Federal funds go to Burning Tree.
FOOD PRICES
[19.] Q. Mr. President, on food prices it is reality that each year, not sea-
sonal, not monthly, but each year, food prices go up as part of inflation. Now,
addressing yourself to the housewife-rising food prices-can you say to her
that's something she should accept as a normal way of life or can you project
1 year, 2 years, or what, that inflation will end on food and come back to what
is called normal?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made substantial progress in combating inflation.
When I became President, the cost of living was over 12 percent per year. It
is down in the range of about 6 percent at the present time.
We had some very good results announced last Friday in the Wholesale
Price Index. As a matter of fact, as I recall, the food factor in the Wholesale
Price Index, as reported last Friday, was a minus, not an increase. And I
think we are getting a good, effective handle on the question of inflation—
not as good as we want, but we have cut it over 50 percent since I have been
President, and we are making increased progress in this regard. I think that
359
