February 16
[105]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
eral aid to give State and local authority far, far greater flexibility in its use.
And I hope you support it.
I make this proposal to untie the redtape that binds you. I want to free you
to meet the challenges of our third century, our century of individual fulfill-
ment. Our law and custom place the major responsibility for elementary and
secondary public education on State and local units of government, and the
record convinces me that decisions about education made on those levels are
wiser and far more responsive to community needs than the edicts of the Fed-
eral bureaucracy.
The Federal Government, while providing 7 percent of elementary and sec-
ondary funding, should not usurp the State and local role. But by consolidating
into block grants more than a score of existing programs, we can do a lot
better with our Federal dollars in your hands.
At the same time, my proposals would preserve the appropriate national
concern for quality education and concentrate available funds on the needs
of the handicapped and educationally deprived. Let me add that if we can
achieve the kind of consolidation which will lead to a more productive use of
Federal dollars, then even within tight budget constraints, we can plan to
increase allocations to elementary and secondary school systems throughout
the United States.
The budget proposals we will submit with our consolidation proposals will
reflect increases for each of the next 3 fiscal years. As we look ahead, we can
see our educational system adapting to meet changing needs. This has already
proved to be one of its great virtues. In the 1950's, for example, America
awakened to the urgent need for improved science and mathematics instruc-
tion in our Nation's schools. Our advances in technology over the last two
decades show that we have met this challenge. Today, we are faced with another
urgent program or problem in our Nation's development.
It is apparent that many citizens are uninformed or, worse, unconcerned
about the workings of the government and the execution of their laws. Young
people, in particular, appear cynical and alienated from our Government and
our legal system. Too many Americans see the law as a threat rather than as
a protection. Too few have been taught to understand the way laws are created
and administered and peacefully changed. In one poll of Federal workers, more
than two-thirds refused to sign an excerpt from the Declaration of Independence.
Almost half did not recognize the phrase "We hold these truths to be
self-evident."
345
