[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
redtape, with the best service to the customers, so to speak, the American people.
I think everybody would say that he has been and is today an outstanding
administrator.
NATURAL GAS
[19.] Q. Sue Roman, WTSN Radio.
Mr. Zarb was recently in New Hampshire lobbying for the deregulation of
interstate natural gas prices, but your critics have charged that this will sky-
rocket prices, and they also say this is inconsistent with the continued regula-
tion of gasoline and oil prices. How do you defend this position?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is very clear. You either deregulate natural gas
and get more American natural gas, or we buy more foreign oil. It is just that
simple.
Now, I happen to think it's better to develop our own resources. And in the
long run, you won't pay significantly more and will not be at the whim and
fancy of a foreign oil cartel.
Under the present circumstances, our domestic oil production is going down.
Under present circumstances with regulation of natural gas, domestic gas pro-
duction is going down. And if we don't deregulate natural gas, there will be
in a relatively short period of time virtually no domestic natural gas, which
means we have to buy more and more foreign oil.
I would rather use our natural gas rather than Arab foreign oil. And, there-
fore, I strongly feel that the deregulation of American natural gas is in the best
interests of this country.
SOVIET INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
[20.] Q. Douglas Cope, WHEB Radio.
Mr. President, there have been reports that the Soviet Union is using radiation
listening devices in our embassy in Moscow. How will the presence of these
listening devices affect Soviet-American détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that is a matter that ought to be discussed at this
stage. I have heard rumors concerning it, but I don't think it is a matter that
ought to be discussed at this point.
Q. Will Mr. Kissinger be briefing you on this subject?
THE PRESIDENT. The proper authorities in the Federal Government will.
If it is true, it's a very serious situation.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
3 Frank G. Zarb, Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration.
214
