February 14
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
your interstate system. I would expect that that legislation would be through
the Congress in a relatively short period of time. Unless something happens
that I don't foresee, it will be signed by me. It will be made available, or
the funding will be made available to the State, and then the State has to
make a decision where it wants to allocate that money.
Now I think with the extra money and a little push from you all and a
little suggestion from us, maybe we can get a good share of it over here in
southwest Florida.
SOCIAL SECURITY
Q. Ed Paulie from the Keystone State of Pennsylvania, Georgetown, specifi-
cally. And I understand that you are going to visit with us some time this-
THE PRESIDENT. I have been up there several times with your good friend
John Sailor.
Q. Right, a good man.
Mr. President, prior to the 1974 elections you indicated a need for a special
5-percent increase in income taxes. Now the only response you got from the
Democratic majority was that they used it against you at the election time.
Now just a few weeks ago you announced the necessity for an increase of
social security taxes and the cost of Medicare. Now no doubt the only response
you will get from the Democrats is that they will use it against you again in
November elections.
Now, while I agree with you that these increases are a solvent necessity,
my question from the standpoint of practical politics, how do you justify
the timing of these tax announcements?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is an excellent question, and it is one that
ought to be answered. If we make decisions about the integrity and certainty
of the Social Security Trust Fund on the basis of politics, a person does not
deserve to be elected President.
The truth is that everybody knows that in this current fiscal year the receipts
for taxes for the Social Security Trust Fund are $3 billion less than the expendi-
tures. And everybody knows that next year there will be $3.5 billion more going
out of the trust fund than comes in in new taxes, and it is going to get progres-
sively worse under the present setup. Eventually, if we don't do something, there
won't be any trust fund for the people who are already retired and the people
who are going to retire. Now, I don't think we ought to play politics with that
kind of a situation, and I don't intend to.
315
