March 11
[203]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
field, I outlined my agricultural policies in some detail. Let me summarize
them here for you this afternoon.
I am firmly opposed to the Government holding your reserves in Government
bins or Government warehouses. I am firmly opposed to a Government board
selling your exports. I want our export trade to stay in private hands.
I am firmly opposed to any international reserve that would put your farm
products under the control of an international body where this country could
be outvoted 50 to 1 or even possibly 100 to 1.
I am firmly opposed to subsidized imports. I don't want American farmers
competing against the treasuries of foreign countries.
I am in favor of productivity and prosperity on the farms of America. Over
the last 2 years, net farm income has risen to the highest levels in American
history. That outstanding record is due to two things: First of all, it is due to
some very, very hard work on the part of the farmers of Illinois and those in
other agricultural States and, second, we have let the farmer rely on the market-
place rather than to depend on the Federal Government. This new freedom
with its competition, its incentives, and its capacity for expansion and flexibility
has worked both to the farmers' benefit and to the benefit of overall agricultural
strength and economic growth.
I oppose any policy that would once again have the farmers producing for
Government storage and a Government check on the Government's terms. My
policy is to let the Government govern and let the farmer farm and let the people
as a whole benefit.
That policy has worked wonders in the past few years, and we can make it
succeed just as well in the future. The American farmers' market today reaches,
as all of you know, to the far corners of the world. The American farmer ex-
ported a record $21.6 billion in agricultural products last year, nearly $2 billion
worth of that right here from the farms in Illinois.
This year, we are selling $6.8 billion worth of agricultural products to Western
Europe, $3.2 billion worth to Japan, $2 billion worth to the Soviet Union, and
$1.2 billion worth to Eastern Europe.
We have concluded a long term agreement for grain sales to the Soviet Union,
which calls for the sale of at least 6 million tons of corn and wheat every year
between 1976 and 1980. Because of this and because of other agreements, your
export prospects will no longer be caught in what has been literally called a
feast or famine cycle, peaks and valleys if you wish to describe it that way. In-
stead, those prospects will be steady and reliable and as profitable as we can
make them.
611
