[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
to thank all of those people on the outside—just unbelievable—and we will do
our darndest to say hello to them after we conclude the program here.
But let me also say when you get a welcome like this, the temptation is to
stay maybe overnight. But on the way from California to here, I called Betty,
and she said—I hope she meant it—that she wanted me home tonight. And you
know I never disagree with Betty. [Laughter]
I think it is awfully easy to see as I drove in—and of course I was here about
2 years ago why La Crosse was chosen over 243 other cities last year as the
number one small metropolitan community in America. And I congratulate
you for that wonderful, outstanding achievement.
At that time, I sent a letter of congratulations to your fine mayor, Pat Zielke.
When that announcement was made, then coming here and seeing it all in
person, I can see why all of you were so very, very proud of it. You should be
proud, I think, of the way you have successfully maintained a very workable
and a very beneficial balance between preservation on the one hand and prog-
ress on the other.
It is my observation that La Crosse, of almost any city in the country, big or
small, has found the key that makes for good living. A thriving city and fertile
farmlands are in peaceful coexistence here in this community in this area. And
the sheer physical beauty of La Crosse is really something to behold.
Your people are strong and forward looking, your commerce is diverse, and
in many ways La Crosse is almost a good America in miniature. You have en-
joyed a very rich and a very exciting history, as America has. You have had your
share of problems, as America has. But your accent has always been, as I read
your history, on the future, just as America's must be. The year 1976 is a vitally
important, very critical year for America. It is critical for Wisconsin. It is critical
for La Crosse. It marks a turning point for our country as we enter the last
quarter of the 20th century and begin the third century of America's great
history.
It is good for us sometimes to take stock where we have been, where we are
right now, and where we are going as a people, as a city, as a State, and as a
nation. But as we look back over the last two centuries of America's history,
the pages of history tell us that America has come a long, long way in this last
200 years.
We have grown from a very small, poor, weak, struggling collection of 13
colonies to become the greatest nation in the history of the world. Your an-
cestors right here in the great State of Wisconsin helped to conquer a vast and
very dangerous continent and made the heart of America very strong.
834
