February 9
[70]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
serious effects that health care cost inflation is having on the Medicare program,
and 3) lack of incentives to encourage efficient and economical use of hospital
and medical services. My proposal addresses each of these problems.
In my State of the Union Message I proposed protection against catastrophic
health expenditures for Medicare beneficiaries. This will be accomplished in
two ways. First, I propose extending Medicare benefits by providing coverage
for unlimited days of hospital and skilled nursing facility care for beneficiaries.
Second, I propose to limit the out-of-pocket expenses of beneficiaries, for covered
services, to $500 per year for hospital and skilled nursing services and $250 per
year for physician and other non-institutional medical services.
This will mean that each year over a billion dollars of benefit payments will
be targeted for handling the financial burden of prolonged illness. Millions of
older persons live in fear of being stricken by an illness that will call for expen-
sive hospital and medical care over a long period of time. Most often they do
not have the resources to pay the bills. The members of their families share their
fears because they also do not have the resources to pay such large bills. We have
been talking about this problem for many years. We have it within our power
to act now so that today's older persons will not be forced to live under this kind
of a shadow. I urge the Congress to act promptly.
Added steps are needed to slow down the inflation of health costs and to help
in the financing of this catastrophic protection. Therefore, I am recommending
that the Congress limit increases in medicare payment rates in 1977 and 1978 to
7% a day for hospitals and 4% for physician services.
Additional cost-sharing provisions are also needed to encourage economical
use of the hospital and medical services included under Medicare. Therefore,
I am recommending that patients pay 10% of hospital and nursing home
charges after the first day and that the existing deductible for medical services be
increased from $60 to $77 annually.
The savings from placing a limit on increases in Medicare payment rates and
some of the revenue from increased cost sharing will be used to finance the
catastrophic illness program.
I feel that, on balance, these proposals will provide our elder citizens with
protection against catastrophic illness costs, promote efficient utilization of serv-
ices, and moderate the increases in health care costs.
The legislative proposals which I have described are only part of the over-all
effort we are making on behalf of older Americans. Current conditions call for
continued and intensified action on a broad front.
237
