[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
In a relatively short period of time, that $43 billion trust fund will be zero
unless we in government have the courage to step up to the issue and do one
of several things to make it solid and financially sound.
I felt that we couldn't bypass the issue with the situation deteriorating, so
I recommended to the Congress that they increase the payments by the employer
and the employee by six-tenths of 1 percent, which would be less than a dollar
a week for the person with the highest payment. That would come to $49 a
year. That would be the one who pays the most. That is the increase. Now, that
would make the fund solvent.
The Congress apparently isn't going to face up to the issue. I think that is
deplorable; it cannot be justified, because it will make it more difficult a year
from now. But I understand it is an election year, and I just think it is bad, but
we have to deal with reality. We've got to face the issue. And either you make
it financially sound by additional taxes, or you reduce benefits, or you end up
taking what the deficit is out of the general fund and I am totally opposed
to that solution.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
[9.] Q. I think that we should get some power in more countries, because
if we don't, the Communists are just going to take over the rest of the world,
and they are going to attack on us.
THE PRESIDENT. Could you repeat that again, please?
Q. I think we should get more power in other countries, because if we don't,
the Communists are going to take over the world and going to attack on us.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that your concern is a very legitimate one. This coun-
try has to be strong enough internally and domestically with our economy and
with our will, and we have to have sufficient military capability to protect us
externally. If we don't have the wherewithal internally and externally and
the will to defend freedom, what you are saying will take place. But I happen
to be an optimist that your father and your father's friends and a lot of other
Americans all over this country will defend freedom, will be willing to sup-
port an adequate defense budget to make America strong, so that we can
handle the problem of Soviet and any other aggression by Communists, and
we will make it a safe country for you, young lady.
PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[10.] Q. Mr. President, maybe this isn't a good question to bring up at a
political rally for you, sir, but it is an issue that I think affects everyone and
that touched the country for a long time, and this is Watergate. I would like
674
