January 5
[8]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The linkage of grain [with] diplomacy would mean disruption and hard-
ship for you, the farmer, a serious increase in tensions between the world's
two super powers, and no effect whatsoever on Angola.
U.S.-Soviet rivalry in some areas around the world has unfortunately not
ceased. The answer is to take other appropriate limited measures necessary to
block and stop Soviet actions that we find unacceptable. And we will.
Now, in these complicated and controversial times it is imperative that you
maintain the freedom to market crops and to find customers wherever you can.
Strong agricultural exports are basic to America's farm policy and the freedom
of every farmer to manage his own farm.
You should be rewarded, not punished, for producing each year much more
than we consume at home. You must—and I emphasize “must”—export two-
thirds of each year's wheat crop or cut back production. You must export 50
percent of your soybeans or cut back production. You must be able to export
more than 55 percent of your rice crop or cut back production. You must be
able to export 40 percent of your cotton or cut back production. You must
export at least one-fourth of your feed grain or cut back production.
In short, you must export to keep farming profitable in America. You must
export if we are to keep a favorable balance of United States international trade.
You must export if you are to prosper and the world is to eat. This is the farm
policy that is bringing new life to our rural countryside.
Food, as all of you know, is now our number one source of foreign exchange.
Farm exports last year totaled nearly $22 billion. Our favorable $12 billion
balance in international agricultural trade offsets deficits in nonagricultural
trade. It strengthens the American dollar abroad. This helps to pay for the
petroleum and other imports that are vitally essential to maintain America's
high standard of living.
We have heard much in the 1970's of petropower, the power of those nations
with vast exportable petroleum resources. Today, let us consider a different
kind of power-agripower, the power to grow.
Agripower is the power to maintain and to improve the quality of life in
a new world where our fate is interdependent with the fate of others in this
globe. People throughout the world can reduce the consumption of petroleum
with some sacrifice, but they cannot reduce the consumption of food without
widespread starvation.
Indeed, the world's population will nearly double by the year 2000. By
coping with hunger, we can assure a better future for all the peoples of the
world. General George C. Marshall, in outlining his European recovery plan
17
