[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. We have excellent relations with the Chinese Nationalist
Government. I have been there. I know their top people. It has been a good
ally. We have a defense treaty with them. They are good friends, and we are
going to stick by them.
Q. When are you going to visit them again?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am pretty busy right now. [Laughter]
Q. I wish you good luck, Mr. President.
REFLECTIONS ON THE PRESIDENCY
THE PRESIDENT. One more and then we'll quit.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know if you like the job as President or
if you would rather have another job, and why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I really enjoy the job. I enjoy the challenge. I get up
every morning—I can't wait to get to the office. [Laughter] That's true, that's
true. I thoroughly enjoy it. And I like to go home and have dinner with Betty,
but I like to stay and get the job done every day. It's a great challenge because
we have problems, but they are solvable, and I enjoy the opportunity to work
with people in trying to solve those problems. And I like the job, and that is
why I am a candidate, and that is why I would appreciate your support next
Tuesday and on November 2.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President left the main gymnasium and entered the girls' gymnasium
where the overflow crowd had assembled. After being introduced by Mrs. Ford, the Presi-
dent continued answering questions.]
MRS. FORD. I appreciate how much it means to us that you have all been here
and stayed here, and it gives me great pleasure to present the President of the
United States. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Those are kinder words than she usually gives me. [Laughter]
Let me thank you all for coming, staying, and it is a great privilege and
pleasure for both Betty and myself to come and see you all firsthand. And if I
don't violate the rules of the house, can I take a couple of questions here? I'd
be delighted to.
FEDERAL BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, what plans do you have for the next 4 years to balance
the Federal budget?
The President. Well, in the budget that I submitted to the Congress in Jan-
uary, if the Congress holds the restraint on Federal spending that I have
386
