[49]
January 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
the other party, or at least many of its leading spokesmen, the party of the
status quo.
In American politics the pendulum has swung back and forth from the first
debates of Hamilton and Jefferson, always coming down on the side of the
ultimate wisdom of the people. The first President of our party is remembered
more for himself than for his wonderful words. Yet among the wisest advice he
ever gave to practicing politicians was that you can't fool all of the people all of
the time. Lincoln's advice is just as true today. I believe we are heading in the
right direction as a nation, and I say to you that we must also head in the right
direction as a party.
It was particularly encouraging to me to hear the spokesman for the other
party agree that we can't go back to the old days, that we must not be afraid of
change, and that there are no man-made problems that we as people cannot solve.
Yes, this year we are the party of change. We have turned our back on those
old ways. We have turned away from the discredited idea that the Federal
Government can solve every problem just by spending more of your tax money
on it. Yes, we know that a government big enough to give us everything we want
is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
We are on the side of individual freedom. We are on the side of common
sense. And we are going forward to victory in November of 1976.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. in the
Hubbard Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Charles Slocum,
Minnesota Republican State chairman, and Gov-
ernors William G. Milliken of Michigan and Robert
F. Bennett of Kansas.
50
Remarks on Arrival at Langley Air Force Base,
Virginia. January 31, 1976
General Dixon, Colonel Moore, distinguished and dedicated members of the
Armed Forces, both military and civilian:
I am very grateful, most indebted to you for this very warm and overly gener-
ous welcome. And I thank you very, very much.
It is a great thrill for me to be on Langley Air Force Base and to know that
we have military and civilian personnel from Fort Monroe, Fort Eustis, as well
as from the Navy installations at Norfolk.
134
