March 11
[205]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
million wonderful people under a wonderful form of government, with great
hopes and aspirations, the protector of freedom, one country in the world that
can give to others the inspiration to have what we have.
This is our mission, our responsibility. I know that America won't let us
down, and I know America won't let others down. I am proud to be an Ameri-
can, and I am proud of America just as you are.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President proceeded to another level of the mall to address part of the
overflow crowd which had gathered there.]
I first want to thank the Kabala Drum and Bugle Corps. Thank you very
much, fellows. I am just overwhelmed. So many good looking young folks,
boys and girls, so many nice parents, so many nice people, period. I thank you
all for coming very, very much.
Now, I don't know whether you heard what I said down below. Did you?
Well, I won't say it again if you did or didn't. I just want to express my real
appreciation for the wonderful turnout here in Rockford. I want to thank the
Cherryvale people for making it available. I want to thank everybody who has
come.
I think we have done the right thing for the country. In the 19 months that
I have been President, we have gone through a tough time, but we are coming
out of it, and we are going to do better and better. In the meantime, we have
been able, through strength, to keep the peace, and we are going to keep the
peace through strength.
Then let me just conclude by saying I would appreciate your help next Tues-
day. I would appreciate your assistance on Election Day. I won't let you down.
I will do what is right. I will give you straight talk. I won't promise more than
we can produce, and we will produce everything we promise. That's a deal.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:09 p.m. at Cherry-
vale Mall. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Representative John B. Anderson, Governor Richard
B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman, and David
L. Martinson, district director, Illinois President Ford
Committee.
627
