March 12
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
associate themselves from the international Communist movement. I have to
be somewhat skeptical of the sincerity of those positions. I believe that NATO
and the Western Alliance will be stronger without any such involvement by
a Communist-dominated government. So, I strongly support the policy that
America should build the alliance on free government policies and not govern-
ments dominated by Communist political parties.
Q. Another question, Mr. President, and there have been quite a number on
this subject. Since your visit to China in December, there has been, of course,
a change in the leadership there. Could you comment on the administration's
current policy both toward the mainland government in Peking and, secondly,
about the plans for this administration's dealings with the government on
Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in China in December of this year, of course it
was the second trip that I had made. In 1972 I went with the Democratic House
leader, and the two of us spent almost 2 weeks there. And we went back in
December of this year and had the opportunity of meeting with Chairman Mao
and other top leaders in the People's Republic of China.
I believe that the progress we are making in our relations with the People's
Republic is right on course, predicated on the Shanghai communique of 1972.
It is a slow but, I believe, constructive process. We are developing broadening
relations with 800 million people, a country that dominates the landmass in
Asia. And I believe it is in our interest to continue to broaden and strengthen
that relationship in a prescribed way that was laid out first at the time of the
Shanghai communique.
The relations at the present time with the Chinese Nationalist Government
on Taiwan are good. We have a defense treaty with the Chinese Nationalist
Government. They have had an amazing rebound in their economy, and they
are no longer dependent upon us for economic or military assistance. The rela-
tionship, we hope, can continue to be a beneficial one. And I hope as we move
toward normalization with the People's Republic, that we can maintain a proper
relationship with the Chinese Nationalist Government. It is difficult to write
a prescription here in Chicago, but I think it is possible, and I think it is in our
national interest.
Q. We have a number of questions about the relations between the executive
branch and Congress. Specifically, how can a President in conducting foreign
policy operate efficiently if the majority of Congress is going to operate politi-
cally and place severe restrictions on the President?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say I give the Congress the benefit of the doubt
649
