[185]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Those circumstances precipitated negotiations that have been carried on by three
Presidents. Those negotiations are going on today between the Government of
Panama and the United States.
I can only assure you because the negotiations have not been completed—
that the United States, as far as I am concerned, will never give up its national
defense interests nor give up its interests in the operation of the Panama Canal.
And whatever is negotiated—and nothing has been concluded-will be sub-
mitted in its entirety to the Congress of the United States.
NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
[12.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I'm from Peoria. As you know, cen-
tral Illinois has had a severe natural gas shortage. What do you propose to do
about this natural gas shortage at a national level?
The President. Let me thank you for asking one of the most fundamental
questions asked here tonight. The United States is presently hamstrung by some
outmoded legislation that precludes us from stimulating the production of more
domestic natural gas production.
The Congress has been struggling for a long time. The Senate passed a good
bill about 2 months ago. The House of Representatives, by a razor-thin, narrow
margin, passed a bad bill-terrible, absolutely terrible-which is worse, in effect,
than what we have as a matter of law right now.
Unfortunately, we are at a loggerhead or a stalemate. We have had a declin-
ing production within the United States of natural gas since 1973, and as long
as the present law or the House of Representatives' bill are law, it will go down
and down and down and down and we will buy more and more and more
foreign, Arab oil, and that's not good for America.
What I'm saying is, get the Members of the House of Representatives—I
think all the ones here voted right—[laughter]-get them to help us to go along
with the Senate and stimulate domestic production.
Q. Mr. President, this will be the last question.
THE PRESIDENT. Can't we have one more? There is a nice looking young lady
over there. [Laughter]
POSTAL SERVICE DEFICIT
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I'm from Peoria, and I'm a postal employee. I
understand that you were against increasing the postal subsidy, and now they
have been denied the chance to close the rural post offices. What do you see as
the future for the Postal Service, a service that is vital to all Americans?
556
