March 9
[197]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
197
Remarks at the Annual Congressional Dinner of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars. March 9, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Pete. My dear friend, Congressman Eddie Hébert,
my former colleagues in the House as well as in the Senate, distinguished mem-
bers of the VFW and guests:
Obviously, it is a very great privilege and pleasure to be here tonight, and I
thank you from the bottom of my heart for the very warm welcome. All I can
say is it feels as warm and as comforting as a ray of Florida sunshine. [Laughter]
As a very proud member of VFW Old Kent Post 830, let me say how happy I
am to be here with you tonight at this annual banquet for Members of Congress.
If I were to go back and count how many times I have come as a Member of the
House, joining all of the VFW members from Michigan and my own home-
town, I have had many, many enjoyable and delightful evenings. And I thank
you for those occasions as well as this affair tonight.
At this annual banquet let me pay tribute to and congratulate Joanne Larson
and all of the other winners of the VFW Voice of Democracy contests. You
have had some great winners in the past, you have got some great winners
tonight, and I think it is a great program that the VFW can be proud of, not
only this year but for all the years. And I strongly hope, Pete, that the VFW
will continue this program in the future.
Let me start out by saying that this afternoon at the White House I received
a visit from a fellow Michigander named Marla Maraquin, the VFW Buddy
Poppy Girl for 1976. As an interested observer, let me say what a sweet young
lady. As she left, she whispered, “Goodby, Jerry." [Laughter] Well she is a
charming 12-year-old gal from the VFW's national home in Eaton Rapids, and
I know she will help all of us to have a very successful Buddy Poppy campaign
this year.
I suspect that many of you in this audience have visited the VFW home in
Eaton Rapids. If you haven't, you should; it is a great, great inspiration, and she
will do for that home and for all of us and especially for the young people who
are there—her job will make it easier for all of us to be very proud of that effort,
that home, and the VFW.
Marla, good luck, and God bless you.
I recall just about a year ago, maybe a year and a half ago, I had the honor of
speaking to your 75th national convention shortly after I became President. At
601
