[293]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ball field as a coach, as a player. And I value my friendship with Bart Starr, and
he is going to give you a great ballteam in Green Bay.
1
Then, I had the privilege of knowing Gary Dilweg's father ¹ when I was
in Washington as a young Congressman. And it is awfully nice of you, Gary,
and your wife, to help in the leadership of my campaign in this part of Wisconsin.
And then, one final note. I got to know Curley-not Curley Lambeau but
Vince Lombardi when he came to Washington, and what an inspirational per-
son. He just exuded the good things—the things that are good about America,
the things that are good about competition, the things that are good about you
and me. And so my experiences with Green Bay have all been good, and I am
just delighted to be here, because I feel so strongly about the people here, the
people I know and what you stand for.
I look forward to answering your questions, but prior to that let me make
a few remarks. Let me tell you what I see as I look at the United States of
America in the spring of its Bicentennial Year. Of course spring is always a good
time of the year, it is a time when nature seems to come alive again, and the
weather turns pleasant and mild, but there is a lot more this year to that than
it has been in previous springs.
People in the country are feeling a whole lot better this spring than they did
last spring. For example, a year ago about this time some people thought we
were headed straight for a depression. Others said unemployment was going
to reach 10 percent or more and gas would be selling for a dollar a gallon.
and I know that is not the way things turned out.
But you
Instead of a cold, hard depression we have got a bright springtime economy,
and it is going to get better and better if we follow the right courses.
We made a lot of headway. We cut inflation in half in the last 12 months,
and we are going to keep it going down. We have recovered 2,600,000 jobs since
last March. Just yesterday the Department of Labor announced that we had
86,700,000 Americans gainfully employed in the month of March—an alltime
record we should be darn proud of.
What it amounts to is that the rate of unemployment is going down and total
employment is going up, and we are making significant headway in the battle
against inflation. We had the fourth straight month of improvement in our
leading economic indicators. In February, retail sales were up, new orders re-
ceived by manufacturers reached the highest dollar volume in the history of the
United States. This means-and this is the crux of the matter-that consumers
have enough confidence to spend their money and businessmen have enough
¹U.S. Representative LaVern R. Dilweg of Wisconsin 1943-45.
954
