[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. LYNN. It used to be that way. There is a little tug-of-war going on in
GAO as to how far the authority extends.
THE PRESIDENT. That was included in the Alaskan Pipeline bill.
MR. LYNN. Yes, sir.
The Paperwork Commission is showing a great deal of interest in this area
and had testimony from us at OMB and from the GAO with respect to the reach
as to forms in the regulatories. And a letter did go out from the Paperwork
Commission to the heads—or is about to, I don't know whether it has been
launched or not—asking their cooperation, and I think we should see some real
action there. I haven't talked to everyone but the ones I have talked to on the
paper matter as such-which is linked to the whole regulatory process, but in
some ways can be attacked separately—but I feel that everyone does want to
cooperate. But, as to that, whether the existing relationship is the right one as
to the review of forms and what kinds of authority, whether in OMB or some
other place, that is an issue.
MR. DUNHAM. We are not asking for new sets of information. It is just a dif-
ferent format. We have joint jurisdiction in many cases with States, where the
responsibility is split. We work closely with the State regulatory agencies, and
to work out the same information we can proceed on a joint basis. They will
have access into our information and we will have access to theirs so we can
coalesce it, and I think that will have a real impact.
Again, it will be helpful in that both the States and Federal Government can
begin with the same basic information instead of disputing whether somebody
had a different time period or why the figures are different. I think there will
be a great deal of payoff on that.
Another procedure is what we call effective planning procedure where we
solicit the regulated industry, our own staff, and the general public on issues
that they see coming forward. The attempt here is to get us away from con-
sidering solely the case-by-case analysis.
It appears to us that, when you examine each case, when you argue each case,
when you analyze it and everything else, the ultimate resolution of the case
has many, many factors of law, economics, and everything else. And it is hard
to pick out the theme, the policy theme that runs ahead of it.
Now, if we can establish this process, if we can set policy guidelines, rule-
making guidelines, whatever, where the regulated industry and everybody—
the general public included—will have an idea of the guidelines, the type of
things, the range of area, instead of being, as it appeared to us, being caught in
1016
