January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The President. I don't believe that the public in any State will permit a State
legislature or a Governor from failing to meet their responsibilities. They have
the same public interest and pressure on them that the Congress does. The record
is good and the money that we plan to give to the States in the health consolida-
tion program is $10 billion in fiscal 1977, it goes to $102 billion in fiscal 1978,
and to $11 billion in fiscal 1979. We are showing our responsiveness. And I
believe that States will respond as their citizens want them to.
Now, on the question of going from Medicaid to Medicare—or Medicare to
Medicaid. Under the catastrophic program that I have, the individual has no
reason to do so-none whatsoever.
Q. Mr. President, in your budget, why is it that proposed outlays for military
programs go up 9 percent while proposed outlays for education go down 12
percent, and for such things as community development down about 5 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. It relates precisely to our national security. We have had, over
the last 10 years, a trend totally in the opposite direction. Ten years ago, the
Department of Defense got, roughly, 40-some percent of the Federal outlays,
and domestic programs got 32 or 33 percent. And in fiscal 1976, it was almost
reversed. And if we are going to have an adequate national security, if we are
going to have a capability in conventional or strategic arms, we have to increase
our expenditures in fiscal 1977. It is just that our national security dictates it.
We have been pinching the national security forces in the last 10 years. And I
think we have to have a slight change in that direction.
Q. If I might follow up. There, of course, are a great many people in this
country that think that education is involved in our national security. And I
would like to ask you, with a 6-percent projected rate of inflation and a 12-
percent cut in Federal education programs, how is education in the United States
possibly going to keep up?
The President. Well, as I recall, the percentage of money spent on education
nationwide by the Federal Government is a relatively small part of it. And,
actually, in our education program we are recommending $150 million more.
So, we are adding to the pot as far as the Federal Government is concerned.
I will ask Secretary Mathews to give you a more complete answer, but the
Federal contribution to education is a relatively small part of the total that is
spent by States and local communities for education. So, the switch here I don't
think is significant, particularly when the Federal Government has the total
responsibility for our national security. And that is our prime obligation in this
complicated world in which we live.
David.
63
