April 5
[299]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
from Wyoming. When in full production, these three reserves will provide
more than 300,000 barrels of oil per day, which represents about 4 percent of
what we now import daily from foreign suppliers.
The new act also makes it possible for production from the naval reserves
to contribute directly to the creation of strategic petroleum reserve authorized
in the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, which I signed into law Decem-
ber 22, 1975. Once established, the strategic reserve will provide both a deterrent
to future embargoes and a significant means to offset the effects of any future
supply interruption. The strategic reserve will permit us to have needed petro-
leum much more readily available in case of an emergency for our Armed
Forces and other critical national needs.
The act also redesignates the naval reserve in Alaska as a naval national
petroleum reserve to be managed by the Department of the Interior.
This act is a very important step toward reversing our declining domestic
oil production, but other steps obviously must be taken. Eighteen major energy
proposals still await congressional approval on Capitol Hill. I strongly urge
the Congress to move ahead on these additional initiatives, so that as we cele-
brate our 200th year of independence, we take affirmative action toward achiev-
ing energy independence as well.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:23 p.m. at a
ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of
Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, Secretary of the
Interior Thomas S. Kleppe, Secretary of the Navy
J. William Middendorf II, and Federal Energy Ad-
ministrator Frank G. Zarb.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 49) is Public Law 94-
258 (90 Stat. 303).
299
Statement on Signing the Naval Petroleum Reserves
Production Act of 1976. April 5, 1976
IN MY first State of the Union Message more than a year ago, I set forth goals
for regaining energy independence for the United States. I also outlined a com-
prehensive and ambitious national program needed to achieve our energy goals.
The first goal is to reduce our growing reliance on imported oil.
We have launched energy programs that are possible within existing authori-
ties, and I have asked the Congress for the additional legislative authority that
we must have. My proposed Energy Independence Act of 1975 contained 13
specific programs to encourage energy conservation and increase domestic energy
production. More recently, I sent to the Congress proposals dealing with nuclear
971
