[238]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
who is a lawful owner of a gun register the gun or register the gunowner. I am
against it, period.
The way to handle that problem is to make sure that the penalty is strict and
that the courts send the people who use a gun unlawfully in the commission of
a crime-goes to jail and stays there.
Now, let's talk for just a minute about a couple of things that the Federal
Government has to do, must do. Number one, we have some 32 or 33 million
citizens in this great land who have reached the age of maturity. They are
sometimes called senior citizens. They are wonderful, wonderful older people.
Your mother and father, our parents, they brought us up. They have earned the
right for an honest, good retirement.
Now, there are some people that want to destroy the social security system. I
disagree. We want to make it stronger. We want to make certain, we want to
make positive, that the Social Security Trust Fund is there for those who are on
retirement and those who are about to retire. And this administration is going
to demand it.
Now, there is one other area of responsibility that the Federal Govern-
ment has under the Constitution; that is, the national security, the defense of
this great country. Let me tell you—and I say it very firmly and very strongly—
the United States of America today is second to none in military capability, and
we are going to stay there. Oh, I know there are some critics who charged other-
wise, but I don't really have much faith in those who downgrade America. I
think we ought to speak up for America.
Let me say that the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines are well-
equipped, well-trained, alert. They are on the perimeters, and they are doing a
great job for us. We should support them, and we do. They are strong enough to
deter aggression, they are strong enough to maintain the peace, and they are
strong enough to protect our national security. They are great, and we should
give them 100 percent support, as we do.
Now, let me talk for a minute, if I might—I understand there is a rodeo in
town. Well, sometimes this job, you know, in the Oval Office reminds me a little
bit of riding a bucking bronco. But let me tell you one thing—I am not going to
get thrown. With your help and support, I will stay in the saddle for 4 more
years. While I am there, I will be riding herd on that Congress to get them to do
some things right for a change.
But, then, let me take just a minute to talk about this great election that is com-
ing up in the State of North Carolina on Tuesday. Back around January every-
body said Jerry Ford was through, he couldn't win the nomination, we were
764
