February 14
[92]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
far and how fast we have come as a nation. We have our problems, and we are
not afraid to admit them.
Honesty in this situation is essential, but I think it is time people stop
running down America. I think it is time we remember how richly blessed
this Nation is. You, or many of you, in this audience have seen much of Amer-
ica's phenomenal progress with your own eyes. In the space of your lifetime,
man has taken himself from the horse and buggy and explored the far reaches
of space.
Diseases which were once crippling and killing millions of Americans have
now been conquered. America's population has more than doubled since 1910.
Life expectancy, which in 1910 was only 50 years, is today more than 71 years.
The gross national product, the index of our total production, is now seven
times greater than it was in 1910. To put it another way, the strength and
growth of the American economy provides the average American living today
with 3½ times more in goods and services than Americans enjoyed in 1910.
No other generation of Americans has achieved such growth, and all of us
thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
In 1910, some 156,000 young people graduated from America's high schools.
Last year's college graduates totaled 944,000. That is another indication of the
progress we are making in this great country.
In 1910 there was no regularly scheduled radio broadcasting in the United
States. Nobody had ever heard of television—maybe a few very, very outstand-
ing scientists. Today, we are living in an age of instant and global communica-
tions. These examples—and there are many, many, many more—serve to remind
us of how much has changed, of how much progress there has been in health,
wealth, education, communication, law, and in every other aspect of life in
our great country.
The fact is that you, your generation, has been the greatest pioneer of progress
and change in the entire history of the human race.
But some things, thankfully, have not changed at all. We are still a people
in America with love of freedom, and after 200 years that love is undiminished.
We are still a nation dedicated to progress and peace in the world. We are
still a nation of compassion. We are still, as Lincoln called us a century ago,
the last, best hope of Earth.
The United States is a great country, the greatest in the world. You helped
to make it that way, and this Nation will never, never, never forget your
contribution, past, present, or future.
And we will never forget the lesson which President Eisenhower taught
305
