February 20
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
President is, has to have some flexibility and capability of moving rapidly to
help us in maintaining the peace and maintaining the free world throughout
the world.
SCHOOL DESEGREGATION; PRAYER IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Q. Mr. President, I would like you to share with us some of your thoughts
on the educational system in our country; namely, do you feel that after 2
years of busing, the city of Boston now has a better system than 2 years ago?
And what are your thoughts on reintroducing prayer into the educational
system of this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last question first. I had the wonderful
experience of being the Republican minority leader in the House of Represent-
atives at the same time that my very dear friend, who has now passed away,
Senator Everett Dirksen, had as the minority leader in the United States Senate.
We were close personal friends. He and I both agreed that the decision of the
United States Supreme Court in precluding nondenominational prayer in public
schools was wrong. I think that it ought to be possible to have that kind of time
set aside for a nondenominational reflection and prayer. I think it ought to be
permitted. I strongly feel that way.
On the question of busing, the Supreme Court has tried to do two things:
It has tried to provide quality education; it has tried to end segregation. Those
are worthy objectives, I agree with that. I think the emphasis should be on
quality education. The emphasis should be on ending segregation, but I think
the Supreme Court, and our courts, particularly—some courts have used the
wrong remedies, and I vigorously oppose them.
It is my feeling that there has been a developing attitude on the part of some
of the courts, however, to take a more moderate view in exercising their con-
stitutional authority to handle the problem. And let me illustrate it very quickly.
Three years ago we had a Federal judge in Detroit who was going to mass
bus children from our county to another-not just from suburbs to the city.
He is no longer the judge handling that case. We now have a Federal judge
who is handling it, and he has understood the problem. And the net result
of his order, which seeks to achieve quality education and desegregation, is
accepted by the people of Detroit because it is responsible, it is moderate.
So, the courts have the authority. It is just that some judges don't seem to
understand that it is counterproductive to go as far as they have gone. And
therefore, I support what has been done in some cases, and I vigorously oppose
what has been done in others.
403
