January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we have an obligation to help give them the money so the programs can be
continued and not pull the money away and tell them to undertake the programs.
Q. Mr. President, I notice in your economic assumptions that you predict
7.7 percent unemployment to about November of 1976. Would you talk about
politics for a moment and give us your assessment of how this might affect your
chances for election?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me point out that the economic assumptions say that in
1975 they were 8.5, and the average in 1976 will be 7.7, and it will go down to
6.9 in 1978 [1977]. The important point is not the average; the important point
is that the trend of unemployment is down. It will be an average of 7.7, but it
will start higher in January of this year, and by November of this year, I think
it will be something less than 7.7. The trend is down.
What does that mean? It means that everybody who has a job has a degree of
security and those who don't have a job know the prospects for getting one are
better. That is the situation when the trend is down, as we projected, and it will
be. So, from an economic point of view, with peripheral political benefits, I
think it is a good program.
Q. Mr. President, can you give the specifics on what you project for
November?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you the specific projection for November. All I
know is the trend will be down.
Q. Mr. President, given your difficulties with the Congress last year, and
given the fact that you said the Presidential responsibility is to make the budget,
but nevertheless, you didn't consult with the budget committees, and given the
fact that many of these programs have been in effect for years, that they are
written in and they are already part of the congressional way of life, so to
speak, do you realistically expect, sir, that you can get cooperation from the
Congress to pass the budget that you are recommending? And where will you
make the compromise?
THE PRESIDENT. I expect to get full support from the Governors, from local
officials. I think they can have an impact on the Congress in these proposed
consolidation areas. In fact, I am meeting with some Governors and local
officials before lunch-and having lunch with them today—just to try and
generate real activity by them on behalf of what I have recommended.
Maybe the Congress won't go along, but if you look at those "mess charts" ³
The President was referring to diagrams for the health services, education, and food and nutrition
programs of the Federal Government.
61
