March 30
[272]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the last 10 years, maybe longer, not only in bilateral loans but in international
loaning organizations, there has been a financing of what are they—palm oil
plants have been stimulated in a number of the underdeveloped countries, and
the net result is, by 1985 there is a very serious potential of substantially in-
creased world production. That gives us concern now as well as in the future,
and we hope to have some recommendations that we probably would submit
to the Congress.
Is that my understanding, Earl?
SECRETARY BUTZ. Yes, sir, if we change the tariff it will take congressional ac-
tion. But I might point out that this comes at the very same time we are pre-
paring to go to Geneva asking for reduced barriers on trade. And we have a lot
more to lose from raising barriers than we have to gain. There are two sides to
this, and in the bigger picture we have got to be careful what we do.
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, have to be cognizant of $22 billion farm ex-
port benefits that we derived last year. I think it was a net $12 billion. So we have
got a big investment in continuing to export as much as we can, and to some ex-
tent certainly, it has to be a two-way street.
Q. Mr. President, in regards to your shuffling of your farm advisers and pro-
moting of Secretary Butz to the position he now holds, was there any one event
which prompted you to make that move? Was there anything that happened
in foreign trade of agriculture or on the domestic scene, which prompted you to
take that course of action?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there had been some criticism that the previous setup
was not sufficiently reflective of the role of American agriculture in that overall
problem. And in order to reflect that importance as far as the American farmer
was concerned, it seemed to me that the Secretary of Agriculture was the proper
person to chair the committee. For that reason, and that reason only, the
change was made.
Q. Mr. President, assuming your reelection, do you have any thoughts at this
time on what shape you would like to see the next farm bill, due to be written
in 1977-what shape you would like to see that take?
THE PRESIDENT. I will approach that answer in two ways. One, I don't want
to go back to the programs we had during most of the time that I was in the Con-
gress. I think those were a disaster. We ended up with great surpluses. We ended
up under those programs with the Department of Agriculture interfering vir-
tually in the operation of every farm in the United States. So, my general thought
would be that a continuation of the existing programs are the answer inasmuch
as I look at the records and I find that in the last 3 years net farm income to
859
