March 6
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we have the work incentive program. There are three or four others; I can't
remember their names. But it seems to me, that if the Government loans some-
thing to somebody, whether it's for business or an education or anything else,
and the person signs to borrow that money on those terms, there is an obliga-
tion to repay it. Now, the terms of repayment, as I think you know, are very
generous.
Q. I was understanding that, but mine was according to the grant that
students receive. They receive so much money and this is not a payback situ-
ation. The question is students who are not financially able to go to college
can receive basic educational opportunity grants. These are not payback money.
The colleges receive the money, and they are disbursed to the students. These
students—will they have to pay back this money in a percentage? Like the
Illinois State Scholarship, they must pay back 14 percent because they over-
imbursed people.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I understand the grant programs, it's literally a
grant. Now, what the schools or the States do—I think they match 10 percent,
do they not?—20, it's 20 percent. Now, I don't know what requirements the
States have or the schools have for the repayment or the granting of the 20
percent, but if it's a Federal grant, it's a grant.
But on the other hand, we have loan programs, and where there is an obliga-
tion to repay—under the generous terms, low interest and deferred payment—
I think a student or anybody else, when you sign a contract, you ought to up-
hold it. But the grants, I think, are to be considered as such. And I submitted
about $1 billion in basic opportunity grants for the next fiscal year, which
is a substantial increase over the present fiscal year funding.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I was wondering what the recent wheat failures,
what kind of effect it would have upon our trade with Russia?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, as I understand it, what the projected wheat
failure in Oklahoma, western Kansas, and that area would have on our trading
with the Soviet Union.
As I understand it from the Secretary of Agriculture, there is a potential
25-percent loss in that area of our wheat production, primarily a winter wheat
area. I also am told that that potential 25-percent loss in that area, serious as
it is to those farmers, is not a significant loss in our overall winter wheat
production.
587
