[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be a $73 billion deficit. Next year we are forecasting a $43 billion deficit.
I think the next year it is $19 billion, if my memory is correct, and the next year
it is balanced.
Now, these are figures that are put together by the experts who make the
projections based on the statistics that they spend their lifetime studying. Now,
there is one factor that we can't crank into this-what the Congress is going
to do.
Let me put it this way: In the bills that I have vetoed, which the Congress
has sustained, we have saved $7½ billion, which is not a bad plus. On the other
hand, there are some bills that I vetoed that the Congress overrode that added
to the deficit. So, on the assumptions that we have made, with all the computers
and the experts, the figures are accurate and I will stand by them.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Guy Bass, I'm a realtor. I'm chairman of our
State Florida Association of Realtors public affairs committee. We are vitally
concerned with the private property rights that are being taken away from
individual citizens by our Federal Government, by our State government. We
have been informed that there are probably over 600 bills in the Congress and
the Senate and the different legislatures around the country that further limit
the rights of private property without compensation, and this goes all the way
back to the rights given us by our Constitution.
We are vitally concerned with these bills that are being proposed, being
enacted. And I am sure you are familiar with some that are being proposed by
Senator Proxmire. We are also concerned about our business. We feel that a lot
of the small business peoples' rights are being taken away from us. For example,
we understand that HUD is training approximately 60,000 people per year—
are these figures correct?—to operate Government-subsidized building around
the country.
Now, I would like your thoughts on these trends, how you can help us, and
what your program is in connection with these matters.
THE PRESIDENT. In reference to the first point, I assume you are talking about
the proposals for Federal land use legislation, is that correct?
Q. That is correct, yes, sir.
The President. I am opposed to it—period. I think the State and local units
of government can make better decisions as to land use in the State of Florida
than the Federal Government can.
On the second question, I am dumbfounded by the statistics that you quote.
I am certain they are not accurate. I can tell you why, because the Department
of HUD actually will have slightly fewer employees, if my memory is correct,
286
