February 26
[140]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I
We are moving to implement the conservation authorities of the new Energy
Policy and Conservation Act, including those calling for State energy conserva-
tion programs, and labeling of appliances to provide consumers with energy
efficiency information.
I have asked for a 63 percent increase in funding for energy conservation re-
search and development in my 1977 budget.
If the Congress will provide needed legislation, we will make more progress.
I urge the Congress to pass legislation to provide for thermal efficiency standards
for new buildings, to enact my proposed $55 million weatherization assistance
program for low-income and elderly persons, and to provide a 15 percent tax
credit for energy conservation improvements in existing residential buildings.
Together, these conservation proposals can save 450,000 barrels of oil per day by
1985.
International Energy Activities
We have also made significant progress in establishing an international energy
policy. The U.S. and other major oil consuming nations have established a com-
prehensive long-term energy program through the International Energy Agency
(IEA), committing ourselves to continuing cooperation to reduce dependence
on imported oil. By reducing demand for imported oil, consuming nations can,
over time, regain their influence over oil prices and end vulnerability to abrupt
supply cut-offs and unilateral price increases.
The International Energy Agency has established a framework for coopera-
tive efforts to accelerate the development of alternative energy sources. The De-
partment of State, in cooperation with FEA, ERDA, and other Federal agencies,
will continue to work closely with the IEA.
While domestic energy independence is an essential and attainable goal, we
must recognize that this is an interdependent world. There is a link between
economic growth and the availability of energy at reasonable prices. The U.S.
will need some energy imports in the years ahead. Many of the other consuming
nations will not be energy independent. Therefore, we must continue to search
for solutions to the problems of both the world's energy producers and
consumers.
The U.S. delegation to the new Energy Commission will pursue these solu-
tions, including the U.S. proposal to create an International Energy Institute.
This Institute will mobilize the technical and financial resources of the indus-
trialized and oil producing countries to assist developing countries in meeting
their energy problems.
453
