February 29
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
166
Remarks in Tampa, Florida. February 29, 1976
Thank you very much, Lou. Congressman Skip Bafalis, Jim Gray, Mrs. Chavez,
all these distinguished guests and wonderful friends, ladies and gentlemen,
and particularly these wonderful young people-Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp-
fire Girls, Brownies-we love them all.
Obviously, it's a tremendous pleasure, a great experience for Betty and me to be
in Florida again and to sort of wrap up a tremendous weekend with this just
overwhelming, overawing experience here in Tampa. It's a great city-wonder-
ful people—and I guess I have a friend or two here. And with all the friends
we've got here and a good many elsewhere in Florida, we are going on from
here.
We intend to win the nomination in August, in Kansas, and then we are going
to win the election in November, in all 50 States. And we will win because we
have the policies, the programs and, above all, the people on our side. And all
of you here reflect that kind of support, and we thank you from the bottom of
our hearts.
We will win because the American people—they know that it took action, not
words, to put America back on the course. We have made real, solid, measurable
progress in solving the problems that affect most. And you are going to see a
lot more progress in the months ahead, I promise you that. And I haven't fallen
back on a promise in the 19 months that I have been in public office as President
of all of you.
When I became President 19 months ago, America was faced with some
very, very serious concerns: runaway inflation and recession, both of them
threatened our economic strength and our stability; international tensions
threatened the peace of the world in many places of the globe; a crisis of confi-
dence in our own government and in the basic institutions of our society threat-
ened the promise of the 200-year-old American experience. It was a bleak, de-
pressing, even frightening picture. It was a time that called for strong, affirma-
tive action.
Nineteen months later, the results are all there for Americans to take pride in
and all of the world to note. Our national economy is growing stronger and
more prosperous every day. The business community is planning ahead with a
new-found sense of certainty and security. And we, individually, are finding
493
