April 2
[282]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The White House, with President Johnson first, President Nixon second, and
myself third, has been negotiating with the Panamanian Government to find a
way to avoid the kind of incident that took place in 1965 where 30 people were
killed, including, as I recall, some 10 Americans. If we can negotiate an agree-
ment which will protect our right to defend that canal and to maintain and oper-
ate that canal, there is a possibility that an agreement will be reached. But none
has yet, and it is something that is in the negotiating process and no further.
SITUATION IN LEBANON
[5.] Q. Mr. President, with Syria poised to invade Lebanon, there are some
fears of a full-scale war erupting in the Mideast. How does the administration
view the events?
THE PRESIDENT. The administration has taken a very firm position that no out-
side government should invade Syria (Lebanon). That means no government
should move in and try to, with military force, take care of the situation in Syria
(Lebanon). Furthermore, we have strongly urged a cease-fire. And 2 days ago,
I sent a personal envoy, Mr. Dean Brown, to Lebanon. He has been in contact
with the various parties there. I believe that his efforts were significant in getting
the cease-fire which is now in place, and if we can keep that cease-fire, get a
change in the Government, I think the danger of any invasion by any party will
not materialize.
I repeat, we are against the invasion of Lebanon by any force. And we are seek-
ing to get, and have helped to achieve, a cease-fire, which is the first constructive
step to stabilize and to improve the situation.
MEETING WITH JOHN CONNALLY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, could you tell us something about the fruits of your
conversations with Governor Connally last night?
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Connally and Mrs. Connally are very good friends
of Betty and mine. We have known them rather well for some 15 years. Over the
years, we have always discussed politics; we have always discussed issues, par-
ticularly national defense issues. We spent about 3 hours together last night. We
covered those same subjects. We talked about politics; we talked about the cam-
paign; we discussed issues. And we certainly discussed the national defense
policies, because he was a former Secretary of the Navy, and I was formerly on
the Defense Appropriations Committee for 12 years, and I knew him then. And
we both understand and, certainly, are knowledgeable about defense policy. But
other than those broad comments, I think I should not say any more.
885
