[70]
February 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
We must begin by insuring that the Social Security system is beyond challenge.
Maintaining the integrity of the system is a vital obligation each generation has
to those who have worked hard and contributed to it all their lives. I strongly
reaffirm my commitment to a stable and financially sound Social Security system.
My 1977 budget and legislative program include several elements which I believe
are essential to protect the solvency and integrity of the system.
First, to help protect our retired and disabled citizens against the hardships
of inflation, my budget request to the Congress includes a full cost of living
increase in Social Security benefits, to be effective with checks received in July
1976. This will help maintain the purchasing power of 32 million Americans.
Second, to insure the financial integrity of the Social Security trust funds, I
am proposing legislation to increase payroll taxes by three-tenths of one percent
each for employees and employers. This increase will cost no worker more than
$1 a week, and most will pay less. These additional revenues are needed to stabi-
lize the trust funds so that current income will be certain to either equal or exceed
current outgo.
Third, to avoid serious future financing problems I will submit later this year
a change in the Social Security laws to correct a serious flaw in the current system.
The current formula which determines benefits for workers who retire in the
future does not properly reflect wage and price fluctuations. This is an inadvert-
ent error which could lead to unnecessarily inflated benefits.
The change I am proposing will not affect cost of living increases in benefits
after retirement, and will in no way alter the benefit levels of current recipients.
On the other hand, it will protect future generations against unnecessary costs
and excessive tax increases.
I believe that the prompt enactment of all of these proposals is necessary to
maintain a sound Social Security system and to preserve its financial integrity.
Income security is not our only concern. We need to focus also on the special
health care needs of our elder citizens. Medicare and other Federal health pro-
grams have been successful in improving access to quality medical care for the
aged. Before the inception of Medicare and Medicaid in 1966, per capita health
expenditures for our aged were $445 per year. Just eight years later, in FY
1974, per capita health expenditures for the elderly had increased to $1218, an
increase of 174 percent. But despite the dramatic increase in medical services
made possible by public programs, some problems remain.
There are weaknesses in the Medicare program which must be corrected.
Three particular aspects of the current program concern me: 1) its failure to
provide our elderly with protection against catastrophic illness costs, 2) the
236
