March 30
[272]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you, Mr. President, for your warm and
generous words of welcome. We have looked for-
ward with great pleasure to this visit, remembering
how cordially you and Mrs. Ford welcomed my
wife and me on our last visit a year ago, and what
a happy occasion it was for both of us.
You already know, Mr. President, how much
Jordan values the friendship of the United States. It
is a friendship that has grown steadily warmer and
deeper during each of the 17 years since I paid my
first visit to the United States.
At the time the United States was founded, your
forefathers proclaimed to the entire world and to
future generations that all men are created equal and
that there exists for each of them certain inalienable
rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness-
noble, inspiring thoughts. But even more inspiring
are 200 years of continued effort to remain true to
your founding principles-200 years that form a
heritage of which you may be justly proud.
Within my lifetime, your words and deeds have
been a great inspiration to me and the rest of the
world. Your sacrifice and dedication in World War
II saved the world from tyranny. By turning from
the weapons of war to the tools of peace under the
Marshall plan, your magnanimity rebuilt a Europe
that had been devastated by war.
I share with Winston Churchill the belief that this
was the most unsordid act in the history of the
world. The spirit that moved you to bind up the
wounds of a stricken world has continued in your
assistance to the developing nations of the Earth to
better their lives. We are a grateful recipient of your
valuable assistance.
On this anniversary, you are celebrating your
achievements of the past 200 years. The world is
celebrating with you for the inspiration and the help
you have given to all of us.
Your Nation is unique. It was created by people
from all over the world. You are repaying the world
for the contributions made to you and, because of
this, we all have a stake in your greatness and
destiny.
With the problems that still face the world, the
wisdom and fortitude that have marked your past
is needed now more than ever. I think there is no
place in the world that this is more true than in the
Middle East. Once again, we are at a crossroads
between war and peace. If we are to achieve peace, it
will depend to a large measure on your enlightened
leadership, Mr. President, in upholding the princi-
ples of justice which have prevailed during your 200
years of statehood.
Thank you, Mr. President, for the warm welcome.
I am looking forward to cordial and productive dis-
cussions with you on subjects of mutual interest and
concern during our forthcoming meetings and to the
strengthening of the long-established bonds of friend-
ship between our two countries.
272
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Members
of the American Agricultural Editors Association.
March 30, 1976
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Krumme, distinguished members of the American Agricul-
tural Editors Association:
It is a pleasure to have an opportunity to say a few words and then respond
to any questions.
First, I know you all know this, but I just want to reiterate it and reemphasize
it. About 3 weeks ago, I made a significant change in the manner in which we
are handling agricultural policy decisionmaking when I appointed the Secre-
tary of Agriculture to head our Agricultural Policy Board, and I have here, as
the Chairman of that, I think one of the finest Secretaries of Agriculture that
this country has ever had. And I want to assure you that this change is very
857
