[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, it does provide for better than a double increase in the exemption, from
$60,000 to $150,000, plus the capability to spread the payments for any addi-
tional tax over a 25-year period. Instead of having to borrow the money from
a bank and pay whatever the bank charges, you will have a 5-year moratorium
and then 20 payments, paying the Federal Government 4-percent interest. I think
that is a good way in which to help finance the transfer of the farm from one
generation to another.
Now, this is presently before the House Committee on Ways and Means, which
is the taxation committee of the Congress, and I hope that that legislation or
something comparable to it will be enacted by the Congress this year. It is long
overdue.
Q. Mr. President, I am a dairy farmer from Sheboygan County and the town
of Greenbush. I must say, I would like in my heart to support you because I
believe you are an honest and a good man. But your farm policy, from my point
of view, leaves much to be desired, and I refer specifically to the cheap food
policy of Mr. Butz.
I would like to ask you if you would consider removing Mr. Butz from office
because of this policy, and if you would also consider some kind of a method of
establishing some kind of a board or something, an advisory board, maybe, where
we farmers from the grassroots level could possibly help you in establishing
farm policy and give you advice on what we really need?
The President. I respectfully disagree with you. I think Earl Butz is the
finest, or certainly one of the finest Secretaries of Agriculture this country has
ever had, and I will tell you why.
Before Mr. Butz became Secretary of Agriculture, we had farm policies which
resulted in unbelievable surpluses being owned by the Federal Government.
They had piled up to the extent that Uncle Sam, your Government and my
Government, was paying almost $400 million a year just in storage policies.
There were storage fees. That is not a good farm policy. That kind of a farm
policy, with the heavy surpluses overhanging the market, kept farm prices
down.
Farm prices generally have gone up under Secretary Butz' policies and pro-
grams. And we don't have any surpluses, and we are selling more agricultural
commodities all over the world than we ever have in the history of the United
States.
The worst kind of farm policy would be one to go back to this surplus that we
had for 15 or 20 years, because those surpluses depress your farm prices. And
940
