[47]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
during the subsequent 1977-78 marketing year. In addition, consumers would
be required to pay an estimated $1.38 billion more at retail for dairy products
over the next two years.
If S.J. Res. 121 became law, the support level for milk would be set at 85 per-
cent of parity, with adjustments at the beginning of each quarter, through
March 31, 1978. This would result in substantial increases in the support level
over the next two marketing years without taking into account either changing
economic conditions or agricultural policies.
In disapproving similar legislation last January, I said: "To further reduce
the demand for milk and dairy products by the increased prices provided in
this legislation would be detrimental to the dairy industry. A dairy farmer
cannot be well served by Government action that prices his product out of the
market." This is still the case.
As far as this Administration is concerned, future changes in the price
support level will be based, as in the past, on a thorough review of the entire
dairy situation. Major economic factors, including the level of milk production,
recent and expected farm prices for milk, the farm cost of producing milk, con-
sumer prices and government price support purchases and budget outlays, will
be considered. Elimination of this thorough review by mandating an inflexible
support price would be inadvisable.
As you know, present legislation provides the Secretary of Agriculture with
sufficient flexibility to increase the level of milk price supports between 75 and
90 percent of parity whenever the conditions indicate that an increase is neces-
sary and advisable. The two increases announced by the Secretary of Agriculture
last year—one in January and another in October—should make it clear that this
Administration intends to provide the price assurance dairy farmers need.
In this regard, to ensure adequate milk price support levels, I have directed
the Secretary of Agriculture to review support prices quarterly, starting April 1.
If it appears necessary and advisable to make price support adjustments to ensure
the supply of milk, the Secretary of Agriculture will do so.
In vetoing S.J. Res. 121, I urge the Congress to join me in this effort to hold
down Federal spending, milk surpluses and consumer prices.
The White House,
January 30, 1976.
NOTE: The Senate sustained the President's veto on February 4.
GERALD R. FORD
116
