February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
chart on my right, Florida will have received $900 million in general revenue
sharing funds under the current program ending December 31, 1976.
This money has gone directly, with a minimum of redtape, to your State
government, to your county and city governments. That money has helped
to hold down local and State taxes. It has helped to fight crime. It has helped
to educate children.
If this money were cut out, the inevitable result would be higher local taxes
or reduced services or both. Revenue sharing is an excellent example of a
commonsense way that the Federal Government can help people in all 50
States. That is the sort of strength that I would like to draw on, and that is
why I have proposed extending, as well as increasing general revenue sharing
payments to State and local units of government.
As you can see, under my budget proposals, Florida will receive almost
$1,250 million from 1977 to 1982. Bringing it closer to home, over that period
Broward County would receive over $15 million, and the city of Ft. Lauder-
dale would receive $12 million. That is almost 50 percent more revenue sharing
money than they will have gotten under the 4-year program ending this
calendar year.
In my budget, I also have proposed tax incentives to spur capital investment
in areas of high unemployment. I want to encourage industry to build new
facilities to create lasting jobs. Such investment will help to build a broader,
more diversified economic base in hard-hit unemployment areas like your
own.
We are already on the right track. The rate of inflation has been cut almost
in half, and nearly all of the jobs lost during the recession have been recovered.
Let me tell you of some good news on the inflation front that was released
this morning by the Department of Labor. The Wholesale Price Index, of
course, has a substantial impact on the Consumer Price Index. The figures
released this morning show that the Wholesale Price Index had no increase
whatsoever. The report for this month followed the one of last month, which
showed a 1.6-percent reduction in the Wholesale Price Index, and the month
previous, it showed no increase whatsoever. So, for a 3-month span or one-
quarter of 1 year, we have had a net reduction in the Wholesale Price Index.
To stay on the right track, I would like—and insist, as a matter of fact—
to hold down the cost of living. And we can hold down the cost of living by
holding down the cost of government. I want to foster a climate of sensible
economic growth where jobs will be created by the demands of our economy,
275
