February 28
[155]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
154
Remarks in Ocean Ridge, Florida. February 28, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Mr. Mayor, and all you wonderful permanent and
transient residents of Ocean Ridge. It is great to have an opportunity to stop here
for just a few minutes, shake hands, and see really some old and very dear
friends of mine, and have an opportunity of making some new acquaintances.
I love the weather, but I like the people a lot more. I don't think that I ought
to make a long political speech, and I know darn well you don't want me to.
I think my record is clear, whether within the Congress or in the last 19 months
as President.
We took on some tough jobs, whether at home or abroad, in a year a half,
and the net result is we went through a very traumatic experience, and we are on
the way up. The economy is getting better. Our situation worldwide is good.
And so every one of us, young and old, should be darned proud of the United
States, our country.
And I pledge to you that what we have tried to do for the last 19 months we
will continue to do. It means freedom in its broadest context, freedom from the
difficulties of any problems at home, freedom from any problems abroad.
With your help on March 9, and then your help on November 2, we can really
go to town.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. at the Ocean Ridge Town Hall.
155
Remarks in Boynton Beach, Florida. February 28, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Mr. Mayor and all of the wonderful people
of Boynton Beach. Can I come back again?
It is just delightful to be here in this good weather but, more importantly, with
all you good people, that is the best part of it. Thank you very, very much.
Now let me make one or two comments. The mere fact that all of you are
here shows your chief interest and concern in what is good for America, and I
thank you and congratulate you. What you should do is take that same enthusi-
asm and make certain that it is used to make a better America here at home and
a stronger America abroad.
473
