April 5
[302]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
having love and affection and respect for 535 honored Members of the legisla-
tive branch of our Government.
Back in the difficult days after World War II, when I first entered political
life, my mentor and hero was the late Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Grand
Rapids, Michigan. Some of you will, I am sure, remember how Senator Van-
denberg, a Republican and a former isolationist, stood shoulder to shoulder with
President Harry Truman in the great challenges that faced the country in that
postwar era, particularly, in the threat to freedom and independence of Greece.
With such strong, bipartisan support, our foreign policy over the last 30 years
has prevented a third world war and enabled us to celebrate our 200th Birthday
as a nation, in peace and freedom.
Your biennial meeting in Washington this week also reminds us of the
great contribution Greeks and Americans of Greek descent have made to
the development of the United States of America. Greeks were among our
earliest settlers in 1767, just 9 years before the signing of the Declaration of In-
dependence. Greek immigrants settled in the southeastern portion of this coun-
try where one city still bears a distinctly Greek name-New Smyrna, Florida.
For the past 54 years, AHEPA has taken on the important role of interpret-
ing Greece to America and America to new men and women and children
of Greek heritage seeking a new start, a new beginning in the United States.
From the time of New Smyrna to the present, hundreds of thousands of
Greeks have come to this country. They and their descendants, through hard
work, great sacrifice, have become wonderful citizens and made a tremendous
contribution to a better way of life in the United States. Greek names are hon-
ored in virtually all walks of life-in government, commerce, in business, in the
arts and sciences, medicine, theater, sports, and many, many others.
We now mark the beginning of our third century as an independent nation,
as well as the 200th anniversary of the American Revolution. For two centuries,
our Nation has grown, changed, and flourished. A diverse people drawn from
all corners of the Earth have joined together to fulfill the promises and the
challenges of democracy. The Bicentennial offers each of us the opportunity
to join with our fellow citizens in honoring the past and preparing for the
future.
In this period, AHEPA can reflect with pride and satisfaction on what Greece
and Greek Americans have given to this country. Your achievements not only
perpetuate the glory that was Greece but your patriotism and pride in America
will also perpetuate the glory that is America, a land in which the noblest ideals
977
