March 26
[262]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
destroy our freedom. I am an optimist. Together, we, and many, many millions
like us, will work together to build a better America and a better tomorrow.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton Palace Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to David Packard,
chairman of the luncheon, Mary Louise Smith,
Republican National Committee chairman, Evelle J.
Younger, attorney general of California, and Mrs.
Paul Haerle, wife of the California State Repub-
lican chairman.
262
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Fundraising
Dinner in Los Angeles, California. March 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John, Ed Carter, my good, former friends in the
Congress-Clair Burgener, John Rousselot, and Chuck Wiggins-Ev Younger,
Bus Mosbacher, Your Eminence, and Rabbi Magnin:
Let me, at the outset, express my deepest appreciation to Cary Grant, to Leona
Mitchell and to Howard Keel. If I had had my preference, I wish all three
would have extended their time about three times. I would have enjoyed it a
great deal more.
May I say to Cary that I really enjoyed his performance as master of cere-
monies. I liked his style, I liked the way he did it, but let me contrast it to a master
of ceremonies of a program that I attended last night. It was the annual dinner
of the Radio and Television Broadcasters Association in Washington, D.C., and
I was one of the guests. And they had as their master of ceremonies a young
star on television called Chevy Chase. I don't know how many of you know him,
but he has moved up very, very rapidly in the television business. He has a show
on Saturday nights at 11:30, and the principal theme of his performance is
mimicking me. [Laughter]
And he struck on a responsive chord a few months ago when there were some
comments concerning my alleged clumsiness, and he has made a pretty good
profession out of it. [Laughter] But, anyhow, last night, when he was intro-
duced, there was a big audience in Washington, D.C., and he makes his entry
down a center aisle and he stumbles all over as he finally gets up to the ros-
trum here, and he falls and, well, it goes on for about 5 minutes or more—
-it
seemed like an hour. [Laughter]
But we were prepared for him. And if I may take a minute, we had some
suspicion that he might do just this. So, we had a false tablecloth sitting where
I was sitting, and he was on the other side during the evening meal, and we had
819
