March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I do want to congratulate you on this tremendous school here at Buffalo
Grove. I understand there is a very sizable crowd in your fieldhouse, and I re-
gret they couldn't all crowd in here. But let me say to them if they are listening,
that we will come over and see you when I get through here. I am looking for-
ward to it and thank all of them for being here, even though they couldn't be
in the gymnasium this evening.
This is the last stop of our visit to Illinois this week, and I am especially glad
to be winding up this trip here because, quite frankly, I have a good many
friends in this area right here in Buffalo Grove.
I am told that my daughter, Susan, has a friend who teaches in this high
school. Well, we'll call that a secret then. Even though this is an open admin-
istration, it is up to you to find out.
And a week ago, my son Jack was traveling in this particular area, speaking—
[applause]—I guess I had better send Betty and Jack out here. Well, I am de-
lighted that he did so well. I hope it covered into the political arena, as well as
into the social side.
Quite frankly, I look forward very greatly to the opportunity of answering
your questions, but before that, let me make a few brief remarks.
I ask you to think back for a moment how things were about a year and a
half ago. If you will refresh your memory, our country was badly troubled. Our
national spirit had been weakened by a long and divisive military conflict and
by the shocks of a political situation that had much in the way of abuse. Our
national economy had been weakened as well, and in its unhealthy state, it was
threatened by the unprecedented double threat of recession as well as inflation.
That was the situation confronting me when I moved into the White House in
August of 1974.
My top priority was to get our Nation back on its feet and to restore confidence
in our government. I set about conducting an open and a responsible admin-
istration, following the dictates of the law and of my own conscience-straight
talk—not to promise more than I could perform and to produce everything
that I promised.
I refused to be panicked into dangerous economic policies that would have
threatened our country's long-range growth and prosperity. The statistics show
that our economic policies have been the right ones. Inflation is less than half
of what it was in August in the fall of 1974. All the jobs lost during the recession
that hit us have now been recovered; the last report for the month of February
shows that we had 86,300,000 people gainfully employed, reaching the alltime
peak of employment in the history of the United States.
665
