[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me say it has been a great day in Florida, and it's good to be back
here in Ft. Lauderdale. I am especially glad to have this chance to talk with
all of you because in my 27 years in the Federal Government, it has made
me very aware of the communications gap that sometimes exists between
Washington and other parts of the United States. Too many Americans have
difficulty making their views and their wishes known to the people with
whom they must communicate in Washington.
This difficulty was probably best summed up in an envelope that I received
at the White House a few weeks ago. It was plaintively addressed, and I
quote: To President Gerald R. Ford, or Vice President Nelson Rockefeller,
or Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, or just plain anybody who will listen.
[Laughter]
Today or tonight, I should say I am here to listen to your questions
about my budget for fiscal year 1977 and answer them as completely and as
totally as I possibly can.
As citizens of Florida, I think you have a very special understanding of
what my budget is all about. The story of your great State is a story of spec-
tacular growth. No one knows better than you the opportunities made possible
by such growth. At the same time, no one knows better than you the problems
that growth can bring. And frankly, the story of the Federal budget is the
same thing.
The Federal Government has served Americans and made our lives more
secure in many, many ways-from a strong national defense to social secu-
rity—but unchecked growth, unchecked growth in Federal spending poses
a threat to our economy and to the very people whom the Government is
supposed to protect.
We must keep Federal spending within reasonable and affordable limits.
At the same time, it is plain foolish to lump good Federal programs along
with the bad. As an example, the general revenue sharing program has proved
a very effective way to serve the American people. As for administrative costs,
they are—and this is almost unbelievable—they are just one-twelfth of 1 cent
of every dollar that is handled. That is an amazingly good record.
The Federal revenue sharing administrative personnel, that will disburse
this year approximately $6 billion, totals 100 people. That is an amazingly good
record in the handling of that much money going back to the States and to
local units of government.
Revenue sharing combines the efficiency of the Federal revenue system with
on-the-spot judgments of local government. And as you can see from the
274
