[231]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
announcement this morning that affects all of us, but I think it affects the
homemakers in the home much more dramatically.
The cost-of-living figure for the month of February was 0.1 percent, which
is the lowest increase in 4 years. If you annualize that, that is an increase in the
cost of living of 1.2 percent per year. Now, that is great, and we are encouraged
by the trend. I am not forecasting that that will inevitably be the trend, but it
certainly is indicative of the fact that we are on the right track, and that the
handle on the increase in the cost of living is getting firmer.
And I might add, we are also encouraged by the announcement this morning
that the new orders for manufactured goods went up 2.4 percent, which is
another very sizable increase in things that produce jobs. And with the increase
in jobs, the decrease in unemployment, and the better picture as far as inflation
is concerned should make all of us, regardless of where we live or what we do,
very, very happy.
With that, I will be glad to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
GENERAL REVENUE SHARING
[1.] Q. Mr. President, in the field of revenue sharing, what do you predict
will be the outcome of that?
THE PRESIDENT. I am slightly encouraged that the House Subcommittee of the
Committee on Government Operations is moving on the legislation. I recom-
mended a 5¾-year extension last summer. The present law expires on Decem-
ber 31, 1976. If the Congress doesn't act promptly, many cities, many
communities will suffer very, very seriously, and many States will as well.
In the 5-plus years that we have had general revenue sharing, the Federal
Government has given to the States and 39,000 local units of government about
$28 billion for them to use as they decide at the local level. The extension
I recommended would take that up to some $30-plus billion over the next
5¾ years. But the practical problem is that many cities—and I think some
States—if this law is not passed by July 1, they can't include in their budgets for
the next 12 months, revenue that is not established as a matter of law.
So, Congress has dillydallied for almost a year, and many mayors, many
Governors, and many other public officials are deeply concerned that there has
been this lack of action.
740
