[86]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
[17.] Q. If we could talk about détente again, do the statements made by
your opponent and some of the Democrats and, in particular, Henry Jackson--
do they adversely affect U.S. foreign policy?
The President. I think nitpicking of an American foreign policy does not
help, although I think our allies understand what is going on. They have lived
through American political campaigns before. All we can do is to talk affirma-
tively and deal straightforwardly with our allies as well as our potential adver-
saries. I think it would be better if it was not made a campaign issue, as some
are making it, but we have a free country, and if they want to make it a partisan
political issue or a political issue, they can do so. But I want American people to
know that we have a good foreign policy. We are going to keep it up by peace
through strength.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-sixth news confer-
ence began at 4 p.m. at the Sheraton Orlando Jet-
port Inn, Orlando, Fla. It was sponsored by Sigma
Delta Chi, the Society of Professional Journalists.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Joseph J. McGovern, president of the society's Or-
lando chapter, and Representatives Louis Frey, Jr.,
chairman of the Florida President Ford Committee,
L. A. (Skip) Bafalis, and C. W. Bill Young.
87
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Orlando,
Florida. February 13, 1976
FIRST, I want to thank Lou, Skip, Bill, Paula, and I want to thank all of you.
I can't express my appreciation and gratitude adequately. I have heard rumors
to the effect that I did not have any volunteers, that we had a hard time finding
people who were interested in going out and working hard on a voluntary basis.
I have heard rumors that our organization just did not exist. I never believed it
in the first place, and this is the best proof right here that we have got it. So, let me
just say thanks again.
Now, I know this is a hard job. It takes a lot of time making phone calls,
going door to door, distributing material and all the footwork that you have to
do. I have done it. In fact, I was thinking as we drove over here, I got involved
in a Presidential campaign first in 1940 on behalf of Wendell Willkie. And I did
on that occasion just what a lot of you are doing. And so I know that a little
shoe leather and all the other things—it does make a difference. And what you
are doing and what you have done and what you will do will make a difference.
270
