[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress, subsequently, has its responsibility. And I would assume they will
undertake it.
Q. Mr. President, most of these cutbacks, reductions, and consolidations
have been aimed at traditional targets of conservatives; that is, health, educa-
tion, social services, Medicaid. If you were really and truly seeking congressional
cooperation in controlling Federal spending, do you think it would have been
more effective if you were evenhanded in your reductions? I note there is a
pretty big increase in the Defense Department budget. Do you think you would
have gotten more cooperation from Congress if you would have tried to be a little
more evenhanded in your reductions?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me take each of the consolidations. In the case of educa-
tion, which includes elementary and secondary education, which includes voca-
tional education, aid to the handicapped and libraries, the figure for fiscal 1977
is $3,300 million. We have added a sweetener of $150 million, so there is no cut-
back, none whatsoever, in the Federal aid to education. It is an increase rather
than a cutback.
In the case of health, we are recommending in the consolidation process
taking some 15 or 16 categorical grant programs. And in this case we are
increasing the Federal contributions to the States over fiscal year 1976. That is
not a cutback.
In the case of social services, as I recollect, it is identical. In the case of child
nutrition, where we are consolidating 15 programs, there is a cutback, but it is a
very good and simple answer. We will give more money to the children at the
poverty level or below, and we will cut out child nutrition programs for those
families above the poverty line.
I think that makes sense. We will spend less money, but we will concentrate
the Federal resources on the children below the poverty line. And the people
above the poverty line ought to be able to take care of their own children.
So, overall-overall, I think you will find that in the four programs that we
have consolidated, there is more spending contemplated in 1977 than in 1976.
So, there can't be any valid accusation that we have reduced Federal grants to
States for programs that we believe should be carried on.
We simply are emphasizing with this approach a better delivery system of
the services, whether it is health, social services, education, or child nutrition.
Q. Mr. President, if you are interested in reversing the flow of power toward
Washington and giving more flexibility to State and local governments, why
don't you go all the way and actually transfer those programs and the tax base
54
