February 14
[90]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, the leaks that have come out of highly classified information-secret,
top secret information—is unconscionable. If I had a quick way I could find
out who does the leaking, I would do whatever I could the next day. But they
are skillful. Leakers have a devastating impact on good government, and I
personally have offered to the Speaker of the House the full forces of the
executive branch to try and find out who leaked that latest report. After all,
it is a congressional report that was leaked.
So, it is not something that I have jurisdiction over or the executive branch
has jurisdiction over. If the Speaker will ask us to do anything within the
law, we will do it to try and find out the person that I think has damaged
our national security.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:05 p.m. in the
Commodore Ballroom at the Bahia Mar Hotel at the
briefing for Broward, Dade, and Palm Beach
County officials. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Mayor Clay Shaw, Jr., of Ft. Lauderdale.
90
Remarks to President Ford Committee Volunteers in
Ft. Lauderdale. February 14, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Joel, Lou, and all the distinguished public of-
ficials, all of you wonderful youngsters and oldsters, and everybody else:
We get the combination of energy from these young people and the real
experience and enthusiasm from all the rest of you—we just have to win. We
are bound to win.
We have had, as Joel said and as Lou indicated, a wonderful reception
from the time we landed in Orlando. And this group here is another indica-
tion-despite what some of the skeptics have said—that we not only have the
numbers but we have the talent, we have the enthusiasm. Our organization
is good, and we are going to win with them.
The nicest thing for a candidate to have-and I think Lou and the others
would agree with me—is to find when the chips are down, when the going,
in the minds of some, is at least rough, that all of your old friends from a good
many years back or some of your new acquaintances or some of the neighbors
that you lived next to or people you went to school with or were associated
with in business, come to help. And as I walked through this wonderful crowd
295
