March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Nations, and he did a superb job. And I am very proud of him. For very personal
reasons he made a decision to leave the United Nations. What he tried to do was
to tell some of these nations that they could not continuously pick on the United
States and then ask us to be generous with them. He was carrying out my foreign
policy. I can assure you that Bill Scranton will do precisely the same thing, and
he will continue that policy in the future.
GRAIN INSURANCE LEGISLATION; PRESIDENTIAL VETOES
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Champaign. There is a bill, H.R. 2963, in
the House Agriculture Committee to create a Federal grain insurance corpora-
tion, FGIC, to insure accounts in elevators as the FDIC does for deposits in
banks. Is this safeguard for America's grain farmers likely to be passed in this
session so it will be just as financially safe to store a bushel of grain in an elevator
as it is to store a dollar in a bank?
THE PRESIDENT. That legislation, as I understand it, is sponsored by Paul
Findley over here, the Congressman from your State. He is on the Committee
on Agriculture. He could probably more authoritatively answer that question,
whether Congress will pass it or not.
I can't precisely tell you the status of that legislation in the Committee on
Agriculture. I think on the surface it seems to have some merit, but you asked
the question, is Congress going to pass it? Well, you have got a Senator and three
Members of the Congress. They are probably better authorities on what Con-
gress will or won't do than I am. Sometimes I wish they would move a lot faster
and on some occasions I wish they would stop-not these people, but the
majority—sending down to Congress these crazy, inflationary expenditure bills.
As long as I have opened up a new subject-[laughter]—you know, in the
last 19 months I vetoed 46 bills sent down from Capitol Hill. I guess that is a
record. But I know what they were trying to do. They were trying to bust the
budget. I vetoed 39 of them—I vetoed 46, and they sustained 39, and we saved
the Federal Treasury and the taxpayers $13 billion, and that is progress.
FINANCIAL COMMUNITY REFORM LEGISLATION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am president of a bank in Rantoul and also presi-
dent of the Illinois Bankers Association. Naturally, you are going to have some
financial overtones to my remarks and also to the question.
A few years ago the Hunt Commission was formed under the previous admin-
istration for the purpose of proposing reform in the financial industries. The
recommendations by the Hunt Commission were used as the base for the recently
571
