[8]
January 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
The American farmer died for freedom on the bridge of Concord 200 years
ago. The least that America can do today is to let the farmer live in freedom from
the stifling interference and control of big government.
If there is one thing we can all be certain of, it is this: A government big
enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take from
us everything we have.
Together, let us restore to all Americans a new confidence in which people
hunger for righteousness as well as for food. In the words of the New Testament,
“Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall
be filled."
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in Kiel Auditorium. He was introduced by William J. Kuhfuss,
president of the federation.
9
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget
Rescissions and Deferrals. January 6, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith propose
rescission of the uncommitted balances of the Rehabilitation Loan Fund admin-
istered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. In addition, I
am reporting nine new deferrals totalling $669.8 million in budget authority
and eleven changes to deferrals previously transmitted that increase the amount
deferred by $17.3 million.
The activities financed by the Rehabilitation Loan Fund are also eligible for
support under the Community Development Block Grant Program. Experience
has now shown that block grant recipients are using—as was the intent of the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974—their grants to support
rehabilitation activities. Approval of this rescission, therefore, will result in
expenditure savings of $18.4 million this year and $34.0 million in the transition
quarter and 1977 without adverse effect on the availability of housing rehabili-
tation assistance.
Seven of the nine new deferrals are routine in nature and affect programs of
the Departments of Defense, State, and Transportation and the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
The remaining two new deferrals and all eleven revised deferrals are for pro-
20
