[44]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
I continue to believe that the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
must have direct personal access to the President. George will have this access on
a very regular basis and whenever special circumstances require.
With his leadership and with your help, I believe we can make this agency
an instrument of peace and an object of pride for all of our people. That is my
goal, and I know that each and every one of you share it with me.
Now it is my great privilege and pleasure to introduce Mr. Justice Stewart
who will administer the oath of office.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. in the audi-
torium at CIA headquarters, Langley, Va. He was
introduced by outgoing CIA Director William E.
Colby.
Potter Stewart, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, administered the oath of office.
Mr. Bush's response to the President's remarks is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 12, p. 101).
45
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of
the Senate on Administration Actions To Control
Federal Travel. January 30, 1976
IN RESPONSE to the Congressional request that Federal travel should be
controlled to restrain the inflationary impact of Federal expenditures and to con-
serve the use of energy, I have instructed the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget (OMB) to review Administration actions on this matter of
mutual concern. Enclosed is a memorandum from the Director, OMB, that out-
lines actions taken to restain travel.
The enclosed memorandum, with which I concur, is transmitted to the Con-
gress pursuant to section 205(c) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1976
(Public Law 94-157).
Respectfully yours,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
GERALD R. FORD
The text of Director James T. Lynn's memoran-
dum outlining the administration actions is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 12, p. 102).
114
