March 13
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I don't want to kid you. I can't give you a pat answer tonight, and I don't
believe in kidding anybody. I believe in straight talk, so we will find out what
the answer is. If you will give your name and address, we will find out what
the story is.
Q. Sir, I sent you a letter to that effect, one of your men has it. And other
people are doing this, so I think I should be able to. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we will find out.
FEDERAL SPENDING
[6.] Q. One more question, Mr. President. When you are elected President
in November, which we are sure you will be, will you look toward balancing
the budget and reducing deficit spending to the best of your ability?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is completely, totally, unequivocally yes.
But let me tell you how. That is the main question. I submitted to the Con-
gress a budget for the next fiscal year that—if we hold the lid on spending—it is
a budget that reduces the growth in Federal spending from 11 percent, which
has been the case, to 5½ percent. The expected growth in Federal spending for
the next fiscal year was some $15-plus billion. I decided that the growth in
Federal spending ought to be cut in half, and so I recommended a budget for
the next fiscal year of $394 billion.
I regret to say—and this leads to a comment you made earlier, sir-the Con-
gress, or a majority of the Congress is saying it can't be done. They throw up
their hands and say we have got to spend more and more. I think it can be done
if they will just approve my budget. And if they approve that budget, with the
limit on the spending that I proposed, and they do the same in the next year, in
the following year we will have a balanced budget, and we can give another
Federal tax decrease.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AND SPACE PROGRAMS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, assuming that you are elected in November, do you
foresee any heightening of Federal allocations for the national defense pro-
gram or the space program in order that we could sustain ourselves as number
one in the world in these two specific areas?
THE PRESIDENT. The budget that I submitted to the Congress in January, for
the first time in 10 to 15 years, shows an increase in the proportion of Federal
expenditures for national defense. And I would expect in the years ahead to do
the same thing, and let me tell you why. The United States today is second to
none, as I said in my prepared remarks, militarily. But for the last 10 or 15
705
