April 2
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sharing that has worked so well for the past 4 years. And if I might just pay
tribute to one of your former Congressmen, a former Secretary of Defense, who
was really the inspirator and the prime promoter of general revenue sharing—
Mel Laird.
If there is one thing the government is good at, it is collecting taxes, as you will
all learn again in about 13 days. If there is one thing the Federal Government is
terrible at, it is trying to decide the best solution to a local problem. That re-
sponsibility clearly should rest with your own local officials, like Mayor Schoen-
haar and those others. So, the concept of general revenue sharing is to let the Fed-
eral Government collect the money and then give it back to local and State
governments to spend it as they see fit under that very watchful eye of every one
of you right here in West Bend in Washington County. You can watch them
better here than you can back in Washington, D.C.
You know, general revenue sharing is kind of a hometown, do-it-yourself
project, and in the last 4 years West Bend and Washington County and the State
of Wisconsin have proven that you can do it yourself a heck of a lot better than
the Federal Government can, and I congratulate you for it.
Under my proposal for the extension of the existing law, which expires on
December 31 of this year, West Bend would get more than $2.1 million. Wash-
ington County, including West Bend, would get $8 million, and the entire State
of Wisconsin would get more than $1 billion over the next 5 years.
But the most interesting fact out of the whole program, outside of the money
that comes here to West Bend and Washington County and the State of Wis-
consin, I think you will be interested to know that the total cost of the Federal
Government's participation in the revenue sharing program is only twelve-hun-
dredths of 1 percent of all of the money in the program, or to say it another way,
that is one-eighth of 1 penny of every dollar spent on the program. That is pretty
low overhead by any standards.
That is what I call holding bureaucracy to the minimum, and I intend to see
that that trend is encouraged in other Federal programs in the next 4 years. Some
people in the election year have been suggesting we ought to dump $90 billion
worth of Federal programs on the laps of State and local officials to cope with it
as they can, even if it means raising local taxes or eliminating local programs.
Well, we have not heard much about the $90 billion figure lately, but we have
not heard either that the proposal has been abandoned.
All of us know that there are some very, very legitimate activities that gov-
ernment must be involved in-national defense, social security, law enforcement
923
