March 12
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
you can't have 535 Secretaries of State. Now, I want to work with the Congress,
and we are, but at some point responsibility has to be given to one person. And
I hope that in the months ahead, without political operations or motivations,
we can work together. I certainly will bend over to the maximum to achieve
that relationship.
Q. One final question, Mr. President. Related to your earlier remarks, it is
clear that the bipartisan tradition in foreign policy is once again under strain
in a campaign year and that foreign policy issues have already become issues
in the primary campaigns. The question is, do you expect that foreign policy
issues will play a decisive role in the Presidential election campaign, itself, in
November?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I do regret that foreign policy has been interjected
into both the primary as well as, potentially, in the Presidential election. I
think the finest implementation of foreign policy in this country came at a
time when Democrats and Republicans, Congress and the President, were work-
ing together. There really should not be wide divisions. And I would hope that
we could—not do away with the responsible discussion of foreign policy, but
I think it has to be kept in the right context if we are to maintain the assur-
ances of support from our allies, if we are to have adversaries around the world
respect the United States.
I can assure you that when there are deep divisions within our country on
foreign policy, our allies begin to question, what direction will America go?
And I think our adversaries are tempted to exploit or seek to exploit what they
seem to think are weaknesses. So, I would hope to the maximum degree possi-
ble, that foreign policy will not be an emotional issue. I think it is an area
where we can have responsible dialog, but if it becomes a deep, divisive influence
for the next 6 to 9 months, I think it could be harmful as we try to achieve
what we all want-peace-and at the same time, opportunities for others.
I will take one more if you want to, John.
Q. We have several on the subject of what are the prospects for continued
stability in the Middle East.
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, in September of last year, were very fortu-
nate to get the Israelis and the Egyptians to work together for the Sinai agree-
ment. We have participated to the extent of providing observers in the neutral
zone, and we are helping both Israel and Egypt. And this has been a great
step forward, but obviously there are some very difficult problems to solve—
the problems of the PLO, the West Bank, the Golan Heights, the rest of the
Sinai, the agreements that are reached, whether it is full peace or nonbelligerency.
651
