[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ahead at what all of us should be doing from the perspective of somebody who
just came to town.
I don't want to burden you with a restating of our unit, but the only point
is we do not have regulatory delay; by the fact of the calendar we don't. We
don't have regulatory conflicts and conquests. We don't have regulatory malaise.
We haven't been around long enough to suffer hardening of the categories. So it
wouldn't be fruitful for me to sit here and try to tell you we can make our de-
cisions in 3 weeks-big deal. But the fact is we do.
I think it is more fruitful to try to broaden our perspective and talk of the
broader problems and, hopefully, solutions that the new boy in town sees when
he becomes, all of a sudden, chairman of a regulatory commission, having
served his former life as a legislator-and, wow, it is different. [Laughter]
I miss the accountability and commonality of a constituency. Commonality,
meaning there is a thread that makes participatory democracy work, but that
thread isn't there just because the President appointed five different people.
That doesn't make for constituent democracy.
So, the biggest problem that you asked about that I foresee is how to first of
all formulate the concept of and then build a broader constituency that goes
over the whole gamut, the whole spectrum. It is sort of obvious but, believe it,
or not, in our first discussions in this new commission, there was disagreement
on whether we should try to build a constituency. Having agreed that that is
something we darned well better do, then you try to look in the direction of
where you want to go. It is the luck of the draw as to where you end up-five
guys, all good people—but it is the luck of the draw whether three guys go in
that direction and two in the other because there is no inherent constituency.
So what do you do? You try to create. In my humble opinion, this, I would
say, is your major successful effort at regulatory reform, an atmosphere of open-
ness. I am talking of open meetings. The Consumer Products Safety Commis-
sion and recently the Federal Trade Commission joined us by resolution in our
open meetings. There are three or four bills in Congress and many are night-
mares. They create a bureaucracy of openness but there are too many rules of
how you do it.
Mr. President, I think perhaps you are endorsing the concept, and the States,
cities, and counties in the last few years-California since 1973. I found out
that the City Council of Grand Rapids passed a resolution that they were going
to have open meetings. The concept is here. It also helps to build a constituency;
that is the point.
1006
