[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Labor accumulates its data for the purpose of releasing unemployment figures.
Late in 1975, this group got together, looked at the existing system for the De-
partment of Labor, and decided that there had to be some improvement in
the collection and the analysis of that data.
And on the basis of that professional group making these recommendations,
they did revise all of the unemployment figures for 1975. Some of them were
higher, some of them were lower, but it was the recommendation of a group of
professional economists and statisticians that had nothing to do with politics.
Now, the figure that was given to me, and I believe it is accurate, is the figure
of 800,000. And this came from Mr. Shiskin, who is the head of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, and he is a thoroughly reliable, career nonprofessional (non-
partisan) person.
So, I will stick with what they told us. I think it is accurate, and the reason, if
there is any variation, is the one I gave, that in a professional way, as required by
law, they moved to a new system. But the fundamental facts, I think, are com-
pletely accurate.
Q. Mr. President, I am Mike O'Keefe, State representative from Portsmouth.
I have become quite concerned in the last year about the plight of some of our
older veterans attending college here in New Hampshire and throughout the
country. I have been teaching night school for New Hampshire College, and I
have several of these people in my government classes.
The reason I am concerned is that many of them, when they got out of the
service, got married, started a job, and began to raise their family, and then
after several years, decided that they wanted to go to college and increase their
education so that they might be able to move up in their profession, or things of
this nature. But they are now faced with, actually, an arbitrary cut-off date of
May 31, 1976, where they will lose all educational benefits.
And I was wondering, Mr. President, if you might consider supporting legisla-
tion similar to what Congressman D'Amours of New Hampshire has put in,
I believe it is House Resolution 9428, by which these veterans, as long as they are
attending school and are working on a degree, would be able to continue to
receive payments up and to the entitlement that they earned when they were in
the military service.
THE PRESIDENT. Under existing law, a GI is entitled to receive those benefits
for a 10-year period—in other words, he got out of the service and at any time
from that date for the next 10 years, he can take GI educational training. I think
172
