March 6
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
gathering agencies to determine whether those agencies or individuals in
those agencies had violated the law or the rights of American citizens.
That committee came to the executive branch of the Government and asked
for literally thousands and thousands and thousands of files and information.
Probably 99 percent of it was either top secret, secret, or confidential.
And I issued an order that I would give to that committee or order people
under my jurisdiction to give to that committee all of the material they wanted—
all of it—with the understanding that if they were to write a report and include
any of the secret or top secret information in it, before they would print the
report publicly—and if people in the executive branch said it would be injurious
or harmful to the United States of America—they would give me the opportu-
nity of reviewing that report.
The committee did not follow through with that procedure. Somebody either
on the committee staff or a member of the committee-and I don't know
which—released that report to the public without giving me the opportunity of
reviewing whether vital secrets of this country were to be made available to the
enemy.
Now, I think whoever released that report—whether it was a member of the
committee or a member of the staff—did a great disservice to this country. And
there was material in that report that was never approved, as I recollect, by all
of the members of that committee.
And to release that report with those secrets and those comments concerning
the Secretary of State and others, I think was a disservice to this country. And
the Secretary of State used the language that he did because he was distraught
by the revelation of the classified material and the implications that were alleged
against him. I think it was a very unfortunate action by somebody on the com-
mittee or the staff of that committee, and I condemn it. I think it was a disservice
to this country.
Now, the second question: I don't think the bureaucrats run this Government.
The policies of this administration and, I think, the policies of previous adminis-
trations are made by the President, the Cabinet members, and the other top
officials.
I must confess, sometimes the orders that are issued in the White House or in
the Department of Agriculture, at the top, are not always carried out precisely
as they are directed. But basically, this country is run by those either who have
been elected or those who have been appointed, and I don't think we should lose
faith in this Government. Some bureaucrats probably don't do it the way we'd
589
