March 5
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Illinois did a century ago, that the “government of the people, by the people,
and for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
I thank you, and now I would be delighted to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
ANTITRUST POLICY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I'm from Godfrey, Illinois, and a student from Brad-
ley University.
Many economists today feel that the country's economic problems are caused
to a large degree by cost-push inflationary pressures rather than the more tradi-
tional demand-pull pressures. In this context, what are your plans, if any, to
break up the monopolistic tendencies of big business and big labor and their
price-fixing abilities which tend to interfere with the efficient operation of the
market?
The President. About a year ago, I appointed an outstanding person to be
our Attorney General, who was an expert in antitrust actions. Ed Levi, of the
University of Chicago, served as an Assistant Attorney General in the Antitrust
Division, some 15 or 20 years ago. He is acknowledged as an expert in antitrust
matters.
At his request, I have added to the number of antitrust lawyers in the Attorney
General's Office. I can assure you that under his leadership there will be active,
affirmative action taken to operate under the laws of the United States in anti-
trust actions.
In addition, about a year ago, I submitted to the Congress legislation that
would add to the penalties in dollars—in criminal action, those who violate our
antitrust laws. It seems to me that through this kind of action we can make
certain, in the business world at least, that there will be a proper governmental
role in making an environment where free enterprise can operate without a
monopolistic development.
In the field of labor, I have been condemned and complimented for the fact
that I vetoed the common situs picketing bill which had some ramifications
involved in this overall area. The strength of our free enterprise system depends
upon competition. We can't have big business, big labor—or big government, I
might add—dominating our economy.
549
